Russia war with Ukraine RECAP Pressure on Putin as Ukraine and Russia agree to hold talks
20220224
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/uk-news/russia-invade-ukraine-putin-live-23200511
First, we are shutting down the EU airspace for Russian-owned, Russian registered or Russian-controlled aircraft.
The Prime Minister lauded the bravery of the Ukrainian people following the Russian invasion and praised the leadership of President Zelensky in the face of such adversity, a No 10 spokesman said. The resistance of the Ukrainian people was heroic, the Prime Minister added.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, meanwhile, has held talks with Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky, who said the pair had agreed on "further joint steps to counter the aggressor", in reference to the Russians.
Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat has said Russia sees battlefield nuclear weapons as simply a bigger bang and could give a military order to use them.
In a statement late on Sunday, International Atomic Energy Agency director general Rafael Grossi said Ukrainian authorities informed his office about the overnight strike, but there are no reports of damage to the buildings or indications of a release of radioactive material.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has reportedly told Boris Johnson that the next 24 hours will be crucial as he leads the defence of his country against the invasion by Russia.
The Government will take all necessary steps to bring into effect restrictions to prohibit any UK natural or legal persons from undertaking financial transactions involving the Russian central bank, the Russian National Wealth Fund, and the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, the Treasury said.
Ben Wallace did not rule out Mr Putin launching a nuclear attack, and was asked on Sky News whether the Russian leader was crazy enough to start a nuclear conflict.
Ben Wallace said the announcements about UK visas already made for Ukrainians were only a first step.
Ukraine's Minister of Defence has said that Russia's invasion of his country has become a European war.
The emergency session of the General Assembly will meet in New York at 10am 3pm GMT, while the Security Council will meet at 5pm 10pm GMT.
The Conservative MP told the BBCs Radio 4 Today programme: The Russian military doctrine doesnt work in the same way as the Nato military doctrine. They do assume that they may use battlefield nuclear weapons and they see them as just a, if youll excuse the expression, a bigger bang. They dont treat fallout in the same way we do.
Colonel General Alexander Syrsky, Commander of Defense of Kiev, said: "The opponent suffered significant losses of the personnel team.
The Prime Minister spoke to the Ukrainian president again on Sunday, praising the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people in the face of the Russian attack, according to the No 10 readout of the call.
A vow that the UK will be "as generous as we possibly can" when it comes to offering sanctuary to refugees was made too and Mr Johnson has suggested that the UK will seize cash from Russian oligarchs based in this country and use it to help rebuild Ukraine.
The United Nations nuclear watchdog says missiles have hit a radioactive waste disposal site in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.
Yesterday saw Belarus formally renounce its non-nuclear and neutral status - allowing Russia to place nuclear weapons on its territory.
But the Russian handbook is to then get more violent and commit more forces because fundamentally in the Russian, sort of, doctrine the lives of their own soldiers matter much less than in other armed forces.
He added that although the situation was concerning, it was not unprecedented for Russia to threaten nuclear action.
He said of Russia: They are behind schedule, they are taking significant casualties and they are feeling public rejection in parts of the Russian system itself weve seen many protests.
"Let me be clear: This is no free lunch. Economic and financial war will be painful for us as well. But it will be devastating for Putin."
He said: "Our Central Banks will have to work overtime to try to cushion the blow on Western banks and firms.
But at the moment this is a battle of rhetoric that President Putin is deploying, and we just have to make sure we manage it properly.
The Conservative MP said he had talked with members of Government who were hopeful the policy on taking in Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion would be reviewed within the coming days.
The Security Council gave a green light on Sunday for the first emergency session of the General Assembly in decades.
To get breaking news sent straight to your phone, download our app here or sign up to our newsletter for the latest news straight to your inbox
"Russian troops are demoralized and exhausted. We showed that we can protect our home from uninvited guests."
We are announcing this action in rapid co-ordination with our US and European allies to move in lockstep once more with our international partners, to demonstrate our steadfast resolve in imposing the highest costs on Russia and to cut her off from the international financial system so long as this conflict persists.
Mr Zelensky also reportedly told Mr Johnson that the next 24 hours will be crucial for the defence of his country with the latter adding that he would do all he could to make sure defensive aid from the UK and its allies reaches Ukraine.
This is predominantly about Putin putting it on the table just to remind people, remind the world, that he has a deterrent.
Mr Johnson added the UK would do all it can to make sure defensive aid from the UK and its allies reaches Ukraine.
Russian president Vladimir Putin put his nuclear forces on increased alert in an unprecedented escalation of tensions with the West.
Belarus will join forces with Russia and take part in its invasion of Ukraine 'within hours', according to reports in Kyiv.
Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat said ministers had indicated the UK is likely to follow the EU in taking in Ukrainian refugees for up to three years.
European nations and Canada said on Sunday they would close their airspace to Russian aircraft in a move to pressure the Russian president to end his invasion of Ukraine. The European Union also said it plans to finance the purchase and delivery of weapons to Ukraine. Putin also has placed Russia's nuclear forces on high alert amid increasing economic sanctions by numerous countries, while Ukrainian and Russian officials are set to meet for talks on the Belarusian border.
The leaders agreed to continue to stay in close contact and the Prime Minister reiterated the UKs staunch support for Ukraines sovereignty.
The Defence Secretary was asked about comments made by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss on Sunday, where she supported anyone who wished to travel to the country to help fight the Russian invaders.
The moves, which include sanctions on Russia's currency reserves, have sent the rouble tumbling to a record low against the US dollar.
"The circle of states that provide real help has increased significantly. The scale of it has increased.
Asked whether the UK Government had gone far enough in offering sanctuary to refugees, Mr Tugendhat told BBC Radio 4s Today programme: Ive been speaking to ministers this morning and I can tell you there are many who are hopeful that this will be something thats reviewed in the coming days.
Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that although the Ukrainians were putting up a very strong fight the reality was they were going up against the overwhelming scale of the Russian Federation Army.
President Zelensky said he believed the next 24 hours was a crucial period for Ukraine, and the Prime Minister said he would do all he could to help ensure defensive aid from the UK and allies reached Ukraine.
"Europe has already provided a temporary shelter to tens of thousands of those we want to save the most - our little ones and their mothers.
Chancellor Rishi Sunak said: These measures demonstrate our determination to apply severe economic sanctions in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
In an impassioned rallying cry shared on Facebook this morning, Oleksii Reznikov said: "The war has become European. It has finally been realised that way. Half of Europe is already collecting, packing, carrying weapons and armour equipment.
Ben Wallace said there were better ways to help Ukraine than travelling to join the fighting, for those in the UK without military experience.
It will give all UN members an opportunity to speak about the war and vote on a resolution later in the week that US ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said would hold Russia to account for its indefensible actions and for its violations of the UN Charter.
This is not unusual but at the same time it is concerning and it is not impossible a Russian military order to use battlefield nuclear weapons could be given.
Asked about the EUs announcement that member countries would grant asylum to Ukrainian refugees for up to three years, Mr Tugendhat said: I suspect thats likely to be where we end up to be honest.
Russian President Vladimir Putins nuclear warning is a big attempt to distract away from his troubles in Ukraine, the Defence Secretary has said.
They wont be able to land in, take off or overfly the territory of the EU. Including the private jets of oligarchs.
Belarus troops are to join those from Russia in invading Ukraine "within hours", according to reports from Kyiv.
Thank you for following our updates. We will now be covering the confilict in Ukraine over on our new live blog here.
But the second step we will look at is about what we do with the refugee flows across the board.
Ben Wallace told Times Radio that President Putin convinced himself that all these people would somehow welcome them with Russian flags and thank them for being great liberators.
But he said: We dont see or recognise in the sort of phrase or the status he described as anything that is a change to what they have currently as their nuclear posture.
He said: Look, there are people who will go I think what I would say is unless you are properly trained, unless you are a  you know  experienced member of an armed forces, I think there are better ways for you to contribute to the security of Ukraine.
"We really don't have a border in the west now. But support is both in the south and in the Far East and beyond the Atlantic."
It comes after Ukrainian officials rejected Belarus as a venue for potential peace talks, because its neighbour had allowed its territory to be used by Russian troops as a staging ground for the invasion.
He added: I think Im not going to speculate on what he would or wouldnt do, but thats why we all keep our deterrents at a state of readiness in the West.
Officials from Ukraine had earlier rejected Belarus as a venue for peace talks, because its neighbouring country had permitted its territory to be used by Russian troops as a staging ground for the invasion.
Mr Wallace told Sky News Ms Truss was right that it was a just cause, but he said: If youre keen to help and youre a United Kingdom citizen, come and join our armed forces.
Mr Zelenskyy made the comments in a phone call with the the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday evening, reports the BBC.
The UNs two major bodies  the 193-nation General Assembly and the more powerful 15-member Security Council  will hold separate meetings on Monday on Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Vladimir Putins nuclear warning is part of a battle of rhetoric, the Defence Secretary said.
Western economies are being warned that they will feel the effects of an unprecedented financial attack launched against Russia.
He added: We will not do anything to escalate in that area, we will not do anything to feed any miscalculation, we take it very, very seriously.
Boris Johnson has told President Volodymyr Zelensky he will do all he could to ensure further military aid reaches Ukrainian forces, Downing Street has said.
The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: The bulk of Putins ground forces remain more than 30km to the north of Kyiv their advance having been slowed by Ukrainian forces defending Hostomel airfield, a key Russian objective for day one of the conflict.
Mr Zelensky said, in turn, that the next 24 hours will be a crucial period for his country.
French ambassador Nicolas De Riviere announced that the Security Council will hold a meeting on the humanitarian impact of Russias invasion, a session sought by French President Emmanuel Macron to ensure the delivery of aid to growing numbers of those in need in Ukraine.
So we have to brace ourselves for what may come next, which could be ruthless, indiscriminate bombing of cities and propelling forward of soldiers and high casualty levels, and thats going to be horrific.
Despite continued attempts to supress details of the conflict from the Russian population, the Russian Armed Forces has for the first time been forced to acknowledge suffering casualties.
The first step is to make sure that Ukrainians who have family here  either settled or dual nationals  that they can come and join them.
Nations in the West announced over the weekend crippling sanctions against Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine.
The Russian offensive in Ukraine is likely to become more violent, the Defence Secretary said.
Were absolutely looking at all the different range of options we can apply to welcome Ukrainians in need, the Defence Secretary told Sky News.
In Asian trading, the dollarrouble rate is up to 41.5 at a record 119 per dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar exchange rate in the Forex market reached 113 roubles.
Economist and politician Luis Garicano said the unprecedented financial attack against Russian President Vladimir Putin would cause "financial and economic history".
A UK government spokesperson said that, during the call, Mr Johnson praised Mr Zelenskyy's leadership since Russia's invasion.
Follow the link below to find out what those actions could mean and for a round up of the news from Ukraine.
Mr Wallace told Sky News: I think he has certainly done a lot of irrational things recently.
Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that he understood the concerns about the warning made by the Russian leader, and revealed his own 12-year-old son called him worried about the step.
Russian forces in Ukraine are strung out and behind schedule, the Defence Secretary has said.
Russia suffered significant losses overnight during repeated failed attempts to storm Kyiv, the Colonel General leading the defence of the Ukraine's capital city has claimed.
The claims, which are yet to be independently verified, were shared on the official Facebook Page of the Ukrainian Ground Forces, shortly after 5am UK time, or 7am in Ukraine.
