This is no longer just a onecountry conflict  Ukrainians in Newcastle call for nofly zone as they protest against Russian invasion
20220305
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/ukraine-russia-newcastle-protest-invasion-23301403
He welcomed the support from the people of Newcastle, adding: "It is incredible to see the support, not only in Newcastle, but in the entire Tees Valley and rest of England who are supporting Ukraine."
Newcastle's Monument was awash in a sea of blue and yellow on Saturday as protestors united in a show of solidarity for Ukraine.
"We don't know where the next shelling will come from and that is the most brutal thing that Putin has been doing.
Those gathered at Grey's Monument aimed to raise awareness of Ukraine's  plight, with many calling for a 'no-fly zone' which would bar all unauthorised aircraft from flying over Ukraine.
Around 100 demonstrators gathered in the city centre at 2pm on March 5 to hold a rally that called on Russia to end the war.
Protestors gathered in Newcastle city centre on Saturday to hold a rally calling for Russia to end its war on Ukraine
"I have family in Ukraine and some of them are learning how to make Molotov Cocktails."
Oleg Sklyga, 44, is an engineer from Ukraine, where he still has family, but now lives in Stockton.
He said: "We were shocked when we realised that this happened overnight and since then we have lost whether it's day or night.
"We are trying to attract more people to the problems Ukraine is experiencing at the moment," he said.
"That is not the case, we don't believe in that and we will fight for democracy."
"In Russia, they don't call it a war, they call it a 'special operation' and I believe that is deliberately done to hide it from his own citizens, many of whom don't know what is going on, as the media is controlled by the Government."
Olga's son, Denis Sklyga, nine, said: "I came here because of the horrific stuff happening in Ukraine right now due to Russia's invasion last week.
"We are trying to ask people to make a petition to the West to close the sky over Ukraine because every day we have more casualties and more deaths. That is why we are here."
Many Ukrainians, waving flags and banners that said, 'help Ukraine, stop war,' were among those taking part.
"We need to close the sky over Ukraine, which is what we are asking for now."
Victoria Miller from Ukraine also has family there and called on Boris Johnson to "be brave" and back a no-fly zone.
He continued: "It is a shame that Putin and his followers in Russia still believe that you can resolve issues with military power.
"It is a war and it is a crime which Russians are doing against our people.
It comes more than a week after Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a devastating invasion of the country.
She said: "We are fighting for democracy, for freedom for Europe, we are fighting against tyranny.
"The world must know it and we have to stop Putin as soon as possible.
"I would like to thank Mr Johnson for the sanctions, but we need more action.
She added: "I am here to support Ukraine, Europe, and the whole international community, to stand peacefully, but powerfully, against the war in Ukraine, against lost lives and what it might mean for Europe in the future.
"Many Ukrainians are calling for a no-fly zone. It will make a huge difference for us."
For the latest local news in your area direct to your inbox every day, go here to sign up to our free newsletter
In a message to the UK Government Yevhen added: "We need more military support, otherwise Ukraine may not stand for long.
"We follow the news constantly on our phones, talking to friends and relatives over there, trying to support them to stay brave, but it is not that easy when you are facing an army that huge in numbers.
"They have been shelling over peaceful cities and killing citizens and kids. They are shelling hospitals and schools.
