Ukrainian woman living in Tyneside despairs as her parents shelter underground in Kyiv
20220304
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/russia-ukraine-invasion-north-east-23296804
Read more:Go here for the very latest breaking news updates from across the North East
Jane K azakova is in constant contact with her family in the Ukrainian capital as they shelter from Russian shelling
"I've been losing sleep. Every single day is so hard. My son is six and he is worried about his grandparents.
"My parents were here visiting recently and left at the end of December. We were going to ask them to come back but they don't want to run away. They want to stay in their country.
For the latest local news in your area direct to your inbox every day, go here to sign up to our free newsletter
Russian forces have been shelling Kyiv along with other cities across the country for days after the invasion began on February 24.
Her parents, who live in Ukraine's capital city, Kyiv, have been forced to shelter underground as Russian forces bombard the city.
A Ukrainian woman who calls the North East home has opened up about the horror of war as her family in her homeland shelter from constant Russian shelling.
An emotional Jane said: "My parents are in Kyiv and they are hiding in underground shelters because shells are falling every single hour. It's really scary.
"Most people think it's not their war, it's not their business - but it could be tomorrow. Putin won't stop on just Ukraine.
She said: "The main thing is to close the airspace over Ukraine. That's the only thing we need.
But Jane, who lives with her husband and son, pleaded with the UK to back a no-fly zone.
Jane continued: "My country looks like a nightmare. It's like hell in all the cities.
Jane Kazakova, who has lived in Newcastle for the last five years, is urging people in the UK to do whatever they can to support Ukraine as the Russian invasion enters its ninth day. SAT
On Friday NATO refused Ukraine's plea for a no-fly zone over the country due to fears it could lead to a wider conflict with Russia.
