Vladimir Putin more likely to start World War Three than accept defeat in Ukraine state TV claims
20220501
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-world-war-three-23838085
The Daily Star reported that the Russian President could declare World War three in just two days' time, according to the UK defence secretary. Ben Wallace said the despot will "probably" attempt to "mobilise the Russian people" amid his failing "special military operation".
Now, speaking to LBC, Wallace warns that Putin may ramp up his rhetoric in the coming days.
Read More:Russian state TV simulates 'terrifying' nuclear strike on Europe amid World War 3 concerns
Sign up for free to get the latest North East news and updates delivered straight to your inbox
"The most incredible outcome, that all this will end with a nuclear strike, seems more probable to me than the other course of events. This is to my horror on one hand," she told a panel of experts, "but on the other hand, it is what it is. We will go to heaven, while they will simply croak... We're all going to die someday," she continued.
The comments are one of many from Russia warning the West of "consequences" for interfering in its ongoing invasion. It follows foreign minister Sergei Lavrov who claimed the threat of nuclear conflict must not be underestimated. "This is our key position on which we base everything. The risks now are considerable," Mr Lavrov said on state TV on Tuesday.
The terrifying claims were made by TV editor Margarita Simonyan. The remarks, made on Wednesday night, stated that the Russian leader unleashing a nuclear strike is "more probable" than failure.
A TV editor said the Russian leader unleashing a nuclear strike was 'more probable' than failure
Ms Simonyan said: "Either we lose in Ukraine or the Third World War starts. I think World War Three is more realistic, knowing us, knowing our leader," the Daily Star reports.
"I would not want to elevate those risks artificially. Many would like that. The danger is serious, real. And we must not underestimate it," he said, referring to the risk of nuclear war.
More than 15,000 raised to cover funeral of former Marine believed to have died in Ukraine
World War III is "more probable" and "more realistic" than Vladimir Putin accepting defeat in Ukraine, it was said on Russian state TV.
Russian troops first crossed the border into Ukraine on February 24, claiming they wanted to "denazify" the country. Putin has also threatened to use nuclear weapons against western powers if they get in his way, with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov saying the threat of nuclear war "is serious".
