Republicans are blaming Biden for soaring prices  but factcheckers are reminding them of whos really at fault
20220312
https://www.alternet.org/2022/03/republicans/
Bardella also pointed out that Republicans were in favor of Biden imposing sanctions on Russia prior to the surge in gas prices.
While speaking to Fox Business this week, former Vice President Mike Pence said, "In the four years of the Trump-Pence administration, we achieved energy independence for the first time in 70 years.
Now, fact-checkers are weighing in to refute the lawmakers' claims. According to Yahoo! News, multiple Republicans have attempted to spin the truth about gas prices this week.
"Fact-checkers have pointed out that the main cause of increasing gas prices over the past year is disruptions to global supply and demand following the coronavirus pandemic. Only a 10th of the Keystone XL pipeline was complete when Biden cancelled it and it was not likely to become operational until 2023 at the earliest."
To try to exploit that and use it to effectively lie and mislead the American people about conditions here at home is an unconscionable act of political cowardice.
Republicans were so vocal about how the Biden administration needed to do sanctions on Russian oil and then they start attacking him. You cant win because everything that they do is basically an illustration of how they operate in bad faith."
During a press conference this week, House Minority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy R-Calif. claimed, "These arent Putin prices. Theyre President Bidens prices.
He added, "Joe Biden could do every single thing that the Republican party wants and they would still attack him at the end of the day. Republicans just seem to operate in a purely craven political dynamic. Its irresponsible and downright un-American, and its exactly what they would have said if Democrats had done this in the wake of 911 or in the run up to the war on terror.
He added, "We were a net exporter of energy. But from very early on, with killing the Keystone pipeline, taking federal lands off the list for exploration, sidelining leases for oil and natural gas  once again, before Ukraine ever happened, we saw rising gasoline prices.
Kurt Bardella, a Democratic National Committee DNC advisor, has also pushed back against Republicans' flawed claims criticizing their attempts to score "political points."
As gas prices across the United States continue to soar, Republican lawmakers are using the moment as an opportunity to blame President Joe Biden not Russian President Vladamir Putin, the dictator who started the war that led to this economic domino effect.
"It just goes to show that there are no lengths to which Republicans wont stoop to try to score political points, in this case using the unthinkable and tragic situation that the Ukrainian people find themselves in.
