Kyiv sounds alarm over warravaged nature EU vows aid
20220714
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/659601-Kyiv-sounds-alarm-over-war-ravaged-nature,-EU-vows-aid
PRAGUE AFP - The war in Ukraine has destroyed forests, polluted fields and filled them with mines, and contaminated water, a Kyiv official told EU environment ministers who pledged help on Wednesday.
"For example, if a rocket comes to a national park, where we had a forest, and when 1,000 hectares 10 square kilometres of forest are burned by the fire, we think that its ecocide," Strilets told AFP.
"Drinking water is a problem too... the Russians are destroying water treatment plants," he said, adding western Ukraine, receiving refugees from the east, currently faced problems with water supply.
"We had the Russian army here, we did clear mines, we have this experience. So if we were asked to help with... clearance, we could quite happily do this," she said.
"Why does Russia make a war to destroy wild animals? Wild animals cant protect themselves, but they launch rockets at them. Is this not ecocide?" he added.
Strilets told AFP in an interview that Germany had offered 20 million euros dollars to help Ukraine repair its natural resources.
"There are many ideas, many offers which are similar but I think they can be coordinated," Hubackova said.
The Russian army has also launched more than 40 attacks on Ukraines oil depots, resulting in heavy air pollution, Strilets said.
Ukraine has also registered at least 260 cases of "ecocide" and more than 2,000 cases of environmental damage, while 20 percent of the countrys protected areas are under threat.
At an informal EU meeting in Prague, which holds the rotating EU presidency, Ukrainian Environment Minister Ruslan Strilets said the Russian invasion had damaged three million hectares of Ukrainian forests.
"All European countries are ready to help us. Its very useful to be here today. I hear their ideas... and Im sure that it will help me to prepare a little bit new agenda of a green course of Ukraine," he added.
Hubackova added Prague could use its experience of spending four decades under a Moscow-led totalitarian communist rule in 1948-1989 and help Ukraine clear mined areas.
German Minister Steffi Lemke said it was necessary to provide "immediate aid to critical infrastructure" without waiting for the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine.
The EU environment ministers have pledged help to Kyiv, with Czech Minister Anna Hubackova saying members of the 27-nation bloc could help with mapping and analysing the damage and providing financial help.
