Oil extends rally on supply tightness Brent at more than 3year high
20220117
https://dunyanews.tv/en/Business/637104-Oil-extends-rally-on-supply-tightness-Brent-at-more-than-3-year-high
Concerns over supply constraints outweighed the news of Chinas possible oil release from reserves, Fujitomi analyst Tazawa said.
The bullish sentiment is continuing as producer group OPEC is not providing enough supply to meet strong global demand, said Toshitaka Tazawa, an analyst at Fujitomi Securities Co Ltd.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC and its allies  OPEC  are gradually relaxing output cuts implemented when demand collapsed in 2020.
Reuters - Oil prices rose on Monday, with Brent crude futures at their highest in more than three years, as investors bet supply will remain tight amid restrained output by major producers with global demand unperturbed by the Omicron coronavirus variant.
The gains followed a rally last week when Brent rose 5.4 and WTI climbed 6.3.
The U.S. government has held talks with several international energy companies on contingency plans for supplying natural gas to Europe if conflict between Russia and Ukraine disrupts Russian supplies, two U.S. officials and two industry sources told Reuters on Friday.
Frantic oil buying, driven by supply outages and signs the Omicron variant wont be as disruptive as feared for fuel demand, has pushed some crude grades to multi-year highs, suggesting the rally in Brent futures could be sustained a while longer, traders said.
U.S. officials voiced fears on Friday that Russia was preparing to attack Ukraine if diplomacy failed. Russia, which has massed 100,000 troops on Ukraines border, released pictures of its forces on the move.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was up 62 cents, or 0.7, at $84.44 a barrel, after hitting $84.78, the highest since Nov. 10, 2021, earlier in the session.
U.S. crude oil stockpiles, meanwhile, fell more than expected to their lowest levels since October 2018, but gasoline inventories surged due to weak demand, the Energy Information Administration said on Wednesday.
Brent crude futures gained 42 cents, or 0.5, to $86.48 a barrel by 0022 GMT. The contract touched its highest since Oct. 3, 2018  $86.71  earlier in the session.
If investment funds increase allocation weight for crude, prices could reach their highs of 2014, he said.
Worries of a Russian attack on neighbouring Ukraine that could disrupt energy supply also lent support to prices.
Sources told Reuters China plans to release oil reserves around the Lunar New Year holidays between Jan. 31 and Feb. 6 as part of a plan coordinated by the United States with other major consumers to reduce global prices.
But many smaller producers cant raise supply and others have been wary of pumping too much oil in case of renewed COVID-19 setbacks.
