Pounded by Russian offensive in the east Ukraine rules out ceasefire
20220422
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/653173-Pounded-by-Russian-offensive-in-the-east,-Ukraine-rules-out-ceasefire
Local resident walks by a destroyed building after a rocket attack on a university campus, amid Russias invasion, in Bakhmut
Ukraines general staff reported continued heavy Russian shelling of twin cities Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk in the Luhansk region.
"Worrying voices have appeared, saying that Ukraine should give in to President Vladimir Putins demands," Duda said, the first foreign leader to address Ukrainian lawmakers in person since Russias Feb. 24 invasion. read more
Recent calls for an immediate ceasefire have come from U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi.
Most European supply contracts are denominated in euros or dollars. Last month, Moscow cut off gas to Bulgaria and Poland after they rejected the new terms.
The end of fighting in Mariupol, the biggest city Russia has captured, gives Putin a rare victory after a series of setbacks in nearly three months of combat.
The cities, separated by the Siverskiy Donets River, form the eastern part of a Ukrainian-held pocket that Russia has been trying to overrun since mid-April after failing to capture Kyiv and shifting its focus to the east and south of the country.
Russian state gas company Gazprom GAZP.MM said on Saturday it had halted gas exports to Finland, which has refused Moscows demands to pay in roubles for Russian gas after Western countries imposed sanctions over the invasion. read more
Western nations have also stepped up weapons supplies to Ukraine. On Saturday, Kyiv got another huge boost when U.S. President Joe Biden signed a bill to provide nearly $40 billion in military, economic and humanitarian aid. read more
Ukraines lead negotiator, speaking to Reuters on Saturday, ruled out a ceasefire that would involve Russian forces remaining in occupied areas or any deal with Moscow that involved ceding territory. Making concessions would backfire because Russia would hit back harder after any break in fighting, President Volodymyr Zelenskiys adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said. read more
KYIV, Reuters - Ukraine ruled out a ceasefire or any territorial concessions to Moscow while Russia stepped up its attack in the eastern Donbas region and stopped sending gas to Finland in its latest response to Western sanctions and its deepening international isolation.
Russian-backed separatists already controlled parts of Luhansk and the neighbouring Donetsk province before the invasion, but Moscow wants to seize the remaining Ukrainian-held territory in the region.
Finland said it was prepared for the cutoff of Russian flows. It applied together with its Nordic neighbour Sweden on Wednesday to join the NATO military alliance, although that is facing resistance from NATO member Turkey. read more
Full control of Mariupol gives Russia command of a land route linking the Crimean Peninsula, which Moscow seized in 2014, with mainland Russia and parts of eastern Ukraine held by pro-Russia separatists.
The Russian defence ministry said on Sunday its forces pounded Ukrainian command centres, troops and ammunition depots in Donbas and the Mykolayiv region in the south with air strikes and artillery.
Moscow says Western sanctions, along with arms deliveries for Kyiv, amount to a "proxy war" by the United States and its allies.
The last Ukrainian forces holed up Mariupols vast Azovstal steelworks have surrendered, the Russian defence ministry said on Friday. While Ukraine has not confirmed all its forces have left, the commander of the Azov regiment, one of the units in the factory, said in a video that Ukraines military command had ordered the forces in Mariupol to stand down in order to preserve their lives. read more
"The war will not stop. It will just be put on pause for some time," Podolyak said in an interview in the heavily guarded presidential office. "Theyll start a new offensive, even more bloody and large-scale."
"Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future." Shortly after he finished speaking, an air raid siren was heard in central Kyiv, a reminder that the nation remained at war even as the front lines have shifted hundreds kilometres to the south and east.
After ending weeks of resistance by the last Ukrainian fighters in the strategic southeastern port of Mariupol, Russia is waging a major offensive in Luhansk, one of two provinces in Donbas.
Putin calls the invasion a "special military operation" to disarm Ukraine and rid it of radical anti-Russian nationalists. Ukraine and its allies have dismissed that as a baseless pretext for the war, which has killed thousands of people in Ukraine, displaced millions and shattered cities.
Polish President Andrzej Duda told lawmakers in Kyiv that the international community had to demand Russias complete withdrawal from Ukrainian territory and that sacrificing even an inch of it would be a "huge blow" to the entire West.
