Putin seeks concrete agreements against NATO expansion
20211102
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/631194-Putin-seeks-%5C
"In our dialogue with the US and its allies, we will insist on developing specific agreements that would exclude any further NATO moves east and the deployment of weapons systems that threaten us close to Russian territory, Putin said.
"We propose to start substantive negotiations on this," Putin said as he received credentials from newly appointed ambassadors at a Kremlin ceremony.
"Any Russian proposals to discuss with NATO or the US any so-called guarantees that the alliance would not expand to the east are illegitimate," he added.
Speaking at a NATO meeting in Latvias capital Riga later on Wednesday, Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Moscow had "no right" to decide Kievs relations with the alliance.
Kievs Western allies have been sounding the alarm since last month over a fresh Russian troop buildup around Ukraines borders and a possible winter invasion.
Russia, which seized Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 and backs separatists fighting Kiev, has strongly denied it is plotting an attack and blames NATO for fuelling tensions.
"Russia cannot stop Ukraine from getting closer to NATO and has no right to have any say in the relevant discussions," Kuleba said.
Putin said Russia was responding to what he called a growing threat on its Western border.
He said Moscow seeks "legal guarantees", adding that the West had "not fulfilled their spoken obligations" and "ignored" Russian concerns.
MOSCOW AFP - Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday said he wanted "concrete agreements" from NATO that it would not expand eastwards, as the West accuses the Kremlin of planning a Ukraine invasion.
The US on Wednesday said it had "evidence" Russia could be planning an invasion of Ukraine, threatening Moscow with new economic sanctions if it attacks.
He claimed that NATO military infrastructure is "close" to Russian borders, saying this was "more than serious" to Moscow.
