Russia attacks Ukraine peace in Europe shattered
20220224
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/642848-Russia-attacks-Ukraine-peace-in-Europe-shattered
The chief of the NATO alliance said the 'brutal act of war' shattered peace in Europe
His adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said: A full-scale war in Europe has begun. ... Russia is not only attacking Ukraine, but the rules of normal life in the modern world.
Meanwhile, 10 civilians were killed. Ukraine claimed to have killed 50 Russian soldiers and shot down seven planes in retaliation.
In unleashing Moscows most aggressive action since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, President Vladimir Putin deflected global condemnation and cascading new sanctions  and chillingly referred to his countrys nuclear arsenal. He threatened any foreign country attempting to interfere with consequences you have never seen.
Zelenskyy urged global leaders to provide defense assistance to Ukraine and help protect its airspace, and urged his compatriots to defend the nation. Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba pleaded: The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
Zelenskyy said he asked to arrange a call with Putin late Wednesday, but the Kremlin did not respond.
The attacks came first from the air. Later Ukrainian authorities described ground invasions in multiple regions, and border guards released security camera footage Thursday showing a line of Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukraines government-held territory from Russian-annexed Crimea.
Alliance member Lithuania, which borders Russian ally Belarus and a Russian exclave, declared a state of emergency, and the president of Moldova pushed to do the same.
After weeks of denying plans to invade, Putin justified his actions in an overnight televised address, asserting that the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a false claim the U.S. had predicted he would make as a pretext for an invasion. He accused the U.S. and its allies of ignoring Russias demands to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and for security guarantees.
The Russian Defense Ministry said it was not targeting cities, but using precision weapons and claimed that there is no threat to civilian population.
We are facing a war and horror. What could be worse? 64-year-old Liudmila Gireyeva said in Kyiv. She planned to flee the city and try to eventually get to Poland to join her daughter. Putin will be damned by history, and Ukrainians are damning him.
The attack targeted a country the size of Texas that has increasingly tilted toward the democratic West and away from Moscows sway. The autocratic Putin made clear earlier this week that he sees no reason for Ukraine to exist, raising fears of possible broader conflict in the vast space that the Soviet Union once ruled. Putin denied plans to occupy Ukraine, but his ultimate goals remain hazy.
World stock markets plunged and oil prices surged by nearly $8 per barrel. Market benchmarks tumbled in Europe and Asia and U.S. stocks pointed toward a sharply lower open. Brent crude oil jumped to over $100 per barrel Thursday on unease about possible disruption of Russian supplies. The ruble sank.
KYIV Dunya News  Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine on Thursday, hitting cities and bases with airstrikes or shelling, as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee. Ukraines government said Russian tanks and troops rolled across the border in a full-scale war that could rewrite the geopolitical order and whose fallout already reverberated around the world.
Ukrainians who had long braced for the prospect of an assault were urged to stay home and not to panic despite the dire warnings.
In the capital, Mayor Vitaly Klitschko advised residents to stay home unless they are involved in critical work and urged them to prepare go-bags with necessities and documents if they need to evacuate.
With social media amplifying a torrent of military claims and counter-claims, it was difficult to determine exactly what was happening on the ground.
The consequences of the conflict and resulting sanctions on Russia started reverberating throughout the world.
Putins announcement came just hours after the Ukrainian president rejected Moscows claims that his country poses a threat to Russia and made a passionate, last-minute plea for peace.
Among Putins pledges was to denazify Ukraine. World War II looms large in Russia, after the Soviet Union suffered more deaths than any country while fighting Adolf Hitlers forces. Kremlin propaganda sometimes paints Ukrainian nationalists as neo-Nazis seeking revenge  a charge historians call disinformation. Ukraine is now led by a Jewish president who lost relatives in the Holocaust.
The chief of the NATO alliance said the brutal act of war shattered peace in Europe, joining a chorus of world leaders who decried the attack, which could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraines democratically elected government and upend the post-Cold War security order. The conflict was already shaking global financial markets: Stocks plunged and oil prices soared amid concerns that heating bills and food prices would skyrocket.
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said on Facebook that the Russian military had launched missile strikes on Ukrainian military command facilities, air bases and military depots in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Dnipro.
U.S. President Joe Biden pledged new sanctions to punish Russia for the unprovoked and unjustified attack. The president said he planned to speak to Americans on Thursday after a meeting of the Group of Seven leaders. More sanctions against Russia were expected to be announced.
As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history, Zelenskyy tweeted. Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and wont give up its freedom.
Sirens wailed in Ukraines capital, large explosions were heard there and in other cities, and people massed in train stations and took to roads, as the government said the former Soviet republic was seeing a long-anticipated invasion from the east, north and south. It reported more than 40 soldiers had been killed and dozens wounded so far.
Anticipating international condemnation and countermeasures, Putin issued a stark warning to other countries not to meddle.
In a reminder of Russias nuclear power, Putin warned that no one should have any doubts that a direct attack on our country will lead to the destruction and horrible consequences for any potential aggressor.
Governments from the U.S. to Asia and Europe readied new sanctions after weeks of failed efforts for a diplomatic solution. But global powers have said they will not intervene militarily to defend Ukraine, though NATO mobilized more troops to move toward eastern Europe.
According to details,Russia, in defiance of international pressure, invaded Ukraine. It conducted ground and air operations while targetting military installations, destroy Ukrainian airbase and air defense systems.
The Russian military claimed to have wiped out Ukraines entire air defenses in a matter of hours, and European authorities declared the countrys air space an active conflict zone. Russias claims could not immediately be verified, nor could Ukrainian ones that they had shot down several Russian aircraft. The Ukrainian air defense system and air force date back to the Soviet era and are dwarfed by Russias massive air power and precision weapons.
The attack began even as the U.N. Security Council was meeting to hold off an invasion. Members still unaware of Putins announcement of the operation appealed to him to stand down. U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres opened the emergency meeting, telling Putin: Give peace a chance.
Associated Press reporters saw or confirmed explosions in the capital, in Mariupol on the Azov Sea, and Kharkiv in the east. AP confirmed video showing Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukrainian-held territory in the north from Belarus and from Russian-annexed Crimea in the south.
But hours later, NATOs Jens Stoltenberg indicated it was too late: Peace on our continent has been shattered.
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace, Zelenskyy said in an emotional overnight address, speaking in Russian in a direct appeal to Russian citizens.
