Russian missiles rain on Ukraine as war nears halfyear mark
20220822
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/664512-Russian-missiles-rain-on-Ukraine-as-war-nears-half-year-mark
Wednesday marks 31 years of Ukraines independence from Soviet rule as well as half a year since the invasion and President Volodymyr Zelenskiy called for vigilance, saying Moscow could try "something particularly ugly."
"Ukraine, of course, had nothing to do with this because we are not a criminal state, like the Russian Federation, and moreover we are not a terrorist state," Mykhailo Podolyak said on Ukrainian television, suggesting the incident was "Karmic" payback for supporters of Moscows invasion.
Reuters - Artillery shells rained down on a city near Europes biggest nuclear plant and Russian missiles struck near the Black Sea port of Odesa on Sunday, as Ukraine warned of the potential for more serious attacks by Russia as the war neared its six-month anniversary.
In a daily Facebook update, Ukraines general staff reported several attempted Russian assaults over the past 24 hours in Donbas, a region in eastern Ukraine partially controlled by pro-Moscow separatists.
Russia said on Sunday the missiles had destroyed an ammunition depot containing missiles for U.S.-made HIMARS rockets. Kyiv said a granary had been hit.
While investigators said they were considering "all versions" when it came to establishing who was responsible, the Russian Foreign Ministry speculated there could be a link to Ukraine, something a Zelenskiy adviser dismissed.
Russian authorities were investigating a suspected car bomb attack outside Moscow that killed the daughter of Alexander Dugin, an ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue who advocates Russia absorbing Ukraine.
Of particular concern was the shelling of Nikopol, a city near Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine and Europes biggest nuclear plant.
Russias defence ministry said its forces had destroyed two M777 Howitzers in combat positions in the Kherson region, and a fuel depot in the Zaporizhzhia region.
"All of Ukraines partners have been informed about what the terrorist state can prepare for this week," Zelenskiy said, referring to Russia.
Nikopol was shelled on five different occasions overnight, regional governor Valentyn Reznichenko wrote on Telegram. He said 25 artillery shells hit the city, causing a fire at an industrial premises and cutting power to 3,000 residents.
Five Russian Kalibr cruise missiles were fired from the Black Sea at the region overnight, a regional administration spokesperson said, citing information from the southern military command. Two were shot down by Ukrainian air defences and three hit agricultural targets, but there were no casualties.
On Sunday, U.S. President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Macron held a phone call stressing the importance of ensuring the safety of nuclear installations, while underlining their "steadfast commitment" to Ukraine.
A series of explosions have made headlines in recent weeks from Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014. A Telegram post by Mikhail Razvozhayev, Crimeas Russian-appointed governor, who is not recognised by the West, said a drone attack on the headquarters of Russias Black Sea fleet had been thwarted on Saturday morning.
Putin ordered what he called a "special military operation" to demilitarise its smaller neighbour and protect Russian-speaking communities. Ukraine and Western backers accuse Moscow of waging an imperial-style war of conquest.
The fighting in the proximity of Zaporizhzhia and Saturdays missile strike on the southern Ukrainian town of Voznesensk, not far from Ukraines second-largest atomic plant, spurred fears of a nuclear accident.
As Ukraine prepared to mark its Independence Day embroiled in a war that has flattened towns and cities, killed thousands and forced millions to flee, officials reported more Russian strikes on targets in the east and south of the country.
Local authorities also reported overnight missile attacks in Ukraines Odesa region, home to ports critical to a U.N.-brokered plan to help Ukrainian agricultural exports reach world markets again.
In the south, Russian forces conducted a successful assault on the village of Blahodatne on the border between the Kherson and Mykolaiv regions, it said. The city of Mykolaiv was hit with multiple S-300 missiles early on Sunday, regional governor Vitaliy Kim said on Telegram.
In his nightly video address on Sunday, Zelenskiy said he had discussed "all the threats" with French President Emmanuel Macron and word had been sent also to other world leaders including Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
The Financial Times, in an article published Sunday, quoted Gennady Gatilov, Moscows ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, as saying Erdogan had tried to facilitate dialogue. But he dismissed speculation about talks between Zelenskiy and Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying there "was not any practical platform for having this meeting," the report said.
