US allies lambast Russia over Ukraine at UN Security Council
20220222
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/642350-US-allies-lambast-Russia-over-Ukraine-at-UN-Security-Council
Russia, which currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council, had wanted the session to be closed but the United States insisted it be public.
Her remarks came just before a White House spokesperson told AFP that Washington on Tuesday would impose sanctions on Moscow following Putins order.
The Under Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, voiced "regret" that Russian troops were ordered to Eastern Ukraine.
"The next hours and days will be critical," DiCarlo said. "The risk of major conflict is real and needs to be prevented at all costs."
Addressing the session, US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield heaped scorn on Putins assertion that the Russian troops would take on a peacekeeping role in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.
UNITED NATIONS AFP - The United States and its allies rounded on Russia during an emergency Security Council session, denouncing Vladimir Putins recognition of rebel-held areas in Ukraine and his ordered deployment of troops as a gross violation of international law and "pretext for war."
"He calls them peacekeepers. This is nonsense. We know what they really are," Thomas-Greenfield said.
In a lengthy televised national address announcing his recognition of the rebel-held areas, Putin railed against Ukraine as a failed state and "puppet" of the West, repeatedly suggesting it was essentially part of Russia.
Putins recognition of the separatist republics effectively buries a fragile 2015 peace plan for the conflict, and opens the door for direct Russian military involvement.
Putins order has been widely seen as paving the way for an operation to deploy part of the potential invasion force he has massed on Ukraines borders.
British envoy Barbara Woodward said the council must be united in urging Russia to "deescalate" and "respect its obligations."
"Russia has brought us to the brink. We urge Russia to step back," Woodward said, as Martin Kimani of Kenya said Russias move "breaches the territorial integrity of Ukraine."
"However, allowing a new bloodbath in the Donbass is something we do not intend to do," he added, referring to the region encompassing Donetsk and Lugansk.
Moscow is still "open to diplomacy for a diplomatic solution," said Russias ambassador to the UN Vasily Nebenzya.
"Multilateralism lies on its deathbed tonight. It has been assaulted today, as it as it has been by other powerful states in the recent past," Kimani said.
Thomas-Greenfield said the speech amounted to a "series of outrageous, false claims" that were aimed at "creating a pretext for war."
Moscow provided no details or date for any deployment of the "peacekeeping" forces, only saying that it "comes into force from the day it was signed."
