Zelensky to Moscow This is the time to meet
20220319
https://dunyanews.tv/en/World/645894-Zelensky-to-Moscow:-%5C
He accused Russian forces of blocking aid around hotspot areas, saying "they have a strict order to do everything, so the humanitarian catastrophe in Ukrainian cities turned into reason for Ukrainians to work together with the occupiers".
Russia, which has been conducting a military operation in Ukraine since February 24, has requested that its neighbour never join the Western NATO military alliance, as well as demanding its "demilitarisation" and "denazification".
KYIV AFP - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called again for talks with Moscow on Saturday, saying they were the "only chance for Russia to minimise the damage done with their own mistakes" after invading.
But Mikhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Zelensky taking part in the negotiations, said his countrys position had not budged.
Zelensky also said that Ukrainian authorities had been able to rescue more than 9,000 people from the port city of Mariupol, which is under siege by Russian forces.
There was still no information about the number of people who had died when a theatre in the city sheltering civilians was bombed, he said.
The two sides are currently holding negotiations remotely but so far, like previous rounds, they have yielded little progress. None have been at the presidential level.
"All statements are intended, inter alia, to provoke tension in the media. Our positions are unchanged. Ceasefire, withdrawal of troops  strong security guarantees with concrete formulas."
Several rounds of negotiations between Kyiv and Moscow have taken place both in person and virtually since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began on February 24.
Russias top negotiator said Friday that Moscow and Kyiv had brought their positions "as close as possible" on a proposal for Ukraine to become a neutral state.
"Negotiation status. The statements of the Russian side are only their requesting positions," he wrote on Twitter.
"This is the time to meet, to talk, time for renewing territorial integrity and fairness for Ukraine," Zelensky said in a video posted to Facebook.
Over 180,000 Ukrainian citizens had been rescued through humanitarian corridors across the country, Zelensky said.
