HSBC is in talks to sell Russian unit to Expobank sources say
20220706
https://www.americanbanker.com/articles/hsbc-is-in-talks-to-sell-russian-unit-to-expobank-sources-say
Wall Street firms including Goldman Sachs Group and JPMorgan Chase said in March they would wind down operations there.London-based HSBCexitedretail banking in Russia several years ago and now primarily serves corporate clients. The units total assets stood at 89.9 billion rubles $1.4 billion as of June 2021, when it employed 249 people.
The talks on a deal are at an advanced stage, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information isnt public and no agreement is assured. Spokespeople for HSBC and Expobank declined to comment.
Other international banks are weighing their futures in Russia. Austrias Raiffeisen Bank International AG has said its considering a sale, as well as alternatives that could see it retain ownership. UniCredit SpA is considering selling its Russian unit through a structure that would allow the bank to repurchase the subsidiary if the geopolitical situation stabilizes,people familiarwith the matter said this week.
HSBC Holdings is in talks to sell its Russia unit to local lender Expobank, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.
Expobank, owned by the Russian entrepreneur Igor Kim, has offices in over 50 Russian cities and covers corporate and retail banking and other financial segments. Neither the bank nor its owner are sanctioned.
A deal would mark another exit of an international lender after the Kremlin-ordered invasion of Ukraine. Societe Generale agreed to sell its Rosbank unit to the investment firm of Russias richest man, Vladimir Potanin, taking a roughly 3 billion-euro hit on the deal.
HSBC said in April it wasnt accepting new business or customers at its Russia unit, but that it wouldnt fully withdraw from the nation as it had a responsibility to its multinational corporate clients. The bank took a $250 million charge in the first quarter related to Russian counterparties.
