Live blog Fresh Russian strikes hit several areas in Ukraine
20220716
https://www.trtworld.com/europe/live-blog-russia-deploys-missiles-to-zaporizhzhia-plant-nuclear-agency-58885
The regional governor of Dnipropetrovsk, Valentyn Reznichenko, said that Russia fired 53 Grad rockets at the town.
A regional police official said Russia fired four missiles at the town from near its western city of Belgorod at around 0330 local time.
At least three civilians were killed and three more were injured in a Russian rocket strike on the northern Ukrainian city of Chuhuiv in the early hours, a regional police chief said on Saturday.
Russian armed forces destroyed a factory in the Ukrainian city of Dnipro that produced parts for Tochka-U ballistic missiles, the Russian defence ministry has said in a statement.
At least three people were killed and 15 injured following a Russian missile attack on the central Ukrainian city of Dnipro on Friday, the regional governor, Valentyn Reznichenko, said.
Serhiy Bolvinov, the deputy head of Kharkivs regional police force, said that the rockets were likely fired from Russian territory. Chuhuiv lies some 120 kilometres from the border.
The White House says Russian officials have visited an airfield in central Iran at least twice in recent weeks to view weapons-capable drones it is looking to acquire for use in its ongoing offensive in Ukraine.
Iran showcased the drones for Russian officials at Kashan Airfield on June 8 and July 15, according to the White House.
Two people were killed in Nikopol when heavy Russian shelling hit the southern Ukrainian town, the emergency services and regional governor said.
Russia has stepped up its onslaught against Ukraine, with civilian casualties reported in several areas of the country.
The president of Ukrainian nuclear agency Energoatom said earlier in a televised interview that the situation was "extremely tense", with up to 500 Russian soldiers controlling the site.
They physically control the perimeter. The occupiers' heavy machinery and trucks with weapons and explosives remain on the territory of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
Satellite imagery released by the White House shows Shahed-191 and Shahed-129 drones at or flying near the site.
The administration also released satellite imagery of Shahed-191 and Shahed-129 drones being displayed and in flight on the airfield, while a Russian delegation transport plane was on the ground.
"That looked like an apartment building," said the official, who also confirmed that Russia launched the missile strike Thursday from a submarine.
Located on the Dnipro river in southeastern Ukraine, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant has been under Russian control since the early weeks of Moscow's incursion, though it is still being operated by Ukrainian staff.
Russian officials have recently visited Iran twice to assess combat drones, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has said, as Moscow looks to bolster its arsenal for its offensive in Ukraine.
The president of Ukrainian nuclear agency Energoatom said on Friday in a televised interview that the situation was "extremely tense", with up to 500 Russian soldiers controlling the plant.
"I have no indication that there was a military target anywhere near that," the senior defence official told reporters on condition of anonymity.
The strike damaged a two-storey residential building, a school and a shop, and rescuers were going through the rubble, Governor Oleh Synehubov and the police said.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu has ordered Russian military units operating in all areas of Ukraine to step up their operations in order to prevent strikes on eastern Ukraine and other territories controlled by Russia, the ministry said in a statement on its website.
Iran's military hosted two showcases for Russian delegations at the Kashan airfield, on June 8 and again on July 5, Sullivan said in a statement on Saturday.
Russia is using Europe's largest nuclear power plant as a base to store weapons including "missile systems" and to shell the surrounding areas of Ukraine, an official with Kiev's nuclear agency has said.
"The rockets hit an industrial plant and a busy street next to it," Reznichenko said on his Facebook page.
Located on the Dnipro river in southeastern Ukraine, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant has been under Russian control since the early weeks of Moscow's offensive, though it is still being operated by Ukrainian staff.
A Russian missile strike hit the northeast Ukrainian town of Chuhuiv in Kharkiv region overnight, killing three people including a woman aged 70, and wounding three more, the regional governor said.
At least three people killed and 15 injured following a Russian missile attack on the central Ukrainian city of Dnipro, regional governor Valentyn Reznychenko says pic.twitter.com51rKp0TCVh
TRT World's Aksel Zaimovic has the latest on missile strike on Ukrainian city of Dnipro pic.twitter.com8jn6yrELkO
Russian forces have also shot down three Ukrainian airplanes and two helicopters, the ministry said on Saturday.
"The occupiers bring their machinery there, including missile systems, from which they already shell the other side of the river Dnipro and the territory of Nikopol," Pedro Kotin said, referring to the city across the water.
It said Shoigu "gave the necessary instructions to further increase the actions of groups in all operational areas in order to exclude the possibility of the Kiev regime launching massive rocket and artillery strikes on civilian infrastructure and residents of settlements in Donbass and other regions".
Russia is using Europe's largest nuclear power plant as a base to store weapons including "missile systems" and shell the surrounding areas of Ukraine, an official with Kiev's nuclear agency has said.
A US official dismissed Russia's claim that it targeted a meeting of the Ukrainian air force in Vinnytsia in an attack that Kiev says killed 23 people including children.
