Live blog UNs nuclear watchdog condemns shelling at Ukraine nuclear plant
20220806
https://www.trtworld.com/europe/live-blog-ukraine-fortifies-position-in-eastern-city-for-russia-s-assault-59506
Pokalchuk said she had tried to warn Amnesty's senior leadership that the report was one-sided and failed to properly take into account the Ukrainian position, but she was ignored.
Grossi, who leads the United Nation's nuclear watchdog, urged all sides in the Ukraine conflict to exercise the "utmost restraint" around the plant.
Sloviansk is considered a strategic target in Moscows ambitions to seize all of Donetsk province, a largely Russian-speaking area in eastern Ukraine where Russian forces and pro-Moscow separatists control about 60 of the territory.
North Macedonia has agreed to supply tanks and planes to Ukraine to help fend off Moscow's ongoing offensive, senior Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak said.
Hiroshima Mayor Kazumi Matsui, in his peace declaration, has accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "using his own people as instruments of war and stealing the lives and livelihoods of innocent civilians in another country."
Russian forces have begun an assault on two key cities in the eastern Donetsk region and kept up rocket and shelling attacks on other Ukrainian cities, including one close to Europes largest nuclear power plant, Ukraine's military and local officials said.
EU foreign policy chief has deplored the Russian military activities around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear station in southeast Ukraine.
The EU condemns Russia's military activities around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Josep Borrell announced on Twitter.
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA has raised grave concerns about the shelling the previous day at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, saying the action showed the risk of a nuclear disaster.
The defence ministry of North Macedonia, a small Balkan country, confirmed last week that it would supply Soviet-era tanks to Ukraine, but has said nothing about aircraft deliveries.
Russia's attack against Ukraine is about to enter a new phase, with most fighting shifting to a nearly 350 kilometre front stretching southwest from near Zaporizhzhia to Kherson, parallel to the Dnieper River, British military intelligence has said.
The Russian agency that investigates criminal cases in the country and in Russian-occupied areas, on Telegram confirmed there had been an "assassination attempt" against Gur.
Amnesty sparked outrage in Ukraine when it released a report on Thursday, accusing the military of endangering civilians by establishing bases in schools and hospitals, and launching counterattacks from heavily populated areas.
The head of Amnesty International's Ukraine office has resigned, accusing the rights organisation of parroting Kremlin propaganda in a controversial report that criticised the Kiev's military response to Russia's attack.
Another three ships loaded with of corn have set sail from Ukrainian ports, and are now headed to Istanbul for inspection. It follows the breakthrough deal to release Ukrainian grain via the Black Sea pic.twitter.comqTUIdH8eV4
Russia's aggression on Ukraine is helping build support for nuclear deterrence, Matsui said, urging the world not to repeat the mistakes that destroyed his city 77 years ago by US nuclear bombers.
DuringTurkishNational Defense Minister Hulusi Akar's phone call with Oleksii Reznikov, he also spoke to Ukraine's Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov, according to a statement fromTurkishDefense Ministry.
As heavy ground fighting continues on the front line only miles to the east, southeast and north of Sloviansk, members of the Dnipro-1 Regiment are digging in after a week of relative calm. The last Russian strike on the city occurred on July 30.
Both cities of Bakhmut and Avdiivka have been considered key targets of Russias ongoing offensive across Ukraines east, with analysts saying Moscow needs to take Bakhmut if it is to advance on the regional hubs of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk.
"Vitaly Gur has been the victim of an assassination attempt at his home. He is in hospital with multiple gunshot wounds, in a critical state," the source said, without providing further details.
"Rather than treating a world without nuclear weapons like a distant dream, they should be taking concrete steps toward its realisation," he said. Matsui cited Leo Tolstoy, the Russian author of "War and Peace", saying: "Never build your happiness on the misfortune of others, for only in their happiness can you find your own."
As a result, the SBU said several shipbuilding enterprises and fuel depots were damaged or destroyed. The agency said both men were now being held in custody. It did not say when the infrastructure was hit.
An official with the Russian occupying authorities in Ukraine's Kherson region has been gravely wounded after an assassination attempt, local Moscow-backed authorities said.
Two grain-loaded ships from Ukraine docked at the Black Sea entrance of Trkiye's Istanbul Strait en route to Ireland and England - Turkish National Defence Ministryhttps:t.co0RJpccg41w
While the lull provided Sloviansk's remaining residents a reprieve after regular shelling between April and July, some unit members say it could be a prelude to renewed attacks.
"Many nations are showing more courage today than half of the G20 Group of 20 major economic powers. Like North Macedonia, giving Ukraine a supportive shoulder in the form of tanks and planes," Podolyak wrote on Twitter.
The ministers hailed the continued acceleration of grain shipments and the co-operative work carried out at the Joint Coordination Center in Istanbul.
Ukraine's State Security Service SBU has detained two men it accused of being Russian intelligence agents responsible for identifying targets for Russian missile strikes that wrecked shipbulding infrastructure in the southern port city of Mykolaiv, the agency said.
The two men "collected and transmitted intelligence to the enemy about important infrastructure facilities, fuel depots, the deployment and movement of personnel and equipment of Ukraine's Armed Forces," the SBU said in a post on messaging app Telegram.
The last Russian strike on Sloviansk was July 30, but Ukrainian forces are fortifying their positions around the city in expectation of new fighting.
The organisation unintentionally put out a statement that sounded like support for Russian narratives. Striving to protect civilians, this research instead became a tool of Russian propaganda...If you don't live in a country invaded by occupiers who are tearing it to pieces, you probably don't understand what it's like to condemn an army of defenders.
Any bombing of this site is a shameless crime, an act of terror," he said. The Ukrainian foreign ministry earlier said the "possible consequences of hitting a working reactor are equivalent to using an atomic bomb".
"I'm extremely concerned by the shelling yesterday at Europe's largest nuclear power plant, which underlines the very real risk of a nuclear disaster that could threaten public health and the environment in Ukraine and beyond," Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi said in a statement.
Russian state news agency TASS quoted an anonymous official in Russia-occupied Kherson as saying the attack targeted the deputy chief of the Kakhovka district, some 80 km east of Kherson city.
Trkiye's defense chief has discussed the latest developments on Ukrainian grain exports with the minister of defense of that country.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in his daily video address has said Russia should "take responsibility for the very fact of creating a threat to a nuclear plant", following a strike at Europe's largest nuclear site,
Russian forces are almost certainly amassing in the south of Ukraine, anticipating a counter-offensive or in preparation for a possible assault, the UK's Ministry of Defence said on Twitter.
68 Ukrainian forces are focusing their targeting on bridges, ammunition depots, and rail links with growing frequency in Ukraines southern regions.
Calling the military activities a "serious and irresponsible breach of nuclear safety rules" and international norms, he demanded immediate access for the experts of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA.
Parts of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant were "seriously damaged" by military strikes that forced one of its reactors to shut down, the plant's operator has said.
Long convoys of Russian military trucks, tanks, towed artillery and other weapons continue to move away from Ukraine's Donbass region and are headed southwest.
Ukrainian military personnel are fortifying their positions around the eastern city of Sloviansk in expectation of a fresh Russian attempt to seize the strategic point in the fiercely fought-over Donetsk region.
In the Donetsk direction, the enemy is conducting an offensive operation, concentrating its main efforts on the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions. It uses ground attack and army aviation, the Ukrainian General Staff said on Facebook.
The Friday strikes on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant in south Ukraine - Europe's largest atomic power complex - "seriously damaged" a station containing nitrogen and oxygen and an "auxiliary building," Energoatom said on the Telegram messaging service.
Matsui criticised nuclear weapon states, including Russia, for not taking steps despite their pledge to abide by obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
"Today, the occupiers have created another extremely risky situation for all of Europe: they struck the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant twice.
