Russia blocks adoption of nuclear disarmament text at UN
20220827
https://www.trtworld.com/europe/russia-blocks-adoption-of-nuclear-disarmament-text-at-un-60200
At the opening of this year's conference, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned that the world faced "a nuclear danger not seen since the height of the Cold War."
In the end, the conference's president, Gustavo Zlauvinen of Argentina, said it was "not in a position to achieve agreement" after Russia took issue with the text.
The signatories discussed a number of other hot-button topics during the conference, including Iran's nuclear programme and North Korean nuclear tests.
The 191 signatories of the treaty have been gathered at UN headquarters in New York since August 1 participating in a month of negotiations, including a final session that was postponed for several hours on Friday.
The NPT, reviewed by signatories every five years, aims to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, promote complete disarmament and promote cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
At the last review conference in 2015, the parties were also unable to reach an agreement on substantive issues.
"Our delegation has one key objection on some paragraphs which are blatantly political in nature," he said, adding that Russia was not the only country to take issue with the text.
Russia has prevented the adoption of a joint declaration on nuclear disarmament at the United Nations following a four-week conference on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty NPT.
Russian representative Igor Vishnevetsky said the draft final text, which was more than 30 pages long, lacked "balance."
According to sources close to the negotiations, Russia was opposed in particular to paragraphs concerning the Ukrainian nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia, which is occupied by the Russian military.
The latest draft text had expressed "grave concern" over military activities around Ukrainian power plants, including Zaporizhzhia, as well as over Ukraine's loss of control of such sites and the negative impact on safety.
