Lithuanian president new Brussels guidelines on transit to bring in clarity
20220715
https://www.baltictimes.com/lithuanian_president__new_brussels__guidelines_on_transit_to_bring_in_clarity/
The European Commission on Wednesday issued new guidelines, allowing Russia to transport sanctioned goods by rail to and from Kaliningrad via the EU territory, but only for the needs of this exclave.
In the presidents view, it is necessary to strive for the rapid adoption of the seventh package of sanctions for Russia, which would further strengthen the existing isolation of the aggressor country, the statement said.
The president believes that the Commissions guidelines will bring in clarity on the implementation of sanctions across the EU and will fend off further Kremlin disinformation and unfounded accusations against Lithuania, according to comments issued to the media by the presidents communication group on Thursday.
Representatives of Lithuania and the European Commission have held consultations in recent weeks on the transit of sanctioned goods to Kaliningrad following Russia's outrage over the restrictions on steel that came into force in June.
Given the current geopolitical context, it was necessary to concentrate on making sure that the EU continued to pursue consistent policy of tightening sanctions on Russia, Nauseda noted.
The transit of some Russian goods to Kaliningrad was halted after the EU sanctions, imposed over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, came into force.
The countrys leader emphasizes that effective implementation of EU sanctions is only possible when they are interpreted unanimously. The president states that it is particularly important to maintain transatlantic unity and strength at the EU level in the face of Kremlins provocations, the statement said.
VILNIUS  The European Commissions guidelines allowing transit of sanctioned goods to and from Russias exclave of Kaliningrad will bring in clarity in the implementation of sanctions against Russia and fend off Kremlin disinformation, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda has said.
Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte stated earlier on Thursday that it would be irrational to continue arguing with Western partners over the Kaliningrad transit and called to stay focused on supporting Ukraine, as it is defending itself against Russia, as well as on new sanctions for Moscow.
