Russian caucus of Estonias SDE condemns Russias war against Ukraine
20220315
https://www.baltictimes.com/russian_caucus_of_estonia_s_sde_condemns_russia_s_war_against_ukraine/
"We would like to thank the residents of Estonia who condemn the aggression against Ukraine and who are in every way helping the people in distress. Thank you to everyone who does not put an equation mark between Russian speakers and Russian President Vladimir Putin. He started a war and failed his people in Russia and other countries," the Russian caucus of SDE says.
The caucus of Russian-speakers of SDE calls on all those who justify the actions of the Russian leadership to put themselves in the place of the people of Ukraine who are not guilty of anything, including in the place of children, women, the elderly, as well as those who are defending their country with a weapon in their hands and who are suffering and dying in this bloodshed.
"We stand in solidarity with Ukraine and support its territorial integrity. Armed aggression against a country that has attacked no one is unacceptable. If someone were to attack any other country, including Russia or Belarus, with the same treachery, we would oppose it just as we oppose the aggression against Ukraine," the president of the caucus of Russian-speakers, Kirill Klaus, said in his speech at the general assembly of the caucus.
"Unfortunately, the situation in Ukraine has not yet been resolved. However, this does not mean that the Russian authorities are essentially allowed to start World War III with unpredictable disastrous consequences. This is not just irresponsible, it is a crime against humanity," Klaus stressed.
At the beginning of March, the Russian-speaking caucus of SDE also issued a statement in support of Ukraine.
"We ask everyone who does not support the aggression against Ukraine not to remain silent, but to speak out in a form that suits you. At such a revolutionary time, we must not live on the principle that 'it does not concern me, I am far from politics'," Klaus said.
He said the existence of an internal conflict in any country does not give anyone the right to start a war against that country. Allegations that someone has also violated international law at some point cannot justify Russia's violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity and starting a war against that country.
TALLINN - The caucus of Russian-speakers in the opposition Estonian Social Democratic Party SDE has condemned Russia's war against Ukraine and expressed its gratitude to all residents of Estonia who have unequivocally condemned the aggression against a sovereign state and are helping Ukrainians in one way or another.
