Tone of Russias propaganda threat testifies to Ukraines success on the battlefield  Karins
20220426
https://www.baltictimes.com/tone_of_russia_s_propaganda_threat_testifies_to_ukraine_s_success_on_the_battlefield_-_karins/
But Western powers have been reluctant to deepen their involvement, for fear of sparking a conflict against nuclear-armed Russia.
The AFP news agency reports that Russia has warned of the "real" threat of World War III breaking out, ahead of a Tuesday meeting between the United States and allies over sending further arms to war-torn Ukraine.
RIGA - The growing tone of the Russian propaganda threat to the West testifies to Ukraine's success on the battlefield, said Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins New Unity on Tuesday after the Cabinet meeting.
Moscow's invasion of its neighbor has triggered an outburst of support from Western nations that has seen weapons pour into the country to help it wage war against Russian troops.
"We should not give in to Russian blackmail, but double our support for Ukraine and sanctions against Russia," he said, adding that only a strong and consistent approach could restore international law and order.
As Russian propaganda intensifies, one should not be afraid of it, on the contrary - we should provide even more support to Ukraine in both the humanitarian and military spheres, while at the same time increasing sanctions against the Russian economy, Karins emphasized. In this way, Russia will be given increasingly difficult conditions to finance its violent war on Ukrainian territory.
Meanwhile, in his Twitter account, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics posted today that if Russia is threatening WWIII, this is a clear signal that Ukraine is gaining success.
Speaking to Russian news agencies, Moscow's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned the risk of a World War III "is serious" and criticized Kyiv's approach to floundering peace talks.
"Our goal, and it is not only the goal of Latvia, but the goal of the whole of Europe and the Western world, is peace through Ukraine's victory. Ukraine's victory is needed. It is possible, and today's propaganda threat from Moscow shows that," said Karins.
