Businesses should be vigilant for cyber attacks due to situation with Russian and Ukraine
20220223
https://www.bridportnews.co.uk/news/19944386.businesses-vigilant-cyber-attacks-due-situation-russian-ukraine/
Jim Hawkins of C3IA Solutions said: Cyber-attacks do not respect international boundaries and the risk of overspill, intentional or not, is why the National Cyber Security Centre NCSC has said that the UKs cyber risk has been heightened.
Having Cyber Essentials certification is always something wed recommend as a basic level of security.
How to identify suspect emails and how social media and business networking platforms can be used by attackers are something that should be explained to staff."
Those businesses that supply to the Ministry of Defence MoD or the government are particularly at risk.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Paul Chichester, NCSC Director of Operations, said: While we are unaware of any specific cyber threats to UK organisations in relation to events in Ukraine, we are monitoring the situation closely and it is vital that organisations follow the guidance to ensure they are resilient.
Multi-factor authentication should be implemented, and wed recommend that businesses follow the NCSC guidance on password management.
C3IA Solutions, a leading cyber-security company Dorset, said cyber-attacks on companies are a real and growing threat.
But there are other things businesses can do to improve their business resilience. All systems should be patched, especially those with vulnerabilities that are known to have been exploited, critical services should be backed up and incident response plans tested for functionality.
The NCSC and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure CPNI have warned organisations to review their cyber-security resilience.
Educating staff about the risks and how to recognise them is also an important step.
BUSINESSES should be extra vigilant about their cyber-security due to the ongoing situation with Russian and Ukraine, according to experts.
Russia has been accused of orchestrating a number of cyber-attacks, including on the Ukrainian power grid and on their banks and official websites.
