Fate of Russian warship unclear after Ukrainians claim strike
20220315
https://www.bridportnews.co.uk/news/national/20067986.ukraine-says-missiles-hit-russian-flagship-crew-evacuates/
Russian state television broadcast footage that it said was from Mariupol showing dozens of men in camouflage walking with their hands up and carrying others on stretchers.
Mariupols capture is critical for Russia because it would put a swathe of territory in its control that would allow its forces in the south, who came up through the annexed Crimean Peninsula, to link up with troops in the eastern Donbas region, Ukraines industrial heartland and the target of the coming offensive.
The news of the flagships damage overshadowed Russian claims of advances in the southern port city of Mariupol, where they have been battling the Ukrainians since the early days of the invasion in some of the heaviest fighting of the war  at a horrific cost to civilians.
They met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and visited Borodyanka, one of the towns near Kyiv where evidence of atrocities was found after Russian troops withdrew.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukraine in the Donbas since 2014, the same year Russia seized Crimea.
In addition to the cruise missiles, the warship also had air-defence missiles and other guns.
It is inevitable that the Russian troops will be held responsible. We will drag everyone to a tribunal, and not only for what was done in Bucha, Mr Zelensky said.
It was unclear when or over what time period a surrender may have occurred or how many forces were still defending Mariupol.
There was even some caution from Ukrainian officials: one said the ship sank, and a video from its armed forces described it overturning and beginning to sink, but another official refused to confirm that.
1.7 billion people are highly exposed to the war in Ukraines impact on food, energy  finance.
Russian authorities on Thursday accused Ukraine of sending two low-flying military helicopters across the border and firing on residential buildings in the village of Klimovo in Russias Bryansk region, some seven miles from the frontier.
The conflict has killed untold numbers of Ukrainian civilians and forced millions more to flee.
Ukrainian officials have said that their forces hit the flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet with missiles overnight, though Russia said the Moskva was badly damaged by a fire that forced the warships evacuation and was still afloat.
He said weapons from the West have sustained Ukraines fight so far and we cannot rest now.
Theyve had to kind of choose between two stories: One story is that it was just incompetence, and the other was that they came under attack, and neither is a particularly good outcome for them, Mr Sullivan told the Economic Club of Washington.
The Moskva was reportedly the warship that called on Ukrainian soldiers stationed on Snake Island in the Black Sea to surrender in a stand-off in the wars early days.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said on Wednesday that 1,026 troops from the Ukrainian 36th Marine Brigade surrendered at a metals factory in the city.
In his nightly address, Mr Zelensky noted that the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court visited the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, which was controlled by Russian forces until recently and where evidence of mass killings and more than 400 bodies were found.
The presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia travelled on Wednesday to war-ravaged areas in Ukraine and demanded accountability for what they called war crimes.
But the ground advance stalled in the face of strong Ukrainian resistance with the help of Western arms, and Russia has lost potentially thousands of fighters.
The ship carries 16 missiles, and its removal from combat would greatly reduce Russias firepower in the Black Sea.
He told the Associated Press AP that the warship was capable of launching 16 long-range cruise missiles.
The US was not able to confirm Ukraines claims of striking the warship, US national security adviser Jake Sullivan said on Thursday.
Russia invaded on February 24 with the goal, according to Western officials, of rapidly seizing Kyiv, toppling the government and installing a Moscow-friendly replacement.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukraines president, then said the ship sank, calling it an event of colossal significance.
Maksym Marchenko, the governor of the Odesa region, across the Black Sea to the north-west of Sevastopol, said the Ukrainians struck the ship with two Neptune missiles and caused serious damage.
The war has also unsettled the post-Cold War balance in Europe  and particularly worried countries on Natos eastern flank that fear they could next come under attack.
The loss of the warship named after the Russian capital would be a major military and symbolic defeat for Moscow as its troops regroup for a renewed offensive in eastern Ukraine after retreating from much of the north, including the capital.
Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden, who called Russias actions in Ukraine a genocide this week, approved 800 million dollars 613 million in new military assistance to Kyiv.
Russia did not acknowledge any attack but said a fire aboard the warship, which would typically have 500 sailors on board, forced the entire crew to evacuate the vessel.
But Vadym Denysenko, adviser to Ukraines interior minister, rejected the claim, telling Current Time TV that the battle over the seaport is still ongoing today.
In a video posted by Operation Command South of Ukraines military, an official said poor weather and explosions overturned the cruiser and it began to sink.
He said he was aware of the comments by other Ukrainian officials but could neither confirm nor deny what happened.
The Neptune is an anti-ship missile that was recently developed by Ukraine and based on an earlier Soviet design.
A UN task force warned that the war threatens to devastate the economies of many developing countries that are facing even higher food and energy costs and increasingly difficult financial conditions.
UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres said the war is supercharging a crisis in food, energy and finance in poorer countries that were already struggling to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and a lack of access to funding.
On a visit with leaders from three other EU countries on Russias doorstep who fear they could next be in Moscows sights, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda declared that the fight for Europes future is happening here.
It later said the fire had been contained and that the ship would be towed to port with its guided missile launchers intact.
Russias Defence Ministry said ammunition on board detonated as a result of a fire, without saying what caused the blaze.
Russias state security service had earlier said Ukrainian forces fired mortar rounds at a border post in Bryansk as refugees were crossing, forcing them to flee.
Yuriy Sak, an adviser to Ukraines defence minister, later said he was unable to confirm that the ship was sunk or even hit by Ukrainian forces.
It was not immediately possible to reconcile the vastly different accounts, and cloud cover made it impossible to locate the ship or determine its condition based on satellite photos.
Mr Nauseda, of Lithuania, called for tougher sanctions, including against Russian oil and gas shipments and all the countrys banks.
The launchers are mounted on trucks stationed near the coast and, according to the Washington-based Centre for Strategic and International Studies, the missiles can hit targets up to 175 miles away.
Satellite photos from Planet Labs PBC show the Moskva steaming out of the port of Sevastopol on the Crimean Peninsula on Sunday.
The news of damage to the ship came hours after some of Ukraines allies sought to rally new support for the embattled country.
The AP could not independently verify the incident, but Ukraine and its supporters consider it an iconic moment of defiance, and the country recently unveiled a postage stamp commemorating it.
The UN Global Crisis Response Group's 1st brief warns of a "perfect storm" that threatens the world but will hit the poorest the hardest. https:t.coyC7J1Qg7oh pic.twitter.comhNNSKrhipj
There are no doubts that they committed war crimes. And for that they should be accountable, Latvian President Egils Levits said.
Earlier this month, Ukrainian security officials denied that Kyiv was behind an air strike on an oil depot in the Russian city of Belgorod, some 35 miles from the border.
Regardless of the extent of the damage, any attack would represent a major blow to Russian prestige seven weeks into a war that is already widely seen as a historic blunder.
If or when this is confirmed, if it is confirmed, we can only have a sigh of relief because this means that fewer missiles will reach Ukrainian cities, he said.
