Ukrainian teenager vows to stay in Lviv as army needs her support
20220307
https://www.bridportnews.co.uk/news/19974930.ukrainian-teenager-vows-stay-lviv-army-needs-support/
Nadiia Shymkiv, 17, said she had an opportunity to flee her city of Lviv, after the war with Russia began, but decided to stay to help the aid efforts in the country.
Nadiia said while at first she was fearful she since feels like she has a sense of duty to help those in need.
I looked at the news and saw what had happened and was really shocked and scared  I couldnt believe it was true. It was the most terrible morning of my life.
Then I try to find clothes, equipment, things like that. I cant study physically at university at the moment, all this has stopped. Our job is now volunteering.
Nadiias immediate family have also remained at home  with her father defending the country and her mother volunteering.
Prior to the war, Nadiia was a student at Ukrainian Catholic University studying law but is now using her time to help co-ordinate efforts with other volunteers and gather supplies.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The day the war broke out in Ukraine, Nadiia was due to be in the capital for a law conference.
I call them in the morning to find out whats happening where they are. Then I start work  so try to find medication, food and just connect with the other volunteers.
A teenager who is volunteering as an aid worker in Ukraine has vowed to remain in the country to help those fighting as they need her support.
They need my support. Being young doesnt mean I need to leave my country when Im really needed here.
She said: I woke up and saw my mobile phone had missed calls from my mum who messaged me and said Youre not going to Kyiv.
Outlining what her daily life is like now, she said: I start my day messaging all my friends and family and asking if theyre OK, and they write back and tell me if theyre alive. Asking how are you? is very important for me now. Its completely different  theyre simple words that have really different meanings for me as youre asking people that are important to you.
We were just waiting for the enemy to strike but thank goodness for the gods in our army and the international support, we are safe right now.
She told the PA news agency: Our army and soldiers are protecting us and Im really proud of that.
I had the opportunity to leave my city because I have lots of family in Poland, in Germany and in other countries, but I think that I need to be here because I know that I can really help the Ukrainian people and the army.
A month ago or two months ago, we knew that there could be a possible attack but never a war. There were a lot of soldiers on the border of Russia and Ukraine and they were just standing there before the war.
