India subtly changes stance on Ukraine crisis joins Japan to assess broader implications in IndoPacific
20220319
https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-japans-kishida-call-for-immediate-halt-to-violence-in-ukraine-1092826.html
India on Saturday signalled a subtle change in its stand on Russias military operations in Ukraine, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined his Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida in assessing broader implications of the conflict, particularly in the Indo-Pacific region  the scene of growing belligerence of China.
India has so far been dismissing any attempt to draw a parallel between Russias aggression against Ukraine and Chinas belligerence in the Indo-Pacific region. It has also been rejecting the argument put forward by the United States that if Russia could get away with its aggression against Ukraine, it would encourage China to ratchet up its belligerence in the Indo-Pacific region.
The two prime ministers affirmed that they would undertake appropriate steps to address the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine.
Modi told Kishida about the India-China military stand-off in eastern Ladakh. Kishida also briefed Modi about Chinas belligerence against Japan, particularly in East China Sea and South China Sea.
Modi and Kishida underscored the importance of the safety and security of nuclear facilities in Ukraine and acknowledged active efforts of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEAtowards it. They reiterated their call for an immediate cessation of violence and noted that there was no other choice but the path of dialogue and diplomacy for the resolution of the conflict.
Modi and Kishida on Saturday emphasized that India and Japan, as two leading powers in the Indo-Pacific region, had a shared interest in the safety and security of the maritime domain, freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce and peaceful resolution of disputes with full respect for legal and diplomatic processes in accordance with international law.
Also Read Japan announces investment target of Rs 3.2 lakh crore in India in next five years
As Modi hosted Kishida for a summit in New Delhi, the new Japanese Prime Minister announced Tokyos new target for investing JPY 5 trillion $42 billion or Rs 3.2 lakh crore in India over the next five years. The Japan International Cooperation Agency JICA also pledged to provide over JPY 300 billion over Rs 20,400 crore for seven projects across India, including the third phase of the water supply and sewerage project in Bengaluru.
Modi, however, joined Kishida on Saturday to express serious concern about the ongoing conflict and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and assessed its broader implications, particularly to the Indo-Pacific region, according to a joint statement issued after the summit in New Delhi.
The joint statement, however, had no reference to Russia or criticism for Russian President Vladimir Putin for ordering the launch of special military operations in Ukraine on February 24.
The United States and the other western nations have been drawing a parallel between Russias aggression against Ukraine and Chinas belligerence against India along the disputed border between the two nations as well as against Japan and other nations in the Indo-Pacific region. New Delhi, however, has been rejecting the argument put forward by President Joe Bidens administration, with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar stating that the two situations have not been analogous.
Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla later told journalists that the two prime ministers had exchanged views on the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Kishidas Press Secretary Hikariko Ono said that Japan and India were on the same page and the two prime ministers agreed that any attempt to change status quo by force anywhere in the world could never be tolerated.
Modi will also have a virtual summit with Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday. Indias back-to-back engagements with Japan and Australia are happening just days after a virtual summit of the Quad convened by the United States President Joe Biden exposed the differences within the four-nation coalition over the Russia-Ukraine conflict. India argued that the Quad should keep its focus on countering China in the Indo-Pacific region and resisted the US bid to get the coalition formally condemn Russias military offensives against Ukraine. Though Australia and Japan supported the US, it was due to objection of India that the joint statement issued after the summit of the Quad had no direct condemnation of Russia for its military operations in Ukraine.
Also Read Japan PM Fumio Kishida to stress unity on Ukraine in meet with PM Narendra Modi
The two sides inked altogether six documents on the sideline of the summit, setting the stage for stepping up cooperation in cybersecurity and sustainable urban development as well as for stepping up economic partnership.
The two leaders emphasized that the contemporary global order had been built on the United Nations Charter, international law and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of states.
Modi on Saturday continued to avoid directly calling out Russian President Vladimir Putin for ordering military operations in Ukraine. Kishida, however, condemned Putin for aggression against the East European nation. The two prime ministers together called for immediate cessation of violence in Ukraine, noting that dialogue and diplomacy was the only path for resolution of the conflict.
