Boris Johnson makes late night visit to RAF base as fighting in Ukraine continues
20220227
https://www.gloucestershirelive.co.uk/news/gloucester-news/boris-johnson-makes-late-night-6725623
Mr Johnson also said the West is tightening the economic ligature around Russia, with Britain, the US, Canada and the European Union together announcing selected Russian banks would be excluded from the Swift global payments system. They said they would be imposing restrictive measures to prevent the Russian Central Bank from deploying its international reserves in ways that undermine the impact of our sanctions.
Mr Johnson also said: Lets be in no doubt, things are not going all the way of President Putin, very far from it.
The Ukrainians are fighting heroically, and in some places with great success, as many of us thought they would because theyre a great country and a very brave country.
The PM praised Ukrainians for fighting heroically as allies unveiled new measures to hit Russias financial system and Liz Truss said the Foreign Office is preparing a hit list of oligarchs to sanction. It came as the Kremlin said a Russian delegation has arrived in the Belarusian city of Homel for talks with Ukrainian officials.
This morning Sunday, February 27 two RAF Airbus planes have left RAF Brize Norton. One is over Poland and the other is heading that direction at 500 mph. Yesterday Saturday, February 26 two other huge Airbus planes were also out - one went to Cyprus the other to Poland before turning back to base. On Friday February 25 a C-17 left the base and another Airbus circled over Poland.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson made a visit to RAF Brize Norton late last night Saturday, February 26.
After talking by telephone to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Mr Johnson said the West had to do everything possible to change the very heavy odds against Ukraine in its struggle against Moscows forces.
He confirmed Britain would be sending further arms to the Ukrainians and he said that the financial measures were essential to put pressure on the Kremlin.
It is incredibly important for tightening the economic ligature around the Putin regime, he told broadcasters during a visit to RAF Brize Norton.
READ MORE: RAF Fairford and Brize Norton latest: Boris Johnson makes late night visit to base
Weve got to do everything we can to change the heavy odds that Ukraine faces and to help them, and so thats why were sending humanitarian supplies, were sending financial supplies and military supplies as well.
But as you rightly point out, there are some terrible atrocities being committed and there will be some very grim days ahead for Ukraine.
The base, alongside RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire has been incredibly busy over the last week or so with many military planes launching into the sky.
The UK was the first European country to send military aid to Ukraine. Last night, many other countries joined in sending, in pledging to send military assistance, youre starting to see that grow.
