Ukraine lunchtime briefing Russian troops defect while Vladimir Putin faces trouble at home
20220331
https://www.gloucestershirelive.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-lunchtime-briefing-russian-troops-6886935
Hundreds of demoralised Russian troops have switched sides and are now fighting for Ukraine, it has been claimed. Ukrainian officials say a new Freedom of Russia legion has been formed for troops disillusioned with their mission.
The experts added: The short war has claimed thousands of lives on both sides, leaving widespread bitterness in its wake. And although a democratic Ukraine emerges intact, if not unscathed, its still-dangerous neighbour faces an uncertain future with the Russian political landscape at a tipping point.
Members of the new legion have "expressed a common desire on behalf of all the volunteers to conduct the first battle against the guard dogs of the Putin regime - the Kadyrovites". Kadyrovites refers to Chechen fighters loyal to Putin ally Ramzan Kadyrov, who has backed the invasion with troops. Ukrainian news site Bagnet says that "several hundred" Russians of all ranks had signed up for the legion.
"Whether the country leans toward greater authoritarianism under Putin, or away from him altogether, will largely determine how Russia behaves with the rest of the world."
French news channel CNews said: "IT professionals are in a hurry to leave the country as soon as possible, not wanting to put up with a sharply deteriorating economic situation and not paying attention to the numerous measures to support the IT industry from the state."
Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev, dubbed the butcher of Mariupol, is also among the 14 new additions to the sanctions list.
It comes amid reports of plummeting morale among Russian soldiers - with some said to be refusing orders and even shooting down their own planes. The Russian armed forces personnel have already started training to fight alongside their new comrades, it is claimed.
The ministry stated: "Today the legion's personnel, under the guidance of Ukrainian Armed Forces instructors, studied a NLAW grenade launcher. In addition, the commanders of the legion's subdivisions got acquainted with the operational situation on the fronts."
The Ukrainian Defence Ministry said on its Telegram channel that commanders have been visiting captured and surrendered Russian troops "in order to select those who wish to serve". In a follow-up post it said that the "first volunteers" had already started individual additional training.
Vladimir Putin and Russia "will pay an exorbitant price" for the invasion of Ukraine, experts have claimed. They told CNBC in America that analysis what could be the consequences of various outcomes of the war - and that the Kremlin will pay either way.
The UK has imposed further sanctions on prominent Russians, including media figures and military leaders.
Tens of thousands of IT professionals are fleeing Russia to escape the sharply deteriorating economic situation in the country. Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as many as 70,000 IT personnel are said to have left - with another 100,000 expected to depart in April.
The latest names added to the sanctions list include propagandist Sergey Brilev and Kremlin funded TV-Novosti, which owns the RT news channel.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: Putins war on Ukraine is based on a torrent of lies. Britain has helped lead the world in exposing Kremlin disinformation, and this latest batch of sanctions hits the shameless propagandists who push out Putins fake news and narratives.
Similarly, the Russian Association for Electronic Communications RAEC reported around 50,000 to 70,000 people working in IT had left the country so far, which they described as only the "first wave". The group said the only thing holding more back from leaving is expensive flight tickets, housing prices and the difficulties of conducting transactions after the backlash of Western sanctions.
Commanders have been visiting captured and surrendered Russian troops 'in order to select those who wish to serve'
Sergey Plugotarenko, head of RAEC, said: "There will definitely be a second wave, according to our forecast, from 70,000 to 100,000 people will leave in April. These are just IT people."
Experts at the Scowcroft Centre for Strategy and Security program claim that in the 'rosiest' possible scenario for how the conflict could end, Ukraine could see its own defensive capabilities bolstered by NATO, allowing its military and civilian resistance to overcome the odds and grind Moscows advance to a halt. In this hypothetical scenario, Putin would be prevented from toppling Kyivs government and establishing a puppet regime.
We will keep on going with more sanctions to ramp up the pressure on Russia and ensure Putin loses in Ukraine. Nothing and no one is off the table.
Aleksandr Zharov, chief executive of Gazprom-Media, Alexey Nikolov the managing director of RT and Anton Anisimov, the head of Sputnik International Broadcasting were also sanctioned.
