Arab students stranded in Ukraine desperate to go home
20220227
https://www.al-monitor.com/originals/2022/02/arab-students-stranded-ukraine-desperate-go-home
Among Arab countries, Morocco has the largest number of students in Ukraine, with around 8,000 enrolled in universities, followed by Egypt with more than 3,000.
Join the Middle East's top business and policy professionals to access exclusive PRO insights today.
"We are demanding to go home. We are waiting to be rescued," he said. According to an Iraqi government official, there are 5,500 Iraqis in Ukraine, 450 of them students.
Lebanese Foreign Minister Abdallah Bou Habib said the government was drawing up plans to help nationals trapped in Ukraine.
Planes will be sent to neighbouring Poland and Romania at a "date to be announced later", he said.
Many have criticised their governments for failing to take concrete measures to repatriate them, and sought refuge in basements or the metro system. Few dared to cross the border into neighbouring Poland or Romania in search of sanctuary.
"I arrived in Odessa only six months ago, hoping to open a new page far away from war," he told AFP by telephone.
More than 10,000 Arab students attend university in Ukraine, drawn to the former Soviet republic by a low cost of living and, for many, the lure of relative safety compared with their own troubled homelands.
"I left Lebanon because of the financial crisis, sold my car and took my small savings to study in Ukraine," he told AFP from Ukraine's second city of Kharkiv, near the Russian border.
Algerian authorities have, however, urged them to stay indoors and only venture out "in case of an emergency".
"The supermarket shelves are empty, the streets have become dangerous. The embassy must help us get out of here," said two pharmacy students from Egypt stuck in the Black Sea port of Odessa.
Ali Chreim, a restaurant owner from Kyiv who heads the Lebanese expat community in Ukraine, said he has been helping a group of young Lebanese women, who have sought shelter in the capital's metro, by sending them food.
Before the invasion, 1,300 Lebanese students were studying in the country. Half managed to flee by their own means, but the rest are stuck, Chreim said.
Mohammed said he has been calling the Iraqi embassy in Kyiv around a dozen times a day since Russia launched the invasion but no one has picked up.
Oil-rich Algeria, which has strong military links with Russia, did not ask its 1,000 nationals in Ukraine to leave.
"I am lost. I don't know what to do," he said, adding he is spending most of his time hiding in a basement.
All premium Industry Newsletters - Monitor the Middle East's most important industries. Prioritize your target industries for weekly review:
Hundreds of students from Lebanon, gripped by a financial crisis the World Bank says is one of the world's worst in modern times, are also trapped in the country.
"We left Iraq to escape war... but it's the same thing in Ukraine now," Ali Mohammed, an Iraqi student told AFP by telephone from the western city of Chernivtsi.
"What are you waiting for? This is World War III," she said, addressing authorities in her country, who announced measures the following day.
"We demand solutions. The authorities must find us a solution," to get back home to Morocco, Majda tweeted when the invasion began on Thursday.
But for Tunisia which does not have an embassy in Ukraine, getting in touch with its 1,700 citizens there is complicated.
Other Egyptian students took matters into their own hands and crossed the border into Poland, hoping to make it back home.
Thousands of young Arabs who took up studies in Ukraine, often fleeing violence back home, are appealing to be rescued from a new nightmare -- Russia's full scale invasion of the country.
We also offer team plans. Please send an email to pro.supportal-monitor.com and we'll onboard your team.
"We will begin the operation as soon as we have a full list of how many Tunisians wish to return home," foreign ministry official Mohammed Trabelsi told AFP.
Business and policy professionals use PRO to monitor the regional economy and improve their reports, memos and presentations. Try it for free and cancel anytime.
Join over 50,000 readers who access our journalists dedicated newsletters, covering the top political, security, business and tech issues across the region each week.Delivered straight to your inbox.
Join the Middle East's most notable experts for premium memos, trend reports, live video QA, and intimate in-person events, each detailing exclusive insights on business and geopolitical trends shaping the region.
Authorities said they had been in contact with international organisations such as the Red Cross to organise departures.
