Russia attack on Ukraine reverberates in energyrich Gulf
20220224
https://www.al-monitor.com/originals/2022/02/russia-attack-ukraine-reverberates-energy-rich-gulf
Join the Middle East's top business and policy professionals to access exclusive PRO insights today.
"So this may be a moment in which they have leverage to argue their importance in the global economy."
Qatar has made clear it has little to no extra LNG output capacity and there are limitations to how much supply can be diverted from existing contracts, even accounting for willingness on the part of original buyers.
"If things get bad and there's pressure to punish Russia, I suspect they'll emphasise that OPEC is a technocratic organisation that's focused on market fundamentals."
During the Doha gas summit, Qatar insisted the record prices in Europe had their roots in a lack of investment before the Ukraine crisis.
Qatar and Saudi Arabia are allies of both the US and Russia. While they host American troops, their economic and political relations with Russia have grown over the years.
"OPEC so far has indicated its intentions to stick to the deal," said Amena Bakr, deputy bureau chief at Energy Intelligence, referring to current production quotas for member nations.
There were hopes in Europe and the United States that Qatar, one of the world's biggest LNG exporters, could temporarily redirect exports destined for Asian markets.
Away from the production dilemma, the crisis gives Gulf oil and gas producing countries the opportunity to highlight the importance of their resources, even as they are under pressure to quickly transform into green economies.
Meanwhile, some major oil importers have called on the OPEC alliance of producing nations to pump faster and put pressure on the likes of Saudi Arabia to use some of their spare capacity.
Qatar and Saudi Arabia "are facing a reality in which their main exports are in high demand," Karen Young, director of the Program on Economics and Energy at the Middle East Institute in Washington, told AFP.
"Saudi Arabia sees great value in keeping Russia as a partner in OPEC," said Ben Cahill, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
It has been demanding long-term supply contracts of up to 25 years, but Europe has baulked at being locked into such commitments.
And Saudi Arabia has shown no interest in ramping up oil production when it is a key player, alongside Russia, in the OPEC alliance that has strictly controlled output to buoy prices in recent years.
Major producers "are facing declining value in the energy transition", particularly with regard to oil, but also LNG, said Young.
All premium Industry Newsletters - Monitor the Middle East's most important industries. Prioritize your target industries for weekly review:
And the calculations in Riyadh and Doha are much more nuanced than maximising financial gain from soaring prices, as market constraints and alliances with both the West and Russia are also paramount.
But she said the capacity to ramp up oil production and transport new supplies of liquefied natural gas was "not so simple".
We also offer team plans. Please send an email to pro.supportal-monitor.com and we'll onboard your team.
Russian gas accounts for about 40 percent of the European market, leaving the latter highly exposed to supply disruptions resulting from the conflict.
At a gas exporters' summit in Doha overshadowed by the worsening crisis over Ukraine this week, major suppliers, among them Russia, said they could not guarantee prices or supplies.
"Investment conditions for either are not quick enough or at the ready to be a superhero in the advent of a collapse of Russian oil and gas to Europe or globally," Young added.
Business and policy professionals use PRO to monitor the regional economy and improve their reports, memos and presentations. Try it for free and cancel anytime.
Join over 50,000 readers who access our journalists dedicated newsletters, covering the top political, security, business and tech issues across the region each week.Delivered straight to your inbox.
Russia's assault on Ukraine is reverberating in the energy-rich Gulf, where top oil and gas producers face economic and political dilemmas in easing sky-high prices and alleviating shortages in Europe.
Join the Middle East's most notable experts for premium memos, trend reports, live video QA, and intimate in-person events, each detailing exclusive insights on business and geopolitical trends shaping the region.
A similar logic applies to the 2.3 million barrels of Russian crude that heads west each day through a network of pipelines.
As oil prices broke past $100 per barrel and risks of supply disruptions grew, eyes in Europe were increasingly focusing on oil kingpin Saudi Arabia, and Qatar, one of the biggest natural gas exporters.
