Ukraine conflict spills into Cyprus school spats
20220304
https://www.al-monitor.com/originals/2022/03/ukraine-conflict-spills-cyprus-school-spats
At another school in Limassol, staff sent an email appealing to parents to shield their children from their opinions on the conflict.
Join the Middle East's top business and policy professionals to access exclusive PRO insights today.
There are more than 18,000 Russians and more than 4,600 Ukrainians living on the island, according to official Cypriot government statistics.
"I don't blame or hate Russian people for what is going on!" Ukrainian mother Anna Forostyanaya wrote to other mothers on a WhatsApp group.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which began on February 24, has been denounced by Kyiv and Western powers as unjustified aggression, while Moscow says it wants "the demilitarisation and denazification" of its neighbour after failing to receive security guarantees.
Many parents, both Russian and Ukrainian, hope that they will be able to stop the conflict from rupturing otherwise close ties between the two communities.
The situation is all the more sensitive because "you cannot recognise, especially in children's schools, which children are from where," she said, pointing to cultural similarities and the large population of Russian-speaking Ukrainians.
Speaking to AFP, Constantinides said "inevitably there's going to be some conflicts between students across the board, of all ages.
While she has maintained conflict-free friendships with Russian classmates -- and her own teacher has been supportive -- she said that others have openly antagonised her.
Veronika, a 17-year-old Ukrainian student at a private school, said verbal spats had broken out between fellow nationals and Russian peers.
A Russian mother, Ksenia Kogan, said that even before the conflict erupted, tensions ran high at a private school that her son used to attend in the capital Nicosia  in particular between Ukrainian male students with opposing views on Russia's role in Ukraine.
"As is human nature the children have been sharing the views of their parents with each other," wrote Costas Constantinides, general facilitator at Lighthouse school.
Born on the island to an Israeli father and a Ukrainian mother, she is enrolled at a Cypriot state school in the port city.
All premium Industry Newsletters - Monitor the Middle East's most important industries. Prioritize your target industries for weekly review:
"My Russian classmates are worried... because they know the Russian army is being injured by the Ukrainian army," she said.
"I told my kids that it's all about politics and has nothing to do with people," she added.
Some Cypriot teachers had told her that people are dying because of "the president in Ukraine", she said.
"It was always a problem... there were tensions, always, between the pro-Russian side" and their opponents, she said.
Trouble appeared to brew in schools in several cities, but especially Limassol, a seaside magnet on the holiday island and a financial hub that is sometimes dubbed "Moscow on the Med".
We also offer team plans. Please send an email to pro.supportal-monitor.com and we'll onboard your team.
"This has led to conflict, blaming and shaming," he lamented in the email, which was also posted on Facebook.
Olga, an ethnic Russian from Ukraine who has lived in Limassol for years, said fights had broken out between children.
In Larnaca, another city on Cyprus' southern coast, 16-year-old Ukrainian Valeria has stayed at home for days.
Business and policy professionals use PRO to monitor the regional economy and improve their reports, memos and presentations. Try it for free and cancel anytime.
Join over 50,000 readers who access our journalists dedicated newsletters, covering the top political, security, business and tech issues across the region each week.Delivered straight to your inbox.
Join the Middle East's most notable experts for premium memos, trend reports, live video QA, and intimate in-person events, each detailing exclusive insights on business and geopolitical trends shaping the region.
As the conflict between Russia and Ukraine rages, it risks spilling into an unlikely arena - classrooms and playgrounds in Cyprus, home to a sizable Russian population and a smaller Ukrainian community.
