4 questions about our Ukraine strategy  Opinion
20220320
https://news.yahoo.com/4-questions-ukraine-strategy-opinion-020016769.html
Now that the West has imposed crippling economic sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, America needs to answer four questions to determine our strategy moving forward.
Fourth, how will China and other dictators view our response? The West needs to send a clear message that certain actions will cause tremendous damage to a nations economy and world position to deter the unacceptable actions.
Third, how do we discourage third-party support of Russia? The effectiveness of the sanctions depends on other nations not helping Russia evade sanctions. Since China wants a strong Russia to change the liberal world order and India wants a strong Russia to counter China, both have incentives to help Russia skirt economic sanctions. However, aiding Russia may harm their world reputation and reduce their international influence. Moreover, assisting Russia may result in sanctions against companies in their country. Yet, we also need China and India to advance our economic, environmental, and security interests in Asia. The Administration may have to decide whether to overlook sanction violations or weaken the sanction regime to advance other interests in relation to our interests in Ukraine.
Second, what are our red lines on Russian behavior that demands a military response? We want to avoid direct U.S. or NATO attacks on Russian military forces to prevent escalation that leads to a nuclear war. Obviously, Russia invading any NATO country would trigger a military response under NATOs collective defense provision.
But what would the U.S. do if Russia uses biological or chemical weapons against Ukraine, tries to raze Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, or launches a cyberattack on the West? Russia has a history of all three actions, and all three actions would lead the public to demand a response. However, there are few additional economic sanctions to impose. Would we provide Ukraine with offensive weapons, launch a cyberattack on Russia, impose a no-fly zone, or bomb Russian chemical weapon storage facilities? How can we respond without escalating to nuclear war when Russian military doctrine favors a strategy that uses or threatens to use unconventional weapons to force concessions from their opponents?
This article originally appeared on Jackson Sun: 4 questions about our Ukraine strategy  Opinion
The U.S. end game is less clear. We want a negotiated settlement but are hazy on what that entails. Since Russia has a stronger military and we are only sending defensive weapons to Ukraine, Ukraine cannot militarily defeat Russia. At best, Ukraine can prolong the conflict to make the costs of the invasion unbearable. Even then, Ukraine will be devastated requiring a recovery that will last decades. Moreover, will Russia withdraw from all of Ukraine or remain in parts of East Ukraine? If they do not fully withdraw, would we continue to sanction Russia? Finally, are we willing to pressure President Zelensky to accept neutrality or a deal short of territorial integrity to end the war?
Sean Evans is the chair of the political science department at Union University. Reach him at 731-661-5237 or at sevafnsuu.edu.
To govern is to choose and those choices are sometimes difficult. Whether we want to prepare for a new cold war or a new world order, we need to answer these questions in the hope of creating a more just and lasting peace.
First, what is our end game? Ukraine wants to remain an independent nation with its territorial integrity intact. Russia wants, at best, Ukraine as a vassal state that does Moscows will. At a minimum, Russia wants a neutral Ukraine that will recognize the independent ethnic Russian states of Donetsk and Luhansk and Russias annexation of Crimea.
