A Russian soldier complained of being sent to the slaughter against Ukrainian longrange weapons in intercepted audio
20220718
https://news.yahoo.com/russian-solider-complained-being-sent-101501192.html
The woman then responded, saying he needs to fire back with a tank. But he said that the Ukrainians are too far away.
"They just sit drinking coffee and press buttons  and just throw shells on you."
He said that as he moves, Ukrainian soldiers are "waiting for you, watching, expecting you. They've adjusted guns to these fucking trenches. You reach there, some point, and they're fucking watching you!"
He said that Ukraine's ability to fire from far away meant he and his fellow soldiers could not respond in kind.
"Here, you know, they just send us to slaughter. It's not a smart way at all," the man's voice says in the audio. It is not clear where in Ukraine the man was, or when the conversation took place.
In it, he complains about Ukraine's long-range weapons and said of Russia: "They just send us to slaughter."
"So many of our tanks have been burned here, so many pieces of equipment, damn it.
It is not clear what Ukrainian weapons the Russian soldier was describing, but western allies have in recent weeks sent long-range weapons to Ukraine after repeated requests from Kyiv, saying they would greatly aid its fight against Russia.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said earlier this month that weapons from Western countries were allowing Ukraine to push back against Russian assaults.
The weapons included High Mobility Artillery Rocket System HIMARS missiles sent by the US, which Ukraine said last week was used to kill a Russian general.
"What the hell. They start firing at you from three to four kilometers away. Where are you going to shoot from a tank?"
The US Department of Defense said HIMARS is "making an impact" in helping Ukraine's military.
"Where do you shoot? Whom do you shoot? There's fucking no one. Fuck knows. And here you're rushing around like an asshole.
"And our fuckheads can't even hit them. They can't fucking locate them. Our fucking brainless brigade. Our army. These fucking asshole commanders . Every day, people die here. Just for fucking nothing."
The Security Service of Ukraine shared audio of a conversation between a man and woman on Friday, and said it was a conversation between an "occupier" and his wife.
"No specialists. They fucking fire," the man continues. "They've probably thrown 20 carriages of projectiles into fucking nothing."
Ukrainian authorities published audio they say shows a Russian soldier complaining to his partner that he had been sent "to slaughter" during Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine has been intercepting some Russian audio since Russia began its invasion in February. Some Russian soldiers have been using unencrypted communications,
