Almost 400 Russian politicians banned from UK in new round of sanctions
20220311
https://news.yahoo.com/politics-latest-news-russia-warned-222820669.html
Foreign Secretary said: "Were targeting those complicit in Putins illegal invasion of Ukraine and those who support this barbaric war.
Evgeny Lebedev has said he is "not some agent of Russia" after allegations surfaced that a security services assessment saying the newspaper owner posed a national security risk was withdrawn after Boris Johnson intervened.
Liz Truss has announced that 386 Russian politicians have been sanctioned following Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
In a statement outside the Royal Courts of Justice on behalf of the four women who organised the vigil, their solicitor Theodora Middleton said: "Today's judgment is a victory for women.
Liz Truss has sanctioned 386 members of the Russian Duma for their support for the Ukrainian breakaway regions of Luhansk and Donetsk, the Foreign Office has said.
Elsewhere in Westminster the House of Commons is not sitting, but the House of Lords is holding three debates on law enforcement after brexit, the electoral system, and digital technology.
Lord Ricketts, who served as the head of the diplomatic service and also as the UK national security adviser, earlier stressed the need for close UK-EU co-operation to keep citizens safe and to ensure there are effective arrangements for refugees to come to the UK.
Simon Williams, fuel spokesman for the RAC, told BBC Radio 4 on Friday: "We know from our long-term research that eight in 10 drivers would struggle to be without their car, so having access to a car in a pandemic has also become more important, and so it's really quite tough now."
"There are many ways that we all can support the people of Ukraine, including through donating money to charity."
She added that we need a "totally different" and "completely new" refugee and immigration scheme to react to the invasion of Ukraine, and that ultimately that on these sorts of decisions, "the Home Secretary can recommend but it is a Number 10 decision".
"I was very clear with the Met at the time, that the scenes we saw at the vigil were unacceptable. I welcome today's judgment.
Mr Ross said "anything else just seems trivial" compared with the war in Ukraine, saying he would support the Government in its efforts to help Ukraine defend itself against the Russian invasion.
Michelle McIlveen, the DUP education minister, has said that victims of historical institutional abuse in Northern Ireland were failed by the state.
The Republic of Ireland has sent 4,000 blood bags and 50,000 medical masks to Ukraine, as part of an effort to support the health service of the war-torn country.
Downing Street has warned of a "robust" response against Russia if the Kremlin uses chemical weapons in Ukraine.
The trial of a former SNP MP accused of embezzling more than 25,000 from two pro-independence groups will start next month.
The independent crossbench peer told the House of Lords: "These objectives are intrinsically linked. That's been shown by the tensions with the French authorities over recent days over what I regard as wholly inadequate arrangements that have been made in and around Calais for the reception of desperate Ukrainian families.
"The decisions and actions by the Met Police in the run-up to the planned vigil for Sarah Everard last year were unlawful and the judgment sets a powerful precedent for protest rights.
Meanwhile Evgeny Lebedev, who was made a Lord in 2020, has reassured the public that he is not a spy, despite his father serving as a KGB agent.
Ex-MP Natalie McGarry did not appear at a short hearing at Glasgow Sheriff Court on Friday where Sheriff Tom Hughes said her trial would begin on April 4.
"We were angry that women still weren't safe and we were tired of the burden to stay safe always weighing on our shoulders."
A spokesman for the Prime Minister said: "The international community has always responded robustly following the use of chemical weapons, I'm not going to get into hypotheticals and try and look into the future, but you've seen what the Prime Minister's said and we continue to call for Russia not to use chemical weapons."
"To support schools' efforts, I asked the Oak National academy to roll out an auto-translate function across all 10,000 of its online lessons," he said.
All are members of the Russian Duma, the lower house of the country's parliament, and voted to recognise the Ukrainian regions of Luhansk and Donetsk as "independent".
The council of the European Union on Thursday night "acknowledged the European aspirations" of Ukraine as EU leaders agreed to support the country's application to join the bloc.
In a statement following the ruling, the Mayor of London said he welcomes the High Court's judgment on the vigil.
Ukrainian authorities have claimed that Russian forces bombed a nuclear research facility on Thursday night.
To be honest, if somebody was attacking Croydon, the place I represent, if somebody was bombing Croydon university hospital, I tell you what, I would be in the streets defending my hospital, Id be in the streets defending my town and my neighbours, as the Ukrainians are quite rightly doing.
Louisa Rolfe, the Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner said: "We are considering the judgment very carefully before deciding whether to appeal the court's decision.
Once the details are published in the very near future everybody will have a look at that and see if their personal circumstances allow them to, and Im sure the British public will look at that," he told Sky News
Four thousand blood bags were donated by the Irish Blood Transfusion Service and sent to Ukraine on Monday from a supplier in Poland, while 10,000 bio-protection suits, as well as 50,000 medical-grade masks and more than 2,500 litres of disinfectant were dispatched today.
One woman was apparently unmoved, however: Maria Zakharova, director of the information and press department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Putins inscrutable spokesman.
Amber Rudd told Times Radio that she is "baffled as to why this has taken the Home Office so long to come in and support the Ukrainian refugees".
"The cost of filling up is over 88 for petrol and 92 for diesel," he said, adding that the pandemic had already caused prices to rise.
"Being Russian does not automatically make one an enemy of the state, and it is crucial we do not descend into Russiaphobia, like any other phobia, bigotry or discrimination."
Sharing its daily update on the situation in Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence said that "Russia is likely seeking to reset and re-posture its forces for renewed offensive activity in the coming days. This will probably include operations against the capital Kyiv."
Chris Philp, the technology minister, said: "I just say respectfully to the Chelsea fans, I know he's done a lot for the club, but the humanitarian situation in Ukraine and what the Russian regime are doing to civilians - shelling maternity hospitals and shooting civilians who are fleeing down humanitarian corridors - and that is more important than football."
Here are the key developments this morning, and you can follow the latest news in our liveblog and listen to the latest episode of our daily Ukraine podcast.
A pregnant Ukrainian woman pulled from the rubble of a bombed Mariupol maternity hospital has given birth, acccording to reports.
The Metropolitan Police breached the rights of organisers of a vigil for Sarah Everard with its handling of the planned event, High Court judges have ruled.
On Thursday, Europe and America woke up to perhaps the most distressing images to emerge from Russias invasion of Ukraine.
It added that delays to the programme, which is already more than four years behind schedule, could now jeopardise plans to restructure the Army around a new generation of digitally enabled armoured fighting vehicles.
Earlier today the Ministry of Defence shared its assessment that Russia is likely to "re-posture" its forces for a renewed offensive, but how will this work?
Baroness Williams of Trafford, a Home Office minister, said 1,305 visas for Ukrainian refugees had been issued as of Thursday morning, adding to peers on Friday: "Those figures are going up rapidly and that is a good thing."
A young girl who charmed the world after a video went viral of her performing the song Let It Go from Disneys Frozen in a bomb shelter has reportedly made it to safety.
In a scathing report, the National Audit Office NAO said that the 5.5 billion project was flawed from the start, and that the Ministry of Defence failed to understand the scale and complexity of the work it was undertaking.
Good morning. The British public are set to be asked to take in tens of thousands of refugees from Ukraine as the Russian invasion intensifies.
Ms Batters said farmers have been "talking about going from 80 million cucumbers to 35 million, 100 million peppers to 15 million.
In a statement to his Evening Standard website, Lord Lebedev said "accusations are coming from credible media outfits who are posing incredible questions to me so I feel I have no option but to respond".
Chris Philp, the digital minister, is on the morning round speaking about Ukraine, following government sanctions on Roman Abramovich, and the opening up of a new route for refugees.
Heavily pregnant women, and new mothers clutching babies, were escorted from the blackened ruins of a maternity hospital in Mariupol that had been destroyed by an airstrike, in which three people were killed. They were the sort of unforgettable photographs that can come to define a war. Proof, if it were needed, that Russia is waging war not on the army, but on Ukraine itself.
He said the RAC is calling on Chancellor Rishi Sunak to take action, adding: "One thing he could do is reduce VAT on petrol and diesel.
Gareth Davies, the head of the NAO, said: A series of failures have led to delays and unresolved safety issues that will have a significant impact on the Armys ability to use the vehicles.
Fuel prices have hit a new record high. Figures from data firm Experian Catalist show the average cost of a litre of petrol at UK forecourts on Thursday was 161.1p, up from 159.6p on Wednesday.
"Whilst in the care of the state you were made vulnerable - we did not ensure all our residential homes were filled with love and safety."
Harriet Harman, the former Labour deputy leader has said that the party has a "woman problem" because it has never elected a female leader.
"The apology we offer you is unconditional. We should have protected you and we did not. We are sorry.
When the row over what Boris did or didnt say over which Downing Street party he did or didnt attend first erupted, I wrote that things would be difficult for Ross to carry on as leader of the Scottish party if Boris didnt resign. A clever sub-editor summed it up much better with a headline that stated that Ross would have to stick or twist.
"Last March, women's voices were silenced. Today's judgment conclusively shows that the police were wrong to silence us.
"Together with our allies, we stand firmly beside our Ukrainian friends. We will continue to support Ukraine with humanitarian aid, defensive weapons and diplomatic work to isolate Russia internationally."
The World Health Organisation has advised Ukraine to destroy high-threat pathogens housed in the country's public health laboratories to prevent "any potential spills".
Ministers publicly acknowledged last year that the programme was in trouble. They included problems with excessive noise and vibration, which have left dozens of troops needing urgent hearing assessments after taking part in trials on the vehicles.
Douglas Ross has defended his decision to withdraw his demand for Boris Johnson to resign over the partygate saga.
"I may have a Russian name but that makes me no less a committed or proud British citizen than anyone else in this country of ours.
"Veterans always step up in times of need, but they must channel their skills, experience and passion into legal routes of support for Ukraine and not engage in the conflict.
Irish premier Micheal Martin is to meet Prime Minister Boris Johnson over the weekend as part of a programme of events to mark St Patrick's Day.
Problems with the Armys vibrating Ajax tanks may never be resolved, a report from the Whitehall spending watchdog has warned, writes Dominic Nicholls, our Defence Editor:
Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees tweeted: "The number of refugees from Ukraine - tragically - has reached today 2.5 million.
A letter to the Foreign Secretary, signed by charities and NGOs, including Bond, has called on Ms Truss to restore cuts made to the aid budget for women and girls.
After two weeks of war, what are the chances of Vladimir Putins exhausted troops laying siege to the Ukrainian capital?
"We will not let up the pressure and will continue to tighten the screw on the Russian economy through sanctions.
But there are signs of temporary rapprochement between the two during the Ukraine crisis, writes Alan Cochrane:
Ukraine has accused Russian forces of hitting a psychiatric hospital near the eastern town of Izyum in another apparent attack on civilian targets.
Nadhim Zahawi, the Education Secretary told the Association of School and College Leaders: "We have a team that's ready and already making plans for a capacity of 100,000 Ukrainian children that will come in to take places now."
The UK has banned them from travelling to the UK, as well as from accessing assets held in Britain or doing business in the country.
Delivering the final apology to victims of historical institutional abuse, Sinn Fein finance minister Conor Murphy said survivors had had to wait too long for an apology.
The digital minister said that Ukrainian citizens and soldiers had every right to defend their homeland, to defend their cities and their towns, to defend their hospitals against this aggression by Russia.
Watch the video below for some incredible moments of hope and survival captured on camera. - including one couple who did not let the invasion and joining the army get in the way of their wedding plans.
"At the moment, just the VAT, which is of course called a tax on a tax, is bringing 26 pence per litre so, bringing that back to 15 would instantly cut it by about six pence per litre."
Chris Philp said that Russia blocking social media websites was part of its disinformation campaign to lie to the Russian people, because if they realised the full extent of the atrocities being committed by Putin in their name, they would be extremely angry," he told Sky News.
"And I can share with you today that they have delivered on this, meaning that Ukrainian children arriving in the United Kingdom can access education in their native language."
"But I am not a security risk to this country, which I love. My father a long time ago was a foreign intelligence agent of the KGB, but I am not some agent of Russia," the crossbench peer wrote.
Leo Docherty said: "We know that Russias illegal invasion has rightly brought out strong feelings of support for the Ukrainian people.
The average cost of a litre of diesel reached a new high of 170.1p on Thursday, up from 167.4p on Wednesday.
All assets in the UK will now be frozen but Downing Street declined to say whether any of the members actually held any in Britain, making the effectiveness of the move unknown.
No proposal would be accepted which saw the proceeds of any sale ending up in an unrestricted bank account owned by Abramovich, he cant benefit from the proceeds of any sale."
Seventy-four people have been charged in relation to Insulate Britain protests which blocked the M25 motorway and roads near the Port of Dover, Kent Police said.
"Given the number of traumatised Ukrainian citizens who are now leaving the country, this flow of refugees is bound to continue for months, conceivably years, and we really do need to be working well with our EU partners if we're going to avoid damaging the climate of confidence, which is so important for good law enforcement and judicial co-operation."
It comes after the the International Development Select Committee revealed leaked foreign office doccuments which showed the department knew its previous cuts would harm women and girls the most.
"I understand the reason for this as it is inevitable when events of such magnitude occur and the world order as we have known it in recent decades suddenly gets torn up.
Asked about the attack in a press briefing, she went on the offensive. This is information terrorism, she said, claiming that Ukrainian reports about the airstrike were fake. This followed her earlier claims that Ukraine was developing biological weapons.
"I know the energy secretary is looking at what we can do to address any energy price issue. That work is underway, as we speak. And as you said, the Chancellor's Spring Statement is coming up shortly. He'll be looking at this very closely as well. I don't want to preempt the results of either of those two things."
Following his trip to the UK, Mr Martin will travel to Washington DC where he will meet US president Joe Biden.
"The equalities impact assessment showed that reductions to VAWG, SRHR and funding for womens rights organisations would reduce services available to women and girls who are subject to sexual violence, including sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual harassment SEAH and rollback hard warn gains on gender equality and women and girls rights," it said.
On Thursday night, Russian forces were reported to have struck Lutsk military airfield in Volyn while residents of Kyiv were woken to the sound of air raid sirens.
The UN has announced there are now 2.5 million refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine.
When asked if a suitable buyer can be found, whether the Government will let Chelsea be sold, Mr Philp said: Yes. As the licence conditions are written today, the sale would not be allowed.
Its difficult not to have at least a scintilla of sympathy for Douglas Ross, the Scottish Tory leader, over backing down on his forthright demands for Boris Johnson to resign. However, I know quite a few Tories who reckon that any humiliation he now suffers is entirely self-inflicted because of his rush to demand the Prime Ministers head over Partygate.
Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme on Friday, NFU president Minette Batters said:"I think the impact is being felt most harshly, if you like, in the protected crop sectors, so that's aubergines, peppers, cucumbers.
The leaders will discuss the ongoing crisis in Ukraine as well as the Northern Ireland Protocol.
Led by Maria Zakharova, a steely group of media-savvy mouthpieces have become the presidents weapon of choice in his propaganda war, writes Ed Cumming:
It is believed to be the first time criminal proceedings have been launched in relation to Insulate Britain activists.
In an interview with Sky News she said: "We've certainly got a woman problem in terms of never having a woman leader, which is downright embarrassing,"
Ms Truss said: "We're targeting those complicit in Putin's illegal invasion of Ukraine and those who support this barbaric war. We will not let up the pressure and will continue to tighten the screw on the Russian economy through sanctions.
"Delivering the first in a series of ministerial apologies to victims and survivors at Stormont, Ms McIlveen said: "Today, we say that we are sorry.
The state's communications watchdog Roskomnadzor will be restricting access following reports of calls for violence against Russians.
Instagram has been restricted in Russia after posts "containing calls to commit violent acts against citizens of the Russian Federation" were published, Russian authorities said.
"However if a buyer emerged, then it would be open for that buyer or that football club to approach the Government and ask for the licence conditions to be varied in a way that would allow the sale to take place.
Today the Foreign Secretary announced the latest in a round of sanctions as the UK continued to crack down on those close to the Putin regime and its war in Ukraine.
When asked if he or any member of the cabinet would open their doors to refugees, Chris Philp would not comment.
Ukraine has accused Russian forces of hitting a psychiatric hospital near the town of Izyum, but thankfully there were no casualties.
The sanctions consisted of 386 members of the Russian Duma, of which Roman Abramovich was elected to in 1999, where he represented an impoverished region of the east of the country.
"Consideration of an appeal is in no way indicative that the Met do not consider such protections to be of the utmost importance."
"We're already seeing massive contraction because, for these businesses, really 50 of their costs are reliant on the price of gas."
Here's what you missed overnight  and you can follow the latest news in our liveblog and listen to the latest episode of our daily Ukraine podcast.
Mr Khan said: "The murder of Sarah Everard by a serving Met officer damaged the confidence of Londoners in the police. In the wake of such a horrendous crime, the policing of the vigil in her memory eroded trust in the police further.
McGarry is accused of misappropriating 21,000 for her own use in her role as treasurer of the Women for Independence group between April 26 2013 and November 30 2015.
A Russian soldier stopped a Ukrainian priest from approaching the boobytrapped body of a mayor who had been killed by invading troops.
On the cost of living crisis and what action the Government may be taking, Chris Philp told Times Radio: "Clearly, both the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the business secretary are very carefully studying the implications of what is happening in Eastern Europe on cost of living.
"We came together one year and one day ago to organise a vigil on Clapham Common because Sarah Everard went missing from our neighbourhood. We felt sad and afraid.
The National Farmers Union NFU has warned of a "very, very serious situation" as production of certain crops plummet due to rising gas prices.
Online classroom Oak National will roll out translated versions of its lessons in Ukrainian and Russian for newly-arrived refugee pupils.
President Vladimir Putin said there had been "certain positive shifts" in Moscow's talks with Ukraine on Friday, but provided no details.
