Biden details new Russian sanctions as death toll climbs in Ukraine
20220224
https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/putin-launches-russian-invasion-ukraine-061950168.html
The prime minister said Russian companies, both private and state-owned, will be prohibited from raising funds in the U.K., taking loans out of the U.K. and making securities transactions in the U.K.
A nuclear reactor at the plant 80 miles north of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, exploded in April 1986, spewing radioactive waste across Europe.
There is no justification for it, he said. Germany condemns this reckless act by President Putin in the strongest possible terms.
The Department of Homeland Security is monitoring conditions but has no announcements to share or preview at this time.
The apparent development comes as thousands of civilians spent the night in bomb shelters, typically underground subway stations and Zelenskyy urged his citizens to do all they can to resist Russia's assault. Zelenskyy has vowed to remain in Kyiv with his family and he appealed to Russia for a ceasefire.
LONDON  Hundreds of protesters have gathered in London to urge Britain and other democracies to step up action against Russia.
In a televised address that came around 10 p.m. Eastern time, which is 5 a.m. in Ukraine and 6 a.m. in Moscow, Putin told his country that Russia would conduct a military operation in Ukraine.
The leaders called on Moscow to end the bloodshed and condemned Belarus' involvement in Russia's aggression in Ukraine.
We sincerely regret that Russia and Ukraine, which we see as friendly countries and with whom we have close political, economic and social relations, come face to face in this way, he said. He urged Russia and Ukraine to resolve their differences with dialogue through the framework of the Minsk accords that sought to restore peace in eastern Ukraine.
Biden said members of the European Union including France, Germany, Italy as well as the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and others have joined a global coaliton to amplify a united response.
Putin warned other countries that any attempt to interfere would lead to consequences you have never seen.
Valerii Zaluzhnyi said a battle was raging Thursday near the Hostomel air base, less than 5 miles northwest of the capital, Kyiv. He said that in the south, fighting was going on near Henichesk, Skadovsk and Chaplynka.
"We are deploying additional defensive land and air forces to the eastern part of the Alliance, as well as additional maritime assets," the statement said. " We have increased the readiness of our forces to respond to all contingencies."
We must ensure there is a cost for this violent and unacceptable and egregious behavior, he said. There always must be a cost for such reprehensible violence and the way this is being done in Ukraine as we speak.
Meanwhile, Russias Defense Ministry said the Russian military has destroyed 74 Ukrainian military facilities, including 11 air bases.
WHAT HAS RUSSIA'S IMPACT BEEN? A Ukrainian official says the Chernobyl nuclear site north of Kyiv has been taken by Russia after a fierce battle. Early reports listed 40 casualties.
Scholz called on Russia to stop military action immediately, and said the G7, NATO and the EU will coordinate closely today.
Biden said the new economic measures would "limit Russia's ability to do business in dollars, euros, pounds and yen to be part of the global economy."
Adviser Myhailo Podolyak told The Associated Press that Ukrainian authorities did not know the current condition of the facilities at Chernobyl, the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster.
The Russian Defense Ministry confirmed the loss of a Su-25 attack jet due to pilot error.
The move comes as Ukraine has banned all males between the ages of 18 to 60 from leaving the country, according to Ukraines State Border Service, CNN reported.
An extraordinary meeting of the UEFA executive committee will be held on Friday to discuss the geopolitical crisis and when officials are set to confirm taking the May 28 showpiece game out of Russia.
Russia's military operation has the goal of overtaking the Ukrainian government and installing a Kremlin-backed one, according to a senior U.S. military official who was not authorized to speak publicly.
Zelenskyy announced Ukraine had cut diplomatic ties with Russia, declaring martial law and offering to issue weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Despite pleas to stay home, people in Kyiv were jamming roads to leave.
US involvement: Will US help Ukraine in war vs. Russia? American troops bolster NATO in Europe
We are issuing arms, defensive weapons, to all those capable of defending our sovereignty, he said. Each citizen of Ukraine will decide the future of our people.
Natalia Ravlyuk, who helped organize the protest, said they wanted the toughest sanctions and total isolation of Russia now.
Bates' scathing remark appeared to be in response to a report that Trump called Putin pretty smart for taking over a country for $2 worth of sanctions.
Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, said in remarks Thursday that Russia should withdraw their troops, adding Putin will not be allowed to tear down the security architecture that has given Europe peace and stability over many decades.
"Never before have we been so strong  so well prepared to face external challenges together with our Allies," Nauseda tweeted. The future of Europe "may depend on how we react in the coming hours  days."
The measure, in effect until March 10, allows for a more flexible use of state reserve funds and increased border protection, giving border guards greater authorities to stop and search individuals and vehicles in border areas.
Zelenskyy also called on veterans to help fight against Russian troops. He said Ukraine is issuing defensive weapons to those with military experience. He said they are able to join Ukraine defense by reporting to call up stations.
Biden, who said he has "no plans" to talk to Putin, added the U.S. is prepared to respond and working closely with the private sector to "harden their cyber defenses" and "sharpen our ability to respond to Russian cyberattacks as well."
We will present a package of massive and targeted sanctions to European leaders for approval, she said.
Former President George W. Bush condemned Russias attack on Ukraine as the gravest security crisis on the European continent since World War II.
The former presidents statement echoed similar sentiments as that of former first lady and 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
Zelenskyy said 137 Ukrainians have been killed so far in the Russian invasion of his country.
The penalties include sanctions on 24 Belarusian individuals and entities, according to the Treasury Department. The U.S. is sanctioning two Belarusian-owned banks along with several actions targeting Belaruss defense and security industries.
Biden is expected to detail the sanctions in remarks at the White House on Thursday afternoon.
"UEFA wishes to express its thanks and appreciation to French Republic President Emmanuel Macron for his personal support and commitment to have European club footballs most prestigious game moved to France at a time of unparalleled crisis, European football's governing body said in a statement. "Together with the French government, UEFA will fully support multi-stakeholder efforts to ensure the provision of rescue for football players and their families in Ukraine who face dire human suffering, destruction and displacement."
WHERE IS THE FIGHTING? Ukraines military chief says Ukrainian troops are fighting the Russian army in in the north and the south.
This a premediated attack. Vladimir Putin has been planning this for months, as weve been saying all along, Biden said, accusing Putting of rejecting all good-faith efforts to address mutual concerns. For weeks weve been saying this would happen.
Oleksii Arestovich said the Russian strike hasnt achieved its goal to rout the countrys military. He said that we suffered casualties, but they arent significant, adding that the Russian strikes havent eroded the combat capability of the Ukrainian military.
He calls them "heroes" in a video address released early Friday in which he also says hundreds more have been wounded.
What we know: Why is Russia invading Ukraine? Could it be the start of WWIII?
In addition, he said 316 others have been wounded since Russian launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Each of the Ukrainians who have died will be posthumously awarded the title hero of Ukraine, Zelenskyy said.
Only we, all citizens of Ukraine, have been determining our future since 1991, Zelenskyy said. "But now the fate of not only our state is being decided, but also what life in Europe will be like.
TV presenters are professing the end of suffering for the residents of the breakaway regions.
The British prime minister said the U.K. has coordinated with allies on a "massive package of economic sanctions designed in time to hobble the Russian economy."
"This is a deliberate, cold-blooded and long-planned invasion. Russia is using force to try to rewrite history," he told reporters Thursday.
Zelenskyy called Russias attack an unjustified deceitful and cynical invasion in a statement early on Thursday.
Obama warned that there may be economic consequences at home to sanctions against Russia, but thats a price we should be willing to pay to take a stand on the side of freedom.
The president repeated a warning of possible Russian cyberattacks on U.S. companies and critical infrastructure.
President Joe Biden unveiled a new raft of economic sanctions against Moscow Thursday as part of an international rallying cry to respond to Russia's ongoing assault on Ukraine.
In a second tweet, he added: "We have severed diplomatic relations with Russia. For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine."
Global markets plunged and oil prices skyrocketed on news of the invasion, a dramatic escalation after weeks of diplomacy talks failed to defuse the months-long standoff between Moscow and NATO countries over Ukraine's sovereignty.
Following a virtual meeting Thursday morning, the leaders of the G-7 issued a joint statement announcing they would bring forward "severe and coordinated economic and financial sanctions" and calling on the global community to condemn the attack in the strongest possible terms.
He said that Ukraine now needs a greater and very specific support from the world  military-technical, financial as well as tough sanctions against Russia, he said.
Obama called on the world to loudly and clearly condemn Russias actions and offer support for the Ukrainian people.
Finlands President Sauli Niinisto said the Russian move is an attack on the security order throughout Europe.
Russian state media are portraying Moscow as coming to the rescue of war-torn areas of eastern Ukraine that are tormented by Ukraines aggression.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg announced an emergency virtual summit for the military alliance's leaders on Friday, calling Moscow's invasion a "brutal act of war" that has shattered peace on the continent.
You will begin to see a chilling effect take hold in Russia as those imports are denied, he said.
"Vladimir Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. And now he and his country will bear the consequences," Biden said in remarks at the White House.
New sanctions imposed by Biden also target Belarus for its role in Russias invasion of Ukraine, with a focus on the countrys defense sector and financial institutions.
He said the U.K. will implement new trade and export restrictions similar to what the U.S. will also impose. President Joe Biden is expected to outline severe sanctions during a speech Thursday afternoon.
Right now were seeing a Russian leader who is making strategic decisions in an extremely emotive, extremely grievance-fueled way, Miles said.
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida condemned Russias military actions in the Ukraine and said his country will respond in a speedy fashion in concert with the United States and other allies.
Ukrainians started fleeing some cities, and the Russian military claimed to have incapacitated all of Ukraines air defenses and air bases within hours.
The meeting also decided that Russian and Ukrainian clubs and national teams in UEFA competitions will have to play at neutral venues until further notice.
Editor's note: This page reflects the Russian invasion into Ukraine on Thursday, Feb. 24. Follow the latest news and updates as Russia's military pushes further into Ukraine on Friday, Feb. 25.
G-7 LEADERS RESPOND: "This has fundamentally changed the Euro-Atlantic security situation," the Group of Seven said in a statement issued at midday.
Zelenskyy ordered the mobilization in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and in order to ensure the states defense, maintain combat, and mobilization of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the decree reads.
And every American, regardless of party, should support President Bidens efforts, in coordination with our closest allies, to impose hard-hitting sanctions on Russia  sanctions that impose a real price on Russias autocratic elites, he said.
The prime minister's office posted a video to Twitter of the two leaders shaking hands and said the pair would discuss "the entire gamut of Pakistan-Russia bilateral cooperation, and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest."
The New York Times reported Trump's comments, which he made during a fundraising event Wednesday at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, according to the Times.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu ordered that Ukrainian servicemen be treated with respect and those who lay down their weapons offered safe corridors.
Stoltenberg said European was faced with a "new normal for our security" and would meet to discuss how to defend and protect allies amid the new reality. He added that Finland and Sweden, which are not NATO members, would also attend Friday's meeting.
The leaders of the U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Canada along with the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg called the unfolding conflict "a serious threat to the rules-based international order, with ramifications well beyond Europe."
World stock markets plunged and oil prices surged by nearly $6 per barrel Thursday after President Vladimir Putin launched Russian military action in Ukraine.
He also warned Moscow that the alliance will will do all it takes to protect and defend NATO members.
The Stade de France last hosted the Champions League final 16 years ago, when Barcelona beat Arsenal in the 2006 final.
In addition to Biden, Zelenskyy in a tweet said he spoke with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, European Council President Charles Michel, Poland President Andrzej Duda and United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
Biden also issued a chilling warning that he believes Putin "has much larger ambitions" that extend beyond Ukraine's borders.
Biden said hes spoken to Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman Gen. Mark Milley about preparations for additional moves of troops if it becomes necessary to protect NATO allies.
The Russian attack began at about 9:30 p.m. ET Wednesday with a barrage of more than 100 ballistic, cruise and surface-to-air missiles, said the official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity. The assault also included 75 medium and heavy bombers. The official described the attack as the initial phase of the invasion.
The Ukrainian Foreign Minister raised concerns on Twitter about Chernobyl, which is located about 80 miles north of the Ukraine capital of Kyiv.
The Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are condemning the Russian operation in Ukraine as a crime against Ukrainian people.
This is a grave breach of international law, and a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said in statement. The allies are meeting, he said, to address the consequences of Russias aggressive actions.
The meeting Thursday morning will address the situation in Ukraine and the consequences of Russias unprovoked attack.
The president said additional Russian oligarchs and their families would face new sanctions but he declined to say why he has yet to sanction Putin personally, only adding that "it's on the table."
Russian troops appeared to be advancing on the capital city of Kyiv at the start of the second day of the Kremlin's full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
LONDON - Russia was stripped of hosting the Champions League final by UEFA on Friday with St. Petersburg replaced by Paris after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Morrison added that Australia will stand with like minded countries against Russias attacks, including the United States and the United Kingdom.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg has convened a meeting of NATO ambassadors to assess the invasion of Ukraine, which borders several NATO members.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had announced several hours earlier Thursday that Russian forces were trying to seize the Chernobyl nuclear plant.
Security camera footage shows a line of Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukraine from Russian-annexed Crimea.
The men's final will still be held on May 28 but now at the 80,000-seat Stade de France after the decision by UEFA's executive committee.
She added that Putins goal isnt to just invade Ukraine, but to create instability in Europe.
Spain, France, Australia and Italy were among others condemning the attack. Germany and Turkey also warned their citizens in Ukraine to stay in a safe place.
He said that the Russian troops moved up to 5 kilometers about 3 miles deep into the Ukrainian territory in the Kharkiv and Chernihiv regions, and, possibly in other areas.
Im pleased to tell the House that the United States is taking similar measures, Johnson told the House of Commons.
The president later held a virtual meeting with G-7 leaders and spoke with foreign leaders for about an hour and 10 minutes about a coordinated plan to impose "severe sanctions" on Moscow, according to the White House.
We stand with the people of Ukraine at this terrible time. NATO will do all it takes to protect and defend all allies, Stoltenberg said.
Khan, the first foreign leader to meet Putin since he launched an invasion on Ukraine, is expected to pitch the construction of a $2.5 billion gas pipeline in Pakistan, built by Russian companies, as Moscow looks to strengthen its cooperation with Islamabad.
China repeated calls for talks to resolve the crisis in Ukraine on Thursday while refusing to criticize Russias attack and accusing the U.S. and its allies of worsening the situation.
The president also announced the U.S. would deploy additional forces to Germany to help bolster the NATO alliance along the eastern flank. Following Biden's remarks, the Pentagon the ordered 7,000 more troops to Europe.
Amid a fast-moving and difficult-to-verify situation, Ukraine's Defense Ministry tweeted early Friday that some Russian troops had broken through to several northern districts on the outskirts of the capital. However, Ukraine's military also said it was resisting the advance on multiple fronts.
The facility, scene of the worst nuclear disaster in history, was taken over by Russians during their invasion of Ukraine, the Associated Press reported.
This Russian invasion stands to put at risk the basic principle of international order that forbids one-sided action of force in an attempt to change the status quo. We strongly condemn Russia, and we will respond speedily in cooperation with the U.S. and other Western nations, he said at his official residence in Tokyo.
Earlier, Stoltenberg had already condemned Russias invasion. Despite our repeated warnings and tireless efforts to engage in diplomacy, Russia has chosen the path of aggression, Stoltenberg said.
'War is my biggest horror': Russians brace for deadly conflict, economic hardship as Putin orders invasion
It is a heavy blow to the peace, tranquility and stability of the region, Erdogan said in a statement posted on Twitter on Thursday.
We're outraged by credit credible reports that Russian soldiers are currently holding the staff of the Chernobyl facilities hostage, Psaki said. This unlawful and dangerous hostage-taking  which could upend the routine civil service efforts required to maintain and protect the nuclear waste facility  is obviously incredibly alarming and greatly concerning. We condemn it and we request their release.
In a joint statement, the three countries foreign ministers condemned strongly the open large scale Russian aggression against the independent, peaceful and democratic Ukraine. They called it a blatant violation of the international law, of all international norms and a crime against Ukrainian people that we condemn.
Biden said Russias attack on Ukraine is unfolding as officials predicted and that Russia "rejected every good faith effort the United States and our allies."
On Wednesday, Erdogan spoke to Russian President Vladimir Putin and informed him Turkey would not recognize steps against Ukraines territorial integrity.
NATO issued a new statement Thursday saying Moscow's actions "pose a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security, and they will have geostrategic consequences."
Zelenskyy says that despite Russias claim it is attacking only military targets, civilian sites also have been struck. In his words: Theyre killing people and turning peaceful cities into military targets. Its foul and will never be forgiven.
Johnson said the U.K. would do more in the days ahead and called on Europe to end its reliance on Russian oil and gas that has allowed Putin a grip on the continent.
More: Will gas prices keep rising after Russia invasion of Ukraine? Here's what we know
But Simon Miles, a Russia expert at Duke University, called Putins remarks a very thinly-veiled nuclear threat that need to be taken very seriously given his present state of mind.
Uncorroborated reports in Ukrainian media claimed Russian troops are aiming Friday to seize Kyiv's main airport to allow thousands of troops to land, take control of government buildings, sabotage key infrastructure and cause panic and a refugee exodus.
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said on Facebook that the Russian military had launched missile strikes on Ukrainian military command facilities, air bases and military depots in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Dnipro.
Biden said G-7 leaders agreed to limit Russia's ability to do business in dollars, euros, pounds and yen. The president said the US would block four more major banks in addition to the sanctions imposed on VTB and Russia's military bank.
Zelenskyy said Ukrainian diplomats are informing the world about what is happening in their country. He added: Whether at least something of the force of international law remains will depend on the world's fair and just response to this aggression.
This illegal invasion in the heart of Europe also threatens the foundation of the international order and security, he said.
He called on American oil and gas companies to not exploit this moment to hike their prices to raise profits.
Bush, who once described Putin as very straightforward and trustworthy," said the U.S. government and the American people must stand in solidarity with Ukraine and its people as they seek freedom and the right to choose their own future.
China is closely following the latest developments, Hua said. We still hope that the parties concerned will not shut the door to peace and engage instead in dialogue and consultation and prevent the situation from further escalating,
Ukraines military chief says Ukrainian troops are fighting the Russian army in in the north and the south.
The U.S. already has about 90,000 troops in Europe and has deployed more to the continent as tensions simmered in the weeks before Russias invasion of Ukraine. Earlier this month, about 5,000 U.S.-based forces were sent to Europe, and U.S. military personnel already there have been shifting to help bolster NATOs eastern flank.
Now they have confidence in the future and that the years-long war will finally come to an end, she said.
A statement posted on the ministrys website urged citizens to be on lookout for suspicious people and objects. All suspicious items, as well as suspicious people with red items on their clothes, should be reported to a special police hotline, the statement said.
Police in Ukraine asked citizens on Thursday to report suspicious people on the streets in what the countrys Ministry of Internal Affairs said was an effort to ensure law and order.
As Ukrainians are fleeing their country following attacks from Russia, its unclear whether Ukrainians already in the United States will be offered temporary protected status that would protect them from being deported to their home country.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin ordered the deployment Thursday of 7,000 more troops to Europe after Russias invasion of Ukraine, the Pentagon announced. The troops include an armored brigade combat team. It will be sent to German to reassure allies.
The Russian objective appears to be seizing key population centers, including the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, the official said. The primary targets have been military: barracks, ammunition warehouses, nearly 10 airfields.
Putins war of choice has unraveled 30 years of diplomacy, with the potential for mass civilian casualties in and huge displacements both within Ukraines borders and beyond, Clinton said in a prepared statement posted to his Twitter account.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, French President Emmanuel Macron, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg participated in the virtual meeting.
The fate of another pipeline backed by Russia, Nord Stream 2, came to a screeching halt earlier this week as a result of Putin's decision to invade Ukraine. Germany announced it would suspend the Russia-owned pipeline that would directly run from Russia to Germany, increasing Europe's dependence on Moscow for its energy.
The Russian Defense Ministry said it was not targeting cities but using precision weapons and claimed there is no threat to civilian population.
The heaviest fighting has occurred in the northeastern city of Kharkiv, the official said. An air assault by Russian paratroopers is under way there. Ukrainian forces are fighting back.
Podolyak said Thursday that our army is fighting back inflicting significant losses to the enemy. He said that there have been civilian casualties, but didnt give details.
Explosions were heard in major cities, including the capital of Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odesa. Oleksii Arestovich, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said at least 40 people had been killed and dozens others wounded in the attack so far. Ukrainian authorities said Russian forces had hit military assets and other defense facilities, while footage shared by Ukrainian border guards showed Russian military vehicles moving across the border from Crimea.
The Russian attack began around 4:30 a.m. in Ukraine, with a barrage of over 100 ballistic, cruise and surface-to-air missiles and included 75 medium and heavy bombers, the official said, adding the invasion is the largest in Europe since World War II. The fighting, described as being in an initial phase, has the potential to be very bloody and very costly.
The U.S. and western allies will block the assets of four of Russia's largest banks  in addition to U.S. sanctions on two financial institutions earlier this week  and impose sanctions on Russian elites and new export controls. The latest measures also targeted Belarus' defense and security industries along with 24 Belarusian individuals and entities for the country's role in the attack on Ukraine.
Ukraine news: Sign up to get the latest updates on the Ukraine-Russia crisis delivered to your inbox.
For over the long term, we all face a choice, between a world in which might makes right and autocrats are free to impose their will through force, or a world in which free people everywhere have the power to determine their own future, Obama said.
KYIV, Ukraine  A presidential adviser says Ukraine lost control of the Chernobyl nuclear site, where Ukranian forces had waged a fierce battle with Russian troops.
KYIV, Ukraine  A Ukrainian presidential adviser said Russian forces launched an attack on Ukraine from the north, east and south. The adviser, Mykhailo Podolyak, said the Ukrainian military is fighting hard.
NATO envoys met in emergency session Thursday after Putin ordered a large-scale attack on Ukraine, as the 30-nation military organization prepares to bolster its defenses in allies neighboring both countries. Preparations were also underway for a NATO summit.
The world will hold Russia and Russia alone accountable, both economically and politically, he said.
The top European official said Russia launched a sweeping attack from multiple directions that included air and missile attacks, ground forces and special forces that targeted Ukraine's military infrastructure and major cities.
His remarks came after Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland triggered Article 4 of NATO's founding treaty, which allows members to "bring any issue of concern, especially related to security of a member country, to the table for discussion with the North Atlantic Council."
Singh called the actions the most impactful and significant sanctions the U.S. has ever taken.
He called the invasion a grave breach of international law, and a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security. I call on Russia to cease its military action immediately.
The president said he doesnt know whether Putins warning that countries trying to stop him would face historic consequences is a reference to Russias nuclear weapons.
He said the export restrictions -- developed in coordination with other Western allies -- would work to impair Russias military capabilities, denying Russia sensitive cutting-edge technology that will primarily target Russia's defense, aerospace and maritime sectors.
Zelenskyy said Thursday he remains in the Ukraine capital of Kyiv, and intends to stay there, even as Russia has made him its top quarry.
Some 137 Ukrainians, a mixture of soldiers and civilians, died Thursday. Britain's Defense Secretary told his country's media Friday that Russia has lost about 450 military personnel.
Our sanctions package is specifically designed to allow energy payments to continue, he said. We are closely monitoring energy supplies for any disruption.
We cannot tolerate the authoritarian bullying and danger that Putin poses, he said. Ukraine is our friend and democratic ally and deserves our full support during this most difficult time."
Ukrainians living in the U.K. and activists gathered outside Prime Minister Boris Johnsons Downing Street office Thursday, singing the Ukrainian national anthem.
UEFA will no longer stage this seasons Champions League final in St. Petersburg after Russia attacked Ukraine, according to the Associated Press.
Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda on Thursday signed a decree declaring a state of emergency in the Baltic country in response to Russias military attack on Ukraine. Parliament was expected to approve the measure in an extraordinary session later on Thursday.
Why is Russia invading Ukraine?: Could it be the start of WWIII? Here's what we know
Following the evolution of the situation between Russia and Ukraine in the last 24 hours, the UEFA president has decided to call an extraordinary meeting of the executive committee .... in order to evaluate the situation and take all necessary decisions, UEFA said in a statement.
Deputy National Security Advisor Daleep Singh said the sanctions Biden announced Thursday "will isolate Russia from the global financial system, shut down its access to cutting-edge technology and undercut Putin's strategic ambitions to diversify and modernize his economy."
In a tweet shortly after, Zelenskyy wrote: "We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities."
In his first remarks after Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine, President Joe Biden condemned what he called an attack made without provocation, without justification, without necessity.
Zelenskyy ordered a general mobilization of the Ukraine population Thursday to support military efforts as Russia attacks Ukraine.
"As is always the case, we continue to closely monitor conditions in various countries across the globe, DHS said in a statement.
A top White House spokesman on Thursday called former President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin two nauseating, fearful pigs who hate what America stands for.
As global outrage swelled over Moscow's wide-scale attack on Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin met with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday.
Kyiv Mayor Vitaly Klitschko advised residents in the Ukrainian capital to stay home Thursday unless they are involved in critical work and urged them to prepare go-bags with necessities and documents if they need to evacuate.
Warn your loved ones about what is happening. Take care of those who need help, he said.
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday said there must be a cost for Russia's egregious behavior against Ukraine.
'Murkiness and doubt': Putin playbook meant to throw White House, allies off balance on Ukraine invasion
Russian troops launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine on Thursday. President Vladimir Putin cast aside international condemnation and sanctions and warned other countries that any attempt to interfere would lead to consequences you have never seen.
Dear citizens, this morning has gone down in history, he said, according to a translation by CNN as he spoke. But it is a different history for us and for Russia.
Another adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia has targeted air bases and various other military infrastructure.
Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told reporters at a daily briefing that the Ukraine issue is complex in its historical background ... what we are seeing today is the interplay of complex factors.
The statement added that: "Further Russian military action can occur at any time without warning."
While some member countries are supplying arms, ammunition and other equipment to Ukraine, NATO as an organization is not, and it will not launch any military action in support of Ukraine, which is a close partner but has no prospect of joining.
The White House sounded the alarm last week to prepare the country for potential cyberattacks on U.S. companies or key parts of U.S. critical infrastructure including pipelines, banks, commercial aviation and hospitals.
A decree signed by the president orders conscripts and military reservists to mobilize within 90 days to assist the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
Johnson delivered a somber national address Thursday, telling the country weeks of warnings about a Russian invasion have proven tragically accurate and that Putin has brought a "tidal wave of violence" to Ukraine.
Channel One struck a more festive tone, with its correspondent in Donetsk asserting that local residents say it is the best news over the past years of war.
Former President Barack Obama on Thursday condemned Russias attack on Ukraine, saying Moscows reckless actions extend beyond Ukraines borders.
The enemy has marked me as target No. 1, my family as target No. 2, Zelenskyy said in an address to Ukrainians. They want to destroy Ukraine politically by destroying the head of state.
"He wants to, in fact, re-establish the former Soviet Union," Biden said. "His ambitions are completely contrary to the place where the rest of the world has arrived."
The Russian president said the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a false claim the U.S. had predicted he would make as a pretext for an invasion. And he claimed that Russia doesnt intend to occupy Ukraine but will move to demilitarize it and bring those who committed crimes to justice.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Thursday condemned Russias attack on Ukraine as a blatant violation of international law.
WHEN DID THE INVASION START? At roughly 9:30 p.m. ET 4:30 a.m. in Ukraine, Russian forces began a military operation in eastern Ukraine.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the United Kingdom is imposing the largest and most severe package of economic sanctions that Russia has ever seen and that sanctions will also apply to Belarus for its role in Russias attack on Ukraine.
"A vast invasion is under way by land, by air and by sea," he said.
"We don't have all the answers today but there will be a new reality," he said. "It will be a new Europe after the invasion we saw today."
Biden said the United States is taking steps to defend NATO allies. The organization will convene a summit Friday, which will bring together the leaders of 30 allied nations and close partners to affirm our solidarity and to map out the next steps we will take to further strengthen all aspects of our NATO Alliance.
After the absolutely senseless attack of the Russians in this direction, it is impossible to say that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe, he said.
Zelenskyy said Thursday that Ukraine has severed diplomatic relations with Russia, adding that Ukraine is defending itself and shall not cede its freedom.
This was never about a genuine security concerns on their part, Biden said of Russia. It was always about naked aggression, about Putin's desire for empire by any means necessary, by bullying Russia's neighbors to cores and corruption by changing borders by force, and ultimately by choosing a war without a cause.
Former President Bill Clinton on Thursday condemned Russias invasion of Ukraine, joining world leaders past and present in rebuking Russian President Vladimir Putin.
In 1986, the world saw the biggest technological disaster in Chornobyl, he said. Russias attack on Ukraine may cause another ecological disaster moving its military forces to Chornobyl. If Russia continues the war, Chornobyl can happen again in 2022."
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell called it the strongest, the harshest package ever considered.
Hours after Putin announced military action against Ukraine, Zelenskyy spoke to several world leaders to garner support for his nation.
But the president stopped short of blocking Russian financial institutions' access to SWIFT, the global financial system which ties together banks across the world. Biden insisted the latest measures "exceed SWIFT" and suggested it was a move that European allies were hesitant to make.
Temporary Protected Status is designated by DHS to individuals from a foreign country whose home country may be experiencing an ongoing armed conflict, an environmental disaster or other extraordinary conditions that would prevent citizens from returning safely to their home, according to DHS.
Russian ground forces have advanced toward Kyiv from Belarus on Thursday morning with the apparent goal of decapitating the Ukrainian government and installing their own, according to a senior Defense official.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey condemned Russias invasion of Ukraine, calling it unacceptable and contrary to international law.
Images of the attack: 'Brutal act of war': Photos of Russia invading Ukraine show mass evacuations, rockets
We ... feel betrayed by democratic states because we have been talking about this war for eight years, she said. They just need to wake up and stop Putin now.
In coordination with the U.S., Johnson said the United Kingdom is imposing a full asset freeze on the Russian-owned bank VTB that will effectively exclude Russian banks from U.K.s financial system.
As explosions continued across Ukraine, Biden met with his National Security Council in the White House Situation Room to discuss the latest developments in Ukraine, according to a White House official.
Asked about Zelenskyys safety, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the U.S. is in touch with him and are working to provide him support.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will also attend the G-7 meeting.
The European Union says it is planning the strongest, the harshest package of sanctions it has ever considered at an emergency summit Thursday, as the Russian military attacked Ukraine.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Biden warns Russia, adds massive sanctions over invasion into Ukraine
Building an anti-Putin coalition, Zelenskyy said. Immediate sanctions, defense  financial support to Ukraine! Close the airspace! The world must force Russia into peace.
The U.S., Europe and Japan have all unveiled sanctions on key Russian banks, airlines and associates of Putin.
We are facing an unprecedented act of aggression by the Russian leadership against a sovereign, independent country, she said. Russia's target is not only Donbas, the target is not only Ukraine, the target is the stability in Europe and the whole of the International Peace order."
MOUNTING DEATH TOLL: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced that 137 Ukrainian soldiers and civilians have been killed with hundreds more wounded.
The U.S. Department of State early on Thursday warned Americans still in Ukraine about the current danger.
Market benchmarks tumbled in Europe and Asia and U.S. futures were sharply lower. Brent crude oil jumped to over $100 per barrel on unease about possible disruption of Russian supplies. The price of U.S. benchmark crude briefly surpassed $98 per barrel.
This is the sound of a new iron curtain, which has come down and is closing Russia off from the civilized world, he said. Our national task is to make sure this curtain does not fall."
This aggression cannot go unanswered, Biden said. America stands up to bullies. We stand up for freedom.
Biden said his administration is going to use every tool to protect Americans and business from rising gas prices.
This is a terrible day for Ukraine and a dark day for Europe, he said.
In a statement online, the department noted: "There are reports of Russian attacks on targets in a number of major Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, Kharkiv, Odesa, Mariupol, and others. U.S. citizens in Ukraine are advised to shelter in place..."
Biden added that NATO will provide forces to eastern European nations that are NATO members to ensure the conflict in the region does not grow.
"This has fundamentally changed the Euro-Atlantic security situation," the statement read. "President Putin has re-introduced war to the European continent. He has put himself on the wrong side of history."
White House press secretary Jen Psaki condemned Thursday what she said are credible reports that Russian soldiers are holding hostage staff at the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant facility in Ukraine.
You paid with your blood for these eight years of torment and anticipation, anchor Olga Skabeyeva said during a popular political talk show Tuesday morning. Russia will now be defending Donbas.
In a tweet, Andrew Bates, a deputy press secretary, said that every action by the two men is driven by their their own weakness and insecurity, rubbing their snouts together and celebrating as innocent people lose their lives.
