Blinken says Russian attack plans for Ukraine go beyond conventional weapons
20220217
https://www.yahoo.com/now/blinken-says-russian-attack-plans-165807735.html
Mr Blinken warned that the over 150,000 troops Russia has amassed on its side of Ukraines Eastern frontier, in Belarus, and in the Russian-occupied Ukrainian province of Crimea are preparing to launch an attack against Ukraine in the coming days and said Russian claims of a troop drawdown in the border region do not match what the US sees happening on the ground.
This could be a violent event that Russia will blame on Ukraine, or an outrageous accusation that Russia will level against the Ukrainian government. We don't know exactly the form it will take, he said.
It could be a fabricated so called terrorist bombing inside Russia, the invented discovery of a mass grave, a staged drone strike against civilians, or a fake  even a real attack using chemical weapons, he said.
He said Russia will begin by implementing plans to manufacture a pretext for its attack.
The Secretary of States comments came just hours after US President Joe Biden told reporters the risk of a Russian attack against Ukraine remains very high, and followed Russias expulsion of Bartle Gorman, the deputy chief of the US mission in Moscow.
Next, he said Russia would theatrically begin high-level emergency meetings on the manufactured crisis, to be followed by proclamations from Moscow declaring the necessity of a response to defend Russian citizens or ethnic Russians in Ukraine.
Mr Blinken said those proclamations would begin with Russian bombs and missiles raining down on Ukrainian territory, along with cyberattacks and electronic warfare to shut down key Ukrainian institutions and jam communications.
After that, Russian tanks and soldiers will advance on key targets that have already been identified and mapped out in detailed plans, he said, adding that the US believes Moscow intends to target Kiev.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday said Russias plans for an invasion of Ukraine go beyond the use of conventional weapons and urged Moscow to renew diplomatic efforts rather than launch what would be the largest land invasion in Europe since the end of the Second World War.
Conventional attacks are not all that Russia plans to inflict upon the people of Ukraine, said Mr Blinken, who addressed an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to discuss the ongoing crisis.
The top US diplomat also warned that Russia might describe the false flag attack as ethnic cleansing or genocide, a characterisation he said he did not take lightly as a descendant of Holocaust survivors.
