Blinken calls on Russia to halt unlawful filtration of Ukrainians into Russia
20220714
https://news.yahoo.com/blinken-calls-russia-halt-unlawful-010242419.html
The unlawful transfer and deportation of protected persons is a grave breach of the Fourth Geneva Convention on the protection of civilians and is a war crime, Blinken wrote in a statement, citing as many as 1.6 million unlawful deportations, detainments and interrogations.
The exact numbers are unknown, Zelensky said, because all these deported people are deprived of means of communication, their documents are taken away from them, they are intimidated and taken to remote areas of Russia to make it as difficult as possible for them to return to their homeland.
Reports also indicate Russian authorities are deliberately separating Ukrainian children from their parents and abducting others from orphanages before putting them up for adoption inside Russia, he wrote, adding that as many as 260,000 children have been among those pushed through filtration.
President Putin and his government will not be able to engage in these systematic abuses with impunity, Blinken wrote, affirming U.S. support for the collection of evidence against Russia by Ukraine and international authorities.
Russian President Vladimir Putin took a step in the opposite direction on Monday, signing a new passport decree expanding a fast track to Russian citizenship for Ukrainians.
Blinken also cited mounting evidence that Russia is detaining or disappearing thousands of Ukrainian civilians who do not pass filtration.' Ukrainians with ties  or potential ties  to their countrys army, media and government are among those flagged.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken called on Russia on Wednesday to cease its filtration system that has forcibly deported thousands of Ukrainians in Russian-occupied territory, which he called a war crime.
As part of the filtration process, Blinken wrote, many Ukrainians are coerced into signing legal agreements not to return to Ukraine.
Putin also recently introduced the Russian ruble as currency in occupied areas as part of his efforts to delegitimize the Ukrainian state and assert Russias influence.
Blinken called on Russia to release the Ukrainians and facilitate their safe return  and to allow outside observers to monitor the filtration facilities and areas to which Ukrainians were forcibly relocated.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky put the number at 2 million. So many of our people have already been taken to Russia. Several hundred thousand children, the president said in a video address Wednesday.
