Boris Johnson urges Russia to step back from the brink as war with Ukraine looms
20220214
https://news.yahoo.com/boris-johnson-urges-russia-step-220044573.html
It came amid signs of division among Nato allies, as Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, suggested there was a "whiff of Munich in the air" about current diplomatic efforts - referring to the appeasement of Nazi Germany that failed to prevent the Second World War.
European leaders are meanwhile planning to draft Britain back into the fold of major foreign policy discussions after Brexit, by asking the UK to lead a new security organisation aimed at tackling future geopolitical challenges. Germany, the Netherlands and Poland are drawing up proposals for a European Security Council.
He added: "Ukraine can be certain that well show necessary solidarity, just as we have done in the past.
Vadym Prystaiko told BBC Radio 5 that the country, which he said was being threatened and blackmailed, would consider "serious concessions" including removing the goal of joining the Nato alliance from the Ukrainian constitution.
Mr Wallace faced a rebuke for the remarks from Mr Prystaiko, who said it was not the best time for us to offend our partners in the world, reminding them of this act which actually did not bring peace but the opposite, it brought war".
Another Cabinet minister highlighted Anglo-American divisions with Germany over a Russian gas pipe to the continent. We have very strong, different views to some of our allies around Nord Stream 2, Brandon Lewis, the Northern Ireland Secretary, told Times Radio on Sunday. London and Washington have pushed for a more robust line on blocking the pipeline if Russia presses ahead with an invasion.
He was reacting to a report in Die Welt newspaper on Sunday, which revealed that German authorities granted close to 700 licences for so-called dual use exports to Russia in 2020.
Boris Johnson has urged Vladimir Putin to step back from the brink as he insisted there was still a window of opportunity to avoid war in Ukraine.
Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, is meanwhile launching daily war councils, with input from intelligence chiefs and senior diplomats from Britains embassies in Kyiv and Moscow.
Whitehall sources said the UK was determined to play a leading role in shaping the Wests reaction to Mr Putins aggression, amid concern that Britain was too absent after Moscows illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014.
However Mr Scholz was embroiled in a diplomatic spat with Ukraine before he had even set foot in the country.
It comes as Ukraine's ambassador to the UK said the country could consider dropping its ambition to join Nato to avoid war.
Mr Wallace also disclosed that the worsening situation in Ukraine had prompted him to return from a family holiday overseas. Dominic Raab, the former foreign secretary, faced criticism for holidaying on the beach while Kabul fell to the Taliban last summer.
The UK is putting the final touches to a new package of sanctions on Russian strategic interests, which will be ready to be levied at short notice if Moscow advances an attack.
Downing Street reiterated Britains fears that a Russian invasion of Ukraine would have disastrous consequences for both parties.
A Foreign Office source said: Britain has helped lead international work on the crisis and Liz sees that as hugely important. We were too absent during Crimea in 2014, which she sees as a mistake that we cant repeat and arent repeating.
The Prime Minister will speak to world leaders from Monday and travel to countries in Europe later this week, as he seeks to unite Western allies against the threat of Russian invasion.
The diplomat added that panic is spreading in peoples minds, as well the financial markets, causing harm to Ukraines economy.
A Number 10 spokesman added: There is still a window of opportunity for de-escalation and diplomacy, and the Prime Minister will continue to work tirelessly alongside our allies to get Russia to step back from the brink.
Earlier on Sunday, Ukraine's ambassador to Berlin lashed out at German "hypocrisy" over its refusal to provide so-called lethal aid, such as weapons and jets to help fight against Russia.
In his strongest intervention yet on the risk of war, Mr Scholz said that the Russia-Ukraine crisis posed a "very, very serious threat to peace in Europe.
In a call with Mr Zelensky, Joe Biden also "made clear that the United States would respond swiftly and decisively, together with its Allies and partners, to any further Russian aggression against Ukraine".
The remarks were interpreted by some as a barb at Emmanuel Macron, the French president, and Olaf Scholz, the German chancellor, who have faced criticism in recent weeks for adopting a conciliatory approach towards Russia.
The US, Germany and the Netherlands have announced plans to move some diplomatic functions from Kyiv, in central Ukraine, to Lviv, which is around 500km to the west. Australia and Canada said they would move their embassies out of Kyiv entirely, amid fears of an assault on the capital.
She will also travel to Europe this week and plans to give a keynote speech at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday, addressing the Ukraine security crisis broader implications for global security.
Mr Johnson will focus on engagement with the Nordic and Baltic nations, with whom Britain has strong defence links. He is now receiving daily briefings from security chiefs on the growing mass of Russian forces around the periphery of Ukraine.
The UK has not abandoned hope that Moscow will de-escalate its military presence on Ukraines borders. Over the weekend, the Russian Embassy in London cited remarks by Sergey Lavrov, Russias foreign minister, tweeting:
According to German reports, Mr Scholz may offer Ukraine significant financial aid when he meets Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, in Kyiv.
A senior UK Government source suggested the comments could be interpreted as an attempt by the Kremlin to roll the pitch for a climbdown from a full-blown invasion.
The Defence Secretary, who has warned that a Russian attack is highly likely, will head to Brussels for a two-day meeting with his Nato counterparts on Wednesday.
A source close to the Defence Secretary insisted his comments were intended to mean that if Mr Putin strikes come what may, then all the diplomacy would have been a straw man, rather than being aimed at any European allies.
Russian diplomats laughed off such warnings, however. "Excuse my language, but we don't give a s about all their sanctions," Viktor Tatarintsev, Russia's ambassador to Sweden, said in an interview with Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet. He argued that the more the West pushes Russia, the stronger the Russian response will be.
Earlier, Jake Sullivan, the White House national security adviser, said he could not confirm reports that Russia may invade as soon as Wednesday. "We cannot perfectly predict the day, but we have now been saying for some time that we are in the window, and an invasion could begin - a major military action could begin - by Russia in Ukraine any day now, he said. That includes this coming week before the end of the Olympics.
On Monday, Mr Scholz will launch a last-ditch effort to pull Russia back from the brink of war as he heads to Kyiv for talks with the president of Ukraine, and then on to Moscow to meet Mr Putin on Tuesday.
Andrij Melnyk furiously accused Germany of double standards in response to a German newspaper report which suggested that Berlin was indirectly providing goods with potential military use to Russia, at the same time as withholding arms to Ukraine:
On Sunday, Mr Zelensky invited Mr Biden to visit Ukraine "in the coming days". However, US officials told CNN that was "extremely unlikely".
On Sunday, Downing Street said the UK believes Moscow could invade Ukraine at any moment, as commercial airlines began cancelling flights and neighbouring Poland warned of an impending refugee crisis.
