Boris Johnson sparked backlash for comparing Ukraines resistance against Russia to Brexit
20220320
https://news.yahoo.com/boris-johnson-sparked-backlash-comparing-005025581.html
Ed Davey, leader of the UK's Liberal Democrats, said in a tweet that Johnson was a "national embarrassment."
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson sparked anger on Saturday for drawing a comparison between Ukraine fighting off a Russian invasion and the British voting in favor of leaving the European Union.
"To compare a referendum to women and children fleeing Putin's bombs is an insult to every Ukrainian," he said.
Gavin Barwell, a Conservative and former member of UK Parliament, said in a tweet: "Apart from the bit where voting in a free and fair referendum isn't in any way comparable with risking your life to defend your country against invasion  the awkward fact the Ukrainians are fighting for the freedom to join the EU, this comparison is bang on."
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said last month after the invasion began that he had officially applied to make Ukraine a member of the EU.
Boris Johnson said it's the instinct of both Ukraine and the UK to "choose freedom every time."
"I know that it's the instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom every time," Johnson said during a speech at the Conservative Party's Spring Conference in Blackpool, adding that he had a "couple of famous recent examples."
Guy Verhofstadt, the former prime minister of Belgium, called the comparison "insane." Donald Tusk, the president of the European People's Party, said Johnson's remarks "offend Ukrainians, the British, and common sense."
Johnson was talking about the contentious 2016 vote in which a slim majority voted in favor the UK leaving the EU, with 52 voting to leave and 48 voting to remain. He also said another example was when the British people chose to get vaccinated against COVID-19.
"When the British people voted for Brexit in such large, large numbers, I don't believe it was because they were remotely hostile to foreigners. It's because they wanted to be free, to do things differently, and for this country to be able to run itself," Johnson said.
Comparing the referendum to the war is an "insult to every Ukrainian," Liberal Democrat Ed Davey said.
