Bulk of Russian forces more than 25km from centre of Kyiv UK says
20220321
https://news.yahoo.com/bulk-russian-forces-more-25-064542804.html
UKs military intelligence said on Monday that Russian forces advancing towards Ukraines capital Kyiv from the north east have stalled and the bulk of it remains more than 25 kilometres from the centre of the city.
Meanwhile, Ukraine has refused to surrender Mariupol, the strategic port city which has suffered some of the heaviest bombardment since the Russian invasion on 24 February.
On 24 February, Russian president Vladimir Putin launched a special military operation in Ukraine to de-militarise and de-Nazify the country.
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky warned of a third world war if talks with Vladimir Putin, his Russian counterpart, fail to achieve peace following the invasion of Ukraine.
On Monday, Ukraines State Emergency Service said that at least four people had been killed after a fire in a shopping mall in Podilskyi district.
Residents in the city, meanwhile, continue to suffer from shortages of food, water and power.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered.
To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
Despite the continued lack of progress, Kyiv remains Russias primary military objective and they are likely to prioritise attempting to encircle the city over the coming weeks, the statement added.
Authorities said that the blaze started due to shelling by Russian forces, not far from the center of the capital.
Heavy fighting continues north of Kyiv, the ministry of defence said in a statement as Russias invasion of Ukraine approaches the one-month mark.
On Sunday, Russian troops had urged Ukrainians to lay down their arms in Mariupol, saying they will be given safe passage out of the besieged port city if they agree to the offer.
The bulk of Russian forces remain more than 25 kilometres from the centre of the city, according to military intelligence.
However, Kyiv refused the offer and said that there was no question of laying down arms by residents facing the Russian invasion.
Russian forces advancing on the city from the north east have stalled. Forces advancing from the direction of Hostomel to the north west have been repulsed by fierce Ukrainian resistance.
