Car bomb kills daughter of spiritual guide to Putins Ukraine invasion  Russian media
20220821
https://currently.att.yahoo.com/att/daughter-russian-inspirational-force-behind-030648984.html
The senior Dugin is a far-right Russian author and ideologue, credited with being the architect or spiritual guide to Russias invasion of Ukraine. He is purported to have significant influence over Russian President Vladimir Putin and is frequently described as Putins Brain.
Images from the aftermath of the explosion began circulating on Russian social media Saturday, appearing to show a vehicle on fire at the side of the road and smashed car parts strewn across the surrounding area. CNN is unable to independently verify the images.
Dugina, the daughter, was born in 1992 and studied Philosophy at Moscow State University, according to TASS.
The female driver died at the scene. We established the identity of the deceased: it is journalist and political analyst Daria Dugina, it added in a post on Telegram.
The flames completely engulfed it. She lost control because she was driving at high speed and flew to the opposite side of the road, Krasnov added, as cited by TASS.
Its her fathers car, Krasnov told TASS. Dasha Darya drives another car, but she drove his car today, and Alexander went separately.
In March 2022, the US Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC sanctioned Dugina for her contribution to an article on the United World International UWI website suggesting that Ukraine would perish if it is admitted to NATO. Dugina was UWIs chief editor.
When Dugina turned onto the Mozhaiskoye highway near the village of Bolshiye Vyazemi, there was an explosion, the car caught fire immediately, Krasnov told TASS.
Andrei Krasnov, head of the Russky Gorizont Russian Horizon social movement and a personal acquaintance of the womans family, told TASS on Sunday that Dugina was killed when her car caught fire following an explosion.
Investigators have opened a criminal case into the murder of Darya Dugina, saying at around 9.00 p.m. local time on Saturday, near the village of Bolshiye Vyazemy, an explosive device, presumably installed in the Toyota Land Cruiser, went off on a public road and the car caught fire, the press service of the Russian Investigative Committee said according to TASS.
Krasnov said he knew Dugina personally and that the car she was traveling in belonged to her father. He believed Alexander was the true target of the blast, or possibly both of them, Tass reported.
The daughter of influential Russian philosopher Alexander Dugin was killed when an explosive device, thought to be installed in the car she was traveling in, exploded near Moscow, Russian investigators said Sunday according to state news agency TASS.
In the meantime, forensic experts, investigators and experts in explosive engineering are inspecting the scene.
Based on the results of the inspection, a number of examinations will be appointed, including forensic, explosive engineering and molecular-genetic. All possible versions of the crime are being probed, the press service said, according to TASS.
