Economic sanctions may make Russians lives worse  without stopping Putins assault on Ukraine
20220322
https://news.yahoo.com/economic-sanctions-may-russians-lives-193313421.html
If sweeping international sanctions could somehow choke oil and gas export revenue for the Russian regime, that might destabilize Putins regime. But Western governments have yet to impose those kinds of sanctions. And even if they did, non-Western demand for Russias oil and gas could bust Western sanctions, with other countries and companies buying Russian exports at a cost below the world market price, effectively getting a good deal on oil for helping Russia evade the sanctions.
To put it bluntly, while Germans have sent helmets and defensive weapons to Ukraine, they are still sending euros to Putin in exchange for his gas.
There is, however, one important caveat to the rule that sanctions make it more likely that personalist autocracies lose power. Sanctions, historically, have not destabilized dictatorships of any stripe that are substantial petroleum exporters.
Although sanctions have caused much pain for Russian elites and their banks, foreign currency is still flowing into Russia to pay for oil and gas.
The threat of mass protest has forced Putin to engage in a disinformation campaign to control the domestic narrative. His government has shut down independent media and threatened to jail foreign journalists who report truthfully on the war. If media repression fails to curb protests, Putin is likely to meet large protests on the streets with violence or mass arrests.
For example, the U.S. imposed oil-transaction sanctions on Venezuela in 2019, but Iran still buys Venezuelan oil, as does China, at a discount from standard world-market oil prices.
Abel Escrib-Folch does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.
Sanctions destabilize target regimes by causing the elites to become discontent, leading to their defection  or by emboldening domestic opponents to mobilize against the sanctioned government, as may have been the case when sanctions targeted the South African apartheid regime. Indeed, many Russian citizens have taken to the streets to protest Putins war in Ukraine.
Finally, economic sanctions hurt ordinary citizens in personalist dictatorships because these leaders tend to shield elites from the economic pain of sanctions by pushing costs onto regular people. Our research demonstrates that sanctions targeting personalist dictatorships take more food out of citizens mouths those those targeting other types of regimes.
The West thinks that Russians, suffering from sanctions, will end up abandoning Putin  but history indicates they wont
Recent news indicates that Putin has surrounded himself with a small group of hand-picked yes men  that is exactly what a personalist dictatorship looks like.
U.N. sanctions against Saddam Husseins regime in Iraq led to massive oil smuggling because the sanctioned oil could be bought at below-market prices, encouraging illicit sales. That revenue undercut the sanctions goal of weakening Saddams grip on power. Now India is contemplating buying Russian oil for cheap.
Personalist dictators rarely have peaceful ways of retreating when backed into a corner. So they use every means at their disposal  including lethal violence against their own people  to stay in power. Indeed, personalist dictatorships are more likely than other types of dictatorships to increase domestic repression when hit with sanctions.
Sanctions are most destabilizing when the targeted country depends on exports of one or only a few goods to pay for the loyalty of the ruling elite. When Ugandas Idi Amin lost coffee export revenue because of sanctions in 1977, he could no longer pay military elites. Many defected, weakening his power. A similar process unfolded when U.S. sanctions restricted sugar imports from the Dominican Republic in 1960 and 1961 during Rafael Trujillos rule.
The economic sanctions levied upon Russia as a consequence of its invasion of Ukraine target the Russian economy and Russian President Vladimir Putins closest personal and business associates.
The oil trade also involves many international players with distinct motivations  including democratic governments with varying degrees of energy independence, multinational firms, banks and investors. EU and U.S. sanctions so far have exempted Russian energy exports to Europe.
Our research finds that sanctions make it more likely that personalist autocracies  but not other types of autocracies  lose power.
US-EU sanctions will pummel the Russian economy  two experts explain why they are likely to stick and sting
Economic sanctions are an increasingly widespread international response when personalist dictators start making trouble on the world stage, such as abusing human rights at home or investing in nuclear weapons programs. Though the sanctions are economic in nature, they also impose political costs on personalist leaders by affecting the people who support the leaders tenure in office.
The goal is to alter domestic politics within Russia, ultimately stopping Putins aggression. Yet our research into how economic sanctions affect the behavior of dictators indicates the sanctions are likely to increase political repression in Russia and hurt average Russians economic security  without stopping Putin from pulverizing Ukraine.
Petroleum exports  oil and natural gas  are different from other exports, because world demand for oil is consistently strong. With few substitutes for oil in the world economy, the Biden administration is scrambling to replace Russian petroleum exports with increased imports to the U.S. from Saudi Arabia and Venezuela.
However, personalist regimes rely heavily on repression carried out by loyal security forces, more so than other kinds of dictatorships. Fearful that protests could spiral out of control, Putin has arrested thousands.
More than 150,000 readers get one of The Conversations informative newsletters. Join the list today.
This term means that the leader has more power than the political party that backs him, and more than the military and security forces. In Russia, Putin controls policy decisions and political appointments and thus faces few constraints from Russian political institutions or organized elites.
This article is republished from The Conversation, a nonprofit news site dedicated to sharing ideas from academic experts. It was written by: Joseph Wright, Penn State and Abel Escrib-Folch, Universitat Pompeu Fabra.
Personalist dictatorships rely on delivering immediate material benefits to their elite supporters. When sanctions cut off foreign revenue that funds regime backers fancy lifestyles, those backers tend to withdraw their support, or even leave the country, destabilizing the regime.
