European countries with Russian oil deals are earning blood money says Volodymyr Zelensky
20220414
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-ukraine-latest-news-us-195004504.html
"Until today, Russia has not taken such measures and was not going to," Mr Medvedev said.
Russia said the crew of the warship had been evacuated and measures were being taken to tow the stricken ship back to port.
Joe Biden's popularity plummeted to the joint lowest level of his presidency as a poll showed only 33 per cent of Americans approve of his job performance and only 39 per cent said they approved of his handling of the Ukraine crisis
Some have come under Russian fire in their care homes. Others fled amid the sound of explosions and gunfire. Many remain unaccounted for, lost in the chaos of Ukraine's sprawling and often disorganised social service system.
The report urges countries to ensure a steady flow of food and energy through open markets, and calls on international financial institutions to do everything possible to ensure more liquidity immediately.
"Where our focus will be over the course of the coming days is on evasion," national security adviser Jake Sullivan said in an interview at the Economic Club of Washington.
Ramzan Kadyrov, the pro-Kremlin leader of Chechnya, has urged the remaining resistance fighters in the Azovstal industrial district to give up, which would all but pave the way for a Russian victory in Mariupol.
Since the war in Ukraine began, Britain has doubled the number of soldiers it has based in Estonia as part of the Nato Enhanced Forward Presence eFP in the country, bringing the total to 1,650.
"Truth and information hit Putin's insane regime as hard as Javelins anti-tank missiles," Mr Navalny said on Twitter.
Indonesian finance ministry official Wempi Saputra also told a briefing that Jakarta was considering whether to invite Ukraine to the meeting, which will be held on April 20 in Washington, to discuss the impact of the war in Ukraine.
"The luxury yacht is now under the sanctions regime and so could be confiscated in Hamburg," police added on Twitter.
The European Commission's note, making clear it is technical, preliminary, and based on an unofficial translation of the Russian Presidential Decree of March 31, said the law added several new layers of obligations on EU gas buyers, taking the effective completion of the purchase out of their hands.
There has been widespread concern about the length of time it has taken for visas to be issued to refugees under this route, with Home Secretary Priti Patel apologising "with frustration" last week.
The Committee did not say exactly how it had obtained the reports about those who were trapped. However, it noted that few people with disabilities were among those internally displaced or who had reached Ukraine's borders as refugees, "indicating that many of them have not been able to flee to safety".
Ukraine's national security and defence council instead accused Russia of staging "terror attacks" on its own territory to stir up "anti-Ukrainian hysteria" in the country.
The Russian rouble weakened on Thursday, driven by expectations that Russia may relax its temporary capital control measures further, while stocks fell as the country continued what it calls "a special military operation" in Ukraine.
"The actions committed by the armed forces of Russia are not just a crime of aggression, but pursue the goal of the systematic and consistent destruction of the Ukrainian people, their identity and the deprivation of their right to self-determination and independent development," the text approved by a majority of 363 lawmakers said.
Germany has backed some sanctions against Russia and halted the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project with Moscow days before the invasion, but has so far resisted calls to support tougher action on oil sales.
"We oppose unfounded accusations and suspicions against China, nor will we accept any pressure or coercion," Mr Zhao said. "Time will tell that China's claims are on the right side of history."
Sanctions will also extend to electronic company Ruselectronics, responsible for the production of around 80pc of all Russian electronics components, and Russian Railways, Foreign Minister Marise Payne said.
In comparison, 80.3pc of applications under the family scheme have resulted in visas being issued.
Kyiv on Thursday rejected claims by Moscow that Ukrainian forces had carried out attacks along the border between the countries including a strike Russia said left seven injured.
Ukrainian fighters defending Mariupol have managed to regroup for a last stand to keep the city from falling to Russia, commanders said
"We don't understand how you can make money out of blood...For example the oil embargo is, I think, one of the key issues which we know has been blocked by Germany and Hungary among European countries," Mr Zelensky told the BBC from his situation room in Kyiv.
The US believes the Russian warship Moskva is still dealing with a fire and is under the assumption that the cruiser is heading to the Crimean city of Sevastopol, a senior US defence official said on Thursday.
Ukraine's southern military command said it hit the warship with a Ukrainian-made Neptune anti-ship missile and that it had started to sink.
Russia said the crew of its Black Sea fleet flagship were evacuated on Thursday and measures were being taken to tow the ship back to port after an explosion of ammunition on board that Ukraine said was caused by a missile strike.
The head of the UN World Food Program said people are being "starved to death" in the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol and he predicted the country's humanitarian crisis is likely to worsen as Russia intensifies its assault in the coming weeks.
Not being able to reach out and touch her only child left Olena Dereko inconsolable. So, she tried. But inside that coffin were the mutilated remains of her tenacious daughter
Since the start of the invasion, the Kremlin has taken near-totalitarian control of all media, shutting independent outlets and banning social networks such as Facebook.
After a dramatic policy pivot at the start of the crisis, when Scholz halted the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project with Russia days before its invasion of Ukraine, and then vowed a big jump in defence spending, his partners accuse him of dithering.
Interfax said all the crew had been evacuated. It cited the ministry as blaming the blast on a fire and said the cause was being investigated.
Ukraine's southern military command said that it hit the warship with a Ukrainian-made Neptune anti-ship missile and that it had started to sink.
Andriy Demchenko, the spokesman of the State Border Guard Service, said that over 870,000 Ukrainians have returned to the country since the start of the Russian, with around 25,000 to 30,000 returning each day.
That is exactly how it has been used by pro-Ukrainian pranksters. A video uploaded to social media this morning shows Boris Nemtsov Plaza, home of the embassy, at night-time. Onto the thick foliage of the trees to the embassys right is projected the Ukrainian flag, vivid blue and yellow against a dark backdrop.
The flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet, the Moskva missile cruiser, was badly damaged when ammunition on board blew up, Interfax news agency quoted the defence ministry as saying on Thursday.
William Burns, the CIA director, said Putin had "stewed" in grievance, ambition and insecurity. He said US intelligence operations during the Ukraine crisis would serve as a model for its use in the future
The puppy was born to a dog whose owners went missing, he said in an Instagram post, adding: "I couldn't resist giving him a chance at a happy dog life".
Almost one million Ukrainians who fled abroad since the start of the war have returned to the country including a growing number of women, children and elderly people
Russia said on Thursday that the flagship of its Black Sea fleet was seriously damaged and its crew evacuated following an explosion that a Ukrainian official said was the result of a missile strike.
The governor of Russia's southern Bryansk region said on Thursday that residential buildings in the village of Klimovo had been hit after coming under fire from the Ukrainian army.
WFP executive director David Beasley also warned on Thursday that Russia's invasion of grain-exporting Ukraine risks destabilising nations far from its shores and could trigger waves of migrants seeking better lives elsewhere.
"It already looks like he has been beaten up. It is time now for the British Government to get involved and help secure Aiden's release."
"Moving at low altitude, they carried out at least six air strikes on residential buildings in the village of Klimovo," it added, noting that six buildings were damaged and seven people were injured.
"If such incidents continue, then consequence from the armed forces of the Russian Federation will be attacks on decision making centres, including in Kyiv, which the Russian army has refrained from to date," the defence ministry said.
The man shows signs of being badly beaten in the image, which was posted by a pro-Russian Twitter account.
He told the press conference he wanted to bring the "madness" of the war to an end.
He was visiting areas in the Ukrainian capital directly affected by the Russian invasion, and meeting Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and defence minister Oleksii Reznikov.
Japan has joined tough Western sanctions on Moscow and welcomed several hundred Ukrainians fleeing the conflict as well as sending non-lethal military aid.
Ukraine said Thursday it was reopening humanitarian corridors allowing for the evacuation of civilians from war-scarred regions of the country after a day-long pause that Kyiv attributed to Russian violations.
Fiji had been alerted about the approach of the Amadea before it moored at Lautoka Wharf.
Rebeca Grynspan, secretary-general of the UN agency promoting trade and development who coordinated the task force, said 107 countries have "severe exposure" to at least one dimension of the food, energy and finance crisis and 69 countries are severely exposed to all three and face "very difficult financial conditions with no fiscal space, and with no external financing to cushion the blow".
About 13,200 had arrived under the Ukraine family scheme and 3,200 under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, provisional data shows.
Russia's investigative committee said on Thursday that Ukrainian forces had carried out at least six helicopter air strikes against the village of Klimovo in the Russian region of Bryansk, injuring seven people.
The country obtains 80 per cent of its natural gas from Russia and opposes an immediate European Union gas embargo on Russia, arguing it is not possible for the time being.
A British man fighting in Ukraine was paraded on Russian television on Thursday night after being captured and apparently severely beaten
Putin said "that the gas supply is secured, that Russia will deliver the contractually agreed quantities and that payments can continue to be made in euros", APA on Thursday quoted Mr Nehammer as saying in an interview carried out on Wednesday.
The US embassy is cooperating with Fijian authorities after a Russian oligarch's yacht docked in Fiji's Lautoka port.
Less than half 45.1pc of visa applications made under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme have been granted, the figures show.
G20 host Indonesia said on Thursday that Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov has confirmed he planned to attend next week's meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of 20 major economies virtually.
A high-ranking Estonian defence chief has praised the UK for its support deterring Russian aggression in Ukraine, but called on Western allies to double the number of troops being sent to the country's eastern border.
Russia said the crew of its Moskva warship were evacuated on Thursday after an explosion of ammunition aboard that Ukraine said was caused by a missile strike, and a US defence official said the stricken vessel was still trying to put out a fire.
The UK sanctioned two close associates of Roman Abramovich in what the Government said was its largest asset freeze ever. Eugene Tenenbaum, Chelsea Football Club director, and another Abramovich business associate, David Davidovich, were sanctioned for their close association with the oligarch
"People with disabilities have limited or no access to emergency information, shelters and safe havens, and many have been separated from their support networks, leaving them unable to respond to the situation and navigate their surroundings," it added.
The caption read: "Aiden Aslin. Britain, Nottingham. An English mercenary who fought on the side of the Nazis in Mariupol. Many lost it, but we found it. An interesting interview is coming soon."
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in a statement on social media that nine routes in the east and south of the country would be operating a day after they were shut because routes, she had said, were "too dangerous".
The ministry unit which compiles the data, the CDU TEK, did not publish monthly data on April 2, according to two clients, in the first such delay in years.
Russia's navy has launched cruise missiles into Ukraine and its activities in the Black Sea are crucial to supporting land operations in the south of the country, where it is battling to seize full control of the port of Mariupol.
"We need to diversify exports... step by step shift the direction of our exports to the fast-growing markets of the south and east," Putin said at a televised meeting on the energy sector. He criticised moves by European countries to stop using Russian energy, saying these "further destabilise the market and push up prices".
Russia's defence ministry said the fire on the Soviet-era missile cruiser had been contained but left the ship badly damaged. It did not acknowledge the ship, which had more than 500 sailors aboard, had been attacked and said the cause of the fire was under investigation.
"The word genocide has a meaning" and "needs to be characterised legally, not by politicians," Mr Macron told France Bleu radio during a trip to northern France.
"Our assessment is that she still appears to be battling a fire on board," the official said, adding that the ship is believed to have experienced significant damage.
French President Emmanuel Macron said Thursday that accusing Russia of committing genocide in Ukraine could lead to the war spreading, as he defended his decision not to use the term.
Russia's defence ministry said on Thursday it had contained a fire on board the Moskva missile cruiser, the flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet, and that measures were being taken to tow it back to port.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said that "a surprise happened" with the Moskva, the Russian navy's Black Sea flagship.
The flag, apparently beamed from the other side of the wide avenue, begins to tack to the left. Inexorably it moves towards the Russian embassy, arriving at the top-left corner. The embassy is already lit by large, faint spotlights in the red, white and blue of Russias flag  and by a second, weaker Ukrainian flag, suggesting some prankster coordination.
"On April 14, 2022, using two combat helicopters equipped with heavy offensive weapons, military personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine illegally entered the airspace of the Russian Federation," Russia's investigative committee said.
"There can be no more talk of any nuclearfree status for the Baltic - the balance must be restored," said Dmitry Medvedev, deputy chairman of Russia's Security Council.
"Without speaking to any countries in particular, we would not be concerned that the expansion of a defensive alliance would do anything other than promote stability on the European continent," Price told a news briefing.
In late March, collaboration on ExoMars, a plan to land a rover on Mars to drill into the soil and search for signs of life, also was suspended.
"China is playing a constructive role in the Ukraine issue," Mr Zhao told reporters at a daily briefing.
Ms Wood told the Telegraph she was "in bits", adding: "I now hold Vladimir Putin to the terms of the Geneva Convention. Aiden is a serving member of the Ukrainian armed forces and as such is a prisoner of war and must be treated with humanity.
He is the first foreign minister on the UN Security Council to visit Kyiv since the war began.
Calling Russia "a historic-level murderer", Mr Salm told journalists at a press conference in Tallinn, the country's capital, that the threat from the Russian Federation was now "as clear as anything can be".
The Ukrainian towns of Kramatorsk and Kostiantynivka are likely to be targeted by Russia for levels of violence seen in other urban centres since Moscow invaded Ukraine in late February, British military intelligence said on Thursday.
"Russians were subjected to physical violence and torture in order to force them to give false explanations about the actual conditions of their illegal detention on the premises of the Security Service of Ukraine, as well as on Russia's special military operation," it said in a statement.
Images on Russian television appeared to show Aiden Aslin, 28, from Nottinghamshire, being led around in handcuffs with a cut on his forehead.
Ukraine's defence ministry and military did not immediately respond to requests for comment after Russia earlier said mortars had landed near a border facility in the Bryansk region.
The defence ministry had said earlier on Thursday that the Soviet-era ship had been badly damaged by the fire, which Ukraine said was a result of its missile strike.
The blast is yet another military setback for Russia, which has suffered a series of blows since invading Ukraine.
The United States does not have enough information now to confirm what caused an explosion on a Russian warship that Ukraine has claimed was caused by one of its missiles, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said on Thursday.
Russia's Black Sea flagship was set on fire by an explosion of ammunition and sank as it was being towed back to port.
"As with ExoMars, the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the resulting sanctions put in place represent a fundamental change of circumstances and make it impossible for ESA to implement the planned lunar cooperation," ESA said.
"There was a big problem of forced labour in the orphanages before the war and trafficking for the sex industry," said Eric Rosenthal, director of Disability Rights International in Washington.
"I think we'll have some announcements in the next week or two that identify targets that are trying to facilitate that evasion both inside Russia and beyond," Sullivan said, without giving details.
Moscow has accused Ukraine of conducting a helicopter attack in Russia, in the latest of a series of cross border attacks that the Kremlin has said may trigger a retaliatory attack on Kyiv.
Payment for Russian gas in roubles by European Union buyers as demanded by President Vladimir Putin would break the EU's sanctions regime against Moscow, an internal European Commission note said.
"We've seen the social media reports that this was maybe a Ukrainian coastal defense missile that hit it. We can't rule that out, we just don't have enough information right now," he said.
"We need ads. Lots of ads," he said. "A huge, national anti-war campaign will start with an advertising campaign. 200 million impressions a day to reach every Russian internet user twice. Stories, posts... Across Russia, in cities and villages. On every tablet and every phone.
"There's not enough words of thank you for Britain. Britain has definitely done a lot, so we are extremely grateful," he said.
Navalny is currently serving a decade-long prison sentence after being convicted on charges widely seen as politically motivated. His Twitter account is managed by his supporters.
The emerging employee activism comes on top of Ukraine's repeated appeals to Western companies to go beyond current sanctions and cut all commercial ties with Russia, with the mayor of Kviv calling such payments to Moscow "bloody money".
The ministry "is limiting the distribution of information, which could be used as an additional pressure on the Russian market and its participants," it said.
His mother Ang Wood, of Balderton, Nottinghamshire, told the Telegraph she believes the images were legitimate due to a tattoo on her son's arm that said "Happy Days".
Russia's defence ministry said the fire on the Soviet-era missile cruiser Moskva had been contained, but left the ship badly damaged. It did not acknowledge the ship had been attacked and said the cause of the fire was under investigation.
In an update on the war, Britain's Ministry of Defence MoD said that "widespread missile and artillery strikes and efforts to concentrate forces for an offensive" showed a reversion to traditional Russian military doctrine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday called for diversification of energy exports towards Asia, warning that European countries were destabilising the market by moving to cut out Russian deliveries.
A spokesperson for the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs said the country had adopted the position following a decision by the European Commission on Wednesday. The position is being communicated to energy companies, they said.
"That Russia threatens, it is nothing new," she told reporters. "Kaliningrad is a very militarized zone, has been for many years, and it is in the Baltic region".
The Bryansk region governor said earlier that two residential buildings in the village had been hit by shelling.
European politicians have flocked to the Ukrainian capital since Russian forces withdrew from the country's north in the face of strong Ukrainian resistance earlier this month.
The Moskva is the second major ship known to have suffered serious damage since the start of the war.
"The large funds raised by Irish parishes will be channelled to assist those who are suffering such devastation to their lives and livelihoods.
Around 16,400 people had arrived in the UK under Ukraine visa schemes by Monday, according to Government figures.
"Today, the village of Klimovo came under fire by Ukrainian armed forces. Two residential buildings were damaged as a result of the shelling and there were casualties among the residents", governor Alexander Bogomaz said on his Telegram channel.
Ukraine's defence ministry, which has declined to comment on several border incidents including a strike on a fuel depot in the city of Belgorod earlier this month, has not commented on the alleged attack.
The governor of Ukraine's Kharkiv region, Oleh Synyegubov, said four civilians had been killed and 10 wounded during Russian shelling of the city of Kharkiv on Thursday.
Sweden has decided to join Nato, according to reports, with Finland likely to follow within weeks, in a sign of how badly Russias attempts to counter the alliances influence in Europe has backfired
Fiji newspapers reported that police seized the superyacht Amadea, owned by Russian billionaire Suleiman Kerimov - who has been sanctioned by the UK, US and EU - and detained its crew.
The Netherlands' government will instruct companies not to pay for Russian gas in roubles, as Moscow has proposed, a spokesperson said on Thursday, as doing so would violate European Union sanctions.
The threat of Russia potentially using tactical or low-yield nuclear weapons in Ukraine cannot be taken lightly, but the CIA has not seen a lot of practical evidence reinforcing that concern, CIA Director William Burns said on Thursday.
"Our assessment is that she still appears to be battling a fire on board," the official added.
The United States would not be concerned that an expansion of a defence alliance would do anything other than promote stability in Europe, State Department spokesman Ned Price said on Thursday.
The warship, Russia's Black Sea fleet flagship, is still believed to be afloat and the United States is under the assumption that it is heading to Sevastopol, the senior US official said.
He was responding to a question of whether the United States would be concerned that Russia could escalate the confrontation over Ukraine if Sweden and Finland join the NATO alliance.
An internal memo seen by Reuters shows Nestle has seen an unspecified number of Ukraine employees quit and others bullied on social media for remaining with a company doing business with Russia.
President Joe Biden said on Thursday that top US officials are deciding soon whether to send a senior official to Kyiv in a show of support for Ukraine.
He also said that any efforts by Russia to disrupt weapons transfers benefiting Ukraine could escalate the standoff with the West.
"We don't know what caused that explosion," Mr Kirby said in an interview on MSNBC.
The United States is preparing new efforts to crack down on sanctions evasion by Russia, President Joe Biden's national security adviser said on Thursday.
The French embassy was moved to Lviv in early March, the Foreign Ministry statement said.
The ministry, which said the blaze broke out after ammunition blew up on board, said the cruiser's main weaponry had not been damaged and that its crew had been evacuated onto other ships.
Ireland has provided 20 million euro in humanitarian aid to the country and Ukrainian refugees in neighbouring counties, and 33 million euro in non-lethal assistance for the Ukrainian military through the European Peace Facility.
Russian propagandists created a fake video with BBC graphics to blame Ukraine for the Kramatorsk railway station attack
The ministry announced two submarines off far eastern Russia, the Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and the Volkov, fired Kalibr cruise missiles from underwater at a target.
Nestle and PepsiCo face pushback from workers in Ukraine and eastern Europe angered by the companies' decisions to maintain some business in Russia, according to internal corporate communications.
China has refused to condemn the invasion of Ukraine by strategic partner Russia, or even refer to the conflict as a war in deference to Moscow, which uses the term "special military operation."
Beijing has refused to condemn Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, treading a diplomatic tightrope between backing its close ally and maintaining ties with the West by avoiding outright violations of sanctions placed on Russia.
The 156-metre 1,680-feet long "Dilbar" has an estimated value of $600 million 555 million euros according to Forbes magazine.
Now there is an even greater danger "of children being targeted, children being left behind, children being abandoned".
Australia has now sanctioned about 600 individuals and entities, including most of Russia's banking sector and all organisations responsible for the country's sovereign debt.
The employees speaking out, or even resigning in some cases, over the companies' response to Russia's invasion are mainly based in Ukraine, Poland or Eastern Europe and are a small fraction of the hundreds of thousands of workers the food makers employ.
For those reasons, "none of us can take lightly the threat posed by a potential resort to tactical nuclear weapons or low-yield nuclear weapons," Burns said.
A UN committee said on Thursday that the lives of some 2.7 million people with disabilities are at risk in Ukraine, citing reports that many are trapped or abandoned in their homes, care centres and orphanages without basic supplies or medicines.
The defence ministry had said on Thursday that the ship had been badly damaged by the fire, the latest setback for Russia which has suffered a series of blows since it sent troops into Ukraine on February 24 in what it called a "special military operation."
Almost one million Ukrainians have returned to the country since the start of the invasion, border force officials have said.
Ukrainian fighters defending Mariupol have managed to regroup for a last stand to keep the city from falling to Russia, commanders have said.
ESA said it would "discontinue cooperative activities" on Luna-25, 26 and 27, a series of Russian lunar missions on which the European agency had aimed to test new equipment and technology.
Russian news agencies said the Moskva, commissioned in 1983, was armed with 16 anti-ship "Vulkan" cruise missiles with a range of at least 700 km 440 miles.
China has said it would reject "any pressure or coercion" over its relationship with Russia, in response to a call from US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen for Beijing to use its "special relationship with Russia" to persuade Moscow to end the war in Ukraine. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian defended China's position on the war, saying it had "made considerable efforts to de-escalate the situation, defuse the crisis and rebuild peace."
The loss or disabling of the Moskva would be another blow for Russia - on the 50th day of its war in Ukraine - as it readies for a new assault in the eastern Donbas region that is likely to define the outcome of the conflict.
Over n 4.5 million people have fled from Ukraine since the beginning of the war, according to the United Nations.
"We need to make sure that the deterrent message the allied forces are sending to Russia is that they shouldn't even have a thought about invading Nato or attacking Nato."
Russian state media said on Thursday that the Russian warship had been "seriously damaged" by an ammunition explosion.
Around 16,400 people had arrived in the UK under Ukraine visa schemes as of Monday, according to Government figures.
Fiji police are today investigating the arrival of a luxury vessel owned by a Russian oligarch, questioning its captain about how he brought the boat to the Pacific island nation without customs clearance.
Ukraine's government has used its official Twitter account to mock the Moskva, which earlier on Thursday sank following a fire onboard.
Mr Coveney will visit areas in the Ukrainian capital directly affected by the Russian invasion and meet Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and defence minister Oleksii Reznikov.
Other evacuation routes are from Berdiansk, Tokmak and Enerhodar, and ones in the eastern Luhansk region will operate if occupying Russian forces stop their shelling, Vereshchuk added in a statement.
During the first days of the war, the Moskva was reportedly the ship that called on Ukrainian soldiers stationed on Snake Island in the Black Sea to surrender in a stand-off. In a widely circulated recording, a soldier responded: "Russian warship, go f--- yourself".
The defiant message came as Russia claimed more than 1,000 Ukrainian marines fighting in the besieged city had surrendered, with those remaining urged to end their "pointless resistance".
The West must flood the Russian internet with advertising to cut through Kremlin propaganda and show ordinary people what is really happening in Ukraine, jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny said today.
Ukraine's parliament on Thursday backed a resolution recognising the actions of the Russian military in the country as "genocide".
A UN task force is warning in a new report that Russia's war against Ukraine threatens to devastate the economies of many developing countries that are now facing even higher food and energy costs and increasingly difficult financial conditions.
The committee, which probes major crimes, said some Russian soldiers had been captured by Ukrainian forces in the Zaporizhzhia and Mykolaiv regions and held illegally by Ukraine's security service.
Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said nine humanitarian corridors had been agreed for Thursday to evacuate civilians, including by private car from the besieged city of Mariupol.
Australia imposed targeted financial sanctions on 14 Russian state-owned enterprises on Thursday, including defence-related entities such as a truckmaker and shipping companies.
European countries that continue to buy Russian oil are "earning their money in other people's blood", Volodymyr Zelensky has said.
Russia on Thursday warned Nato that if Sweden and Finland joined the military alliance then Russia would have to bolster its defences and that there could be no more talk of a "nuclear free" Baltic.
Mr Coveney also said Ireland is pushing for a "maximalist" package of sanctions against Russia.
Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has adopted a puppy from the besieged port city of Mariupol, and named it Marik after the city's nickname.
"We and several of our EU partners have already frozen or seized many assets of these oligarchs.
Left in care homes and now threatened by war, thousands of already vulnerable Ukrainian refugees are at risk of being trafficked as they are uprooted by fighting across the country.
The war was "devastating the people in Ukraine," Mr Beasley told AP, lamenting the lack of access faced by the WFP and other aid organisations in trying to reach those in need.
German customs had been eyeing the superyacht for several weeks, but could not formally seize it earlier due to a legal imbroglio over its ownership.
"As the result of a fire on the Moskva missile cruiser, ammunition detonated. The ship was seriously damaged," the Russian Defence Ministry said.
"The United States is committed to finding and seizing the assets of the oligarchs who have supported the Russian Federations brutal, unprovoked war of choice against Ukraine," the embassy said of the superyacht Amadea, owned by Russian billionaire Suleiman Kerimov, which docked without customs clearance.
"There has been no hesitation in its commitment to the allied principles. But everyone can always do more.
"The industry's statistical data, amid the restrictions, is quite sensitive to manipulation, which endangers operations of CDU TEK's counterparties," the ministry said.
Russia on Thursday said the Moskva, the flagship of its Black Sea fleet, has sunk after Ukraine claimed to have struck the vessel with missiles
Seven weeks into the war, the junior Greens and liberal Free Democratic FDP parties in Scholz's coalition are vexed that Berlin is not meeting Ukrainian pleas to send it more heavy weapons, amid warnings from Kyiv that Russia is ramping up for a major offensive in Ukraine's south and east.
One of Russian President Vladimir Putin's closest allies warned Nato on Thursday that if Sweden and Finland joined the US-led military alliance then Russia would have to bolster its defences in the region, including by deploying nuclear weapons.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has launched the report, stressing that the war is "supercharging" a crisis in food, energy and finance in poorer countries that were already struggling to deal with the Covid pandemic, climate change and a lack of access to adequate funding for their economic recovery.
A source familiar with the situation said on Wednesday that it is possible Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin or Secretary of State Antony Blinken might go, but that Biden is unlikely to do so.
Russia's defence ministry said a fire on the Moskva missile cruiser caused ammunition to blow up, Interfax news agency reported.
France will "very soon" transfer back its embassy in Ukraine to Kyiv from Lviv, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba in a phone call.
In a joint statement, the archbishops said: "Since the outbreak of this war, over seven million people have been displaced and nearly five million people have been forced to emigrate from Ukraine, becoming international refugees.
The Ukrainian President singled out Germany and Hungary in an interview with the BBC, amid mounting frustrations that some EU countries have not been tough enough with Moscow on oil sales.
That has put China at odds with the United States and its allies, which have responded with fury to the seven-week-old conflict, sanctioning Russia's financial system and other parts of its economy in an effort to get President Vladimir Putin to back down.
Frustration is growing among German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's junior coalition partners over what they say are shortcomings in his leadership on Ukraine, highlighting an internal rift that risks undermining Western unity against Russia.
The warship became notorious after Ukrainian border guards cursed its Russian crew just weeks earlier, when the ship fired on 13 Ukrainian defenders on Snake Island.
The European Space Agency has ended cooperation with Russia on three missions to the Moon.
The Russian embassy in Washington DC has a faade that, by and large, is large, flat and white. It is a design that, however accidentally, gives the building some resemblance to a projector screen, reports Tom Ough.
Commissioner of Police, Brigadier General Sitivini Qiliho, told the Fiji Sun newspaper that the Attorney General's office had been contacted by a foreign government requesting assistance in a criminal matter, and Fiji had agreements with other countries to enforce sanctions on Russian oligarchs.
Some 94,700 applications have been received for both schemes and 56,500 visas had been granted by Thursday, the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities and the Home Office said.
"This mechanism would lead to a breach of the existing EU restrictive measures adopted in respect of Russia, its government, the Central Bank of Russia, and their proxies," the internal note, seen by Reuters, said.
The Russian central bank is considering easing requirements for mandatory foreign currency revenue sales by export-focused companies, business daily Vedomosti reported, citing a central bank official.
An official at the National Police Command and Control Centre confirmed to Reuters that the captain of the vessel, which arrived on Tuesday, was being questioned.
"States that consider that it is genocide have an obligation under international law to intervene. Is that what people want? I don't think so," he explained.
"I have the impression that Mr Scholz is not aware of the serious damage he is doing to Germany's reputation in Central Europe, in Eastern Europe, basically in the whole of Europe," Anton Hofreiter, Greens chairman of parliament's Europe committee said.
Russia's Energy Ministry is limiting access to its statistics on oil and gas production and exports, it said on Thursday.
It is the stronger flag that prompts the interception attempt that has made this video go viral. Up sweeps a white Russian spotlight, straight to the incoming Ukrainian flag. Theyre trying to drown you out, comments an onlooker.
"We're making that decision now," Biden told reporters as he prepared to leave for a trip to North Carolina.
Russian threat to increase military in the Baltic region, including nuclear, is "nothing new", Lithuania's prime minister Ingrida Simonyte said on Thursday.
Russian submarines in the Sea of Japan have fired cruise missiles during exercises, the defence ministry said Thursday, at a time of tension with Tokyo over its support for Ukraine.
Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday accused European countries of "earning their money in other people's blood" if they bought Russian oil. In an interview with the BBC, he accused Germany and Hungary of standing in the way of blocking Russian energy sales
"As Christians, our Gospel imperative is to support the victims of this appalling humanitarian crisis, in the words of the Holy Thursday Liturgy, 'where charity and love are found there is God'.
Irish bishops had asked for a special collection in parishes across the island, in the wake of the Russian invasion.
Russia's defence ministry said the missile cruiser Moskva, the flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet, sank as it was towed back to port in stormy weather following an explosion and fire, Russian news agencies reported on Thursday.
It would mean becoming a "co-belligerent" in the war, he said, potentially drawing Western countries in the Nato military alliance into the conflict.
"Five officers and 17 servicemen were exchanged. Also eight civilians, including one woman, were released. In total, 30 of our citizens are going home today," Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in a statement on social media.
Mr Arestovych said: "It burns strongly. Right now. And with this stormy sea, it is unknown whether they will be able to receive help.
The attempted military escort is thwarted. The Ukrainian flag is so bright that the white spotlight hardly shows up. Emboldened, the Ukrainian flag makes a further incursion into Russian territory, adding insult to injury by provocatively bobbing up and down.
Some in the three-way coalition with Scholz's left-leaning Social Democratic Party SPD also want him to do more to reduce German energy dependence on Russia.
Mr Nehammer met Putin near Moscow on Monday and had until now not publicly mentioned their discussion on Austria's security of gas supply.
She called on the Russian government to treat her son as a prisoner of war in accordance with international rules.
Germany has officially confiscated the world's largest superyacht owned by Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov, as part of sanctions against Moscow following the outbreak of war in Ukraine, police sources said Thursday.
Putin has warned Europe it risks having gas supplies cut unless it pays in the Russian currency as he seeks retaliation over Western sanctions for Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
In a statement, the Kharkiv region governor also urged residents of some towns to evacuate since he said military operations were expected to take place in the area.
It comes a day after Russia's defence ministry said the continuation of "sabotage and attacks" by Ukrainian forces could trigger strikes on Kyiv.
He spoke at Georgia Tech of the "potential desperation" and setbacks dealt Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose forces have suffered heavy losses and have been forced to retreat from some parts of northern Ukraine after failing to capture Kyiv.
Ukraine's defence ministry and military did not respond to requests for comment about cross-border shelling in the area.
But Mr Navalny said 85pc of Russian adults were still accessing Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and other sites every day with VPNs that allow them to get around the Kremlins firewall.
"The Committee is deeply disturbed that the fate of people with disabilities in Ukraine is largely unknown," it said in a statement sent to journalists.
China on Thursday defended its stance on the Ukraine conflict as being "on the right side of history", after a US warning that Beijing's unwillingness to sanction Russia could affect its relations with other economies.
"We are working closely with governments and private sector partners in Europe, and the entire world, including Fiji, on this issue."
Russia's Kaliningrad exclave, on the shore of the Baltic Sea, is sandwiched between NATO members Lithuania and Poland.
Archbishop Eamon Martin of Armagh and Archbishop Dermot Farrell of Dublin paid tribute to the generosity of parishioners.
Russians have a completely distorted view of the conflict and believe that Vladimir Putin is waging a small, very successful war, Mr Navalany said.
Catholic churchgoers on the island of Ireland have raised 3.25 million Euros for the people of Ukraine since the war began.
The killing of Ukrainian civilians by Russian forces is likely to be a war crime, Ireland's Foreign Minister Simon Coveney has said.
It has also supplied defence equipment and humanitarian supplies to Ukraine, while banning mining exports to Russia.
Currently, Russian exporters are obliged to sell 80 per cent of their forex revenues in the first three days after receiving it under a rule established by President Vladimir Putin in late-February to limit rouble's volatility amid western sanctions.
Ukraine said Thursday that 30 prisoners of war were being returned to the country as part of the most recent exchange of captives with Russia, following an order from President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Ukraine has said it checks all information regarding the treatment of prisoners of war and will investigate any violations and take appropriate legal action.
"It is a different time now," Mr Zelensky said on Thursday, adding: "It is no longer an issue of business and money...it is an issue of survival".
Speaking during a press conference with Mr Kuleba, Mr Coveney said it was a privilege to be with him and said he brought a strong message of solidarity from the Irish Government and people.
Mr Aslins unit was defending the southern city of Mariupol, which has been destroyed by constant bombing from Russia.
In March, Moscow proposed that energy buyers open accounts at Gazprombank, where payments in euros or dollars would be converted to roubles.
At 07:39 GMT, the rouble fell 2 per cent to 81.50, heading away from its strongest level since Nov. 11 of 71 it hit last week.
A Ukrainian official earlier said that the Moskva had been hit by two anti-ship missiles but did not give any evidence. The 12,500 tonne ship usually has a crew of around 500.
A statement from the Department of Foreign Affairs DFA said: "His discussions with the Ukrainian government will focus on how Ireland can continue to provide political, security and humanitarian support to Ukraine, assist Ukraine in its application for EU candidate status, take forward further EU sanctions on Russia and hold Russia to account for its brutal and unjustified invasion."
There are more than 100,000 children in orphanages, boarding schools, or homes for the disabled in Ukraine, the highest number in all of Europe, according to the UN's refugee agency.
Ukraine has hit out at Emmanuel Macron after the French president repeated Kremlin propaganda that Ukrainians and Russians are "brothers" and rejected the description of the war as a "genocide"
A friend of Mr Aslin told The Telegraph the picture does look like him and his distinctive tattoos can be seen.
The mother of a British man fighting for the Ukrainian army who has been taken captive by Russian forces has pleaded with the Government to secure his release.
It posted video footage of the missiles rising out of the sea as the submarine crews simulated coming under missile attack.
It did not say what caused the fire but Maksym Marchenko, the Ukrainian governor of the region around the Black Sea port of Odesa, said the Moskva had been hit by two Ukrainian-made Neptune anti-ship cruise missiles.
Russian aviation has destroyed seven military facilities in Ukraine in the past 24 hours, including an artillery missile depot, Interfax news agency quoted Russian defence ministry as saying on Thursday.
Burns' most extensive public comments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb 24 underscored concerns that the biggest attack against a European state since 1945 risks escalating to the use of nuclear weapons.
The MoD added that Ukraine's continued defence of Mariupol was currently tying down significant numbers of Russian troops and equipment.
Aiden Aslin, who joined Ukraines military as a marine in 2018, appears to have been photographed restrained in handcuffs after allegedly surrendering to Russian troops.
Russian President Vladimir Putin told Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer when they met this week that Austria's supply of gas from Russia is safe and the country can continue to pay for it in euros, Mr Nehammer told national news agency APA.
Russia's Investigative Committee said on Thursday it was opening criminal cases into Ukrainian servicemen's alleged torture of their Russian counterparts as Moscow continues its military campaign in Ukraine.
Kusti Salm, permanent secretary for the Estonian Ministry of Defence, said Nato forces needed to ramp up their presence in the Baltic States to warn Russian president Vladimir Putin against further invading Europe.
Eventually the German Federal Judicial Police indicated that they had succeeded "after lengthy investigations, and in spite of concealment via offshore companies, in identifying the owner of the MS Dilbar and it is Gulbakhor Ismailova, the sister of Alisher Usmanov".
