Every Russian is responsible for this Ukrainian fashion designer beloved by Megan Fox condemns Putin
20220225
https://news.yahoo.com/every-russian-responsible-ukrainian-fashion-103451067.html
In the caption she wrote: 5 AM. All cities of peaceful Ukraine are under Russian rocket attack.
Mary Furtas, founder and creative director of the slow fashion brand loved by celebrities like Hilary Duff, Kendall Jenner and Megan Fox has described the invasion as the worst day in our lives.
The designer also pleaded with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO to close Ukrainian skies to help stop air raids.
Posting on her Instagram Story, Furtas said she hadnt slept for 30 hours and pleaded with Kyiv to hold on.
A Ukrainian fashion designer behind celebrity-loved brand Cult Naked has condemned Russias move to war.
YOUR SILENCE KILLS PEOPLE. GET UP IF YOU WANT PEACE!!!!!!! STOP SAYING YOURE ASHAMED. ACT!!! She also used the hashtag ww3 in her post.
Furtas wrote: Just because we dont want to be like them. Just because he Russian president Vladmir Putin has a complex. Just because one sick gang wants to have fun.
Furtas has also posted a link to the charity Save Lives which people can donate to to help Ukrainians. You can find other ways to help Ukrainians in need here.
Furtas is based in Lviv, a city in western Ukraine. On Thursday, as Russian soldiers began their invasion into Ukraine, the designer posted a picture of text to her Instagram feed which read: Every Russian is responsible for this.
Our army is working hard to protect us and not let Putin go further. But we need your support. Please, donate to Ukrainian army to help us. Every dollar of support matters!
In her Instagram Stories, Furtas also posted a picture comparing London during WWII to Ukraine now. The image shows Londoners taking shelter in underground tube stations and shows Ukrainians doing the same thing.
Cult Naked has also posted a picture to its Instagram feed with the text: standwithukraine. In the caption, it reads: Dear cultgen, today Russia started a full scale war in Ukraine. As a team of Ukrainians who create our pieces for you on the territory of our country, we and the rest of Ukraine are in danger!
