Family of University of Missouri exchange student from Ukraine evacuates home in Kharkiv
20220306
https://currently.att.yahoo.com/att/family-university-missouri-exchange-student-120111657.html
"She's a hero," he said. "She's smiling all the time. She believes in the army. She loves Ukraine."
"I believe it will be extremely effective to implement sanctions of the oligarchs, their wives and children," Sazhen said.
This article originally appeared on Columbia Daily Tribune: Bomb causes family of Ukrainian Missouri student to evacuate
"It means a lot to Ukrainians  seeing the whole world is behind us is very reassuring to us," he said.
He said he didn't think Russian President Vladimir Putin would use nuclear weapons, because someone would stop him.
His girlfriend moved with her family to Poltava, southwest of Kharkiv, to stay with other relatives.
His grandmother's home has a basement where his grandmother stores canned fruits and where his family can take shelter if they need to, he said. It wouldn't stand up to a direct hit, though.
"The train station is quite tense right now," Sazhen said. "Russian pilots are bombing everything."
He wants the Western governments to implement a no-fly zone, he said. If not that, immediate shipments of planes and air defense systems are needed.
Although hundreds are packing the Kharkiv train station, trying to get out, Sazhen said it wouldn't be possible for his entire family, including his grandmother and 8-year-old sister, to squeeze onto a train. Plus, the train station is in central Kharkiv and vulnerable to attack.
Sazhen, an exchange student at the University of Missouri, talked with the Tribune on Friday from Galena Residence Hall.
"We need more," Sazhen said of sanctions. "We need to completely destroy the Russian economy."
Sazhen's family is still in Kharkiv, but his grandmother is in a safer part of the city.
A bomb near his family home in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on Thursday caused Vlad Sazhen's family to evacuate to a safer area, at his grandmother's home in another district of the besieged city.
