Five things to know about Transnistria a potential hot spot in Russian conflict
20220427
https://news.yahoo.com/five-things-know-transnistria-potential-214739984.html
Russian is estimated to have around 1,500 troops stationed in Transnistria, where the majority of residents speak Russian.
Ukrainian officials have warned for weeks the war would not be contained to within its borders, but have further sounded the alarm after Minnekayevs comment.
The attacks are shrouded in confusion, with little independent presence in the restrictive territory. The interior ministry of the unrecognized independent region said drones had been detected flying in from Ukraine, as well as gunshots, Reutersreported.
Freedom House, which monitors the state of civil freedoms and democracy worldwide, rates Transnistria as not free in its 2021 report of the territory, with almost no political competition and severely restricted freedom of speech.
The U.S. and Moldovan militaries also work closely together, and the Biden administration relaunched a strategic dialogue that had been on pause for several years.
State Department spokesperson Ned Price said on Tuesday that the administration is closely monitoring the recent explosions in Transnistria.
Ukrainians have warned that Russia will implement false flag operations to pin blame on their country.
The pro-Russian territory broke away from Moldova in the early 1990s, and Russian troops have been stationed in the region since the collapse of the Soviet Union. However, Moscow has never officially recognized Transnistria as independent.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine is prepared for Russia to attempt to destabilize the region and escalate tensions.
John Herbst, director of the Atlantic Councils Eurasia Center, said Russian President Vladimir Putin views Moldovas turn to the West as a direct threat towards Moscow.
The U.S. has provided Moldova with $30 million in humanitarian assistance for its hosting of Ukrainian refugees, and $100 million in development assistance to strengthen the countrys long-term democratic and economic resiliencies, Price said.
We reiterate the Moldovan Governments call for calm in response to these incidents. And we fully support, as you have heard us say before, Moldovas territorial integrity and sovereignty. We respect its constitutionally guaranteed neutrality.
Maia Sandu is not a figure the Kremlin looks on with sympathy they see her as someone who wants to take Moldova to the West, which of course she does, he said.
As the violence worsens, Russias Foreign Ministry has said it hopes the escalation does not get to a point where its forces would have to intervene, raising concerns that Moscow intends to expand its assault on Ukraine to neighboring countries.
We are ready to do our part swiftly and diligently to give Moldova a chance for a better, safer and more prosperous future, the presidenttweeted.
So enhancing Moscows military presence in Transnistria, would not only strengthen its aggression against Ukraine, but also its ability to apply pressure on a government in Chiinu that it does not like.
Moldova is a strong partner, Price said. We are working to make sure that they have what they need to respond to the regional consequences of Russias aggression against Ukraine.
Minnekayevs remark was the first time Russia admitted to having territorial ambitions during the war.
The goal is obvious  to destabilize the situation in the region, to threaten Moldova. They show that if Moldova supports Ukraine, there will be certain steps, Zelensky said.
Russia has blamed Ukraine for launching the attacks, while Ukraine has accused Russia of staging the explosions.
We clearly understand that this is one of the steps of the Russian Federation. The special services are working there, Zelensky said. But we understand their capabilities, the Armed Forces of Ukraine are ready for this and are not afraid of them.
The move would require Russia to take over much of southern and eastern Ukraine, where Russian forces have been focusing their attacks after failing to secure the capital city of Kyiv.
Explosions and gunshots in Transnistria, the Russian-backed separatist territory in Moldova, are raising fears that Moscow is looking to escalate its grab for territory beyond its war in Ukraine.
Moldova has sought greater integration into the European Union and has accelerated those efforts during Russias war in Ukraine. Moldovan President Maia Sandu last week submitted key paperwork to the EU in what she said is a step closer to our accensino bid for the national bloc.
At least two radio towers that broadcast in Russia weresaidto be damaged, while Transnistria officials say shots from inside Ukraine were fired at a village holding an ammunition depot.
Rustam Minnekayev, deputy commander of Russias Central Military District, said Russia wants to create a path for Russian forces from Crimea in Ukraine to Transnistria.
They are not going to stop. The command of the Russian central military district announced the next victim of the Russian aggression, Ukraines Defense Ministry tweeted. After gaining control over the southern Ukraine, Russia plans to invade Moldova, where they say Russian speakers are being oppressed.
We do not know all the details yet, but we remain concerned about any attempts to escalate tension, Price said.
Moldova has little control over the region, which maintains its own military and is backed by Russia.
