Fort Hood deploys 160 soldiers to support NATO allies during Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220308
https://www.yahoo.com/now/fort-hood-deploys-160-soldiers-174300010.html
Fort Hood, the U.S. Army's largest military installation and known over the past two decades as a staging ground for troops deploying to wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, said in a statement Monday that all of the soldiers were part of the III Armored Corps at the Central Texas post.
Russian troops launched its first attack on Ukraine in late February, first striking the capital, Kyiv, which experienced a series of explosions followed by a full-scale attack that has continued into the second week of March.
Fort Hood in a statement Monday said families of U.S. Army soldiers are being kept in the loop about their loved ones as they are sent out on deployment to Europe.
It's not just our soldiers that we ensure are ready for this mission, but we do everything we can to make sure families are ready, too, Ruedi said. Things can change rapidly in situations like this. Making sure we communicate with our families not only helps manage expectations, but it also contributes to our overall readiness.
The units deployed included those from the 96th Transportation Company, which specializes in handling heavy equipment transport, and the 297th Inland Cargo Transfer Company, both from the 13th Expeditionary Sustainment Command. Also sent out were members of the 11th Corps Signal Brigade.
The new ban announced by Biden on Tuesday came as the number of refugees fleeing Ukraine reached 2 million, according to USA TODAY, using the latest information from the United Nations. The refugee crisis is the fastest exodus Europe has seen since World War II, a USA TODAY report confirmed Tuesday.
In a televised address broadcast when the attacks first began, Russian President Vladimir Putin said any attempt from other countries to interfere would lead to consequences you have never seen in history."
"Russian oil will no longer be accepted at U.S. ports and the American people will deal another powerful blow to Putin's war machine," Biden said. "We will not be part of subsidizing Putin's war."
However, President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced a ban on the U.S. import of Russian oil in the latest effort to ratchet up sanctions over Putin's invasion of Ukraine. The new ban could push gas prices even higher than the record-breaking numbers seen across the country this week.
Fort Hood this week deployed roughly 160 soldiers to Europe to join 7,000 U.S. military personnel designated to support the NATO Response Force, a multinational unit that will be on standby to protect allies, if needed, during the Ukrainian and Russian conflict.
The U.N. office of human rights has recorded at least 1,335 civilian casualties across Ukraine since the war began, including 474 killed and 861 injured, according to USA TODAY. More than two dozen children are among the fatalities. However, U.S. officials have said the true toll is likely much higher, especially as information is delayed in areas where the war is more intense.
Our soldiers are trained and ready, Col. Matthew Ruedi, the 13th Expeditionary Sustainment Command deputy commanding officer at Fort Hood, said in a statement. Elements of our heavy transportation company have deployed to Europe to reassure NATO allies, deter Russian aggression and are prepared to support a range of other operations in the region.
This article originally appeared on Austin American-Statesman: Fort Hood deploys 160 soldiers to back NATO amid Russia war in Ukraine
