Goodwill gestures and deNazification Decoding Putins Ukraine War lexicon
20220701
https://news.yahoo.com/goodwill-gestures-nazification-decoding-putin-111300515.html
Reclaiming Russian Lands:In the months leading up to the Russian invasion, Putin pretended to be primarily concerned with NATO expansion into the former USSR. He has since abandoned this pretense and declared himself the heir to Peter the Great. Speaking in early June, Putin compared the current war to the eighteenth century conquests of the celebrated czar and stated that like Peter, he was now also engaged in the historic endeavor of reclaiming Russian lands.
In reality, the often savage actions of Russian troops in Ukraine have confirmed that the Kremlin views anything identifiably Ukrainian as Nazi and makes no distinction between the two. Putins proclaimed de-Nazification actually means de-Ukrainianization, asthis prominent wartime articlefrom Russian state news agency RIA Novosti makes abundantly clear. As far as most Ukrainians are concerned, the only Nazis in the country are the Russian soldiers waging a genocidal war on behalf of an unhinged dictator.
Military Objects:Russias invasion of Ukraine has been accompanied by a massive aerial campaign of bombings and missile strikes across the country. Meanwhile, Putins slowly advancing troops are heavily reliant on indiscriminate and overwhelming artillery attacks that have left thousands dead and reduced dozens of Ukrainian towns and cities to rubble.
While the whole world can see that much of Ukraine now lies in ruins, the Kremlin remains extremely sensitive to accusations of war crimes and continues to insist that Russian forces only ever target military objects.
Nor is it clear if Putins appetite for reclaiming Russian lands is limited to the 14 non-Russian post-Soviet states. Imperial Russia once also ruled Finland and Poland, while the Soviet Empire after WWII stretched deep into Central Europe and included East Germany. One thing is clear: unless he is stopped in Ukraine, Putins imperial ambitions are certain to expand.
While the official Russian version of events is self-evidently absurd, an understanding of the true meaning behind Moscows preferred terminology is essential for international audiences looking to make sense of the often bizarre statements coming out of the Kremlin.
This column was first published by the Atlantic Council. NV is republishing it with permission.
Despite waging the largest and most widely reported European war since the days of Hitler and Stalin, the Russian dictator remains so paranoid over the negative connotations of the w word that he has banned its use entirely in the Russian media.
This has led to the creation of an entire alternative reality where Russian troops are noble liberators waging a chivalrous campaign against dastardly Ukrainian Nazis who bomb themselves and stage fake atrocities by massacring their own civilian population.
Todays Ukraine is actually an emerging democracy with a Jewish president and a far-right fringe that struggled to secure 2 of the vote in the countrys last national election.
Based on the experience of the past four months, Russias understanding of military objects apparently includesMariupol Drama Theater,Kramatorsk Railway StationandKremenchuk Shopping Mallalong with hundreds of schools, hospitals and residential buildings throughout Ukraine. With international war crimes investigations already underway, Russias claims regarding military objects will likely be tested in court.
Special Military Operation:When is a war not a war? When it is a Special Military Operation. This would appear to have been Putins logic when he announced his Special Military Operation against Ukraine in the early hours of February 24.
De-Nazification:Putin has stated that the main goal of his Special Military Operation in Ukraine is the de-Nazification of the country. This attempt to justify the invasion by portraying it as a crusade against far-right extremism mirrors historic Kremlin efforts to discredit the Ukrainian independence movement by equating it with fascism. Putins de-Nazification claims are emotionally appealing to Russian audiences haunted by the horrors of WWII but they are also deeply misleading.
Goodwill Gesture:Russia expected a quick and victorious war in Ukraine, but things have not gone according to the Kremlin plan. Rather than capturing Kyiv within a few days as anticipated, Russian forces have encountered robust resistance and suffered a series of painful battlefield losses. In a desperate attempt to disguise these defeats and protect Russian dignity, the Kremlin has taken to officially describing its retreats as goodwill gestures.
From goodwill gestures to de-Nazification and reclaiming Russian lands, here are some of the key phrases from the lexicon of Putins Ukraine War decoded into plain English.
The first goodwill gesture came in late March when Russia retreated entirely from northern Ukraine after suffering defeat in theBattle for Kyiv. Following Russias most recent retreat from strategically vital Black Sea outpost Snake Island on June 30, the Kremlin similarly declared that it was withdrawing as a goodwill gesture to Ukraine. Ukrainians will be hoping for many more such goodwill gestures in the weeks ahead as they seek to dislodge Russian forces from the south and east of their country.
Putin has never made any secret of the fact that he views the territory of modern Ukraine as historically Russian land. For years, he has denied Ukraines right to exist while claiming that all Ukrainians are in fact Russians one people. The real question is which other sovereign nations might also fit Putins definition. He recently set off alarm bells by commenting thatthe entire former Soviet Unionwas historically Russian territory.
