Isolated Vladimir Putin travelling to Iran to shore up support for Ukraine war
20220712
https://news.yahoo.com/isolated-vladimir-putin-travelling-iran-150109717.html
The Russian president will visit Tehran next Tuesday to attend a meeting with the leaders of Iran and Turkey, the Kremlin said.
Isolated Vladimir Putin is set to travel to Iran in a bid to shore up support following the invasion of Ukraine.
Western sources suggested it was within Mr Putins interests for oil prices to be very high and this could form a basis for talks while he is in the Tehran.
The Russian leaders private army is having difficulty replacing killed or wounded troops, British defence chiefs said on Tuesday.
To make up a shortfall of soldiers, Mr Putin has raised the maximum age of recruitment and is trying to expand the pool in all sorts of different ways to avoid a widespread call to arms, Western sources said.
They believe that at least 20,000 of the Russian presidents military personnel have died since he launched his invasion on February 24.
Three to four times as many Russian soldiers are estimated to have been wounded or incapacitated, with Ukrainian forces also suffering heavy losses.
On Tuesday Western sources said Putin had become "increasingly isolated" over the war in Ukraine and was desperate to build up world allies.
The trip comes after US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said on Monday that Iran could supply hundreds of surveillance drones, including weapons-capable ones, to Russia.
It comes as Mr Putin was accused of targeting the poorest areas of Russia to recruit soldiers for his battered army, amid speculation he could even be using prisoners to fight in Ukraine.
They added that Putin will be prepared to continue with his devastating invasion despite the huge cost to Russia and Ukraine.
Iran has in recent weeks been forced to slash the price of its crude oil to compete with Moscow's steep discounts to China.
They added: "What they have done is focus on active recruitment, particularly in the poorer regions. They have stayed away from the big cities.
Mr Sullivan added that intelligence shows Iran is preparing to train Russian forces to use the drones.
