JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon RussiaUkraine war inflation will have unprecedented economic impact
20220404
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/jpmorgan-ceo-jamie-dimon-russia-ukraine-war-inflation-will-have-unprecedented-economic-impact-144013061.html
Dimon warned in his closely-read annual letter to shareholders on Monday that Russias ongoing invasion of Ukraine is expected to meaningfully slow the U.S. and global economy.
Dimon did not elaborate on an exact time frame or how the estimate was calculated, but a spokesperson for JPMorgan told Yahoo Finance the $1 billion loss could be related to potential distressed assets impacted by the war.
Russias invasion of Ukraine and penalizing sanctions against Moscow have roiled financial markets and wreaked havoc on global supply chains. And JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon thinks the worst is yet to come.
We are facing challenges at every turn: a pandemic, unprecedented government actions, a strong recovery after a sharp and deep global recession, a highly polarized U.S. election, mounting inflation, a war in Ukraine and dramatic economic sanctions against Russia, Dimon wrote. While all this turmoil has serious ramifications on our company, its effect on the world  with the extreme suffering of the Ukrainian people and the potential restructuring of the global order  is far more important.
The conflict in Eastern Europe is only one of several headwinds clouding the global economic picture, according to Dimon. The confluence of the war, the stimulus-fueled recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, central banks quickly moving ahead to raise interest rates and the reversal of quantitative easing may dramatically increase the risks ahead, he said.
We do not know what its outcome ultimately will be, but the hostilities in Ukraine and the sanctions on Russia are already having a substantial economic impact, said Dimon, adding that many more sanctions could be added and spur further unpredictability.
Along with the unpredictability of war itself and the uncertainty surrounding global commodity supply chains, this makes for a potentially explosive situation, he added.
Meanwhile, JPMorgan estimates the U.S. economy will advance roughly 2.5, compared to the institutions initial forecast of 3  but Dimon cautioned in the letter that forecasts were based upon a fairly static view of the war.
America must be ready for the possibility of an extended war in Ukraine with unpredictable outcomes, he wrote. We should prepare for the worst and hope for the best.
Moreover, Dimon also warned the bank itself is positioned to lose as much as $1 billion over time in the first-ever comment JPMorgan has made over its potential losses from the war. Although the major bank said it is not worried about its direct exposure to Russia, the institution is concerned about the secondary and collateral effects the crisis and sanctions pose on so many companies and countries.
JPMorgan economists predict consequences from the war and resulting sanctions against Russia will reduce the countrys gross domestic product GDP by as much as 12.5 by the middle of this year. The potential spillover effects have also led the bank to cut its forecast for the rest of Europe, with their GDP projections now at an annual rate of 2 in 2022, compared to the pace of 4.5 economists had expected just six weeks ago.
