Knoxville gas prices will spike this spring Heres how much youll pay at the pump
20220210
https://money.yahoo.com/knoxville-gas-prices-spike-spring-143203964.html
Gas in Knoxville is more affordable than around the state. As of Feb. 8, the statewide average was $3.16 $3.23 in Nashville $3.16 in Chattanooga and $3.26 in Memphis, according to the American Automobile Association.
Not as much as the national average, estimated by price tracker GasBuddy to hit $4 in 2022.
In Tennessee, Monday is the cheapest day to fill up your tank, according to GasBuddy, and Thursday is the most expensive.
Friday, one of the most expensive days in 2019, is one of the cheaper days to buy gas now that more people work from home.
In spring, oil refineries shut down for maintenance and prepare to produce the summer blend of fuel, said Stephani Milani, Tennessee public affairs director for AAA. She said these refineries are down for longer than expected this year, extending a period of low supply.
While that's cheaper than other parts of the country, there are still ways local consumers can save money at the pump.
The entire U.S. will see a spring spike, Milani said. "Tennessee and Knoxville are no exception."
To find the cheapest gas stations in Knox County, check out this GasBuddy list that is updated regularly. AAA has a gas cost calculator to figure out how much a road trip will cost.
De Haan said that other geopolitical conflicts in major oil producing countries such as Libya and the United Arab Emirates are not helping gas prices either.
This article originally appeared on Knoxville News Sentinel: What will gas cost in Knoxville in 2022?
AAA Tennessee estimates prices could increase by 15 cents per gallon over the next few weeks if the price of crude oil keeps going up.
"We're gonna be on this road for a while," De Haan said. "There's so many areas of the supply chain in which demand has outpaced supply."
"People shop around before they buy a big screen TV, but they spend a heck of a lot more money on gasoline every year," De Haan said. "A lot of people just pull into the first station and end up spending 5 to 15 cents more a gallon, and it costs them another couple $100 every year."
According to the latest available data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, Russia was the world's third largest oil producing country in 2020.
"There's been no shortage of some of these issues," De Haan said. "The market's just a little bit concerned that there could be an impact on oil production at a time that oil demand continues to go on."
As geopolitical tensions rise, so has the price of a barrel of crude oil. According to Milani, the price per barrel has increased by almost $30 since August, and $6 during February 2022.
Globally, the possibility of Russia invading Ukraine could contribute to price spikes, as it's unclear whether Russia will withhold oil exports.
Since Tennessee tends to stay below the national average, De Haan doesn't expect Knoxville gas prices to exceed $4 per gallon.
Charts from GasBuddy show the national average last year started at about $2.45 per gallon, increased to $2.80 in spring and peaked for the year at $3.42 around Thanksgiving.
But Knoxville prices, about $3.14 per gallon as of Feb. 8, will spike in March and stay there through May, GasBuddy Head of Petroleum Analysis Patrick De Haan told Knox News.
In Tennessee, the recent cold weather has caused prices to rise, Milani said. As temperatures drop, more refined oil is used to heat homes, driving up the price of crude oil.
Despite being the cheapest among Tennessee metros, local gas prices are up 12 cents since January and 90 cents since last February.
Knoxville followed a similar trend, rising from about $2.23 in January to $3.00 in November.
Silas Sloan: Covering growth and development in East Tennessee Twitter: silasloan  Email: silas.sloanknoxnews.com   Support local journalism and enjoy subscriber perks. Visit  knoxnews.comsubscribe.
De Haan said prices typically go up when more people hit the road. They can also fluctuate as COVID-19 variants ebb and flow.
