Kremlin accuses US of hysteria over Ukraine as Russia gathers 100000 troops on the border and sparks fears of war
20220204
https://money.yahoo.com/kremlin-accuses-us-hysteria-over-171256119.html
In a statement on the UN Security Council meeting on Monday, President Joe Biden said: "If Russia is sincere about addressing our respective security concerns through dialogue, the United States and our Allies and partners will continue to engage in good faith.
"Hysteria hyped up by Washington is causing hysteria in Ukraine, almost to the point that people are packing their bags for the front. It's a fact," Peskov added.
"We don't need this panic," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said during a press conference last week, according to BBC News. "There are signals even from respected leaders of states. They just say that tomorrow there will be war. This is panic  how much does it cost for our state?"
Russia invaded Ukraine in 2014, annexing Crimea in the process. Since that year, the Kremlin has supported rebels in a war against Ukraine in the country's eastern Donbass region that's killed over 13,000 people.
The Kremlin on Monday accused the US of overhyping the prospect of a Russian invasion of Ukraine, even though it has gathered tens of thousands of troops on the border of the former Soviet republic.
Since late last year, Russia has gathered about 100,000 troops on Ukraine's border. Reuters, citing US officials, reported Moscow had also added blood and other medical supplies to its military buildup, in what experts described as a sign that a major military operation could be around the corner.
The Biden administration in recent days has said that a Russian invasion of Ukraine may be imminent. Meanwhile, Kyiv, Ukraine's capital, also has urged Western countries to tone down their rhetoric on the prospect of a Russian military incursion, saying it's causing panic that can destabilize the Ukrainian economy.
"To our dismay, American media have lately been publishing a very large amount of unverified, distorted and deliberately deceitful information about what's happening in Ukraine and around it," Dmitry Peskov, a Kremlin spokesperson, told reporters, according to CNN.
Western leaders have expressed serious concerns that Moscow is planning to invade, but the Kremlin has repeatedly denied any such plans, while rejecting calls to withdraw troops from the border.
The United Nations Security Council met Monday to discuss Ukraine as part of diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Talks between Washington and Moscow have so far failed to yield any major breakthroughs.
Meanwhile, Moscow has made demands for binding security guarantees from the US and NATO, including a permanent ban on Ukraine joining the alliance. NATO and Washington have made it clear that the alliance's open-door policy is nonnegotiable.
"The United States and our Allies and partners continue to prepare for every scenario. The world must be clear-eyed about the actions Russia is threatening and ready to respond to the risks those actions present to all of us."
"If instead Russia chooses to walk away from diplomacy and attack Ukraine, Russia will bear the responsibility, and it will face swift and severe consequences.
