Living a double life exKGB agent shares experience as Soviet spy his take on crisis in Ukraine
20220408
https://www.yahoo.com/now/living-double-life-ex-kgb-185400201.html
No longer a spyand now helping the FBIfor almost 30 years,Barskyhas lived like an American.
Georgia man is giving us insight into the war in Ukraine because he understands the Russian mentality.
When it comes to the crisis in Ukraine, he told Huddleston that he knows the Russian way and the resolve of the Ukrainian people.
He said despite the atrocities weve seen in the war so far, he doesnt think there will be a coup against Putin.
He told Huddleston that soon after,he got a Social Security card, a drivers license, graduated from college and for years lived a double life as an American family man and a Soviet spy.
He says despite movies and TV shows, there was no special school that taught Germans and Russians how to become Americans.He said he became a spy among us because he could quickly pick up languages, like English.
He said the most he ever gave the Russians was computer software information from a private company he worked for.
He was recruited by the KGB because he was smart. He learned English and could blend into American society.
Well into his 60s at that point, he decided to move his family to Georgia.
They had reason to believe I was being investigated by the FBI, so they got spooked and called me back and I said Im not coming because I have HIVAIDS,Barskysaid.
Yes,Barskysaid. You cannot win that one. And now the hatred, if it was strong to begin with, its even worse because he is killing women and children. Its the end of his career if he survives.
I became a highly prized individual within the ranks of the KGB,Barskysaid. The problem of having a dual personality, your homeland is over there and youre here pretending to be someone else.
He says he never knew what happened to them after he passed their namesto a KGB recruiter.
In 1988as the Soviet iron curtain was fallingBarsky said he got a call to come back to Mother Russia.
What is not a surprise to me is that the Ukrainians would fight like hell,Barskysaid. I dont think that anyone expected the Russian army to be as incompetent as they are.
They were looking for very special people who had a number of character traits that would make good candidates for what I did which was being a lone wolf, changing identity and going to another country,Barskysaid.
Somebody thought,My God, we got a guy who can go to the United States and become an illegal there,Barskysaid.
In an exclusive interview, Barsky told Channel 2s Dave Huddleston that he never met Russian President Vladimir Putin, but he knows a lot about how they operate and why he thinks Putin miscalculated starting a war in Ukraine.
That was in 1978. He landed in New York City and got a job as a bike messenger.
Barskysaid his mission was to spot Americans who might be willing to spy for theSoviets.
During the 1980s, Jack Barsky, 72, was a Soviet spy, helping to spot Americans who might be willing to work for the Soviets.
Heworkedas a corporate executive until 2015 when a national news show outed him as a former member of the KGB. He was fired.
Hehaswritten a book about his life as a spy and theres also a podcast. He told Huddleston that he continues to work with the FBI to atone for his past.
Barsky never worked in U.S.national security, so he didnt have government secrets to give to the Soviets.He thinks thatfact,plusworking with the FBI,helped keep him out of prison.
