McConnell GOP senators meet with Zelenskyy in Kyiv Russian forces leaving Kharkiv May 14 recap
20220514
https://news.yahoo.com/no-one-today-predict-long-090057757.html
Sens. Susan Collins of Maine, John Cornyn of Texas and John Barrasso of Wyoming joined McConnell in Kyiv.
Instead, Amosov is doing a different kind of defending. He's made the drive many times before. The tires ride across sacred soil, the land he grew up on. The air is warm with the sun hidden behind an array of clouds. Despite all madness, Amosov remains calm, his signature demeanor during Bellator fight weeks.
Rao Nordic said it has not received payment from Finland on the electricity volumes it sold the nation since May 6, causing the pause in service.
The UNHCR also said Thursday that more than 1.6 million refugees have returned to Ukraine, either permanently or temporarily. But it added that cross-border movements might not indicate sustainable returns.
CONGRESSIONAL AID: Sen. Rand Paul stalls $40 billion in aid for Ukraine, breaking with Mitch McConnell
WEISSENHAUS, Germany  The Group of Seven leading economies warned Saturday that the war in Ukraine is stoking a global food and energy crisis that threatens poor countries, and urgent measures are needed to unblock stores of grain that Russia is preventing from leaving Ukraine.
U.S. Sen. Rand Paul blocked the Senate from passing a $40 billion aid package for Ukraine this week, derailing a plan to fast-track legislation his fellow Kentuckian, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, supported.
The U.S. is again accusing Russia of using the U.N. Security Council to spout disinformation and conspiracy theories about biological weapons in Ukraine to distract from its war in Ukraine. U.S. deputy ambassador Richard Mills called the Russian claims categorically false and ludicrous.
Specialists from institutions like the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the Institute of National Memory will weigh in on other renamings, like changes from Russian names to Ukrainian ones, and those names can be voted on by the people of the city.
Russias war of aggression has generated one of the most severe food and energy crises in recent history which now threatens those most vulnerable across the globe, the group said.
Venediktova said that two more of the suspects, who are physically in Ukraine, are likely to face preliminary hearings next week.
Kyivs city council will rename the citys well-known Peoples Friendship Arch as The Arch of Freedom of the Ukrainian People, Kyiv Mayor Vitaliy Klitschko wrote on Telegram Saturday.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, who hosted a meeting of top G-7 diplomats, said the war had become a global crisis.
The Kremlin said in a press release that Putin told Finnish President Sauli Niinisto that Finlands abandonment of its traditional policy of military neutrality would be an error since there are no threats to Finlands security, adding that the countries relations might be damaged.
New names should live for tens or even hundreds of years, Klitzchko said. Therefore, the process of naming should be fast, but reasonable.
The office cautioned that the numbers arent final, as death counts in areas of active combat or occupied territories cannot yet be made.
This will depend, unfortunately, not only on our people, who are already giving their maximum," he said. "This will depend on our partners, on European countries, on the entire free world.
Sometimes we go to the store, and they find out were Ukrainians and people give the kids milk or cookies, or sometimes they just give hugs, the 35-year-old who now lives in Romanias northern city of Cluj-Napoca said Friday. Im so surprised in a good way by the kindness of people.
In a video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Ukrainian forces have downed 200 Russian military planes since the start of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Russian troops are withdrawing from Ukraines second-largest city after weeks of heavy bombardment, the Ukrainian military said Saturday as Kyiv and Moscow's forces engaged in a grinding battle for the countrys east.
"By the 19th of May, it will start impacting our ability to provide aid uninterrupted," Kirby said."
CLUJ-NAPOCA, Romania  Expectant mother Galina Kubiak says she misses her home in Ukraine but has fallen in love with Romania, the neighboring country where she fled with her two small children to escape the war.
Ukraines prosecutor general said Friday that her office was readying 41 war crimes cases against Russian soldiers.
Were talking about a large number of people. Of course, we are doing everything to evacuate all of the rest, each of our defenders. We have already brought in everyone in the world who can be the most influential mediators," President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address Friday.
We are determined to accelerate a coordinated multilateral response to preserve global food security and stand by our most vulnerable partners in this respect, it added.
Fingrid, which maintains and develops Finland's electricity transmission grid, said that imported electricity from Russia makes up just 10 of the nations total consumption and that the adequacy of electricity in Finland is not under threat. Reima Pivinen, senior vice president of power system operations at Fingrid, said in Fingrids statement that loss will be compensated for by increasing local electricity generation and importing more electricity from Sweden.
U.S. lawmakers will need to approve the next round of military aid money for Ukraine before May 19 to avoid disruptions in assistance being sent to Ukraine, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said.
"The visit of the U.S. Senate delegation with the leader of the Republican minority in the upper house of Congress, Mitchell McConnell, is a strong signal of bipartisan support for Ukraine from the United States Congress, as well as from the American people," Zelenskyy wrote on his official Telegram channel, alongside a video of him meeting and shaking hands with the senators. "Thank you for your leadership in helping us fight not only for our country, but also for democratic values and freedoms. We greatly appreciate it."
Yaroslav Amosov drives along a bumpy road from Irpin, his hometown in Ukraine. In an alternate and proper universe, he'd be in London, weighed in and ready to defend his welterweight championship against Michael Page on Friday at Bellator 281.
In a statement released at the end of a three-day meeting on Germany's Baltic Sea coast, the G-7 nations also called on China not to help Russia, including by undermining international sanctions or justifying Moscow's actions in Ukraine.
Paul wanted a provision added into the bill that would assign an inspector general to oversee how these billions are spent. When that didn't happen, he objected and effectively forced the Senate to wait until next week to vote on the aid for Ukraine because of procedural rules.
Since Jan. 14, 227 children have been killed and more than 420 injured in relation to the attacks on Ukraine, the office said in a Telegram post Saturday. Most of the children were killed or injured in the Donetsk region 139, followed by the Kyiv region 116 and the Kharkiv region 99.
"We continue to urge the Senate to act as quickly as possible so that we don't get to the end of May and not have any additional authorities to draw upon," Kirby said.
Ukraines general staff said the Russians were pulling back from the northeastern city of Kharkiv and focusing on guarding supply routes, while launching mortar, artillery and airstrikes in the eastern Donetsk region in order to deplete Ukrainian forces and destroy fortifications.
Since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, more than 6 million people have fled Ukraine, the United Nations refugee agency announced Thursday. Russias war  which it insists on calling a special military operation  has prompted one of the worst humanitarian crises in Europe since World War II.
Baerbock said up to 50 million people, particularly in Africa and the Middle East, would face hunger in the coming months unless ways are found to release Ukrainian grain, which accounts for a sizeable share of the worldwide supply.
McConnell and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer were working together to try to get the aid approved Thursday.
Friday marked the first war crime prosecution of a member of the Russian military in Kyiv, as a 21-year-old Russian soldier went on trial for the killing of an unarmed Ukrainian civilian in the early days of the war.
Russian President Vladimir Putin warned Finlands president in a Saturday phone call that relations between the two nations might suffer if the Nordic country joins NATO.
In addition, more than 1,700 educational institutions have been damaged in shellings by Russian forces. Some 144 of those were completely destroyed.
This situation is exceptional and happened for the first time in over twenty years of our trading history, the companys statement reads. We hope that the situation will get improved soon and the electricity trade with Russia could resume.
Although Ukrainians are doing everything they can to resist and drive out Russia, no one today can predict how long this war will last," Zelenskyy said in his nightly address Friday.
"I did what I wanted to do," Amosov said as he drove. "Yes, I understood I had a choice of leaving the country to train, but I don't consider myself anyone special. I am just a regular citizen of this country as all the other guys that are at war right now." Read more.
Russian shelling in the eastern Donetsk region, part of the Donbas region that Russia has been focused on, was responsible for a civilian death and 12 injuries on Friday, Pavlo Kyrylenko, a regional governor, said.
Poland has absorbed the majority of refugees  more than 3.2 million  while more than 900,000 went to Romania. Many others have fled to other neighboring countries like Hungary, Slovakia, and Moldova.
Energy trading company RAO Nordic Oy, a subsidiary of the Russian entity Inter RAO, suspended electricity trade between Russia and Finland early Saturday morning, the company and Finlands national electricity transmission grid operator said.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM: Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive the latest updates straight to your inbox
Some 600 children have been killed or injured in Ukraine as a result of Russian aggression since mid-January, according to Ukraines prosecutor generals office.
President Joe Biden said in announcing the latest round of funding that the U.S. had "nearly exhausted" approved funds. Kirby said Friday there was about $100 million "that has not been allocated or announced."
Russias offensive in the Donbas, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland, appeared to be turning into a village-by-village, back-and-forth slog with no major breakthroughs on either side. After failing to capture Kyiv, Ukraine's capital, the Russian military decided to concentrate on the Donbas, but its troops have struggled to gain ground.
"My oath of office is to the U.S. Constitution, not to any foreign nation. And no matter how sympathetic the cause, my oath of office is to the national security of the United States," he said on the Senate floor Thursday afternoon.
Such a change in the countrys foreign policy could negatively affect Russian-Finnish relations, which had been built in the spirit of good neighborliness and partnership for many years, and were mutually beneficial, the statement added.
The Ukrainian president also claimed 27,000 Russian soldiers have been killed and more than 3,000 tanks, armored vehicles and drones destroyed since the war began, though USA TODAY could not independently verify those numbers, adding that Russias perspective as a state has been destroyed, as well.
He said Ukrainian troops have retaken over 1,000 "settlements" from Russian control, including six on Friday. They are attempting to restore electricity, running water, telephone communications and social services to those towns and villages, Zelenskyy said. He also said Ukraine on Friday shot down the 200th Russian aircraft since the invasion began.
Niinisto posted a statement to Twitter summarizing the talk and said the call, initiated by Finland, was direct and straight-forward and it was conducted without aggravations. He said Finland plans to seek NATO membership in the next few days.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke with Russian Minister of Defense Sergey Shoygu on Friday, marking the first contact between the counterparts since the war began in late February.
It was not immediately clear how many of the suspects would be tried in absentia.
This story recaps news out of the Ukraine war on Saturday, May 14. For the latest developments, click here.
"The heart of the country now is Azovstal," Vereschuk said in a social media post Friday. "Negotiating with the enemy is very difficult. The result may not please everyone. But our job is to get our boys out. All of you. Alive. God willing, everyone will be saved."
An additional 40 monuments and memorial signs will also be removed from Ukraines capital city and given to its Museum of Totalitarianism.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said misinformation about the negotiations was making the process more difficult, and said officials are currently working on negotiations to rescue 38 "heavily wounded" soldiers. There is an estimated 600 military and wounded still holed up in the bunkers under the steel mill.
Ukraine has made progress in retaking areas formerly held by Russian forces, but the length of the Russia's war will depend on the assistance offered by Ukrainian allies, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.
We have 41 suspects in cases with which we will be ready to go to court. All of them concern Article 438 of the Ukrainian criminal code on war crimes, but different types of war crimes. There is the bombing of civilian infrastructure, the killing of civilians, rape and looting, Iryna Venediktova said in a live briefing on Ukrainian TV on Friday evening.
This week Sen. Rand Paul blocked the passage of a $40 billion spending package for Ukraine, delaying until next week the attempt at fast-tracking an aid package that had bipartisan support. Paul wanted a provision added that would assign an inspector general to oversee how the billions are spent. Read more.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Zelenskyy appeals to allies to help end war in Ukraine: May 14 recap
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and a small group of Republican senators has met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv, though it's unclear whether the meeting took place Saturday morning or if the delegation is still there.
A Swedish report released Friday laid out the pros and cons of obtaining NATO membership as the nation weighs the decision. The report listed Russian cyberattacks as one of the main risks of joining.
Russia hasnt lost so much aviation in any of the wars in decades, he said.
Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said Ukraine was entering a new - long-term - phase of the war.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukraines forces made progress, retaking six Ukrainian towns or villages in the past day. Western officials said Ukraine had driven Russian forces back around Kharkiv, which was a key target for Moscows troops.
Ukrainian leaders said the government is doing everything possible to negotiate for the evacuation of the wounded soldiers and remaining troops in the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol.
Russian forces also continued their attack on the east Friday, attacking new cities and towns, but failed to take the towns of Zolote and Kamyshevakha, the Ukrainian army said.
Since Feb. 24, when Russia invaded Ukraine, his country has been under attack. Amosov ushered his family to safety before he enlisted in the military days later.
