Moment Russian soldier gives middle finger to Ukraine drone before it blows up tank
20220530
https://news.yahoo.com/moment-russian-soldier-gives-middle-084420369.html
Capturing Sievierodonetsk is a fundamental task for the occupiers We do all we can to hold this advance, he added.
Mr Gaidai said it was impossible to calculate the number of casualties as the shelling was so persistent, adding that Russian forces have dug themselves in at a hotel on the northern edge of the city.
They cannot advance further into the city and are taking casualties, but we are not able right now to push them out of the hotel, he added.
In the footage released by Ukrainian military and posted on Twitter, six Russian troops are sighted converged around the vehicle and one of them sticks up his middle finger in the direction of the drone.
The tank, a Russian BTR-82A APC, was being hidden at the side of a building but was left a blazing wreck by the attack as Ukrainian forces continue to defend the countrys east.
The drone then attacks the tank with a grenade, causing it to burst into flames. It comes as Ukraine says Russian losses could now total as many as 30,000 troops and 1,330 tanks.
In recent weeks, the Kremlins forces have pounded it with heavy artillery, with much of the city thought to lie in ruins.
The moment a Russian soldier gives the finger to a Ukrainian drone just before it drops a grenade on the tank next to him has been captured on camera.
The Kremlins forces have their sights on Sievierodonetsk, which is located around 145km 90 miles from the Russian border on the strategically-important Siverskiy Donetsk river.
Some 90 per cent of buildings are damaged. More than two-thirds of the citys housing stock has been completely destroyed. There is no telecommunication. There is constant shelling, the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky said.
Fighting has intensified in Ukraines Luhansk region as Russian forces try to capture the largest city still under Ukrainian control in the territory, officials said on Sunday.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page
The fighting in the city has grown fiercer, according to the regions governor Serhiy Gaidai, who described the Russian assaults as extremely escalated.
