Moscow might target Kyiv with missiles in response to Ukraines attack on Black Sea gas rigs
20220621
https://news.yahoo.com/moscow-might-target-kyiv-missiles-091600766.html
This was done through a special marine operation back in March, 2014. Ukraines military response to 2014 events in Crimea was meagre and Russian army was able to carry out its invasion plan in full.
Chornomornaftogaz, a Crimean subsidiary of Naftogaz, procured two modern drilling rigs from Keppel, a company in Singapore. The rigs were given Ukrainian names  one was named Petro Godovanets, another one  Nezalezhnist.
Arestovich said residents of Shevchenko and Pechersk districts should be especially careful in the coming days, and go to a bomb shelter each time air sirens announce a risk of Russian attack from the air.
The story of how the Boyko rigs came to operate in the Black Sea is complex and full of scandal.
In the morning of June 20 the Ukrainian Armed Forces used rockets to target drilling platforms in the Black Sea  which used to be owned by Ukraines Naftogaz prior to 2014, but were captured by the Russian occupation administration of Crimea.
After invading Crimea in 2014, Russia took over the Boyko rigs and put them to its own use, extracting hydrocarbons from the Black Sea.
He said the Russians are looking for ways to respond to a Ukrainian attack on gas drilling rigs in the Black Sea near the cost of Crimea  a Ukrainian maritime territory that has been controlled by the Russian Federation since 2014.
Read also:  Ukraine's General Staff says hospitals in Crimea have stopped admitting civilians to free up beds for wounded soldiers
Read also:  Russia regroups forces in Black Sea, risk of amphibious landings remains  Odesa authorities
Later investigations by local journalists revealed the procurement price was heavily inflated: Naftogaz paid twice as much for the rigs as their actual cost.
These rigs are also known as the Boyko rigs for the history of their procurement by Naftogaz, a Ukrainian state-owned energy company.
The deal to procure the drilling rigs was led by Yuriy Boyko, who was then Ukraines energy minister, and two Naftogaz executives  Evgen Bakulin and Sergiy Katsuba.
Later, Russia used Boyko rigs not only for extracting gas, but also for intelligence activity  keeping an eye on activities in the Black Sea.
Read also:  Threat to Ukraine's southern regions grows as Russia deploys submarines with Kalibr cruise missiles in Black Sea
The Black Sea is considered a rich area for for oil and gas extraction. However, most recent projects focused on development of seas energy base have been unsuccessful for regulatory reasons.
Boykos surname was later associated with these rigs by the general public, with the public often calling them simply the Boyko rigs.
