Moscow trying to split Ukraine like Korea warns Kyiv as separatists calls for vote to join Russia
20220327
https://news.yahoo.com/eastern-ukraine-separatist-leader-calls-123820079.html
So who is in charge of the Euro-Atlantic community? Is it still Moscow, thanks to its scare tactics? Mr Zelensky asked. Our partners must step up their aid to Ukraine.
If only those who have been thinking for 31 days on how to hand over dozens of jets and tanks had one per cent of their courage.
Ive talked to the defenders of Mariupol today. Im in constant contact with them. Their determination, heroism and firmness are astonishing, Mr Zelensky said in a video address early on Sunday, referring to the besieged southern city that has suffered some of the wars greatest deprivations and horrors.
The UK Ministry of Defence said on Sunday that the battlefield across northern Ukraine remains largely static as local counterattacks hamper Russian attempts to reorganise their forces.
All fake referendums in the temporarily occupied territories are null and void and will have no legal validity, Oleg Nikolenko told Reuters.
Russia has supported the separatist rebels in Luhansk and the neighbouring Donetsk regions since an insurgency erupted there in 2014, shortly after Moscows annexation of the Crimean Peninsula.
Crimeans voted overwhelmingly to break with Ukraine and join Russia, a vote that much of the world refused to recognise.
On Sunday, Russian defence ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said that it used air-launched cruise missiles to hit a fuel depot and a defence plant in Lviv.
In response, Kyrylo Budanov, the head of Ukrainian military intelligence, said Moscow was trying to divide Ukraine in half.
US secretary of state Antony Blinken said on Sunday that Washington had no strategy of regime change and that Biden had simply meant Putin could not be empowered to wage war against Ukraine or anywhere else.
In addition, the season of a total Ukrainian guerrilla safari will soon begin. Then there will be one relevant scenario left for the Russians: how to survive, he said.
On Friday, Russian military leaders said they would focus their war efforts on wresting Ukraines eastern Donbas region from Ukrainian control, in an apparent shift of tactics.
Leonid Pasechnik, head of the self-proclaimed Luhansk Peoples Republic, said it could hold a vote in the nearest time, asking voters whether they agree in making the region part of Russia.
The strikes came as Mr Biden wrapped up a visit to Poland, where he met Ukraines foreign and defence ministers, visited US troops and saw refugees from the war.
Before leaving, he delivered a forceful condemnation of Russian president Vladimir Putin, saying: For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power.
Russia wants to split Ukraine into two, just like North and South Korea, senior military intelligence officials in Kyiv said on Sunday, and vowed total guerrilla warfare to prevent any carve-up of the country.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has stalled in many areas, faltering in the face of Ukrainian resistance bolstered by weapons from the UK, US and other western allies.
In fact, it is an attempt to create North and South Korea in Ukraine, said Budanov. He predicted Ukraines army would push back Russian forces.
Western military aid has so far not included fighter jets. A proposal to transfer Polish planes to Ukraine via the US was scrapped amid Nato concerns about getting drawn into conflict with Russia.
Mr Zelensky lashed out at the wests ping-pong about who and how should hand over jets and other defensive weapons to us while Russian missile attacks kill and trap civilians.
Civilian populations are slaughtered, annihilated, the suffering is horrible, said a visibly angry Le Drian.
Frances foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian warned on Sunday that the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol is becoming a second Aleppo and that Russias siege warfare against cities should induce collective guilt.
The warnings came just as the leader of a separatist region in eastern Ukraine says he wants to hold a referendum on joining Russia.
The White House clarified that he was not calling for an immediate change in government in Moscow.
In ongoing talks with Ukraine, Moscow has also urged it to acknowledge Russias sovereignty over Crimea and the independence of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Pasechniks statement could herald a shift in the Russian position.
This speech  and the passages which concern Russia  is astounding, to use polite words, he added. He doesnt understand that the world is not limited to the United States and most of Europe.
French president Emmanuel Macron tried to distance himself from Bidens comments. I wouldnt use this type of wording because I continue to hold discussions with president Putin, he told the France 3 TV channel.
The MoD said Russian troops looked to be trying to encircle Ukrainian forces directly facing the separatist regions in the countrys east.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has accused the west of lacking courage and made a plea for fighter jets and tanks to sustain a defence in a conflict that has ground into a war of attrition.
He said another strike with sea-launched missiles destroyed a depot with air defence missiles in Plesetske, just west of Ukraines capital Kyiv.
