NYT photographer captures chilling image of 4 Ukrainian civilians killed by Russian strike
20220307
https://news.yahoo.com/nyt-photo-ukraine-4-civilians-killed-russian-airstrike-lynsey-addario-144435032.html
Other photographers in the area captured similar scenes of panicked Ukrainians desperately trying to escape heavy Russian shelling along the evacuation route.
In other cities, Ukrainian officials said Russian artillery fire and airstrikes had prevented residents from making agreed-to evacuations. Russian President Vladimir Putin accused Ukraine of sabotaging the effort.
Their luggage was left scattered about, along with a green carrying case for a small dog that was barking, Addario reported.
We witnessed the Russian military bracket their mortars directly onto the civilian pedestrian path, where men, women, children, the elderly, ill and handicapped streamed out of Irpin, Addario added in a post on Instagram. Ive witnessed many horrors in the past twenty years of covering war, but the intentional targeting of children and women is pure evil.
Irpin Mayor Oleksandr Markushin said that at least eight civilians were killed along the route over the weekend. He said Russian forces were intentionally targeting civilians.
People in Irpin have been using a battered bridge, which had been intentionally blown up by Ukrainian forces to slow the Russian advance, to cross into the relative safety of Kyiv.
According to the Times, only a dozen or so Ukrainian soldiers were in the immediate area of the bridge on Sunday. They were not fighting but instead helping carry civilians luggage and children.
This is not an army. These are animals, Markushin said on CNN. They are killing civilians. They are shelling our city, our residential buildings. They are firing on ambulances. This is just a. Monstrosity. They are animals. They are not people.
Weve seen very credible reports of deliberate attacks on civilians, which would constitute a war crime, Blinken said on CNN's "State of the Union" Sunday. Theyre very credible. And were documenting everything.
The New York Times on Monday published at the top of its front page a chilling photo of four Ukrainian civilians, including two children, who were killed by Russian mortar fire as they were attempting to flee.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that he was aware of the reports of Russians targeting Ukrainian civilians, and that the United States is monitoring Russians for possible war crimes.
According to Lynsey Addario, the New York Times photographer who took the photo, the image shows Ukrainian soldiers trying to save a man, who is lying on the pavement moments after being hit by a mortar while trying to evacuate the town of Irpin, just west of the capital, Kyiv, on Sunday. Three other people  a woman, her teenage son and her daughter  lie dead behind him. The man later died.
