Pain at the Pump Gas Prices Breach 4 Mark and Continue To Rise
20220307
https://news.yahoo.com/pain-pump-gas-prices-breach-200503724.html
This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: Pain at the Pump: Gas Prices Breach $4 Mark and Continue To Rise
Gas Prices: What the 910 Appendage Means and How It Impacts Your WalletFind Out: How Much You Can Save Annually by Becoming a One-Car Family
The cheapest prices  at $3.750 a gallon or lower  were largely concentrated in the Midwest and prairie states.
The current national average is a bargain compared to what consumers in some states pay  particularly those on the West Coast. Californias average was $5.343 a gallon early Monday, according to AAA. In Hawaii the average was $4.699, and in Nevada it was $4.590. Oregon, Washington and Alaska also had average prices of $4.40 or higher.
The average price of regular gasoline was $4.065 a gallon as of Monday morning, according to AAA. Thats the highest price in more than a decade. Prices first breached $4 on Sunday, at an average of $4.009 a gallon. The latest price is up from $3.610 a week ago, $3.441 a month ago and $2.768 a year ago.
See: White House Considers Federal Gas Tax Holiday as Oil Prices Approach $100 a BarrelRead: How Filling Up on Specific Days Could Save You $100 Annually
As those figures show, gasoline prices have been rising steadily over the last year amid global supply-chain disruptions and a refusal on the part of leading oil producers such as OPEC to release more reserves. Russias invasion of Ukraine has put even more pressure on global oil markets.
American and European Union sanctions are having a severe impact on Russias ability to sell crude oil, thus crude prices have skyrocketed, Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at fuel-savings app GasBuddy, told USA Today.
Gas prices have shot higher even after the International Energy Agency, which includes the United States and other major economies, recently said it will deploy 60 million barrels of oil stockpiles to help ease oil prices that have surged above $100 a barrel.
Americas worst fears about gasoline prices have come true ahead of the spring and summer travel seasons, as prices at the pump surged above $4 a gallon over the weekend and continued to rise Monday morning.
The price spike probably wont end there, either. GasBuddy projects that the average price will reach $4.25 a gallon by May and probably stay above $4 until at least November.
DeHaan said in a tweet that the national gasoline average could hit $4.10 a gallon by Tuesday, which would put it close to the record high of $4.11 set in July 2008, USA Today reported.
