Pentagon Russian forces outside Kyiv Chernihiv have completely withdrawn
20220406
https://news.yahoo.com/pentagon-russian-forces-outside-kyiv-171128965.html
There have also been reports and images of atrocities as Russian forces vacate formerly held areas, including Bucha, a suburb of Kyiv.
But its difficult to know what more motivation was behind this  whether it was an  attempt or not, clearly a message was sent to the world of Russias brutality, the official said.
Russian forces are pulling back from positions across Ukraine as Moscow looks to regroup following what now appears to be a bungled invasion of the country beginning Feb. 24.
Beginning in late March, Russian President Vladimir Putin seemed to shift his plans from an invasion meant to topple Kyiv to an offensive focused in the Donbas in the east. The move follows the Kremlins struggle to take the capital city and other major metropolitan areas after being met with fierce Ukrainian forces armed with Western-provided weapons.
But the official said that we are assessing that they have completely withdrawn from Kyiv and from Chernihiv.
The Kremlin troops continue to shell major cities as they make their withdrawal and have launched more than 1,450 missiles against Ukraine since the invasion began, the official said.
We have now seen that the Russians have moved from the north into Belarus and to Russia for refit and resupply. We have seen indications that that refit and resupply is occurring, the official added.
We are not showing Russian forces in or around Kyiv or to the north of Kyiv, and were not showing Russian forces in or around Chernihiv, the official told reporters.
The U.S. does not yet have investigators on the ground to document what President Biden has called war crimes, but the apparent murders of civilians appear to be premeditated, planned and very, very deliberate, the official said.
The U.S. has seen Russian forces completely withdraw from areas around Kyiv and Chernihiv to regroup in Belarus and Russia, a senior U.S. defense official said Wednesday.
