Putin nukes and markets
20220504
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/putin-nukes-and-markets-140709410.html
Follow Rick Newman on Twitter, sign up for his newsletter or send in your thoughts.
Putin's personal calculus probably depends on the cost he thinks he would pay for setting off a nuke. Biden has vowed NATO and the United States will respond in kind if Putin uses a nuke, which would be exactly the sort of Western involvement Putin dreads.
Rick Newman is the author of four books, including Rebounders: How Winners Pivot from Setback to Success. Follow him on Twitter: rickjnewman.
One of the biggest questions hanging over Putins invasion of Ukraine, which is obviously going badly, is whether Putin is deluded or sick. A healthy person wouldnt start a war like that, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a Putin foe who was once the richest businessman in Russia, said through an interpreter at the Milken conference. But he thinks Putin likes to keep foes on edge, similar to the way President Richard Nixon famously employed the madman theory.
He wants to show that hes almost crazy, and that the Russian people are almost crazy, Khodorkovsky said. But thats not the case at all. People want to live. Putin wants to live. Nobody wants suicide."
Khodorkovsky suggests Putin himself could be phased out in a way that is less threatening than the specter of a coup. If after this war ends, youre going to facilitate his ability to rearm himself, youre only going to get the same thing once again," Khodorkovsky said. "An exit strategy is actually very simple. The exit strategy should be we dont want to see you in power, but we dont necessarily need to see you leave power right now. This is an adequate enough exit strategy for him.
The financiers and policymakers who gather for the Milken Institute's Global Conference in Beverly Hills each year normally debate on monetary policy, political trends and investment opportunities. This year, theyre gauging the likelihood of Armageddon.
The Russia-Ukraine war is an obvious headline issue for financial markets, with Russian forces committing alleged atrocities reminiscent of the Holocaust and many western nations now providing billions of dollars of weapons to the underdog Ukrainians. The war has driven oil prices above $100 per barrel and disrupted Ukrainian grain shipments to many nations, which could soon cause food shortages. With no end to the war in sight, the human and economic toll could go much higher.
I dont think its the most likely outcome, Michle Flournoy, a senior Pentagon official in the Obama administration, said at the conference. But if he really feels hes going to suffer a catastrophic loss, the most likely nuclear use would be a demonstration shot, not actually using it on the battlefield in Ukraine but exploding a nuclear weapon somewhere, to shock everybody, surprise everybody and create fear, and say, Ive just broken a 70-year taboo and we have to negotiate on my terms. Thats one of the things the U.S. and NATO have to think through  how would they respond to that?
But Smith emphasizes the best way to approach Putins nuclear impulses is to make sure he never feels so threatened hed resort to nukes: We need to make very clear this is not an existential threat to Putin and give him that off-ramp. Putin does not want NATO engaged in the fight in Ukraine. If you know NATOs military capability, the U.S. military capability, if we actually got engaged, Russia would be done in a week. He doesnt want that so we can play on that.
If he did that, there would be no good options, Democratic Rep. Adam Smith of Washington, who chairs the House Armed Services Committee, said in response to Flournoy. If he does it, obviously we have to come in and fight.
Smith is referring to bellicose comments from people like Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who has called for somebody in Russia to take this guy out. Even President Biden has said Putin cant remain in power. While both politicians may have been calling for Putins opponents in Russia to depose him, Putin could interpret it as a U.S. offer to help end his reign, fueling the type of desperation that might lead to Putin using nukes.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has hinted he could use nuclear weapons from Russias vast arsenal to regain battlefield momentum in Ukraine. Would he really do it?
Sanctions on Russia may get tighter, meanwhile, while Congress seems poised to grant a Biden request for a massive increase in U.S. weapons shipments to China. At the Milken conference, former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin called for Europe to impose an immediate embargo on Russia oil, to slash the energy revenue Putin uses to build and sustain Russias military. Europe is debating such a move and seems likely to phase in an embargo, to limit the immediate damage to a European economy that is slowing and may be tilting toward a recession.
Biden saying there would be a corresponding response was a very serious braking mechanism on Vladimir Putin, Khodorkovsky said. Could Putin use tactical nukes in Ukraine on principle? Of course he could. If you ask me whether he would if he knows he would be met with appropriate response, I dont believe he would.
