Putin orders nuclear deterrent forces on high alert Ukraine agrees to talks with Russia
20220227
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-president-calls-foreigners-join-122252412.html
Speaking in a video message posted on his Instagram account Sunday, Zelenskyy called the night brutal around the country. Russian forces were targeting residential buildings, kindergartens and even ambulances, he said.
While fighting was intensifying as it entered its fourth day, Kyiv residents awoke to find that the capital was still in Ukrainian hands.
Kyiv remains in Ukrainian hands after fierce fighting Russian forces make inroads into Kharkiv, the country's second-largest city.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said Sunday the number of Ukrainian refugees fleeing the country has reached 368,000 and continues to rise.
In a statement, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he spoke with Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko and agreed to meet with the Russians "without preconditions." Zelenskyy earlier said that his government would not attend negotiations in Belarus, a close ally of Moscows where thousands of Russian troops massed in the lead-up to the invasion last week.
Overnight, Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in the city, officials said. Officials tried to reassure residents that it was not a nuclear strike after the explosion sent a huge fireball into the sky.
Zelenskyy and Putin's announcements came after Ukrainian and Russian forces fought pitched street battles in Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy agreed to talk to a Russian delegation that has arrived in Belarus earlier on Sunday.
Russia, like NATO and the United States, has thousands of nuclear warheads in its arsenal, and by putting them on higher alert, Putin for the first time in this conflict explicitly raised the global stakes to a far deadlier level.
According to regional officials, Russian vehicles broke into Kharkiv, a city of 1.4 million people some 12 miles to the south of the border with Russia.
Putin puts his military's nuclear deterrent forces on high alert after what he calls "aggressive statements" from the West.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko later said that there were no Russian troops in the capital.
President Vladimir Putin on Sunday ordered Russias nuclear deterrent forces to be on high alert, ratcheting up tensions to a new high as Ukraine agreed to talks with Russian officials in neighboring Belarus after initially rejecting the idea.
Chief foreign correspondent Richard Engel has seen people in every town and village he has passed filling sandbags, manning checkpoints and standing armed at crossroads.
But while the Russian offensive appeared to have been stymied by stiffer-than-expected resistance from highly motivated Ukrainian armed forces, thousands of Ukrainians have fled to the countrys Western borders to escape the fighting.
Kyiv will remain under strict curfew until 8 a.m. local time on Monday, complicating the task of assessing the intensity of the fighting, as residents were told to avoid venturing out onto the streets and seek shelter.
Anyone who wants to join the defense of Ukraine, Europe and the world can come and fight side by side with the Ukrainians, Zelenskyys office said in a statement. There is no greater contribution which you can make for the sake of peace.
The pressure on strategic cities in the south of Ukraine, including ports, appeared aimed at seizing control of Ukraines coastline.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian government human rights ombudsman Lyudmyla Denysova said Sunday that more than 210 Ukrainian civilians have been killed and more than 1,100 wounded. Moscow has not released casualty numbers for Russian forces.
It is quite dangerous on the streets of the city now, Chief of Police Volodymyr Tymoshko said as he pleaded with residents not to go outside. Due to the small groups of the enemy who broke into the city, fighting continues.
The delegations will meet on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border, near the Pripyat River, Zelenskyy added. It was not clear if he would attend the talks himself or remain in Kyiv.
Russian munitions struck a radioactive waste site, but the extent of the damage wasnt known because of ongoing shelling and missile fire, the State Inspectorate for Nuclear Regulation of Ukraine said in a statement.
Russian forces on Sunday blocked the southern Ukrainian cities of Kherson, a port and gateway into the Black Sea, and the port of Berdyansk on the Sea of Azov, Russian state-run Interfax news agency quoted Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov as saying.
His foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, echoed the call, inviting foreigners to contact Ukraines foreign diplomatic missions in their respective countries.
At least 368,000 Ukrainians are fleeing westward, becoming refugees near the border and in neighboring countries.
