Restaurants breweries unite to feed Ukraine refugees residents Heres how to support
20220311
https://news.yahoo.com/restaurants-breweries-unite-feed-ukraine-100038504.html
This article originally appeared on Asheville Citizen Times: How to support Ukraine refugees, residents at Asheville restaurants
Hot, nourishing meals are being served at border crossings to individuals who are fleeing the country, according to WCK. Distribution began at a 24-hour pedestrian border crossing in South Poland and has extended to eight border crossings and to Romania, Moldova and Hungary.
Benevolent Spirits: WCK Feeds Ukrainians campaign, headed by Katie Button Restaurants, launched March 9 and will run through March 15. The fundraiser is benefiting the World Central Kitchen, an international organization that responds to global crises by going to the front lines and providing food to those in need.
Benevolent Spirits: WCK Feed Ukrainians is a way for local businesses and community members to offer support to Ukraine as the Russian invasion endures. Participating businesses will donate the proceeds from sales of a featured beverage to the organization that has been on the front lines since Russias initial attack on Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Katie Button Restaurants Crate Bar de Tapas and La Bodega by Crate will donate proceeds of its Sangria Rojo.
Ukiah Japanese Smokehouse has created the Stand with Ukraine cocktail, made with Gordons Gin, Becherovka and lemon and Tamayokucha-infused honey.
Chai Pani will donate sales of its Tamarind Margarita. And Buxton Hall BBQ has chosen its Easy Peasy as the featured cocktail for the cause.
For this Benevolent Spirits fundraiser, we're partnering with World Central Kitchen. They are always one of the first organizations to the frontlines in response to humanitarian, climate and community crises, Mary Palles Byers, director of brand marketing for KBR, said via email. Currently, WCK is serving thousands of fresh meals to Ukrainian families fleeing home, as well as those who remain in the country. We're happy to join forces with over two dozen Asheville establishments to support their efforts.
Posana has selected The Empress, a cocktail made with Empress gin, Lillet Blanc, dry curacao, absinthe and lemon juice. Haywood Common is offering the Benevolent Bell cocktail made with vodka, bell pepper honey syrup, lemon and dandelion bitters.
Also, WCK teams have partnered with Ukrainian restaurants to prepare meals for people who remain in Odessa, Lviv, and Kyiv.
In addition, donations may be made directly to World Central Kitchen at wck.orgbenevolentspirits. For more about WCKs relief efforts, visit wck.orgreliefactivation-chefs-for-ukraine.
In 2017, KBR founded Benevolent Spirits to provide immediate assistance for those in need by assembling local restaurants, bars and breweries for the cause. More than $17,000 was reported to be raised for ASAPs Farmer Relief Fund after Tropical Storm Fred in 2017.
For Benevolent Spirits: WCK Feeds Ukrainians, more than 25 local businesses have agreed to donate all the proceeds of one of their beverages garnered during the campaign to the WCK.
ASHEVILLE - Local restaurants and breweries are on a mission to feed Ukraine refugees and residents with the help of the Asheville community.
Tiana Kennell is the food and dining reporter for the Asheville Citizen Times, part of the USA Today Network. Email her at tkennellcitizentimes.com or follow her on TwitterInstagram PrincessOfPage. Please help support this type of journalism with a subscription to the Citizen Times.
