Russian aircraft strikes Kyiv with longdistance missiles causing substantial damage
20220626
https://news.yahoo.com/russian-aircraft-strikes-kyiv-long-130800656.html
Tu-95 and Tu-160 are both Soviet-era bombardiers, created during the Cold War to counter possible Western threats. Both are copies of bombardier models used by the U.S. Army post-World War II - the Boeing B-29 Superfortress and the Rockwell B-1 Lancer, respectively.
According to Ukrainian Air Force spokesperson Yuriy Ignat, speaking during a briefing following the attack, multiple X101 missiles NATO: AS-23 Kodiak were launched by Russian Tu-95 and Tu-160 bombardiers.
Read also:  Resident of building on Lobanovsky Street in Kyiv recalls how his family survived missile strike
On the evening of June 26, residents of downtown Kyiv were warned by presidential advisor Oleksiy Arestovych, in a video address,that ignoring air sirens could be dangerous.
Read also:  Russians launch 20 missiles against town 60km north of Kyiv, destroying infrastructure
Ignat went into some details of this operation during the briefing: most likely, the Russian bombers launched the rockets from the Caspian Sea region, where the Russian military has an aircraft facility in the city of Astrakhan.
Read also:  Ukraines intelligence agency calls for a no fly zone in response to Russia's threats to attack US embassy in Kyiv
At around 6:20 am, Kyiv residents heard several explosions throughout the city. One missile struck the roof of a 9-story residential building near the Lukianivska metro station, located in a district in the central part of the city. The upper floors of the building were severely damaged.
For the past several days, the Russian military has increased its usage of cruise missiles to target those Ukrainian regions that are considered to be relatively safe  like Kyiv, Cherkasy, or Rivne Oblasts.
So far, the death of one person has been confirmed, while another four individuals were wounded.
These missiles are able to travel as far as 5,500 kilometers, and are less visible to air defense radars than many other missile types. Each is driven by an engine and has a digital component able to correct targeting and adjust trajectory in-flight. The Russian military has previously used X101 missiles in Syria.
Emergency service began search and rescue operations at around 6:30 am. Their first success was digging a 7-year-old girl out of the rubble. She had sustained injuries in the attack. Later, her mom, who is a Russian citizen, was also rescued.
