Russia is using rape as a weapon of war in Ukraine Heres what can be done about it
20220713
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-using-rape-weapon-war-090147961.html
Helic explained, "If we had a body that is funded, in existence, that has forensic trauma and medical experts already available to be deployed or to be approached by the investigators in Ukraine, we would have by now had an opportunity to collect this evidence, either from the internally displaced people or from the people who have crossed the border."
It wasn't until 1993that the United Nations Security Council officiallyrecognized mass rapeas a weapon of war, and made it eligible for prosecution in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Over the past five months of conflict, Russia has carried out repeated, deadly assaults on civilian targets, including a shopping malland apartment buildings.
My late mentor, the godfather of international criminal law, M. CherifBassiouni, had been proposing the same idea since the Balkan war.
The answer isn't as elusive as it might seem. In fact, it has been proposed by international criminal law and human rights experts for years.
Rape has been considered a war crime since the 1949Geneva Conventions. But it has not been prosecuted like other war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Last week, Ukrainian Prosecutor General IrynaVenediktova told USA TODAY thatthe number of cases of war crimes is likely more than 10,000.
We've known for decades what we need to do it's about time we call on world leaders to make it happen.
On July 5, High CommissionerMichelle Bacheletreportedthat her team had"verified 28 cases of conflict-related sexual violence, including cases of rape, gang rape, torture, forced public stripping, and threats of sexual violence. The majority of cases were committed in areas controlled by Russian armed forces, but there were also cases committed in government-controlled areas."
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Russia using rape as a weapon of war in Ukraine. What can be done?
The knowledge of a swift, efficient and powerful investigative body charged with the full U.N. authoritymight also serve as a deterrent to potential war criminals. For instance, fighterswould be on notice that it would be much harder to get away with the evidence of their crimes, including the so-called silent ones like rape. Perhaps they would think twice before joining in on the criminal sadism.
You can read diverse opinions from our Board of Contributors and other writers on the Opinion front page, on Twitter usatodayopinion and in our daily Opinion newsletter. To respond to a column, submit a comment to lettersusatoday.com.
As Russian dictator Vladimir Putincontinues the onslaught of Ukraine, and this week, as Bosnian Muslims remember the massacre at Srebrenica 27 years after it happened, the unlearned lessons from the horrors of Balkan warscream out at us: "What can we do better?"
I reached out about her workinvestigating sexual violence as a war crime. She said, "The vast majority of victims of conflict-relatedsexualviolence are women and girls, although it's also perpetrated against men, boys and the LGBTIQ community in many settings."
As of June 3, the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights' monitoring team had received over 120reports of alleged conflict-related sexual violence in Ukraine.
"This is how an 11 year old boy sees the world after having been raped by Russia soldier in front of his mother." That was the caption above aphotograph ofchaoticswirls of black marker on a white background painted by a Ukrainian child tweetedby that country's lawmaker Lesia Vasylenko.
"Sexual violence" Dunmore said, "can be used strategically as a method of warfare, for instance as a deliberate tactic to undermine the opposition or strike fear in civilian populations."
Carli Pierson, a New York licensed attorney, is anopinion writer with USA TODAYand a member of the USA TODAYEditorial Board. Follow her on Twitter:CarliPiersonEsq
Catherine Dunmorespecializesin international criminal law, human rights law and sexual and gender-based violence. She hasserved on legal teams that have investigated and prosecuted war crimes, including conflict-related sexual violence.
While investigators inside and outside Ukraine work to collect evidence of war crimeswith the hope of eventually prosecuting those crimes,additional options have long been proposed.
In an interview on National Public Radio in May,British lawmaker Arminka Helic talked about her work to"create a permanent, independent and international body to investigate and prosecute rape and sexual violence as war crimes," reportedLeila Fadel.
She also pointed out thatsexual violencecan be committed byanyparty to the conflict, including humanitarian actors.
