Russia strikes south Ukraine city presses attacks in east Zelensky fires security chief prosecutor
20220717
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-strikes-south-ukraine-city-170909703.html
Lyudmila Krekshina, who lives in the apartment building that was hit, said a husband and wife were killed, and also an elderly man who lived on the ground floor.
Ukraine says its forces still retain control of two small villages in the Luhansk region, one of the two provinces that make up the Donbas, and are fending off Russian attempts to advance deeper into the second one, the Donetsk region.
Dmitry Medvedev, deputy head of Russia's Security Council chaired by President Vladimir Putin, responded to Ukrainian officials' statements that Kyiv may strike the bridge linking Crimea and Russia, warning that would trigger devastating consequences for the Ukrainian leadership.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Sunday that Russian missiles destroyed a depot for anti-ship Harpoon missiles delivered to Ukraine by NATO allies, a claim that couldn't be independently confirmed.
Given the pressures on Russian manpower, the reinforcement of the south whilst the fight for the Donbas continues indicates the seriousness with which Russian commanders view the threat, it said.
Meanwhile, Russian missiles hit industrial facilities earlier Sunday at Mykolaiv, a strategic city in southern Ukraine. Mayor Oleksandr Senkevich said the missiles struck an industrial and infrastructure facility. Mykolaiv is a key shipbuilding center along the Southern Bug river and has faced regular Russian missile strikes in recent weeks as the Russians have sought to soften Ukrainian defenses.
Such an array of crimes against the foundations of the states national security, and the links recorded between Ukrainian security forces and Russian special services raise very serious questions about their respective leaders, he said in his nightly video address to the nation.
On Sunday in central Ukraine, relatives and friends attended a funeral for Liza Dmytrieva, a 4-year-old girl killed Thursday in a Russian missile strike. The girl with Down syndrome was en route to see a speech therapist with her mother when the missiles struck the city of Vinnytsia. At least 24 people were killed, including Liza and two boys, ages 7 and 8. More than 200 others were wounded, including Lizas mother, who remains in an intensive care unit.
The Russian military has declared a goal to cut off Ukraine's entire Black Sea coast all the way to the Romanian border. If successful, such an effort would deal a crushing blow to the Ukrainian economy and trade, and allow Moscow to secure a land bridge to Moldova's separatist region of Transnistria, which hosts a Russian military base.
They will momentarily face Doomsday, Medvedev said Sunday. It would be very hard for them to hide.
The Russians, fearing a Ukrainian counteroffensive, also sought to reinforce their positions in the Kherson region near Crimea and in part of the northern Zaporizhzhia region that they seized in the opening stage of the war.
For now, the Russian military has focused on trying to take control of Ukraine's eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas, where the most capable and well-equipped Ukrainian forces are.
Medvedev, who once was touted by the West as more liberal compared with Putin, said Russia will press its action in Ukraine until fulfilling its stated goal of denazifying and demilitarizing the country. He predicted the fighting will "undoubtedly lead to the collapse of the existing regime in Kyiv.
The Russian military said it has struck Ukrainian troops and artillery positions in Donbas in the latest series of strikes, including a U.S.-supplied HIMARS multiple rocket launcher. The Russian claims couldn't be independently verified.
While focusing on the Donbas, the Russians have hit areas all across the country with missile strikes.
The British Defense Ministry said Sunday that Russia is moving troops and equipment between Kherson, Mariupol and Zaporizhzhia, and increasing security measures around Melitopol.
In the Kharkiv region, at least three civilians were killed and three more were injured Saturday in a pre-dawn Russian strike on the city of Chuhuiv, which is only 75 miles from the Russian border, the police said.
As Russia's military pressed its efforts to expand into Ukraine's east, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky fired the head of the countrys security service and its prosecutor general Sunday, citing hundreds of criminal proceedings into treason and collaboration by people within their departments.
The Ukrainian military's General Staff said Sunday that Ukrainian troops thwarted Russian attempts to advance toward Sloviansk, the key Ukrainian stronghold in Donetsk, and attacks elsewhere in the region.
I was going to run and hide in the bathroom. I didnt make it and thats what saved me, said Valentina Bushuyeva. Pointing up at her destroyed apartment, she said: Theres the bathroom  explosion. Kitchen  half a room. And I survived because I stayed put.
Yet Russian officials are urging their troops to produce even more territorial gains. During a visit to the front lines Saturday, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu issued an order "to further intensify the actions of units in all operational areas."
I didnt know Liza, but no person can go through this with calm, priest Vitalii Holoskevych said, bursting into tears as Lizas body lay in a coffin with flowers and teddy bears in the 18th century Transfiguration Cathedral in Vinnytsia.
Early in the campaign, Ukrainian forces fended off Russian attempts to capture Mykolaiv, which sits near the Black Sea coast between Russia-occupied Crimea and the main Ukrainian port of Odesa. Since then, Russian troops have halted their attempts to advance in the city but have continued to pummel Mykolaiv and Odesa with regular missile strikes.
In particular, more than 60 employees of the prosecutors office and the SBU have remained in the occupied territory and work against our state, Zelensky said.
He also dismissed Ivan Bakanov, a childhood friend and former business partner who headed Ukraines security service, the SBU. Bakanov had come under growing criticism recently over security breaches Politico cited several unidentified Ukrainian and Western sources last month saying Zelensky was looking to replace him.
