Russians shell Lviv Oblast continue offensive in Severodonetsk Ukrainian forces counterattack in Kherson Oblast
20220602
https://news.yahoo.com/russians-shell-lviv-oblast-continue-075000346.html
2.07 p.m: Ukrainian forces counterattacked in Severodonetsk and managed to push Russians out of several streets, Luhansk Oblast governor Serhiy Hayday said in an interview with Ukrainian journalists.
While Russia has concentrated most of its forces on capturing Luhansk Oblast, Ukrainians started a counterattack on the southern front. Ivan Yakovina, NV's international observer has reported that the Ukrainian sudden counteroffensive in Kherson Oblast has caused panic among the Russian forces there.
Overnight Russians had no success in Severodonetsk, Hayday said. "Although they reported that they occupied and fully controlled the entire city. Unfortunately, they indeed control most, but not the whole city. The fighting continues," the governor said.
A Russian fighter jet fired three missiles at the Krasnopil community of Sumy Oblast. "One house was destroyed by a direct missile hit. Several more houses were damaged, large-scale destruction in households, "said Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, head of the Sumy Regional State Administration.
The resolution also said that during the invasion, Russian troops committed murders, rapes, and large-scale use of heavy weapons against people, as well as bombing with heavy military equipment, attacks on civilians, and sniper fire on civilians leaving burning homes.
Read also:  Russians fortify their positions in Severodonetsk, Ukraine loses up to 100 soldiers every day
6.44 p.m: U.S Department of Treasury has expanded the anti-Russian sanctions list, reads the latest update published on its website.
2.41 p.m: Since the beginning of the full-scale invasion in February Russia has occupied more than 3600 Ukrainian settlements, President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an address to the parliament of Luxembourg.
In the Kharkiv region, Russian occupiers have been trying to stop the Ukrainian offensive. While in the north of Kherson Oblast Ukrainian forces have liberated more than 20 settlements.
The resolution also acknowledges that Russia's attack on Ukraine was an "unprovoked act" and contrary to international law.
And today one of the Russian proxy regiments in Kherson published a video, asking for withdrawal from the region due to a lack of proper weapons, medical supplies, and food.
Overnight Russians shelled transport infrastructure in Lviv Oblast, injuring five people, the local oblast council has reported. Today dozens of trains are delayed. At the same time, Russians also shelled Dnipropetrovsk and Sumy Oblasts, injuring three more people.
"Russian troops entered 3,620 settlements in Ukraine, 1,017 of which were liberated. Another 2,603 are to be released, "he said.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova, Putin's cello player friend Sergei Roldugin, Russian businessman God Nisanov, Russian Transport Minister Vitaliy Saveliev, and many others were included in the new list of US sanctions.
The companies Skyline Aviation, Severstal, Marine Investment, Graceful, and Olympia superyachts, allegedly tied to Putin were also included in the sanctions list.
At the same time, the Ukrainian army pushed the aggressors out of several streets, and during the counterattacks, Ukrainians managed to take Russian prisoners.
4.42 p.m: Irish Senate Seanad ireannhas acknowledged Russia's invasion of Ukraine as genocide, Senator Mark Daly said in a tweet.
Ukrainian forces withdrew to the nearby city Lyman, yet they continue to fight for Severodonetsk and yesterday night captured several Russian prisoners of war.
Donetsk and Luhansk Oblast remain the place of the heaviest fights for several weeks already. Russians now control almost 80 percent of Severodonetsk and gained a certain success storming Komyshuvakha, Ukrainian Army General Staff has reported.
"They hit one of the administrative buildings and the warehouse where methanol was stored. In Lysychansk, the city hospital building was damaged. The Russians are simply destroying and looting our region," Luhansk governor Serhiy Hayday said in his Telegram.
