RussiaUkraine latest news Macron warns against verbal escalation after Biden said butcher Putin cannot remain in power
20220327
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-russia-latest-zelensky-warns-011258787.html
The Ukrainian ambassador to Germany has declined an invitation to a solidarity concert organised by the German president which was to feature performances only from Russian musicians.
The French president is expected to talk to Vladimir Putin to convince the Kremlin to allow the evacuation to take place.
Meanwhile, 80 per cent of respondents said they were prepared to "help the resistance by providing non-military support to the Ukrainian forces e.g., deliver food, information, or ammunition".
In his latest address to the nation, he also urged the West to display even "one per cent" of the courage shown by people fighting to defend the besieged port city of Mariupol.
Mezentseva told Sky's Sophie Ridge on Sunday programme that one shocking case involved a woman being "raped several times in front of her underage child" after her civilian husband was shot dead in their home near Kyiv.
In a statement, the office said the concert was organised to condemn the attack on Ukraine and send a signal of solidarity and the shared belief in the value of freedom and self determination".
Mr Macron added that he saw his task as achieving first a ceasefire and then the total withdrawal of Russian troops by diplomatic means".
Odesa is mining its beaches and rushing to defend its historic cultural heritage from potential Russian attacks that are feared could make the port city the next Mariupol.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Mr Biden's comment that Putin "cannot remain in power" did not mean Washington wanted regime change in Russia.
The future of Vladimir Putins presidency is up to the Russian people, the Education Secretary has said, after US officials insisted that the White House was not pushing for a regime change in Russia.
Some 15 girls and 32 boys were among the dead, in addition to 52 children whose gender is currently unknown.
The US president spent 27 minutes delivering what was arguably the most powerful - and consequential - speech of his presidency.
French forces could be dispatched to Ukraine as Emmanuel Macron plans an evacuation mission to save up to 100,000 Ukrainians from the besieged port city of Mariupol
The UN human rights office said on Sunday that 1,119 civilians had been killed so far during the war in Ukraine, while 1,790 have been wounded.
However, the schedule shows that only Russian soloists are set to perform, alongside multiple performances by the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra itself.
Officials in Lviv, which is just 40 miles from the border with Poland, said people had been wounded in the missile attacks.
Ambassador Julianne Smith, the US's envoy to Nato, said on Sunday that Joe Biden's comments about Vladimir Putin and the war in Ukraine were "pitch perfect" considering recent events.
"You are doing everything so that our people themselves leave the Russian language, because the Russian language will now be associated only with you, with your explosions and murders, your crimes," Mr Zelensky said in an impassioned video address late on Saturday.
She said that Russia would need Odesa to surrender, rather than fight, to avoid the "blow to sentiment" that would be caused by any destruction of historic cultural buildings, such as its famed opera house and Potemkin Steps, which are beloved by Ukrainian and Russian people alike.
Ukraine and Russia have agreed two 'humanitarian corridors' to evacuate civilians from frontline areas on Sunday, including from the besieged port city of Mariupol, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
He said: "I've talked to the defenders of Mariupol today. I'm in constant contact with them. Their determination, heroism and firmness are astonishing. If only those who have been thinking for 31 days on how to hand over dozens of jets and tanks had 1 per cent of their courage."
"The armed forces of the Russian Federation continue offensive actions as part of the special military operation," spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in a statement.
The true casualty tolls are expected to be significantly higher, the group said, as reports have been delayed in certain areas because of particularly intense bombardment, such as in Mariupol.
The comments come after President Joe Biden said during a speech in Poland on Saturday evening that Russian President Vladimir Putin "cannot remain in power".
"But no, as youve heard from secretary Blinken and others, the US does not have a policy of regime change in Russia. Full stop.
It marks a shift from earlier remarks in which the Foreign Secretary said she could not see a situation in which Roman Abramovich, the most prominent of the sanctioned oligarchs, would be allowed to come to the UK again.
"I think the president, the White House, made the point last night that, quite simply, President Putin cannot be empowered to wage war or engage in aggression against Ukraine or anyone else," Blinken said during a visit to Jerusalem.
Britain's Ministry of Defence MoD said Russia continues to besiege a number of major Ukrainian cities including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol.
Dame Margaret added that conversations about Nato countries increasing military aid for Ukraine are difficult because of the risk of escalating the conflict.
Ms Truss - who revealed that she has established a "negotiations unit" in the Foreign Office to aid future peace talks - said sanctions on Russian banks, firms and oligarchs could be lifted in the event of "a full ceasefire and withdrawal".
Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko said people are starving and being forced to drink sewage water in Kyiv as the humanitarian situation across the country worsens.
"We are not pursuing a policy of regime change, but I think the full administration, the President included, believes that we cannot empower Putin right now to wage war in Ukraine or pursue these acts of aggression."
He added that he never used to consider himself a patriot, but following the Russian invasion, something "just clicked" in him - he has since refused to leave Odesa and is undertaking training in how to use a gun.
The Russian-controlled Luhansk region in eastern Ukraine could hold a referendum soon on joining Russia, its local leader was quoted as saying.
It is hard to know exactly what Joe Biden was thinking when he gave his address in Poland on Saturday
French forces could be dispatched to Ukraine as Emmanuel Macron plans an evacuation mission to save up to 100,000 Ukrainians from the besieged port city of Mariupol.
Russia is trying to split Ukraine in two to create a Moscow-controlled region after failing to take over the entire country, the head of Ukrainian military intelligence said on Sunday.
The governor of the Lviv region said a man was detained on suspicion of espionage at the site of one of the two rocket attacks that rattled the city on Saturday.
This is why there needs to be at least one moment when the civilian population can breathe."
It is hard to know exactly what Joe Biden was thinking when he gave his address in Poland on Saturday.
Some 30,000 Ukrainian refugees have arrived in France, with half of them travelling through the country to get to other nations such as Spain, French housing minister Emmanuelle Wargon said on Sunday.
"Migrants who come from Kharkiv, Kyiv, Mykolaiv and go abroad via Lviv leave animals en masse," he said.
Ukraine's military intelligence chief has warned that Russia is trying to impose a "Korean scenario" to the country where it would be split into two - namely, to pro-Russian and anti-Russian sections.
The French foreign minister warned on Sunday that there would be "collective guilt" if help was not given to civilians in Mariupol, the besieged port city that has been left decimated by Russian forces.
Ambassador Andriy Melnyk tweeted early on Sunday that he would not attend the concert, as it featured only Russian soloists, no Ukrainians".
One of Vladimir Putin's closest aides has insisted Russia still wanted to topple the Ukrainian Government as the Kremlin appeared to contradict its generals
Dame Margaret Beckett has suggested that people in eastern European countries "who had experience of being under Russian rule" in the Soviet Union were "suspicious" of Russia even before the invasion of Ukraine.
"And I think this will set us on a good course for continuing to support the allies, support Ukrainians, and apply pressure on Russia to get them to stop this war.
Speaking to Times Radio, Ms Vasylenko said people in Kyiv are being "made to stay in basements and metro stations" to shelter from Russian shelling.
She was asked on CNN whether the US President's comments about his Russian President - including that he is a "butcher" who "cannot remain in power" - were a "mistake".
The French President told the France 3 broadcaster: I think we must do everything to avoid the situation getting out of hand. I wouldn't use these kinds of words because I'm still in talks with President Putin. If we want to do that, we cant escalate either in words or actions".
Around 47 per cent said they would be willing to "help the resistance by joining direct military combat in fortified defence positions of the Ukrainian forces".
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has criticised Western nations for their hesitation in supplying Ukraine with defensive weapons, labelling discussions over who should supply them as "ping-pong" talks.
He added: In the midst of Russias war against Ukrainian civilians this is an affront. Sorry I'm staying away!
Around 70 per cent of men and 30 per cent of women said they were willing to take up arms, according to the survey carried out by the Peace Research Institute of Oslo and Info Sapiens.
According to the Office of the Federal President, musicians from Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Germany, among others, will play pieces by Ukrainian, Russian and Polish composers together.
A large number of the animals are set for adoption in Germany, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, while around 200 pets have been adopted by the locals of Lviv.
Almost half of Ukrainians aged between 18 and 55 are ready to take up arms for their country against Russia, according to a poll conducted by European academics.
Emmanuel Macron has warned against verbal 'escalation with Moscow, after Joe Biden called Vladimir Putin a "butcher" who "cannot remain in power".
"As you know, and as you have heard us say repeatedly, we do not have a strategy of regime change in Russia - or anywhere else, for that matter."
Ukrainian MP Maria Mezentseva said the country will "not be silent" about the "horror" of sexual violence being committed against women during the Russian invasion.
Western intelligence officials say Russian forces now rely on indiscriminate bombardments rather than risking large-scale ground operations, a tactic that could limit Russian military casualties but would harm more civilians.
Russia has started destroying Ukrainian fuel and food storage depots, meaning the Government will have to disperse the stocks of both in the near future, Ukrainian Interior Ministry adviser Vadym Denysenko said on Sunday.
Kyrylo Budanov said Vladimir Putin's priorities are now the east and the south of Ukraine, after his offensive in Kyiv largely stalled.
"In Mariupol, thousands of people are getting forcefully deported across the border to Russia apparently to safety but then they are sent off in an unknown direction and nobody hears from them again.
When presented with the statement, "If the war continues, I will help the resistance by joining direct military combat in open battles against the Russian or pro-Russian forces", 49 per cent responded yes.
Within minutes, the White House put out a corrective - no, the US wasnt seeking regime change in Moscow. Mr Biden had somehow been mistaken.
A Russian MP has warned that Poland may be planning to retake Kaliningrad after a Polish general said that Russian forces were only occupying the Baltic Sea port
Hanna Shelest, a security analyst based in the city, asked: "Is our city the next one or not?"
Ms Truss' intervention is the first official confirmation that Britain could lift its sweeping sanctions as part of a peace settlement between Russia and Ukraine.
The 'Home for Rescued Animals' in the Ukrainian city of Lviv has taken in an estimated 1,500 animals since the war with Russia began, as owners have fled the country in their millions.
France has been granting temporary EU residency permits to Ukrainian refugees, which allows them to have access to schooling and to work in the country.
The news came as the mayor of Mariupol said that Russian troops had abducted at least 15,000 people and forcibly moved them to Kremlin-controlled territory.
Britain could lift sanctions crippling Russia if Vladimir Putin withdraws from Ukraine and commits to "no further aggression", Liz Truss has said
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky angrily warned Moscow that it is sowing a deep hatred for Russia among his people, as constant artillery barrages and aerial bombings are reducing cities to rubble, killing civilians and driving others into shelters, leaving them to scrounge for food and water to survive.
Mariupol is a striking example of a military siege, and military sieges are horrible wars because civil populations are massacred, annihilated. The suffering is terrible, Jean-Yves Le Drian told the Doha Forum international conference.
The Pontiff addressed the crowds in St. Peter's Square on Sunday to say that "the powerful decide and the poor die" in war, although he did not name Russia as the aggressor.
The head of Ukraine's Lugansk separatist region said on Sunday that it may hold a referendum on becoming part of Russia.
Valerii Novak, a local businessman, said: "The only thing we're really afraid of is that the other side has no principles whatsoever."
People will be allowed to leave by private car from the city, which has come under constant bombardment since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began in February.
The US has no strategy of regime change in Russia, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Sunday.
In an interview with The Telegraph, the Foreign Secretary set out a blueprint for the so-called "off ramp" that the Russian president could be offered to halt his assault on Ukraine.
She said: In the moment, I think that was a principled human reaction to the stories that he had heard that day.
"I think its a very difficult balance to strike," she said. "Its horrendous the situation in Ukraine and we have to do everything we can to help, but to be drawn into a pan-European war, I dont think anyone would thank us."
Nadhim Zahawi said on Sky News on Sunday: "The Russian people, I think, are pretty fed up with what is happening in Ukraine, this illegal invasion, the destruction of their own livelihoods, their economy is collapsing around them and I think the Russian people will decide the fate of Putin and his cronies."
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Sunday that Israels efforts to mediate an end to the war in Ukraine are closely coordinated with Washington.
Kremlin forces hit a fuel depot being used by Ukrainian troops near Lviv with long-range missiles and used cruise missiles to strike a plant in the city that was being used to repair anti-aircraft systems, radar stations and sights for tanks, the ministry added.
"All our houses are destroyed, they are not there anymore. There is nowhere to live."
"They were always worried, suspicious, looking over their shoulder. There will be people in the Baltic states who would not be remotely surprised by what is going on in Ukraine".
It comes after Mr Biden labelled Putin a "butcher" and later appeared to call for the Russian President's removal from office.
Wargon told the Franceinfo radio station that the government was preparing to welcome 100,000 people fleeing the war in Ukraine.
"They attacked and bombed us. They destroyed everything in our city," Ms Moliboha, now in Poland, said tearfully from a wheelchair, with her dog on her knees.
Britain could lift sanctions crippling Russia if Vladimir Putin withdraws from Ukraine and commits to "no further aggression", Liz Truss has said.
"Instead, Russia will fac an even stronger response from the international community, further deepening its global isolation."
90-year-old Olha Moliboha escaped from the northern city of Chernihiv just before Russia destroyed a bridge linking it to Kyiv, preventing further evacuations or humanitarian supplies.
The Labour MP, who announced her retirement yesterday after a long career that saw her become Britain's first female Foreign Secretary under Tony Blair, said on Sky News on Sunday: "People hoped that Russia more and more might come into the mainstream... But I'm very mindful that any time this past 10, 20 years, if you talk to people in eastern Europe or rather perhaps if you listened to people in eastern Europe who had experience of being under Russian rule, they never had this sanguine approach.
In front of the Royal Castle, one of Warsaw's notable landmarks damaged during the Second World War, he invoked the horrors of Europes not-so-distant past and vowed the continent would not return to its darkest days despite war raging in Ukraine.
She added that details of sexual violence must be recorded as they happen because "justice has to prevail".
"This week has been remarkable. Its been historic. I thought the speech was completely pitch-perfect.
"In fact, it is an attempt to create North and South Korea in Ukraine," Kyrylo Budanov said in a statement, adding that Ukraine would soon launch guerrilla warfare in Russian-occupied territory.
Britain has seized two jet aircraft belonging to Russian billionaire Eugene Shvidler as Western governments seeking to end the war in Ukraine put pressure on Russian president Vladimir Putin by targeting the luxury lifestyles of his closest supporters.
Referring to estimates that almost half of Ukrainian children have been displaced by the war, His Holiness said that "war doesn't just devastate the present but also the future of society".
Putin would also have to agree to refrain from future military aggression, with the threat of "snapback sanctions" which could instantly be slapped back onto Russia.
24-year-old shelter manager Orest Zalypskyy said the home was once a "haven" reserved for exotic animals that has now branched out to take in pets that have been left en masse due to people fleeing Ukraine for the safety of neighbouring countries.
Finland's president says his country would likely be targeted by Russian cyber warfare and could face border violations if it decides to apply for membership of Nato.
"I think that in the near future a referendum will be held on the territory of the republic, during which the people will... express their opinion on joining the Russian Federation," Russian news agencies quoted Leonid Pasechnik as saying.
"All fake referendums in the temporarily occupied territories are null and void and will have no legal validity," Ukraine's foreign ministry spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko said in a statement to Reuters.
Ukraine said on Sunday that Russia holding a referendum in occupied Ukrainian territory would have no legal basis and would spark opposition from the global community.
"There's been no system. We just have many volunteers who head out and fetch them."
Joe Biden appeared to call for regime change in Russia, as he said that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power in a highly charged speech in Warsaw
But for his parting thought he decided to ad-lib. For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power, he said, speaking of the architect of Ukraine's misery - Russian president Vladimir Putin. His message was met with applause from the Poles and Ukrainians in the audience, but back at home in Washington mouths dropped.
The majority of civilian casualties were caused by explosive weapons, including shelling from heavy artillery, multiple-launch rocket systems and missile and air strikes, the UN added.
Pope Francis has pleaded for the end of the "cruel and senseless war" in Ukraine that has displaced millions of children, torn apart families and destroyed cities.
While that case has been publicly spoken about, she said there are "many more victims" who will require support in the future.
Russia has hit the western Ukrainian city of Lviv with high-precision cruise missiles, the Russian defence ministry said on Sunday.
A Ukrainian man who was captured on drone footage being shot by Russian soldiers outside Kyiv has been named
The United Arab Emirates  of which Dubai is one of seven principalities  abstained on a UN Security Council vote deploring the Kremlins invasion, and while it supported a later non-binding UN General Assembly vote calling on Russia to withdraw its forces, the country steadfastly refuses to pick a side. Predictably, Russians have since flocked to the desert kingdom
