Russia has been accused of using vacuum bombs in Ukraine What are those
20220301
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-accused-using-vacuum-bombs-141946110.html
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said she had seen reports but did not have confirmation that Russia had used such weapons. Psaki added that if it's true, "it would potentially be a war crime."
What's everyone talking about? Sign up for our trending newsletter to get the latest news of the day
Russian forces have been accused of using the widely banned and dangerous weapons known as vacuum bombs that "obliterate" their victims.
A CIA study said the weapons are "prone to indiscriminate use," and people closest to the explosion are obliterated."
People close to the blast can experience injuries including burst eardrums and crushed inner ear organs, severe concussions, ruptured lungs and internal organs, and possibly blindness," according to the study.
The thermobaric weapon, also known as a fuel-air explosive, uses a container of fuel and two separate explosive charges, according to a study by the Human Rights Watch.
The weapon is fired or dropped, and the first explosive charge spreads the fuel in a cloud that sucks up oxygen and then flows "around objects and into structures." As the fuel cloud spreads, the second charge detonates. The explosion creates a blast wave that is most destructive in enclosed spaces, buildings and foxholes.
Amnesty International said international humanitarian law prohibits the use of inherently indiscriminate weapons such as cluster munitions and thermobaric weapons.
Here's what we know: Why is Russia invading Ukraine? Could it be the start of WWIII?
Since the most common FAE fuel-air explosive fuels, ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, are highly toxic, undetonated FAE should prove as lethal to personnel caught within the cloud as with most chemical agents," the study said.
"They used the vacuum bomb today," Markarova said after a meeting with lawmakers. "The devastation that Russia is trying to inflict on Ukraine is large."
In August 1999, the Russian military reportedly used FAE bombs against the Dagestani village of Tando, Russia. The U.S. used similar thermobaric bombs in Islamic State group caves in Afghanistan in 2017, The New York Times reported.
The pressure wave of the vacuum bomb is said to kill its victims by "rupturing lungs," and if the bomb doesn't detonate, the victims will inhale the burning fuel, according to a CIA study.
Oksana Markarova, Ukraine's ambassador to the United States, told reporters after meeting with members of the U.S. Congress on Monday that Russia had used a thermobaric weapon.
In addition, when multiple thermobaric weapons are detonated, they reinforce one another and create a stronger, more dangerous blast, the Human Rights Watch reported.
Amnesty International accused Russia of using vacuum bombs, or thermobaric weapons, to attack a preschool in northeastern Ukraine while civilians took shelter inside. CNN reported that one of its teams had spotted a Russian thermobaric multiple rocket launcher near the Ukrainian border early on Saturday afternoon.
The Humans Rights Watch is an international nongovernmental organization in New York City that focuses on human right issues.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: What are vacuum bombs? Did Russia commit a 'war crime' against Ukraine
In 2000, Human Rights Watch reported and condemned Russias suspected use of the weapons in Chechnya, a Russian republic, as a dangerous escalation with important humanitarian implications."
