Russians attempt to seize Vuhlehirsk Thermal Power Plant Ukrainian Armed Forces repel attack General Staff report
20220709
https://news.yahoo.com/russians-attempt-seize-vuhlegirsk-thermal-043048232.html
Details: There are no significant changes in the activities of the Russian military units on the Volyn, Polissia, and Sivershchyna fronts. On the latter front, Russian forces have shelled the positions of Ukrainian troops near the villages of Senkivka and Mykolaivka in Chernihiv Oblast and the settlements of Esman and Oleksiivka in Sumy Oblast.
On the Kramatorsk front, Russian forces have shelled civilian infrastructure around the villages of Hryhorivka and Verkhnokamianske, and around the city of Kramatorsk. To advance their positions, Russian troops are attempting an assault in the area of Hryhorivka hostilities are ongoing.
Russian invaders attempted an offensive to establish control over the territory of the Vuhlehirsk Thermal Power Plant and to improve their tactical position around the village of Dolomitne. Ukrainian soldiers thwarted their attempts and pushed them back to their previous positions.
Source: Summary of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 06:00 on 9 July
Ukrainian air forces and missile and artillery units continue to successfully engage Russian manpower, military equipment and ammunition warehouses. The Russian forces have suffered significant losses.
On the Kharkiv front, Russian occupiers are defending the previously occupied frontiers. Russian troops bombarded the areas of the settlements of Yavirske, Stara Hnylytsia, Ukrainka, Mykilske, Bazaliivka, Ruski Tyshky, Cherkaski Tyshky, Piatyhirske, Prudianka, Chornohlazivka, Kutuzivka, Staryi Saltiv, Shestakove and Rubizhne using tanks, mortars, gun and rocket artillery.
On the Sloviansk front, Russian troops launched artillery fire around the villages of Dibrovne, Bohorodychne, Adamivka, Karnaukhivka, and Sulyhivka.
On the Avdiivka, Kurakhove, Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia fronts, mutual shelling of positions along the line of contact continues. The Russian military carried out airstrikes near the settlement of Mali Shcherbaky.
Russian invaders have attempted to take control of theVuhlehirsk Thermal Power Plant, but the Ukrainian defenders pushed the invaders back to their previous positions.
On the Bakhmut front, shelling by Russian troops was recorded near the villages of Zaitseve, Berestove and Klynove. Russian forces performed an airstrike near the village of Spirne.
On the Pivdennyi Buh front, Russian forces continue regular shelling of civilian and military infrastructure from gun and rocket artillery along the line of contact.
