Russia blames sabotage for state of emergency in Crimea sees no need for nuclear weapons in Ukraine Live updates
20220816
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-blames-sabotage-explosions-state-123658988.html
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will meet presidents Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Thursday in the western Ukraine city of Lviv.They are expected to discuss grain shipments and a possible fact-finding mission to the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant,
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he believes Sweden and Finland will be able to join NATO "very quickly." Scholz said Turkey, which had balked, appears satisfied and that the other six nations that have not approved the expansion probably woulddo so soon.
A less-publicized feature of the accord brokered by the U.N. and Turkey assures Russia that its food andfertilizer wont face sanctions as other industries have, safeguarding one of the pillars of its economy and helping ease concerns from insurers and banks.
And indeed, more than 15 vessels carrying nearly half a million tons of agricultural products have departed from Ukraine since an agreementJuly 22 lifted aRussian blockade that had been in place since the startof the war. On Tuesday, aU.N.-chartered ship loaded with Ukrainian grain set out for the hunger-stricken Horn of Africa.
The losses undermine Russias overall invasion strategy, in part because the amphibious threat to the crucial Ukraine port of Odesa has now been largely neutralized, the assessment says: "This means Ukraine can divert resources to press Russian ground forces elsewhere."
Despite the Russian leaders claims of advanced weapons, experts have saidtheRussian military is performing much worse than expectedin the Ukrainian invasion, and the U.K. Defense Ministry recently said its highly likely thatRussia is deploying unreliable and unpredictableSoviet-era mines.
The Russian Federal Security Service accused Ukraine of blowing up power transmission towers three times this month near a nuclear plant in the western Russia city of Kursk.
The Russian Defense Ministry blamed "sabotage" forexplosions at a military warehouse near Dzhankoya.Power lines, a power plant, a railway track and several residential buildings weredamaged, the ministry said in a statement obtained by the Russian news outlet Kommersant.The explosions weredescribed as a diversion.
We are ready to offer our allies and partners the most advanced types of weapons: from firearms, armor and artillery to warplanes and drones, Putin said.
Russia is the worlds biggest exporter of wheat, accounting for almost a fifth of global shipments, and the country is expected to have one of its bestcrop seasons ever this year. Agriculture accounts for about 4 of Russias gross domestic product and provides 5-6 million jobs a year.
Russia doesn't need to rely on nuclear weapons to achieve its objectives in Ukraine, saidRussian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu, contending that his country's battlefield progresshas dispelled the notion that the West can supplyUkraine with "superweapons" capable of radically altering the war's outcome.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has described Crimea as a "sacred place.'' The deputy chairman of the Russian Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev, warned last month that attacks on the peninsula could result in a "doomsday, very quick and tough, immediately."
Days before the strike,Russian journalist Sergey Sreda had posted a photo of himself alongside four heavily armed men in combat gear, most likely Wagner mercenaries. On the top left of the photo, a sign with the address of the building can be clearly seen. Sreda later took down the post, but apparently not before the Ukrainianssaw it.
"From a military point of view, there is no need to use nuclear weapons in Ukraine to achieve the set goals," Shoigu said. "Claims that chemical weapons could be used in Ukraine are also absurd."
Another fire was reported at a power substation, but officials did not indicate whether it was related to the ammunition blasts.We are in a state of emergency, said Sergey Aksenov, the Russian leader of the Crimean administration.
Its hard to express my feelings. Its a horrendous atrocity. Its a crime against humanity, Ban told The Associated Press after visiting the Church of St. Andrew the Apostle. He said those responsible should be held accountable.
Ukraine presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak did not say the country claimed responsibility for the blastsbut tweeted:"Crimea of normal country is about the Black Sea, mountains, recreation and tourism, but Crimea occupied by Russians is about warehouses explosions and high risk of death for invaders and thieves.''
Former U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called on the world Tuesday to honor civilians who were killed when Russian ground forces tried to invade Ukraine's capital and eventually retreated from the area surrounding Kyiv.Ban, a former South Korean diplomat who was secretary-general from 2007 to 2016, visited Bucha, a city northwest of the Ukrainian capital wherehundreds of civilians were found deadafter the Russian withdrawal in late March.
Swiss chocolate makerLindt  Sprngli Group announced it will"exit the Russian market." The company had temporarily suspended operations in March.
Serhiy Haidai, governor of the Russian-controlled Luhansk province in the eastern Donbas region, said by Telegram on Monday that a Ukrainian strike "hit an enemy headquarters, which was pointed out by a representative of the Russian mass media. He saidthe number of fatalities was still unknown.
Last week, the Russian military blamed a series of explosions at Crimea'sSaki airbase on an accidental detonation of munitions there, but the incident appeared to be a Ukrainian attack. Kyiv said the explosions destroyed nine Russian airplanes.
A photo posted online by a pro-Kremlin journalist appears to have led to the destruction of a building that housed mercenaries fighting for Russia.
Massive explosions and fires ripped through Crimea on Tuesday, forcing 3,000 residents to flee their homes as the war in Ukraine appears to be spreading to the peninsula occupied by Russia since 2014. Officials said two people were injured.
The deal that allowed Ukrainian cargo ships to depart from Black Sea ports with thousands of tons of grain promised to bring some hunger relief to countries in Africa and the Middle East.
More than 1,350 bodies of Ukrainian civilians killed by Russian occupiers have been found in the Kyiv region, regional Police Chief Andrii Niebytov said.
Russia's Black Sea fleet is "struggling to exercise effective sea control," the British Defense Ministry said in an assessment released Tuesday. The fleet continues to use long-range cruise missiles to support ground offensives but has been less effective because ofthe loss ofits flagship  the now-sunken Moskva  a significant portion of its naval aviation combat jets and control of Snake Island, the assessment says.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Ukraine live updates: Russia blames sabotage for explosions in Crimea
The building hit Sunday in the town of Popasnaserved as a base of operations for the Wagner Group, a private military company linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Haidai said.
Shoigu, speaking at the the 10th Moscow Conference on International Security, said the West's best weaponry is being "ground down in battles" and has had no major effect on the fighting.
Russian President Vladimir Putin offered his allies the most advanced types of weapons, vowing to expand military cooperation with countries across Latin America, Asiaand Africa.Putin,speaking at an arms show, applauded his military'sactions in Ukrainewhile also touting the key role Russian arms exports play in the development of a multipolar word, the term used by the Kremlin to describe its efforts to offset what it perceives as U.S. global domination.
But Ukraine and the countries receiving its shipments are not the only ones benefiting. Russia is reaping rewards as well.
In reality, premierU.S. weapons such asthe HIMARS missile system have been effective at destroying Russian ammunition depots and command centers and disrupting its supply lines, American and Ukrainian officials have said. Butthe Biden administration has not sent Ukraine the longer-range weaponry that could strike Russian targets from hundreds of miles away.
