RussiaUkraine latest news Biden warns Americans to lock their digital doors against Moscow cyber threat
20220321
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-ukraine-latest-news-ukraine-212712277.html
More than 80 per cent of Sudan's wheat imports are at risk after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, an aid group warns, exacerbating economic and humanitarian crises that deepened after last year's military takeover.
The Pentagon accused Russian forces of committing war crimes in Ukraine and said it would help to gather evidence of them.
"The President will discuss how the United States, alongside our Allies and partners, is responding to the humanitarian and human rights crisis that Russia's unjustified and unprovoked war on Ukraine has created," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said.
Some European Union foreign ministers are pushing for an oil embargo as part of further sanctions against Russia, in an effort to punish Moscow over events in Ukraine.
Russian grandmaster Sergey Karjakin has been banned from competition for six months because of his support for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the International Chess Federation FIDE said on Monday.
Russia, Belarus, Eritrea, North Korea and Syria voted 'No', while 35 member states, including China, abstained.
Speaking in a video address early on Monday, Mr Zelensky said about 400 civilians were taking shelter at an art school in the besieged Azov Sea port city when it was struck by a Russian bomb.
President Biden's condemnation of Vladimir Putin as a "war criminal" has endangered the relationship between the two countries, Russia's foreign ministry said.
"These are residential buildings where peaceful people live," Mayor Gennadiy Trukhanov was quoted as saying. Russia denies targeting civilians.
"The Polish army must be immediately equipped to the highest standards, therefore one of the proposed changes to the constitution will be the exclusion of expenditure on the army and armaments from the public debt threshold," Piotr Muller said.
"In the face of the grave humanitarian emergency, the leaders pledged to coordinate efforts to help the Ukrainian population fleeing the conflict or those stranded at home."
The Prime Minister condemned the "abhorrent attacks on innocent civilians" in Mariupol on Sunday during a call with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky.
"There is no data on the current state of radiation pollution of the exclusion zone's environment, which makes it impossible to adequately respond to threats," it said.
TotalEnergies, one of the world's top oil producers and the fourth-largest company in France's CAC 40 bluechip index by market capitalization, has become increasingly isolated among oil majors as it holds on to its interests in Russia despite the latter's invasion of Ukraine.
The men, aged 27 and 29 and from Lutsk in North West Ukraine, were in custody for six months awaiting trial for people smuggling.
Those who left were replaced by other Ukrainian staff, Mr Grossi said in a statement late Sunday.
Mr Zelensky thanked Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for efforts to broker talks in a video released on Telegram late Sunday.
Mr Johnson on Saturday said it was the instinct of British people, like Ukrainians, to choose freedom every time, citing the vote to leave the European Union as an example of that.
Many refugees who have fled Ukraine are struggling to buy even basic necessities because their savings in hryvnia are non-convertible across most of Europe, meaning they have no way to exchange them at reasonable rates.
Two Associated Press reporters whose images of Mariupol alerted the world to the devastation being wreaked by Russian troops have fled the besieged city after learning they were on a Kremlin hitlist, Telegraph Moscow correspondent Nataliya Vasilyeva reports.
"We call on units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, territorial defence battalions, foreign mercenaries to stop hostilities, lay down their arms and, along the humanitarian corridors agreed with the Ukrainian side, enter the territories controlled by Kyiv," said Mikhail Mizintsev, head of the Russian National Defence Control Centre.
He said a second issue which requires changes to the constitution is the possibility of confiscating the assets of Russian oligarchs and companies which support Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The money could then be spent on humanitarian aid, Mr Muller said.
Authorities in Odesa accused Russian forces of carrying out a strike on residential buildings in the outskirts of the Ukrainian city early on Monday, the first such attack on the Black Sea port city.
German Economy Minister Robert Habeck, visiting Gulf states to discuss long-term energy supplies, said on Monday they should not profit from global sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
"That is why we must now do everything together to ensure that we can distribute not only thousands but hundreds of thousands of people in the coming weeks," she said.
Ukrainian state nuclear company Energoatom warned on Monday that radiation levels around the occupied Chernobyl nuclear plant risked rising because its radiation monitoring system and forest fire-fighting service were not working.
Mr Karjakin, who was born in Crimea, represented Ukraine until 2009 and has been a vocal supporter of Russian president Vladimir Putin.
"Sudan is in a particularly vulnerable position because 86-87 per cent of its wheat imports is coming from Russia and Ukraine combined," said David Wright, chief operating officer at charity Save the Children.
He said in a Facebook post that he did not need to wait until morning to respond, and cursed at the Russians, according to news agency Interfax Ukraine.
New Zealand will provide Ukraine with a further NZ$5 million 2.6m in funds and non-lethal military assistance including some surplus equipment.
"We have expanded the granting of residence permits to include all people who lived in Ukraine at the time of the invasion, not just Ukrainians," Mr Escriva said in an interview with Spanish public news channel TVE.
The Russian Ministry of Defence said authorities in Mariupol could face a military tribunal if they sided with what it described as "bandits", the Russian state news agency RIA Novosti reported.
Russian forces advancing on Kyiv from the north-east have stalled and the bulk of its forces remain more than 25 kilometres from the centre of the city, British military intelligence said on Monday.
While imprisoned, he has issued messages on social media through his legal team that condemn the war in Ukraine and has urged the Russian people to do the same.
"When we started working, we couldn't imagine that at the last moment of approval the situation would be so bad and Europe would be facing such a big challenge."
"There's still a long way to go, because ... there are several issues in dispute, some of them fundamental," he said in a speech, according to a transcript provided by his office.
Russia has deployed TOS-1a Heavy Flamethrower Launches, discharging rockets that can melt human organs, Russian propaganda shows
The Russian defence ministry said Ukrainian and foreign armed units must drop their weapons without exception and leave between 7am and 9am UK time on Monday, in exchange for safe passage out of town.
Ukraine, a major global wheat exporter, is likely to export just 200,000 tonnes of wheat from March to June due to its Black Sea ports being blocked by the Russian invasion, analyst APK-Inform said on Monday.
Good morning. Here are the latest key developments in the Russia-Ukraine war to get you up to speed.
Ukrainian soldiers have rushed the two journalists out of the city amid fears they could be taken by the Russians and forced to denounce their own work as "fake news".
"Otherwise, the court martial that awaits you is only a little of what you have already earned because of your despicable attitude toward your own citizens, as well as the horrible crimes and provocations you have committed."
Soon after Russia's invasion on February 24, Ukraine's military suspended commercial shipping at its ports, stoking fear of supply disruption from leading grain and oilseeds exporters.
"From an Irish perspective we are open to that," Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said.
Speaking during an interview with the Ukrainian broadcaster Suspilne, Mr Zelensky said: "We have an ultimatum with points in it. 'Follow it and then we will end the war'. Ukraine cannot fulfil the ultimatum."
The horrific death of Boris Romantschenko shows how threatening the war in Ukraine is for concentration camp survivors, the Buchenwald and Mittelbau-Dora Memorial said in a statement.
The airport closed two of its five passenger terminals on March 15 and has taken one of its runways out of service, citing "enforced restrictions on international air transport".
Mr Abramovich was among several Russian billionaires added last week to an EU blacklist that already included dozens of wealthy Russians, and EU governments have acted to seize yachts and other luxury assets from them.
He said that for Moldova - one of Europe's poorest countries - the refugee crisis is "having a big impact on the socio-economic situation".
President Biden and European leaders discussed Russia's "brutal" tactics in Ukraine during their call on Monday, the White House said.
The move is part of sweeping efforts by Moscow to put a tight lid on information available to Russians about the conflict in Ukraine.
Privately-owned Ural Airlines, one of Russia's largest carriers, also said last week that it had been forced to furlough some of its staff.
Russia has lost 15,000 personnel and 1535 armoured vehicles, Ukraine's Ministry for Foreign Affairs has claimed.
Russia offered to open humanitarian corridors from the city from 10 am Moscow time 7am GMT if residents lay down arms.
"The 2nd Permanent Under Secretary Laurence Lee protested in the strongest terms against the persistent and unjustified acts of violence being committed against innocent civilians by Russian forces," the MoD said on Twitter.
The comments came at a regular briefing in Beijing and the promise of aid follows previous pledges of aid to Ukraine including one of five million yuan from earlier this month.
State department spokesman Ned Price told reporters it was "completely unacceptable" that the US has been denied consular access to detained American citizens in Russia.
Russian air forces have hit a Ukrainian army military facility in Rivne Region with cruise missiles, Russia's Defence Ministry claimed on Monday.
Ukraine has called on China to play an "important role" in resolving the war with Russia.
Navalny is currently serving a two and a half year sentence at a prison camp near Moscow for parole violations related to charges that he says were invented to gag him as a longstanding political opponent of Vladimir Putin.
Ms Vereshchuk said: "I wrote: 'Instead of wasting time on eight pages of letters, just open the corridor.'"
A Russian court on Monday banned Facebook and Instagram, labelling the social media platforms "extremist", as part of wider efforts by the Kremlin to clamp down on social media during the war in Ukraine.
"Of course we rejected these proposals," Ms Vereshchuk said. "The situation there is very difficult."
The conference, co-organised with France and Romania, was called at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels which was also attended by Moldova's foreign minister Nicu Popescu.
The 1605 painting, a full-length portrait of Emperor Charles V by Juan Pantoja de la Cruz, and a collection including armour that the king wore in the painting were returned with the "full cooperation" of the Russian museum, the sources said. The armour is usually on display at Madrid's Royal Palace armoury
Mr Medvedev, now the deputy head of Russias security council, described Poland as the most evil, vulgar and shrill critic of Russia.
Bennett added that Israel, "together with other friends in the world, will continue trying to to bridge the gap and bring an end to the war".
He devoted the latter years of his life to commemorating the suffering of the victims of the Nazis, and was a vice-president of the Buchenwald-Dora International Committee.
Iryna, who is head of the regional perinatal centre and a child anaesthesiologist, posted clips and images to the sportsman's Instagram Stories throughout Sunday, showing how the war had affected the work of her team.
German companies have signed agreements with firms in the United Arab Emirates UAE to build up a hydrogen supply chain, Germany's economy ministry said on Monday, as Berlin looks to cut carbon emissions and reduce its reliance on Russian energy.
Two Ukrainian prisoners were released from jail in the Netherlands so they could go and fight against the Russian army in Ukraine, James Crisp reports.
It was unclear if the woman, who in the video says she had the story from a friend, believed the story when she made the video, and nor was it clear why she had made it.
Russia's armed forces claimed on Monday they had docked a large, beachable landing support ship, the Orsk, in the occupied Ukrainian port of Berdyansk, 70 km 45 miles southwest of the besieged Ukrainian port of Mariupol on the Sea of Azov.
In Spain, which is far from the conflict, many of the Ukrainians who have arrived are staying with relatives or friends and have not yet notified the authorities, Mr Escriva said.
Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Monday that Ukraine had "of course" rejected a Russian ultimatum for people in Mariupol to surrender and the situation in the besieged city ere was "very difficult".
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said the attack on peaceful protesters in Kherson by Russian forces was a "disgrace to humankind" that showed the world the "ugly face of Russia".
He shared a video on Twitter showing protesters in the occupied city of Kherson being shot by Russian forces.
"It's not the answer to the Ukrainian war, but it is part of the answer," EU foreign policy Josep Borrell said ahead of a meeting of the bloc's foreign and defence ministers.
"We are grateful... for his every effort. So sooner or later we could start the conversation with Russia. Perhaps in Jerusalem," said Zelensky.
US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said Ukrainian resistance means Putin's "forces on the ground are essentially stalled".
Environmental activists, led by the French group "Les amis de la terre" Friends of the Earth, said they had sprayed black paint on the glass doors at the entrance of TotalEnergie's building in the La Defense business district, posting a video of around a dozen activists dressed in yellow vests.
Mr Timchenko, already on a US sanctions list over Moscow's 2014 annexation of Crimea, was Russia's sixth-richest billionaire last year with a net worth of $22 billion, according to Forbes magazine.
Biden held a call with the leaders of the UK, France, Germany and Italy to discuss a coordinated response to the war in Ukraine, as well as potential security and humanitarian support for Ukraine.
The selfie-style video in Russian, in which an unidentified woman breaks down as she relays a story she says was told her by a friend, comes as politicians warn against allowing Russia's invasion of Ukraine to stoke anti-Russian sentiment in Western Europe.
The Chinese Red Cross will offer an additional 10 million yuan $1.57 million of humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told reporters on Monday.
"We have two programs in place to do that at this point in time. One is the family reunion program where, my understanding is, at the weekend there were 9,500 visas issued and then there's the hosting a Ukrainian family program where some 150,000 people have registered their interest.
"High-precision air-launched cruise missiles have struck a training centre for foreign mercenaries and Ukrainian nationalist formations," Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
From the horror seen in Mariupol to sandbags in the streets in Odesa, The Telegraph tracks how the war has changed the country.
"Battles took place over every street. Every house became a target," said Olga Nikitina, who was embraced by her brother as she got off the train. "Gunfire blew out the windows. The apartment was below freezing."
Reuters reports that the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: "It could be that they're trying to send a message to the West."
The European Union and Britain last month imposed sanctions on Mr Timchenko and other billionaires with ties to Putin.
The governor of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia region said buses evacuating civilians from areas with intense fighting were hit by shelling on Monday and four children were wounded in separate incidents.
All Ukrainian its ports on the Black Sea and Azov Sea remain temporarily closed to ships seeking to enter or exit, Ukraine's infrastructure ministry said on Monday.
Poland, a member of Nato, is one of Ukraines most steadfast allies and has accepted some two million refugees from the war.
"We left home because shells hit the houses across the road. There was no roof. There were people injured," Ms Galla said.
"From March 16, some employees of Sheremetyevo International Airport were furloughed," it said, adding that affected staff would be paid two-thirds of their wages.
Ylva Johansson told a news conference in Estonia that about half of 3.3 million Ukrainians who had fled to EU countries since the start of the war were children.
The city council said there were no casualties in the attack on the Black Sea port city, although the strike caused a fire.
Ukraine, the US and other allies are hoping to increase on the 141 'Yes' votes cast on March 2 that deplored "Russia's aggression against Ukraine".
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters the question of any oil embargo was a very complex topic.
Ukraine will not give up the city of Mariupol and lay down arms, Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said early on Monday.
The European Union's migration commissioner warned on Monday that Ukrainian children were in danger of being trafficked they flee their country from the Russian invasion.
Mr Biden cited "evolving intelligence that the Russian government is exploring options for potential cyber attacks".
"There is no need to panic, no need to stockpile those goods. There's enough for everyone."
The White House said President Biden hosted the call, which lasted just under one hour, with his fellow leaders to "discuss their coordinated responses to Russia's unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine".
A Greek diplomat who remained in the besieged Ukraine city of Mariupol during the bombardment said on Sunday the destruction would rank alongside Stalingrad and Aleppo.
A superyacht linked to sanctioned Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich was cruising a few kilometres off the coast of southwest Turkey on Monday, after skirting European Union waters in recent days, ship tracking data showed.
The true civilian death toll is likely to be significantly higher, as teams like the OHCHR have not been able to verify reports of casualties in besieged cities like Mariupol.
The Prado museum and armoury declined to comment about the return of the pieces. Last week, Spain's culture minister said the government had asked for the works to be returned in protest at the war.
Some who were able to flee Mariupol tearfully hugged relatives as they arrived by train on Sunday in Lviv, about 1,100km 680 miles to the west.
"Ukraine's regulatory authority said about half of the outgoing shift of technical staff left Chernobyl yesterday and the rest followed today, with the exception of thirteen staff members who declined to rotate," the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA said in a statement.
"It's time now for President Putin to admit he has been wrong, put right the wrongs he has done to the people of Ukraine, leave Ukraine and to help Ukraine get back to normal."
"I'm not asking that they join the sanctions....but I ask not to be a profiteer of European and US sanctions," Mr Habeck told reporters in the United Arab Emirates' capital Abu Dhabi following a visit to Qatar.
Ovsyannikova told the independent Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta that during her interrogation about the protest she had been repeatedly asked whether she had any connections with foreign secret services.
Speaking in a video address early on Monday, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said 7,295 Ukrainians were evacuated from zones of combat on Sunday, including nearly 4,000 from Mariupol.
Soon after launching an invasion on February 24, Russian forces took control of the territory around the now-defunct power plant that was the site of the world's worst nuclear accident in 1986.
The US ambassador to Russia, John Sullivan, used a meeting with the Russian government to demand that Moscow abide by international law and called for guaranteed consular access to US citizens detained in Russia.
The court was considering a request by prosecutors to designate Meta - the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp - as an "extremist" organisation and ban it.
925 civilians have been killed so far during the war, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has announced.
He added that Ukrainian-Chinese relations have been "based on mutual respect, understanding and benefit" for "decades", and urged Xi's government to "find a political solution" to the conflict.
"What's happening now in Mariupol is a massive war crime, destroying everything, bombarding and killing everybody," Mr Borrell said at the start of a meeting of EU foreign ministers.
The inclusion of the figures appears to have been accidental, as the web page was eventually removed.
Our people will have a say and give an answer to formats of compromises, he said. Moscow has suggested the war would end if Ukraine gave up its hopes of ever joining Nato and recognised Crimea and separatist republics as Russian territory.
"Im not telling you theyre going to put nukes in there tomorrow. What I mean is theyve taken steps politically to now be able to receive nuclear weapons if such a decision is made."
Novatek, Russia's largest private natural gas producer, did not provide a reason for his resignation.
"The Russian side, in the current conditions, does not intend to continue talks with Japan on the peace treaty due to the impossibility of discussing the core document on bilateral relations with a country that has taken an openly hostile position and is striving to cause harm to the interests of our country," the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement.
A woman who made a video in which she described a fatal attack by two Ukrainians on a Russian boy in Germany later admitted that the story was incorrect, police said on Monday.
As its economy tanks, thousands escape to Finland, Georgia, Armenia and beyond, Tom Rees, Genevieve Holl-Allen and Andrew Quinn report.
Speaking in an interview with media outlet Suspilne, Zelensky said: "I believe that without this meeting it is impossible to fully understand what they are ready for in order to stop the war."
"Your role is special and your courage and your spirit are in stark contrast to the passivity of some other countries.
"Heavy fighting continues north of Kyiv," the Ministry of Defence said. "Forces advancing from the direction of Hostomel to the north-west have been repulsed by fierce Ukrainian resistance."
The curfew "will begin at 8pm 6pm GMT and last until 7am 5am GMT on March 23," Mr Klitschko wrote on Telegram.
"Four children were taken to hospital," Oleksandr Starukh said in an online post, blaming Russian forces.
The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Russian state was responsible for the hoax telephone calls made to UK ministers last week.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has suggested Jerusalem could host peace talks between him and Vladimir Putin, his latest attempt to push for a meeting with his Russian counterpart.
The European Commission may delay the publication of proposals on sustainable farming and nature that had been expected this week, while the impact of the war in Ukraine on food supply has led some countries to resist reform.
"A terrible humanitarian catastrophe has developed," Mizintsev said. "All who lay down their arms are guaranteed safe passage out of Mariupol."
Mariupol, a strategic, mostly Russian-speaking port in the southeast, has been one of the main targets of Moscow's attacks.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky likened Russias invasion of Ukraine to Hitlers final solution as he attacked Israels indifference towards Kyiv in an address to the countrys MPs
She said Russia was increasing imports of dairy produce, fruit and vegetables, meat and animal feed from "friendly countries" such as nearby ex-Soviet nations and India, Turkey and China to prevent food shortages.
"There can be no question of any surrender, laying down of arms," the Ukrainska Pravda news portal quoted Ms Vereshchuk as saying.
It said that, as of midnight on the 20 March, 925 civilians have been killed, while 1,496 have been injured.
Some 9,500 visas have been issued to refugees under the Ukraine Family Scheme, Sajid Javid has said.
Oleksii Reznikov, speaking at a press conference at the Ministry of Defence in London with British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace, said: "We greatly appreciate that this year Britain was the first to provide us with serious weapons that have increased our defence capability.
Vladimir Putin has been accused of abducting and deporting thousands of civilians from the besieged city of Mariupol and transporting them deep inside Russia
"The trip will be focused on continuing to rally the world in support of the Ukrainian people and against President Putin's invasion of Ukraine," Ms Psaki said of Mr Biden's trip to Europe.
"The magnitude of Russia's cyber capacity is fairly consequential, and it's coming," the US President warned business leaders.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said early on Monday that Mr Biden will also travel to Warsaw, Poland, on Friday for a meeting with president Andrzej Duda.
Joe Biden said the US had issued "new warnings that, based on evolving intelligence, Russia may be planning a cyberattack against us".
Mariupol residents were given until 5am local time to respond to the demand, which included them raising a white flag. Russia did not say what action it would take if the offer were rejected.
The United Nations refugee agency estimates nearly 3.5 million Ukrainians have now fled their country, with more than two million of them moving to neighbouring Poland. Romania, Hungary and Slovakia also host large numbers of refugees.
Almost 10,000 Russian soldiers may have been killed in Ukraine so far, just one month since its invasion began, according to data from the defence ministry in Moscow.
A representave of Mr Timchenko, who had served on the company's board of directors since 2009, declined to comment.
Pressure mounted on Totalenergies over its ties to Russia as activists spray-painted its headquarters west of Paris on Monday and France's green presidential candidate accused the company and its boss of complicity with the Kremlin.
The Defence of the Fatherland Act adopted this month says that Poland's defence spending will increase to 3 per cent of GDP, which could result in exceeding budgetary thresholds enshrined in the constitution.
An agreement has been reached on creating eight humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians from besieged towns and cities on Monday but the city of Mariupol is not among them, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has said.
KP editor Vladimir Sungorkin told the BBC the information had been the result of a hack, and said the newspaper will publish an explanation in due course.
The 32-year-old Mr Karjakin, who challenged Magnus Carlsen for the world title in 2016, has defended his country's actions on social media in recent weeks, drawing intense criticism from the chess world.
Ukrainian President Zelensky said that a meeting with Vladimir Putin "in any format" is needed to stop the war in Ukraine.
Liz Truss is "appalled" by the Kremlin's atrocities in Mariupol, including claims that thousands of residents of the besieged city have been abducted and forcibly taken across the border into Russia
Fighting and sanctions have disrupted grain shipments from Russia and Ukraine, which between them account for nearly 30 per cent of global wheat exports, threatening hunger and social upheaval in many countries.
The plays are continuing despite the recent Russian bombardment of Ivano-Frankivsk, with some missiles landing just two miles away from the theatre.
Mr Biden's trip will come after a visit to Belgium to meet with leaders from Nato, the G7 and the European Union.
Russia's finance ministry last week flirted with default by threatening to pay foreign holders of dollar bonds in massively devalued rubles before sending the money in dollars.
John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, told a news briefing: "We certainly see clear evidence that Russian forces are committing war crimes and we are helping with the collecting of evidence of that.
"I would like to thank my British friends and personally, my friend and friend of Ukraine Ben Wallace, once again for everything you do for Ukraine. I wish peace and prosperity on the British people. Thank you again and Slava Ukraine Glory to Ukraine."
Moscow's Interfax news agency said it was the first time Russian forces had deployed the Kinzhal system since it sent troops into Ukraine on February 24.
About 25,000 Ukrainians have arrived in Spain since Russia launched its invasion on February 24, though only 9,000 of them have registered so far with the authorities, Spanish Migration Minister Jose Luis Escriva said on Monday.
Writing on Facebook, the theatre said: We have become a haven for artists to support our defenders, preserve our cultural heritage and harden our invincibility.
European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on Monday decried Russia's attack on the Ukrainian port city Mariupol as "a massive war crime", as the bloc discussed imposing more sanctions on Moscow.
Mr Zelensky also said that he had a call on Sunday with Boris Johnson, a "true friend of Ukraine". to discuss support for Ukraine during this week's summit of the Group of Seven and Nato.
Berlin will host a donor conference on April 5 to help Moldova to cope with its ongoing influx of Ukrainian refugees, German foreign minister Annalena Baerbock said.
Video footage shared on social media shows Russian forces reportedly firing on protesters in the occupied city of Kherson.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the money would be primarily directed to a Nato Trust Fund that provides fuel, rations, communication equipment and first-aid kits to support Ukraine.
The Prime Minister used a Sunday afternoon call with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky to condemn the "abhorrent attacks on innocent civilians" in Mariupol.
The EU is overhauling all sectors to become greener, including agriculture, which produces roughly 10 per cent of EU greenhouse gas emissions. Brussels has mooted targets that include halving chemical pesticide use by 2030, and is drawing up binding laws to make them a reality.
The deals were signed during a visit by German Economy Minister Robert Habeck to Gulf states to discuss long-term energy supplies. Berlin is investing in cleaner energy and aiming to cut its reliance on Russian energy as part of Western efforts to put pressure on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine.
During the Second World War he was captured by the Nazis and deported to Germany to work as a forced labourer. He tried to escape but was caught and sent to a succession of concentration camps, including Buchenwald, Mittelbau-Dora and Bergen-Belsen.
Ben Wallace has called on Vladimir Putin to "admit he has been wrong" about his invasion of Ukraine and said it was time for the Russian president to "leave Ukraine and to help Ukraine get back to normal".
"It's unavoidable we start talking about the energy sector, and we can definitely talk about oil because it is the biggest revenue to Russia's budget," he told reporters as he arrived for a meeting with his EU counterparts in Brussels.
When you talk about certain changes, potentially historic changesit will go to a referendum, Mr Zelensky said in an interview with European broadcasters, without specifying how such a vote would be held.
"Lay down your arms," Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev, the director of the Russian National Centre for Defence Management, said in a briefing distributed by the defence ministry.
UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, said 3,489,644 Ukrainians had fled the country since Russia invaded on February 24 - a figure up 100,600 on Sunday's update.
European Union foreign ministers will discuss slapping more sanctions on Russia, including sanctions on the country's energy and oil sector, the bloc's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Monday.
Australia understands India's stance on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, India's foreign secretary told reporters in a briefing on Monday following a virtual summit between the prime ministers of the two countries.
A total of 8,057 people were safely evacuated on Monday through seven humanitarian corridors from Ukrainian towns and cities under fire, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
Vladimir Putin has been accused of abducting and deporting thousands of civilians from Mariupol and transporting them deep inside Russia. Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, said she was "appalled" by the Kremlin's atrocities in Mariupol.
Ukraine has managed to rotate staff working at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant for the first time since Russia seized it last month as it invaded its neighbour, the UN's nuclear agency said.
Several hundred mines have drifted into the Black Sea after breaking off from cables near Ukrainian ports, Russia's main intelligence agency and shipping market participants said.
Russia's central bank has cautiously reopened bond trading on the Moscow exchange for the first time since the country invaded Ukraine, with the price of Russia's rouble-denominated government debt falling and sending borrowing costs higher.
The British leader asked Mr Zelensky what the Ukrainian military required in the struggle against Russia's incursion before vowing to "advance" Kyiv's interests at Nato and G7 meetings planned for this week.
"They are under the rubble, and we don't know how many of them have survived," he said. "But we know that we will certainly shoot down the pilot who dropped that bomb, like about 100 other such mass murderers whom we already have downed."
Among those brought to safety were 3,007 residents of Mariupol, which has been under constant siege from Russian troops.
Boris Johnson agreed in a call with the European Council's President Charles Michel to continue to closely cooperate and present a united British-EU response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson did not directly compare the war in Ukraine with Brexit and will not retract comments made during a speech on Saturday that drew criticism, his spokesman said on Monday.
Gennady Timchenko, a long-time ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, resigned from the board at gas producer Novatek on Monday after he was targeted by sanctions over Russia's military campaign in Ukraine.
Boris Romanchenko, who survived the Nazis, was killed when a Russian shell hit his home in Kharkiv on Friday.
Navalny's spokeswoman, Kira Yarmysh, said last week that prosecutors had requested a transfer to a maximum-security jail because they said he had committed crimes in the prison camp.
The text, written by Dmitry Medvedev, an ally of Putin and a former president, has echoes of a treatise penned by Vladimir Putin about Ukraine before the invasion.
"Due to storm weather, the cables connecting the mines to anchors were broken," Russia's Federal Security Service FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, said in a press release dated March 19.
The former footballer, who has 71.4 million followers on the social media site, said he wanted to highlight the "amazing work" of medical staff operating amid the Russian invasion.
Mr Podolyak tweeted on Sunday that "the high mortality rate among Russia's senior military officers" reflects a "total lack of readiness", adding that the Russian military relies on big number of troops and cruise missiles.
Navalny was jailed last year following his return to Russia from Germany, where he had sought medical treatment for a poison attack with a Soviet-era nerve toxin during a visit to Siberia in 2020 - which he says Putin is responsible for.
Pro-Kremlin newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda KP reported that 9,861 soldiers had died in Ukraine and 16,153 had been injured.
The European Union needs to ramp up sanctions on Russia to hit the country's energy sector, Lithuania's Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said on Monday.
He said rescue teams were putting out a large fire at the shopping centre, while other details are still to be confirmed.
As a result, the system monitoring radiation levels in the 30-km 19-mile so-called exclusion zone in the forests around the plant is currently not working, Energoatom said in a statement.
For Aleksandr, it is not the famous Western goods missing off shop shelves or closed McDonalds restaurants that are tempting him to leave Russia but the dreams, plans and relationships that all went to s---.
The Russian military has not confirmed the death of any of its generals. But an associate and an officers' group in Russia confirmed the death of one, Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky, the commanding general of the 7th Airborne Division.
Friends of the Moscow translator in his late 20s have already left for Turkey, Georgia and Armenia, while many others are thinking about leaving as the Russian economy tanks.
"Now the southern flank of the special operation can receive everything necessary at any time, including equipment and ammunition."
The impact will be especially severe in Sudan, one of the world's poorest countries, where a military coup in October led by army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan brought fresh turmoil and saw Western donor countries cut aid.
However, the European Commission is considering delaying two new proposals - binding targets to restore nature, and a more sustainable pesticides law - which were to have been made public on Wednesday.
"Lee emphasised that schools, theatres and hospitals are not legitimate military targets. He warned the UK will be collecting evidence of war crimes and repeated the UKs demand for the Russian Federation to withdraw its forces immediately."
On March 19, an ammunition depot in the region was destroyed in what Russia said was its first use of hypersonic Kinzhal Dagger missiles.
A 96-year-old Ukrainian man who survived four Nazi concentration camps has been killed by Russian shelling, it emerged on Monday.
"The exchange will be possible at a rounded, official... exchange rate," the bank said in a statement.
The Defence Secretary, speaking at a press conference with the Ukrainian minister of defence Oleksii Reznikov at the Ministry of Defence in London, said: "President Putin assumed that Ukrainians would welcome him as a liberator he was wrong.
"Such statements by the American president, which are not worthy of a high-ranking statesman, have put Russian-American relations on the verge of rupture," the Kremlin's foreign ministry said in a statement.
Emergency services reported four people killed by shelling not far from the centre of the capital on Sunday.
A World Food Programme WFP official said on Friday that food supply chains in Ukraine were collapsing, with key infrastructure such as bridges and trains destroyed by bombs and many grocery stores and warehouses empty.
Britain's Ministry of Defence MoD said on Monday it had summoned the Russian defence attach for a second time in relation to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and the conduct of Russia's armed forces.
The US cannot confirm nor refute a Russian claim made over the weekend that it fired hypersonic missiles at a Ukrainian target, but the use of such a weapon makes little sense from a military perspective, a senior defence official said.
The Ivano-Frankivsk Theatre in western Ukraine has vowed to be a haven for artists during the war, with productions of Romeo  Juliet and Hamlet taking place in its basement.
Maryna Galla narrowly escaped with her 13-year-old son. She said she huddled in the basement of a cultural centre along with about 250 people for three weeks without water, electricity or gas.
"The block-by-block fighting in Mariupol itself is costing the Russian military time, initiative, and combat power," the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War said in a briefing.
Her mother, father and grandparents stayed behind and "don't even know that we have left".
Ukraine told the International Atomic Energy Agency that around half of the staff were "finally" able to return to their homes on Sunday after working at the Russian-controlled site for nearly four weeks, IAEA director general Rafael Grossi said.
It ruled that WhatsApp would not be prohibited because it is not used to post public statements.
"Mariupol will be included in a list of cities in the world that were completely destroyed by the war, such as Guernica, Stalingrad, Grozny, Aleppo," Mr Androulakis told reporters at the airport.
"We tried to save as many expatriates as we could," Mr Androulakis said, adding that the "heroes are the people who stayed there and will try to make their lives from scratch".
"It is a positive - albeit long overdue - development that some staff at the Chernobyl NPP have now rotated and returned to their families," Mr Grossi said.
"Probably it will be further from Moscow and lawyers will have difficulty entering this colony and we will not have access to Alexei," she said. "Its not a question of his freedom, its a question of his life... They are the same people that tried to kill him already... This is what we are afraid of."
Poland's central bank has signed an agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine that will allow every Ukrainian adult refugee to convert up to 10,000 hryvnias $341.88 to Polish zloty starting from Friday March 25.
Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the two countries agreed the Ukraine crisis should not divert the Quad group's attention from the Indo-Pacific region.
They were arrested on a yacht on suspicion of trying to smuggle a group of Albanians into the UK last September, the EurActiv website reported.
Belarus may soon attack Ukraine and is preparing to consider allowing Russia to position nuclear weapons in the country, according to a senior Nato intelligence official.
Russian and Ukrainian peace negotiators held a 90-minute video call on Monday and working groups will continue to meet throughout the day, a member of the Ukrainian delegation said.
The video footage shows blood on the ground and people running from the scene, including, he said, a "wounded pensioner".
The US Government would "continue to use every tool to deter, disrupt and, if necessary, respond to cyberattacks against critical infrastructure".
The Zvezda website said 10 such ships were participating in the operation. It said each could carry up to 20 tanks or 40 armoured personnel carriers.
China has defended its stance on Ukraine, insisting that it is on the right side of history after the US called on Beijing to distance itself from Moscow
"Ukrainian officials have been warning publicly that Belarus might join the war. While Belarus has allowed Russian troops to use its territory to launch ground and air operations, Nato has not seen any firm evidence that Belarusian troops have participated directly in warfare in Ukraine.
Downing Street has publicly blamed Vladimir Putin's Russia for being behind hoax calls targeting British ministers.
Russian Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev said Russian forces would allow two corridors out of the coastal city, heading either east towards Russia or west to other parts of Ukraine.
Diplomats are also expected to urge greater aid access and to demand that Russia stop fighting and withdraw its troops.
Mr Wallace added that Putin's "illegal" invasion of Ukraine has left the Ukrainian people "suffering horribly" at the hands of the Russian military, who have targeted civilians and infrastructure.
"And he assumed that the international community would not stand strong together he was wrong.
We collect humanitarian aid, provide psychological support. We work around the clock and are ready to help everyone.
"You have the power, the capacity, and the responsibility to strengthen the cybersecurity and resilience of the critical services and technologies on which Americans rely. We need everyone to do their part."
"But there's investigative processes that are going to go on, and we're going to let that happen. We're going to contribute to that investigative process.
The war between Ukraine and Russia, two of the world's top crop producers, could lead to a food crisis "on the global" scale, French farming minister Julien Denormandie said in Brussels on Monday ahead of a EU agriculture meeting.
The Russian government has urged the public not to stockpile food or essentials in the wake of economic sanctions, saying that there is "enough for everyone".
The Russian defence ministry, addressing Mariupol authorities on messaging app Telegram, wrote: "You are the ones who now have the right to make a historic choice - either you are with your people or you are with the criminals.
"It's had the effect of him moving his forces into a woodchipper," Mr Austin told CBS on Sunday.
A statement from the Italian prime minister Mario Draghi's office said: "The leaders reaffirmed the importance of the unity of purpose and action shown in the face of the war in Ukraine and its repercussions.
Popescu said that Moldova currently has around "100,000 refugees from Ukraine, which represents four per cent of our population".
State Emergency Services of Ukraine have released more photos of the destruction caused by shelling in the Podilskyi district of Kyiv.
All remaining members of the one shift of technical staff that had been on duty at Chernobyl when it was seized by Russian forces last month have now been relieved, the UN nuclear watchdog said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the "special military operation" is aimed at disarming Ukraine and rooting out dangerous nationalists.
"There was not a direct comparison made between fighting in Ukraine and Brexit... they're not directly analogous. He was making observations about people's desire for freedom," the spokesman said.
President Volodymyr Zelensky told CNN that Ukrainians "have not greeted Russian soldiers with a bunch of flowers", but with "weapons in their hands".
Six Russian generals and dozens of other senior officers have been killed since the start of the invasion, Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky, said.
The consultancy said in a report that 202122 July-June wheat exports would not exceed 18.3 million tonnes, while ending stocks will reach 5.9 million tonnes.
Six bodies were laid out in front of the Retroville shopping mall in the northwest of Kyiv.
The strategic port has been under bombardment for more than three weeks and has seen some of the worst horrors of the war. City officials said at least 2,300 people had died, with some buried in mass graves.
In a blunt assessment, the think tank concluded that Russia failed in its initial campaign to take the capital of Kyiv and other major cities quickly, and its stalled invasion is creating conditions for a "very violent and bloody" stalemate.
Nearly 3.5 million Ukrainians have now fled the country following Russia's invasion, the United Nations said Monday, praising neighbouring countries for showing overwhelming compassion towards their "extreme plight".
Russian forces entered Mariupol in recent days - cutting it off from the sea and devastating a massive steel plant. But taking the city could prove costly.
"They must be frozen, the assets of Russian oligarchs in Switzerland must be confiscated and I called on the president to see to it that Switzerland approaches this topic decisively," Mateusz Morawiecki told a news conference.
The Kremlin on Monday said Europe would be hit hard in the event of an embargo on Russian oil, striking the continent's energy balance, but would not affect the United States.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Guardian: "The Belarusian government is preparing the environment to justify a Belarusian offensive against Ukraine and the imminent deployment of Russian nuclear weapons in Belarus.
"According to the information we have at the moment, several homes and one of the shopping centres were hit," city mayor Vitali Klitschko said on his Telegram channel.
The Prime Minister also raised the Northern Ireland protocol during the call, and said solutions need to be found in order to protect peace and stability.
"Sergey Karjakin is found guilty of breach of article 2.2.10 of the FIDE Code of Ethics, and is sanctioned to a worldwide ban of six months from participating as a player in any FIDE rated chess competition, taking effect from the date of this decision, 21 March 2022," the governing body said in a statement.
The White House said Mr Biden will host a call on Monday with Boris Johnson, Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, to discuss their coordinated responses to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine's state-run gas transmission system operator said on Monday said it had full control of the network.
The burnt-out mall was still smoking on Monday morning. All of its south side was destroyed, as well as a fitness centre in its car park.
Moscow summoned the US ambassador George Sullivan in protest at "the recent unacceptable statements made by the head of the White House, Joe Biden, to the President of Russia", which came in response to Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine rejected an ultimatum to surrender the besieged port city of Mariupol to Russian forces, its deputy prime minister told Ukrainian media on Monday.
Foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter: "We share Beijing's position on the need to find a political solution to the war against Ukraine and call on China as a global power to play an important role in this effort."
US President Joe Biden will travel to Poland on Friday to meet with President Andrzej Duda for discussions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the White House said.
According to flight tracking data it was a second trip by a jet linked to Mr Abramovich between the Turkish city and the Russian capital in three days.
The source added that the "there's just not a lot of practicality about it" from a military perspective.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, who has been trying to mediate an end to the Ukraine-Russia conflict, said on Monday that despite some progress big gaps remained between the sides.
"This is standard practice for Russian information operations and disinformation is a tactic straight from the Kremlin playbook to try to distract from their illegal activities in Ukraine and the human rights abuses being committed there."
In a statement, the President said: "If you have not already done so, I urge our private sector partners to harden your cyber defences immediately."
"The ministers will discuss that," he told reporters ahead of an EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels, responding to a question whether measures against Russian oil exports would be talked about.
City officials said nearly 40,000 people had fled over the past week, almost 10pc of its population of 430,000.
The Kremlin said on Saturday that it had used hypersonic Kinzhal dagger missiles to destroy a large weapons depot in the western region of Ivano-Frankivsk.
The men must not commit any further offences, return to serve their pre-trial detention if requested and serve any sentence the court might impose in the future, a court in Breda decided.
Moscow has accused Meta - the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp - of allowing 'Russophobia' since its forces first invaded in Ukraine in February.
"We consider what is happening in Ukraine as a massive disruption to the international rules-based order and because of that it impacts all of us and that's why we have taken these extraordinary measures," Ms Ardern said.
The diplomat, who has been hailed a hero in Greece, organised many succesful evacuations of Greek expatriates before finally leaving on Tuesday.
Russia's FSB national security service asked a court Monday to "immediately" ban US tech giant Meta, accusing it of working against Moscow's interests during its "special military operation" in Ukraine.
Russia said it is abandoning peace talks with Japan, which were aimed at signing a formal World War II peace treaty, due to Tokyo's tough response on Ukraine.
Switzerland must freeze the accounts of Russian oligarchs in the country and confiscate their assets, the Polish prime minister said on Monday during a visit to Warsaw by the Swiss President Ignazio Cassis.
Facebook and Twitter have been inaccessible in Russia since early March and Instagram was blocked in the country a week ago.
"Today we are working the whole day," Ukrainian delegate and lawmaker David Arakhamia was quoted as saying by Ukrainian media.
The leaders of the US, UK, Germany, France and Italy spoke to each other via telephone on Monday, where they agreed on the importance of remaining united over Ukraine.
Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, the largest in Russia, announced that it has furloughed a fifth of its staff and frozen new recruitment as passenger traffic plummeted as a result of Western sanctions.
"I'm pleased that we are supporting Ukraine in every single way that we can, whether that's military aid, humanitarian aid, or indeed, as you just talked about, Nick, about providing sanctuary for those that are fleeing Ukraine.
Deputy PM Viktoria Abramchenko said: "We are fully covering our needs in sugar and buckwheat.
Mariupol, a port on the Azov Sea, was home to 400,000 people before the war. It has been under siege and bombardment, with no food, medicine, power or fresh water, since the early days of Russia's invasion on February 24.
"Due to wind and water currents, the mines are drifting freely in the western part of the Black Sea," the FSB said.
The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it has not had any contact with Marina Ovsyannikova, the journalist who staged an anti-war protest during a news broadcast on Russian state TV.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace and Home Secretary Priti Patel said they had been targeted by calls from imposters last week while No 10 revealed an unsuccessful attempt was also made to contact Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries.
A Black Sea Fleet commander has been shot dead by Ukrainian forces, becoming the first Russian naval chief to be killed during the invasion
Moscow's Tverskoi district court acceded to a request from prosecutors for the two social media platforms to be banned for "carrying out extremist activities".
It comes ahead of his trip to Europe later this week, where he will meet with Nato allies and G7 and EU leaders.
President Biden has asked US businesses to "immediately" strengthen their defences against potential cyber attacks from the Russian state.
City officials and aid groups say food, water and electricity have run low in Mariupol and fighting has kept out humanitarian convoys. Communications are severed.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky, said six Russian generals and dozens of other senior officers had been killed since the start of the Russian invasion.
The UN General Assembly is expected to vote again this week on the war in Ukraine, with diplomats poised to call out Russia's invasion for creating a "dire" humanitarian situation.
Mstyslav Chernov, an award-winning video journalist, and Evgeniy Maloletka, a prominent photographer, recorded destruction including the bombing of a maternity hospital.
The Polish government wants to amend the constitution so that it can raise defence expenditure and confiscate Russian oligarchs' assets following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a government spokesman said on Monday.
David Beckham has handed control of his Instagram account to a Ukrainian doctor working in the city of Kharkiv.
"The activities of the Meta organisation are directed against Russia and its armed forces," FSB representative Igor Kovalevsky told Moscow's Tverskoi district court, Russian news agencies reported.
Ratings agencies have downgraded Russia's bonds to "junk" status, and the head of the International Monetary Fund has said a default on government debt is no longer "an improbable event."
Volodymyr Zelensky has vowed that Ukraine will shoot down the Russian pilot responsible for attacking an art school where about 400 civilians were taking shelter in the besieged city of Mariupol.
Ukraine has a high number of orphans and children born through surrogate mothers who had not been picked up by their parents. That increased the risk that they could be abducted or become victims of forced adoptions, she said.
Last week, the bank announced it was working with Poland's largest lender, PKO BP, to allow refugees who have fled Ukraine for Poland to convert hryvnia.
Sir Richard Barrons told the Today programme on BBC Radio 4: "I think they will now turn to Odesa because that is logically the next place to go in the south and there seem to be more ships in the Black Sea pointing at it."
Read: Well fight to the end: Odesas pistol-packing mayor gets city fired up for Russian attack
Photographs of a pregnant woman being carried from the wreckage on a stretcher made front pages around the world.
"We have not been in touch with Ovsyannikova. This is yet another lie being peddled by the disinformation machine," the FCO said.
Boris Johnson told the Ukrainian leader the UK was "committed to stepping up military, economic and diplomatic support" in a bid to bring about an end to the war.
"It is hard to overestimate the possibilities of using this port," said the website of the Russian armed forces news outlet Zvezda Star.
"And it's important that we continue to help in that way. I expect that we will see hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians arrive here in the UK, and they will get all the support that they need."
Moscow has made thinly veiled threats against Poland with an essay that stressed the two countries historic ties and attacked imbecilic Polish leaders as vassals of the US, James Kilner reports.
Moscow could not hope to rule the country, given Ukrainians' enmity towards the Russian forces, he said.
More than 10 million people - over a quarter of the population in regions under government control - are now thought to have fled their homes, including the millions of internally displaced people.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has killed thousands of people, displaced more than three million and raised fears of a wider confrontation between Russia and the United States.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko has announced a new curfew for the Ukrainian capital, beginning later on Monday that would last until Wednesday morning.
At least six people were killed in the overnight bombing of a shopping centre in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, an AFP journalist said on Monday, with rescuers combing the wreckage for other victims.
Theres basically no way left to get a good income unless youre into corruption, connections, or straight out crime, he says. Theres rumours of Russia being disconnected off the internet. If that happens, Im done with this country. I dont want to live in a bigger North Korea.
The Caspian Flotilla has joined the bombardment of Ukraine from 600 miles away, as Russian warships fire new Kalibr cruise missiles from a second sea
The New Zealand Defence Force will provide tactical equipment such as body armour, helmets and vests that are surplus to requirements, she said.
EU ministers will discuss the food situation with their Ukrainian counterpart in a video call, he added.
He hailed people in the southern city of Kherson for taking to the streets on Sunday to protest the Russian occupation, showing "Ukrainian courage, armless against the occupiers".
The 10-storey building was hit by a powerful blast that pulverised vehicles in its car park and left a crater several metres wide.
New Zealand has also imposed sanctions on Russia and arranged a special visa for Ukrainians with New Zealand connections.
He said he has not seen any evidence of sanctioned Russian wealth coming into the UAE, the region's commercial hub which diplomats, company executives and financial sources have said has emerged as a safe haven for Russia's rich.
The Pentagon also accused the Kremlin of conducting intentionally indiscriminate attacks as part of the conflict.
The central bank bought bonds to support prices. The bank has imposed wide-ranging restrictions on financial transactions to try to stabilize markets and combat the severe fallout from Western sanctions that have sent the rouble sharply lower against the U.S. dollar and the euro.
A Russian-backed separatist leader in eastern Ukraine said on Monday it would take more than a week to take control of the besieged Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, the Russian news agency Interfax reported.
Russia gave Mariupol an ultimatum late on Sunday, urging its defenders to surrender before 5am on Monday.
The European Union was set to approve Monday a new defence strategy designed to increase the bloc's capacity to act, including setting up a 5,000-strong rapid reaction force.
Germany's Hydrogenious and Uniper, along with Abu Dhabi National Oil Company ADNOC and Japan's JERA, will undertake a joint demonstration project for hydrogen transport, the ministry said in a statement.
"If they catch you, they will get you on camera and they will make you say that everything you filmed is a lie," one soldier said, according to Mr Chernov. "All your efforts and everything you have done in Mariupol will be in vain."
Previous bids to allow residents to evacuate Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities have failed or have been only partially successful, with bombardments continuing as civilians sought to flee.
The Kremlin Museum has returned a painting to Spain's Prado gallery and several suits of armour that were loaned for an exhibition postponed after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, two sources from Spanish institutions said on Monday.
Twisted bits of metal and other debris were strewn across the area for hundreds of metres, as firefighters and soldiers searched the devastation for victims.
The Ukrainian defence minister has praised Britain for being among the first countries to provide the country "with serious weapons that have increased our defence capability" amid the war with Russia.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Ukraine will never bow to ultimatums from Russia, and cities such as Kyiv, Mariupol and Kharkiv will never accept Russian occupation.
We mourn the loss of a close friend. We wish his son and granddaughter, who brought us the sad news, strength in these difficult times.
Wagner Group assassins have entered Ukraine with orders to kill Volodymyr Zelensky and his leadership team, Ukraine intelligence says
Shelling hit residential houses and a shopping district in Kyiv's Podil district late on Sunday, killing at least four people, city authorities said.
Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny expects to hear a verdict on Tuesday in Russia's latest criminal case against him, with prosecutors seeking to transfer him to a maximum security penal colony for 13 years on charges of fraud and contempt of court.
"Please do not sponsor the weapons of war of this country, of Russia. No euros for the occupiers. Close all of your ports to them. Don't export them your goods. Deny energy resources. Push for Russia to leave Ukraine," Mr Zelensky said in a video address.
Mr Biden warned of intelligence pointing to a growing Russian cyber threat and urged US businesses to immediately prepare defences: "If you have not already done so, I urge our private sector partners to harden your cyber defences immediately."
Sharing his essay on Twitter, he said: While Europe is getting painfully aware of the damage the anti-Russian sanctions are causing it, our most favourite European country is, as usual, going ahead of the locomotive.
Mr Johnson is expected to travel to Brussels, where he will hold talks on Thursday with US President Joe Biden and other allies about the Ukraine crisis.
The FCO was responding to a claim made by Kirill Kleymenov, head of news at Russia's Channel One where Ovsyannikova was an employee, that she had spoken to the British embassy before her protest took place.
An ammonia leak at a chemical plant in the Ukrainian city of Sumy has contaminated an area with a radius of more than 5km 3 miles, officials said this morning.
A total of 10,200 visas had been issued under the Government's Ukraine family scheme as at 4pm yesterday, the Home Office said this morning.
The city council said there were no casualties although the strike caused a fire. "These are residential buildings where peaceful people live," Mayor Gennadiy Trukhanov was quoted as saying. Russia denies targeting civilians.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called on European leaders on Monday to cease all trade with Russia in an effort to pressure Moscow to halt its nearly month-long military assault on his country.
At least eight people were killed when shelling hit houses and a shopping district in Kyiv's Podil district late on Sunday, city authorities said.
The plan - in the pipeline for two years - has undergone a last-minute rewrite to increase the focus on the threat from Russia after Moscow invaded Ukraine.
Speaking after flying back to Athens, where he has been hailed a hero, Greek Consul General in Mariupol Manolis Androulakis called on people to "unite their voices to ask for a truce, a ceasefire".
Ukrainians will get a referendum on any compromises with Russia if a peace deal is agreed, President Volodymyr Zelensky said, but insisted his country would be destroyed before it bowed to any ultimatums from Moscow.
A Ukrainian theatre is staging performances of Shakespeare even as the surrounding area is targeted by Russian hypersonic missiles.
"I am not so optimistic that two or three days or even a week will close the issue. Unfortunately, no, the city is big," Denis Pushilin, head of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic, said, according to the report.
Sumy regional governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky did not say what caused the leak, but authorities urged people in Sumy to breathe through gauze bandages soaked in citric acid.
It came as a former commander of UK Joint Forces Command warned that Odesa is Russia's next "logical" target.
A further 1,496 have been injured according to the official tally, though the true number is thought to be much higher.
The court set them free late last week after hearing lawyers argue the men were desperate to defend their homeland from the Russian invaders. It said their situation was special and serious and the men were insistent on the desire to fight.
Loud explosions were heard as a shopping centre below and cars in a parking lot caught fire, they said.
At least 925 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since Russia's invasion began, the UN human rights office OHCHR said.
"As for what would come out of that, that's not a decision that the Pentagon leadership would make."
Police believe the video, which is circulating on social media, was designed deliberately to stoke hate and are investigating the matter.
Baerbock said that "no country can cope" with the sheer number of refugees alone, with more than three million people having fled Ukraine since the war began, particularly into Poland.
