Russians detained an American in Ukraine for 10 days because of James Bond
20220330
https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/russians-detained-an-american-in-ukraine-for-10-days-because-of-james-bond-070721306.html
Minnesota native Tyler Jacob, who was freed late last week after being detained for 10 days by the Russian military in Ukraine, appeared Wednesday on Don Lemon Tonight along with his mother, Tina Hauser. Jacob spoke about his time in captivity, recounting how he was traveling on a bus with others trying to escape the violence when he was detained at a checkpoint for several hours before being moved to a jail the next morning. He was charged with not giving his passport.
Jacob also spoke about the time he spent in jail. While his mother, who was being interviewed with him, feared the worst, Jacob said he was actually treated really well.
Jacob, who was an English teacher in Ukraine, where he has a wife and daughter, was the only one of the group he was traveling with to be detained. He believes he was singled out for a reason..
Questlove missed the Will Smith-Chris Rock drama because he was meditating before accepting his Oscar
The Russians believe in this myth that 007, the legend, his cover story is being an English teacher, Jacob said. So they thought that I was, like, the legend.
Jacob said the person questioning him said, Youre just an English teacher thats in a bad situation.
Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram. And check out our host, Kylie Mar, on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram.
Jacob said he went through some pretty heavy interrogation about being a spy, but after going through all his devices, and seeing that he did not have in his contacts list someone they were suspicious of, the Russians realized he was who he said he was.
How did they treat you in custody? Lemon asked. So, the first two days werent so great, Jacob said. But once I got to jail in Simferopol Crimea, they were absolutely perfect to me.
As much as Id like to say that Russians are bad people for invading a sovereign country, these people are some of the nicest people Ive met, Jacob said. I mean, there were three captains that rotated in the jail, and two of them would speak English with me, and one of them would wink at me when Id get pulled to go get questioned and he would make sure that I knew that things were going well.
Russia has caused countless deaths in Ukraine, including women and children as the military has repeatedly attacked civilian targets. Though Jacob admitted the fault of the Russians in the invasion, he only had words of praise for his captors.
