Russia continues offensive more US aid for Ukraine Queen Elizabeth II is 96 5 things to know Thursday
20220421
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-continues-offensive-more-us-082730439.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his forces not to storm the last remaining Ukrainian stronghold in the beleaguered city of Mariupol Thursday but instead to block it "so that not even a fly comes through." Defense minister Sergei Shoigu said the rest of the city beyond the Azovstal steel plant where Ukrainian forces were holed has been "liberated"  as Russian officials refer to areas of Ukraine they have seized. Putin hailed that as a "success." The comments appeared to reflect a change in strategy, where the Russians previously seemed determined to take all of Mariupol. In another update, Ukraine's General Staff said Thursday morning the Russian forces continue the offensive in the eastern part of the country with the goal of establishing full control over the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Russian forces control 80 of the region, one of two regions that make up the Donbas in eastern Ukraine. Before Russia invaded, the Kyiv government controlled 60 of the region.
President Joe Biden is set to announce plans Thursday to send additional military aid to help Ukraine fight back against the Russian invasion, a U.S. official told the Associated Press. The source said Biden will deliver an address Thursday morning at the White House detailing his plans to build on the roughly $2.6 billion in military assistance the administration has already approved to Ukraine since Russia's invasion Feb. 24. The president's official schedule states that he will provide "an update on Russia and Ukraine" Thursday morning, but does not provide additional details. Later, Biden will head to the Pacific Northwest as part of an expanded travel schedule ahead of the November elections as he tries to demonstrate that he has made progress on his agenda while also prodding Congress. He plans to visit Portland International Airport Thursday to talk about investing in a runway that can withstand earthquakes. He'll also take part in a fundraiser before heading north to Seattle.
The seventh annual Latin American Music Awards ceremony will be broadcast Thursday from Las Vegas Telemundo, 8 p.m. ET and features a performance from Mexican music star Christian Nodal and up-and-coming Mexican rapper, Gera MX. Their collaboration on the breakup anthem "Botella Tras Botella" Bottle After Bottle has earned them the first regional Mexican single to debut on Billboard's Hot 100 chart in its 64-year history and three Latin American Music Award nominations for viral song of the year, H2collaboration of the year and regional Mexican favorite song. So they would not lose their rhythm, Nodal and Gera, who have known each other for about five years, kept recording and writing music during the pandemic. When they wrote "Botella Tras Botella," Gera says: "We knew we had something different  something special."
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Russia-Ukraine war, Queen Elizabeth II birthday: 5 things to know Thursday
Annual tradition resumes: Biden, first lady to attend White House Correspondents' Dinner after years-long break
'Faithfully performing his professional duties': Bomb-sniffing dog in Ukraine helped defuse dozens of explosives during Russian invasion
Looking at loans: Millions are closer to student debt forgiveness under new Biden administration changes
Learning about Paquita la del Barrio: The Mexican singer is known for feminist anthems calling out machismo and sexism
The Florida state House of Representatives is set to vote Thursday on legislation that would repeal a 56-year-old law that allows Disney to self-govern its 38-square-mile Central Florida entertainment empire. An additional measure would also strip Disney of special protections from social media regulations approved last year and now tied up in court. Gov. Ron DeSantis asked lawmakers to consider repealing the governing structure for Disney's Florida properties, a move viewed as punishment for Disney speaking out against the "Parental Rights in Education Act"  what critics have labeled the "Dont Say Gay" law, which DeSantis signed into law this month. This marks an unprecedented standoff between two of Floridas most powerful political entities  Walt Disney Co. is a prime economic engine for Florida, with an annual economic impact of $75 billion.
Queen Elizabeth II, Britain's longest-serving monarch, will celebrate her 96th birthday quietly Thursday at her Sandringham estate in England, The Guardian reported. No public events are scheduled today. A grand birthday parade is planned for June as part of the Queen's Platinum Jubilee celebrating her 70 years on the throne. The Royal Windsor Horse Show shared a new portrait of the monarch ahead of her birthday. In the photo, the queen dons a forest green cape-style coat and stands proudly while holding the reins of her two fell ponies, Bybeck Katie and Bybeck Nightingale. The queen has cut back on public duties after spending a night in the hospital in October and testing positive for COVID-19 in February. Most recently, she did not attend an Easter Sunday service at Windsor Castle. But Prince Harry said in a "Today" show interview Wednesday his grandmother was "on great form" when they met earlier this month.
Queen carries on: Monarch leads royals at memorial service for Prince Philip at Westminster Abbey
Russia escalates attacks: What a new phase of war means for Ukrainians in the east
More on Harry's visit to visit his grandmother: 'She's always got a great sense of humor with me'
