RussiaUkraine latest news Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power says Joe Biden
20220326
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-ukraine-latest-news-ukraine-221911255.html
The meeting was attended by a number of top Russian army officials including the chief of the General Staff, Valery Gerasimov, who also had not been seen in public recently.
Russia has falsely claimed it has worn down the Ukrainian army, allowing it to focus on its key objective of capturing Donetsk and Luhansk, said a US Think Tank.
But on Saturday Governor Maksym Kozytskyy said two rockets had struck the city's eastern outskirts in the mid-afternoon and ordered residents to take shelter.
The UK should be doing "much more" to aid Ukrainian refugees, Sadiq Khan has said, as he joined a march in support of the country.
"I know that's no solace to the people, but he Putin, thought Ukrainians would roll over and not fight. Not much of a student of history...
In a bizarre intervention on Friday, Putin appeared to suggest the West was trying to "cancel" Russia and its history, comparing himself to JK Rowling
Agreement has been reached on the establishment of ten humanitarian corridors on Saturday to evacuate civilians from front line hotspots in Ukrainian towns and cities, Ukraine's deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
But while it might have been preferable to the cramped cubicle of a Russian armoured vehicle, his al fresco ablutions meant he dropped his guard along with his trousers. He was spotted by a passing Ukrainian defence patrol and taken prisoner, giving a new meaning to the phrase "Missing in Action".
Mr Macron on Friday announced he would be coordinating efforts with Greece and Turkey, in what could be the first operation that puts Western boots on the ground in Ukraine since the start of the conflict.
Around 25 truckloads of dried food, tinned goods and water will be transported by road and rail following a request by the Ukrainian government.
The city of Kherson remains under total Russian control, four residents of the city have told CNN.
Addressing the Doha Forum international conference via video link, Mr Zelensky said countries such as Qatar could make a contribution to the stabilisation of Europe.
"It is important throughout the next few days, weeks to make it far, far easier, and much more easier for those who are fleeing Ukraine to come here," he said.
The usual overnight curfew from 8:00 pm 1800 GMT to 07:00 am 0500 GMT would hold but people would "be able to freely move around Kyiv on Sunday during the day", he added.
Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu was seen speaking publicly for the first time in more than two weeks on Saturday, chairing an army meeting and discussing weapons supplies.
He had said it would "start from 8:00 pm Saturday and last until 7:00 am on Monday", with residents only allowed out "to seek shelter if sirens go off". Public transport, shops, pharmacies and petrol pumps were to be closed.
The mayor of Ukraine's capital Kyiv on Saturday cancelled a curfew he had announced just hours earlier for the next day without providing further explanation.
A Moscow City Duma deputy has suggested that six more countries - Kazakhstan, Moldova, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia - should be 'denazified', regional media organisation Nexta is reporting.
He did not share details of the location. He said the strike had damaged infrastructure but not residential buildings.
"Putin has the gall to say he's 'de-Nazifying Ukraine'. It's a lie. It's cynical and he knows that. It's obscene. President Zelensky was democratically elected. His family is Jewish. Putin has the audacity to believe that might will make right."
Policing minister Kit Maltouse told BBC Breakfast: "I'm not qualified to say, but what I do know is there's an awful lot of misinformation and disinformation flying around in this awful conflict.
Georgia's breakaway region of South Ossetia has sent troops to Ukraine to "help protect Russia", its leader said on Saturday, as Moscow's military campaign in the neighbouring country entered its 31st day.
Russian president Vladimir Putin had ordered the February invasion to destroy Ukraine's military and topple pro-Western president Volodymyr Zelensky, bringing the country under Russia's sway.
"They can do much to restore justice. The future of Europe depends on your effort. I ask you to increase the output of energy to ensure that everyone in Russia understands that no country can use energy as a weapon and blackmail the world," he said in translated comments.
Japan's Foreign Ministry and Prime Minister's Office could not be reached outside business hours to comment on the exercises.
Mutinous Russian soldiers ran over their own tank commander in protest at their heavy losses
Warehouses in Poland and Slovakia are being readied to supply the supplies from early next week, with the window of opportunity to supply civilians trapped in besieged cities such as Mariupol and Chernihiv rapidly closing.
There are 1,000 people attending a speech by Joe Biden in Warsaw, including Polish officials, dignitaries and vetted Ukrainian refugees.
In an online statement, Pavlyuk said Russian troops had occupied the hospital in Slavutych and kidnapped the mayor. Reuters could not independently verify the reports.
"Because if fascism is not crushed at the distant frontiers, tomorrow it will again manifest itself here."
"The mine, determined to be an old type, was neutralised by our team...and naval forces continue their vigilant work," Akar said in a televised statement.
After three days of emergency meetings with allies of the G7, European Council and NATO, and a visit with U.S. troops in Poland, Biden will meet with Polish President Andrzej Duda.
"The Kremlin wants to portray Nato enlargement as an imperial project aimed at destabilising Russia. Nothing could be further from the truth. It is a defensive alliance and has never sought the demise of Russia.
When asked about the comment, a Kremlin spokesman said: "That's not for Biden to decide. The President of Russia is elected by Russians."
Once we achieve peace, we will begin immediate large-scale reconstruction of our country. But now people need a temporary home, the newspaper quotes President Volodymyr Zelensky as saying.
Baroness Neville-Jones, a former chair of the Joint Intelligence Committee, told BBC Radio 4's Any Questions? said she hopes the defence alliance's words of deterrence succeed in preventing Vladimir Putin launching such an attack.
"Our guys are going to fulfil their military duty with a proudly raised banner," the leader of South Ossetia, Anatoly Bibilov, said on Telegram.
Ukrainian prosecutors earlier this month said 10 people were killed by Russian forces earlier while waiting in a line to collect bread in the northern city.
"This, in fact, is the beginning of another 50 years of peace," he declared in 1998 as the Senate voted in favour of the inclusion of Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic.
One month ago, a Russian military Antonov transport plane took off from the Central African Republic, bound for eastern Ukraine.
Russias justification for the invasion of Ukraine from the outset was the fictitious threat Moscow claimed Ukrainian forces posed to the people in Russian-occupied Donbas. The Kremlin has reiterated this justification for the war frequently as part of efforts to explain the invasion to its people and build or sustain public support for Putin and the war
"He'd wandered about 500 yards from his position and had just unbuckled his trousers to take a sh," laughed Pavlo Maksym, a sergeant with a Ukrainian civil defence militia in the village of Stoyanka, on Kyivs western flank.
Turkey's military deactivated a mine on Saturday that had drifted in from the Black Sea, setting off a loud explosion north of Istanbul, days after Russia warned several of them had washed away from Ukrainian ports.
"We crept up on him, pointed our guns at him and told him to keep quiet. It was a gamble because if he'd made a noise he could have given us away to the Russian positions, but he didn't - he was just a young kid who didn't know what he was doing."
Russian occupiers have invaded Slavutych and occupied the municipal hospital, the military administration of the Kyiv region, which includes the town, wrote on Telegram.
He did not say how many troops had been deployed but posted a video showing several buses and trucks on the move.
It did not say where on the island chain, connecting Russia's Kamchatka peninsula and Japan's northernmost main island of Hokkaido, the drills were taking place. Japanese media said they were on territory the Soviet Union seized at the end of World War Two that is claimed by Tokyo.
"It was a message that will overcome the cruelty and brutality of this unjust war."
Moscow's troops are facing a counteroffensive in Kherson, the only major Ukrainian city under Russian control.
Putins Feb 24 invasion of Ukraine, which Russia calls a special operation, has tested that promise and threatened to inaugurate a new Cold War three decades after the Soviet Union unravelled.
On Friday, Ukraine said its troops had repulsed a first attack by Russian troops closing in on the town.
After detailing the sanctions imposed on Russia by the West, he said: "Let there be no doubt that this was has been a strategic failure for Russia already.
The mayor of a war-scarred town in northern Ukraine said on Saturday that the slow advance of Russian troops means that large-scale evacuations from the town are no longer possible.
The Telegraph has learnt that Joe Biden is prepared to use nuclear weapons first in "extreme circumstances" after he abandoned plans to drastically water down US policy
"It threatens to return to decades of war that ravaged Europe before the international rule-based order was put in place. We cannot go back to that. Swift and punishing cost is the only thing that will get Russia to change it's course."
Multiple powerful explosions thought to be caused by missiles struck the Ukrainian city of Lviv, just 40 miles away from the border with Poland, during Mr Biden's visit.
"Over the last 30 years, the forces of autocracy have revived across the world. Contempt for the rule of law, democratic freedom, truth itself. Today, Russia has strangled democracy and sough to do elsewhere, not only in its homeland.
"I don't think it's possible then to go on then with economic sanctions, it does have to be some kind of military response, there are a variety of responses you could take and it doesn't have to be necessarily in Ukraine - you've got a very large land mass called Russia."
Mr Zelensky claimed in his night-time address that more than 16,000 Russian troops had been killed in the conflict.
The French President is expected to talk with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, to convince the Kremlin to allow the evacuation to take place.
Surrounded by Russian forces and under constant bombardment, the northern city known for its eclectic monasteries has no electricity, heating or running water. The lists at pharmacies of the medicines no longer available grow longer by the day.
He was back this weekend, now as president, at a time when European security is facing its most serious test since the Second World War.
A Conservative former security minister suggested Nato could take some form of military action against Russia if Moscow uses chemical weapons in Ukraine.
"We are deciding on how to get the seriously injured out by any means. We can't operate on them locally," he said, saying some 44 people, both military and civilians were in need of medical attention.
Reuters could not independently verify this information. Ukraine and Russia have traded blame when humanitarian corridors have failed to work in recent weeks.
Mr Biden cited the words of Pope John Paul II to rouse the crowds in Warsaw.
Like many residents of Ukraine's besieged city of Chernihiv, linguistics scholar Ihar Kazmerchak spends his nights in a bomb shelter and starts his day lining up for the little potable water authorities have left to hand out.
There are growing signs that Ukraine is gaining ground it had lost to Russia, with the invaders now pushed back to positions 20 miles from Kyiv, according to the Ministry of Defence
In the video, uploaded on social media by his ministry, Shoigu said he had discussed issues related to the military budget and defence orders with the finance ministry.
French forces could be dispatched to Ukraine as Emmanuel Macron plans an evacuation mission to save up to 100,000 Ukrainians from the besieged port city of Mariupol.
If ever there was a sign that the war in Ukraine was not going as well as Vladimir Putin had hoped, it must have been the sight of a Russian soldier running over one of his own commanders with a tank.
Ten days ago, a theatre believed to have been sheltering at least 1,000 women and children was destroyed in the southern port city.
He said refugees have arrived in the UK through the Homes For Ukrainians scheme, but said the number will not be published until "next week".
Lviv, some 40 miles from the Polish border, has so far escaped the bombardment and fighting that has devastated some Ukrainian cities closer to Russia since Moscow launched its invasion on Feb. 24.
About 300 people are now thought to have died in the bombing, according to Mariupol City Council, making it the deadliest single attack of the war to date.
The Russian forces appear to have lost control of at least some of their own troops, as the conflict turns from the lightning invasion they were promised into a prolonged war of attrition.
A witness heard a loud bang off the coastal village of Rumelifeneri, where naval vessels and military planes and helicopters were active. Turkey shares Black Sea borders with Russia and Ukraine.
It has now emerged that some of those taking shelter in the theatre were pregnant women who had just been rescued from Mariupols maternity hospital, which was also hit by Russian air strikes on March 10.
"A dictator bent on rebuilding an empire will never erase the people's love for liberty. Brutality will never grind down their will to be free. Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia."
Authorities in the port city of Mariupol said the death toll from the March 16 bombing of a theatre in which civilians were sheltering was now thought to be 300
Melinda Simmons, the British ambassador to Ukraine, said: "Drobitzky Yar on the outskirts of Kharkiv, where 11,000 Jews were shot by Nazis in a ravine in 1942. Shelled by Russians in 2022."
"Instead, Russian forces have met their match with brave and stiff Ukrainian resistance. Rather than driving Nato apart, the West is now more stronger and united than it has ever been."
Chernigiv has been a centre of fighting between Russian troops and Ukraine's army since Moscow sent troops into its pro-democratic neighbour just over one month ago.
Joe Biden on Saturday revisited the site of a historic speech he made as a US senator after the fall of the Soviet Union, when he warned European partners not to be complacent, our US Correspondent Josie Ensor reports.
CNN said the assessment that Ukrainian forces had started to reclaim the city was based on information from two US defence officials claiming images and media reports showed the Ukrainian flag draped from city hall.
Mr Biden, who took office last year after a violently contested election, vowed to restore democracy at home and unite democracies abroad to confront autocrats including the Russian president and Chinas leader Xi Jinping.
The claims contrast with earlier media reports citing the Pentagon as saying Ukrainian forces had retaken control of parts of the city.
We are going to launch a humanitarian operation in conjunction with Turkey and Greece to evacuate all those who wish to leave Mariupol, Mr Macron told reporters, after a two-day meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels.
"Let's hope that succeeds because what you then have to do, and obviously ministers are not going to say, but they are indicating that the response would be proportionate, and proportionate means it would be severe," she said.
Video footage from the scene appeared to show the resistance movement ignoring Russian soldiers firing warning shots into the air and launching stun grenades into the crowd, just hours after invaders arrived in the town, 102 miles north of Kyiv.
However, the White House quickly intervened following Mr Biden's speech to say he was not calling for a regime change in Russia.
"Time and again, we offered real diplomacy and concrete proposals to strengthen European security and build confidence on all sides. Russia met all proposals with lies and ultimatums. Russia was bent on violence from the start. There is simply no justification or provocation for Russia's choice of war.
Pregnant women who escaped a bombed hospital were sheltering in a Mariupol theatre when it was destroyed by Russians, it has emerged.
Russia's "bragging" about its nuclear weapons is fuelling a dangerous arms race, Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky told the Doha Forum on Saturday.
The US president said Europe must steel itself for a "long fight ahead", as the conflict could take months to resolve.
Speaking ahead of the demonstration, Mr Khan said he was there to condemn Russia's "barbaric aggression".
Shoigu appeared on screen in a video clip of a meeting between President Vladimir Putin and his Security Council on Thursday, but was not shown speaking. Prior to that, he had not been seen in public since March 11.
"Today I saw them with their guns at the market, possibly searching vegetables for buying," one resident said to CNN on Friday evening. "They lose only couple of villages, not towns."
"They understand perfectly that they are going to defend Russia, they are going to defend Ossetia too," Bibilov said.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has hailed his troops as having delivered "powerful blows" to the invading forces as he urged Moscow to negotiate an end to the month-long war.
Mr Biden said that Mr Putin's days ought to be numbered, adding: "For God's sake - this man cannot remain in power."
It is estimated over 12 million people are currently in need of humanitarian assistance across Ukraine, with the actual figure likely to be much higher.
"New information from the military command: the Kyiv curfew will not enter into force tomorrow," mayor Vitali Klitschko announced on Telegram.
He said that more than 200 civilians had been killed in the city since Russian forces invaded Ukraine on February 24, and that 120,000 remain in the city of an estimated pre-invasion population of nearly around 280,000.
A Western official said the brigade commander had been "killed by his own troops, we believe as a consequence of the scale of losses that had been taken by his brigade".
For Private Volodymyr of the Russian army, the call of duty was not as strong as the call of nature. Serving with an attack force on the outskirts of Kyiv, he sneaked into some woods in no man's land to take a quick lavatorial break.
A Government minister warned that Moscow's claims should be treated sceptically after hints at a possible scaling back of the conflict.
Smaller groups of men arrived from other places where the Wagner Group has a presence. This gathering was a sign that Putin had made the decision to start a war in Ukraine  and of how he would fight it.
The month-long invasion of Ukraine by Russia, Europe's top gas supplier, has sharpened concerns of disruption to energy supplies and increased scrutiny of European Union countries' reliance on imported fossil fuels.
Mr Biden cited the words of the philosopher Soren Kierkegaard: "Faith sees best in the dark".
The UN's nuclear watchdog also said it was "concerned" by shelling of the area, with staff unable to meet usual shift patterns at the plant, which is still maintained and was the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster.
The White House quickly intervened following Mr Biden's speech to say he was not calling for a regime change in Russia.
A large crowd, including the Mayor of London, gathered near Hyde Park on Saturday afternoon for a march and vigil to send a unified message of support to the people of Ukraine.
Russian forces have damaged a Holocaust memorial near the city of Kharkiv after firing at it, according to Ukraine's ministry of defense on Saturday.
Vitali Klitschko has told thousands of protesters in central London, including politicians and celebrities, to "keep together" with Ukraine.
He said residents could only "go out to seek shelter if sirens go off" and added that "public transport, shops, pharmacies and petrol pumps will be closed."
"This battle will not be won in days, or months either. We need to steel ourselves for a long fight ahead. For generations, Warsaw has stood where liberty has been challenged and liberty has prevailed."
Some had been in the Spetznaz, the special forces, others in military intelligence, the GRU, or the foreign intelligence service, the SVR, or in the FSO, which guards the Kremlin and Vladimir Putin.
"We have finished in the last two days the operation in the Kyiv region so other armed forces are now focused on the southern part trying to get free Kherson and some other Ukrainian cities."
"We continue ahead-of-schedule delivery of weaponry and equipment by means of credits. The priorities are long-range high-precision weapons, aircraft equipment and maintenance of engagement readiness of strategic nuclear forces," said Shoigu.
"You compare our Government's actions versus the actions of Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Poland, it's embarrassing.
The fear is not misplaced. Russian bombs destroyed Chernihiv's main bridge over the Desna River on the road leading to Kyiv on Wednesday on Friday, artillery shells rendered the remaining pedestrian bridge impassable, cutting off the last possible route for people to get out or for food and medical supplies to get in.
Mr Biden said adding the former Cold War enemies to the Western military alliance amounted to "righting an historical injustice forced upon them by Joseph Stalin."
The US has a "sacred commitment" to the Nato military alliance's collective defence, US President Joe Biden told his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda on Saturday during a visit to Warsaw.
The Kremlin has given the first indication that it plans to scale back its invasion of Ukraine as an army chief said its "main goal" was now the "liberation" of the Donbas region on the eastern border with Russia
Defence Minister Halusi Akar described the object, first discovered by fishermen in the upper Bosphorus strait, as an old type of mine and said he was in touch with both Russian and Ukrainian authorities about it.
The UKs Ministry of Defence said Russian forces are increasingly reliant on indiscriminate air and artillery bombardments, as they are proving reluctant to engage in large scale urban infantry operations.
"And we need to take care that what first appears may not in fact be the truth. Let's hope there may well be a cessation of hostilities as soon as possible."
The mayor of Lviv said another rocket had hit the city in western Ukraine on Saturday, not long after two rockets struck its outskirts in what appeared to be the first attacks within the city's limits since the start of the war with Russia.
Around 15,000 Jews were shot or forced into mass graves at Drobitsky Yar, a ravine outside the eastern city.
The footage of Col Yury Medvedev being carried away in agony on a stretcher, his legs wrapped in a blanket, may be low quality, but its meaning is stark.
He said he views Nato's Article 5 guarantee of mutual defence between member-states as a "sacred" commitment.
Russia continues to besiege a number of major Ukrainian cities including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol, the MoD added.
Klitschko, a former world heavyweight boxing champion, speaking from a military bunker, told the crowd on a big screen near Nelson's Column: "We defend right now the same principles.
His surprise statement came as a Western official reported that a seventh Russian general, Lieutenant General Yakov Rezanstev, had died in Ukraine and that a colonel had been "deliberately" killed by his demoralised men.
Russia's Eastern Military District said it was conducting military drills on the Kuril islands with more than 3,000 troops and hundreds of pieces of army equipment, Russia's Interfax news agency said Friday.
"The military command decided to reinforce the curfew. It will start from 8:00 pm Saturday and last until 7:00 am on Monday," he said on Telegram.
Mr Lubkivskyi told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We cannot believe the statements from Moscow because there's still a lot of untruth and lies from that side. That's why we understand the goal of Putin still is the whole of Ukraine."
Brave Ukrainians faced down Russian gunfire and explosives in a show of defiance after invading troops seized control of a town where workers at the defunct Chernobyl nuclear power plant live.
"In basements at night, everyone is talking about one thing: Chernihiv becoming next Mariupol," Kazmerchak, 38, said, referring to the southern port city 525 miles away that has suffered some of the worst horrors of the war.
Speaking on national television, she said civilians trying to leave the besieged southern port of Mariupol would have to leave in private cars as Russian forces were not letting buses through their checkpoints around the southern port city.
Although it is not known if the Kremlin is deliberately targeting Jewish sites, it is the second Holocaust memorial to have been hit by Russian attacks since the war began.
A huge sea of protesters, draped in blue and yellow colours, started near Hyde Park, before snaking through the roads towards Trafalgar Square.
It was carrying around 100 mercenaries from the notorious Wagner Group, on their way to join some 200 already there. Almost all of these men had served in elite military units or in the security services.
The US Institute For The Study of War said the claims were inaccurate and likely aimed at winning public support at home.
Russia has signalled it may dial back its war aims to focus on eastern Ukraine after failing to break the nation's resistance a month on, including up to 300 feared killed in the bombing of a theatre.
An adviser to the Ukrainian ministry of defence, Markian Lubkivskyi, predicted troops could on Saturday take back Kherson, the first major city that the Kremlin's forces seized.
Rudskois comments were likely aimed mainly at a domestic Russian audience and do not accurately or completely capture current Russian war aims and planned operations.
"City officials can no longer arrange humanitarian corridors or evacuate the wounded," Chernigiv mayor Vladislav Atroshenko told reporters, adding that a pedestrian crossing leaving the city was under "constant" attack from Russian troops.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has called on energy producing countries on Saturday to increase output so that Russia cannot use its oil and gas wealth to "blackmail" other nations.
He said 20,100 visas have been granted through the extended family route, with another 35,000 "in the process".
Earlier this week, city officials said Russian troops had deliberately targeted a key bridge linking the northern town with the capital Kyiv, restricting opportunities to leave.
Russian forces have taken control of the town of Slavutych, where workers at the defunct Chernobyl nuclear plant live, the governor of Kyiv region Oleksandr Pavlyuk said on Saturday.
Mr Biden told the crowds: "The battle for democracy could and did not conclude with the end of the Cold War.
The moment was steeped in symbolism, for it was Mr Biden, then the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who was among the loudest voices in championing Natos expansion in Eastern Europe in the late 1990s.
The crowd, many from Ukraine, also marched beneath Yoko Ono's Imagine Peace message on an electronic billboard in Piccadilly.
"They are bragging that they can destroy with nuclear weapons not only a certain country but the entire planet," Mr Zelensky said in a video message to the forum of political and business leaders.
The Ukrainian defence ministry said on Saturday that the Drobitsky Yar, a Menorah monument, was fired on and damaged by Russian forces.
The possible shift came ahead of a planned meeting of US president Joe Biden with Ukrainian refugees in Poland and talks with his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda in Warsaw before he gives a speech on the "brutal war", the White House said.
Poland is taking a "significant" responsibility in the humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, Mr Biden said during a visit to Warsaw on Saturday, adding that the world should help lessen the burden.
US president Joe Biden warned that Vladimir Putin "cannot remain in power" in a rousing speech to crowds in Warsaw.
US President Joe Biden will argue in a speech in Poland on Saturday that the free world opposes Russias invasion of Ukraine and that there is unity among major economies on the need to stop Vladimir Putin, the White House said.
They chanted "stand with Ukraine" and "stop the war", with roads being closed off and traffic stopped.
Ukraine's ministry of defense posted a photo of the memorial's damaged structure, writing: "Russian invaders fired on and damaged Holocaust Memorial in Drobitsky Yar on the outskirts of Kharkiv. The Nazis have returned. Exactly 80 years later."
Referring to the port city of Kherson, in the south east, Mr Lubkivskyi said: "I believe that today the city will be fully under the control of Ukrainian armed forces.
"It was a message about the power of faith, resilience, and the power of the people. In the face of a cruel and brutal system of government, it was a message that helped lift the Soviet repression.
A fresh curfew will be imposed on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv from Saturday evening until Monday morning, mayor Vitali Klitschko announced.
Curfew has been imposed several times in Kyiv since the start of the Russian invasion on February 24.
But Sergei Rudskoi, a senior general, suggested a considerably reduced "main goal" of controlling Donbas, an eastern region already partly held by Russian proxies.
Sergei Rudskoi, first deputy chief of the Russian General Staff, said on Friday in an assessment of the war effort so far that Russian forces have completed the main tasks of the first stage of the operation.
Russia has responded to US president Joe Biden's speech in Warsaw, in which he said Vladimir Putin "cannot remain in power".
Hundreds of fearless Ukrainian citizens gathered in front of Slavutychs municipal hospital on Saturday after Russian forces took over the facility and arrested Yuri Fomichev, the local mayor.
Earlier, the coast guard had warned vessels to stay away from the round object bobbing on the waves, and a dive team initially moved in to investigate. Russia has claimed mines have broken from cables near Ukrainian ports and are drifting out to sea.
Later, Mayor Andriy Sadoviy said there had been another strike. "One more rocket strike on Lviv," he said in an online post.
On Saturday morning, Klitschko had said a fresh curfew would be imposed on the capital from Saturday evening until Monday morning.
Britain is set to provide 2 million in vital food supplies for Ukrainian cities encircled by Russian forces, the Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said.
Curfew has been imposed several times in Kyiv since the start of the Russian invasion on February 24.The previous curfew lasted 35 hours between March 21 and 23.
Russia was conducting drills on islands claimed by Tokyo, Japanese media said on Saturday, days after Moscow halted peace talks with Japan because of its sanctions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"Now it is time for the people of Western Europe to invest in the security of their continent for the next century," said President Biden, then a senator for Delaware, during a trip to Warsaw, Poland, some 25 years ago.
Speaking on a visit to the Polish capital, Mr Biden said the Russian president was a "dictator bent on rebuilding an empire" but he would "never erase the people's love for liberty".
Mr Biden sought to reassure Poland that the US would defend against any attacks by Russia as the war in neighbouring Ukraine entered its second month. Russian president Vladimir Putin has shaken the Nato alliance after 30 years of relative peace and prosperity on the European continent.
The US President concluded his speech by reiterating the words of Pope John Paul II: "Be not afraid."
Mr Biden said memories of World War II were still fresh in the minds of some older generations, and Mr Putin's invasion of Ukraine threatens to bring "decades of war".
"You can count on that... For your freedom and ours," he told Duda, who said that Poles were feeling a "great sense of threat" as a result of the conflict in neighbouring Ukraine.
Mr Zelensky also said no country is insured against shocks from disruptions to food supply, with Ukraine one of the world's largest grain producers. "Russian troops are covering fields in Ukraine for miles, they are exploding agrarian equipment," he said.
"'Be not afraid'. Those were the first words at the first public address of the first Polish pope in 1978. Those were the words that would come to define Pope John Paul II. Words that would change the world.
He said that Mr Putin's days ought to be numbered, adding: "For God's sake - this man cannot remain in power."
Mr Biden said that in history, the "appetites and ambitions of the few" have sought "to dominate the lives and liberty of the many".
