RussiaUkraine latest news Russia drops phosphorus bombs on Azovstal steelworks
20220515
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-ukraine-latest-news-finland-032159852.html
Currently on a tour of Europe, the women this week spoke to Pope Francis on Wednesday, hoping he might intervene. He said he wanted to prepare a humanitarian corridor for Azovstal, but Putin doesnt want to let the soldiers go, says Yuliia Fedosiuk, whose husband Arseniy Fedosiuk, 29, is an Azov sergeant. Now in Paris, they hope to visit Britain to ask Boris Johnson for help too, but have yet to secure visas.
She said: "If they decide to join they can join quickly... We must make sure that we will give them security guarantees, there must not be a transition period, a grey zone, where their status is unclear."
British intelligence suggests that Russia's offensive in Ukraine's southeastern Donbas region has "lost momentum and fallen significantly behind schedule".
Sanna Marin said: "When we look at Russia, we see a very different kind of Russia than we saw just a few months ago.
Russia's defence ministry said rockets had hit two command points, 11 company positions and four artillery stores in four parts of the Donetsk region.
Ukraine has accused Russia of dropping phosphorus bombs on the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
Thanks for following along with Sunday's live updates. We'll be back tomorrow, and until then, here are eight key developments you may have missed:
"Hopefully we can send our applications next week together with Sweden," Finland's Prime Minister Sanna Marin said.
"I am sure our victorious chord in the battle with the enemy is not far off," Mr Zelensky said in a post on Telegram messaging app.
"That is why we are making the decision to join Nato. It's an act of peace."
Officials in the western Lviv region said that four Russian missiles hit some military infrastructure early on Sunday morning, resulting in it being destroyed. There were no casualties.
The regional 'West' Air Command of Ukraine's Air Force said in a post on social media that several missiles were fired from the Black Sea toward Lviv.
"Everything changed when Russia attacked Ukraine, and I personally think we cannot trust any more that there will be a peaceful future next to Russia with our own.
"He confirmed that he thinks it's a mistake. We are not threatening you. Altogether, the discussion was very, could I say, calm and cool," Niinisto said in an interview with CNN.
"Putin must face a sustained defeat in Ukraine, Russia must be contained and such aggression must never happen again. Ukraines security must come from it being able to defend itself. Allies must support Ukraines move to Nato-standard equipment, immediately providing artillery, training and the required expertise."
Petro Andriushchenko, the adviser to Mariupol mayor Vadym Boychenko, said specialists will assess the area and make a conclusion on the nature of the attack. He also shared the video footage on Telegram.
"We agreed to work closely together to ensure that Ukrainian food exports reach consumers in Africa and Asia. Grateful to Secretary Blinken and the US for their leadership and unwavering support," Kuleba tweeted.
Mr Geoana also congratulated Ukraine for winning the Eurovision song contest with their "beautiful song" that was a testament to its bravery in fighting Russia.
I long defended Macrons approach to Putin. Seeking to keep channels open, in early February, and again two days after the beginning of the Russian attack, seemed sensible, even necessary.
He soared towards the stars but ultimately gravity  and a huge public vote for eventual winners Ukraine  brought Eurovision front runner Sam Ryder, representing the UK with his song Space Man, back down to Earth, at the end of a breathlessly tense final from Turin.
Annalena Baerbock said: "The Russian government has made it clear that the Nato-Russia Founding Act is no longer worth anything to it.
On 11 May, 'Killnet' claimed responsibility for an attack on the websites of multiple Italian institutions, including the Senate, the upper house of parliament and the National Health Institute ISS.
But now my Presidents continued equivocation is unforgivable. Macron should shut up. Just add up his latest statements. No EU membership for Ukraine for decades. No NATO membership for Kyiv either. Repeated warnings not to humiliate Russia. All this plays in the hands of Putin and no-one else.
Still, in the end the night belonged to Ukraine. They had concluded their performance of Stefania with a plea: "Please help Ukraine... please help Mariupol... right now. And, as they accepted their trophy, they looked more stoic than ecstatic. Thank you so much. Thank you for supporting Ukraine, they said. This victory is for every Ukrainian. Team Ryder or not, who would want to take these 15 minutes of glory away from them?
However, Turkey has unexpectedly criticised Finland's imminent accession. Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said it was "unacceptable and outrageous" that Finland be admitted over its alleged support for banned Kurdish militant group PKK.
He also said the US would reopen its embassy in Kyiv and resume operations "very soon".
The police also gathered information from the pro-Russian groups Telegram channels to prevent other security breaches and identified the attacks geographic location.
Croatias foreign minister has said talks between Turkey and Finland and Sweden over its concerns about the latter two's potential Nato membership were on track after the three countries met.
Jubilant Ukrainians have renamed a train route in honour of the group who earned them the winning spot at Eurovision on Saturday.
Russia has likely lost around a third of the ground forces it deployed to Ukraine, British military intelligence said on Sunday.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Finland's decision to join the military alliance would strengthen global security, and insisted that Ukraine can "win this war" against Russia.
Finland's prime minister has said the country's decision to apply for Nato membership was necessary following Russia's invasion of Ukraine to guarantee security.
Prime Minister Sanna Marin said: "We have reached today an important decision in good cooperation with the government and the president of the republic. We hope the parliament will confirm the decision to apply for the Nato membership during the coming days. It will be based on a strong mandate."
President Volodymr Zelensky warned on Saturday that the war in his country risked triggering global food shortages, adding that the situation in Ukraine's Donbas is "very difficult".
He said: "Their membership would increase our shared security, demonstrate that Nato's door is open and that aggression does not pay.
The ratification period can usually take as long as a year, during which time the countries in question would not be protected by Nato's article 5 - which guarantees that an attack on one ally is considered an attack on all member states.
Ukrainian band Kalush Orchestra won the Eurovision Song Contest in the early hours of Sunday in a clear show of support for the war-ravaged nation.
"Four enemy missiles hit one of the military infrastructures in the Lviv region," Maxim Kozitsky said on Telegram.
Theres a peculiarly French way of getting important decisions wrong, and its best described by a very British expression the likes of Emmanuel Macron cannot see the point of, too clever by half. Its all about finessing power play and triangulating self-interest replacing simple words like honour, right and wrong by sophisticated calculations which we call realism.
On Saturday, Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu unexpectedly raised objections, saying it was "unacceptable and outrageous" that the prospective new Nato members gave support to the outlawed Kurdish militant group PKK.
It added that Russian forces had hit areas near the cities of Baxmut and Kostyantynivka, as well as destroying two S-300 missile systems and a radar post in the Sumy region.
He said: "Today, the President of the Republic and the Government's Foreign Policy Committee have jointly agreed that Finland will apply for Nato membership, after consulting parliament. This is a historic day. A new era is opening."
Yesterday, Volodymyr Zelensky called the French president flat out on it on the national Italian broadcaster, RAI. Macrons endless negotiations and eagerness to allow Russia to save face were in vain. Ukraine is not ready to sacrifice territory and sovereignty. This is a waste of time. ...
She said: "Natos open door policy is essential and if Finland and Sweden decide to apply to join, it is clear that they would strengthen the alliance and European security as a whole.
Putin on Saturday warned Finland it was making a "mistake" joining Nato, saying relations would be "negatively affected" if Helsinki ended decades of military neutrality
In the warren of nuclear-proof tunnels in the vast Azovstal iron and steelworks in Mariupol, an almost pathetic grinding sound could be heard. There, amid the foetid smell of rotting, gangrenous wounds, hundreds of Ukraines most committed fighters  Azov regiment men shelled, cut off and besieged by Russian forces  are eking out the last of their supplies.
A particular focus for Nato should be reaching out to partners in the Indo-Pacific, she added, which "will ensure we retain our tech and industrial edge, standing up for the rules and principles that matter to us".
His Romanian counterpart Bogdan Aurescu said it was important that the two Nordic states should push ahead with their membership pledges to send a message to Russia.
She said the member states' also discussed "the future of the Nato alliance - one that is strengthened and modernised, more global, more geopolitical and more assertive".
On Saturday night, a large convoy of cars and vans evacuating civilians from Mariupol arrived in the Ukrainian-controlled city of Zaporizhzhia after waiting days for Russian soldiers to allow them to leave.
Gordan Grli-Radman said: "Discussions are on a good track and we hope we will have a good outcome today to show solidarity and speak with one voice."
The band's frontman, Oleg Psiuk, took advantage of the enormous global audience to make an impassioned plea to free fighters: "I ask all of you, please help Ukraine, Mariupol. Help Azovstal, right now."
Ukraine appears to have won the battle for Kharkiv, a US report has said, as Russian forces retreated from around the eastern city due to an apparent lack of troop reinforcements
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky welcomed his country's Eurovision victory, Ukraine's third since its 2003 debut in the competition, and said "we will do our best" to host next year's contest in the hotly contested port city of Mariupol.
Nato's Deputy Secretary-General Mircea Geoana said: "Turkey is an important ally and expressed concerns that are addressed between friends and allies. I am confident if these countries decide to seek membership in Nato we will be able to welcome them, to find all conditions for consensus to be met."
Italian police prevented numerous hacker attacks by pro-Russian cyber groups during the Eurovision semi-final and final in Turin, authorities said on Sunday.
We must build an international system that protects states freedom and sovereignty, defends their right to trade fairly, determine their own future and prosper.
A missile strike hit some military infrastructure in the western Ukrainian region of Lviv early on Sunday, the region's governor said.
"Russia has now likely suffered losses of one third of the ground combat force it committed in February."
Finland's government is expected to officially announce its intention to join Nato on Sunday, as Sweden's ruling party holds a decisive meeting that could pave the way for a joint application.
Russias behaviour amounts to the unilateral repudiation of a 1997 cooperation agreement with Nato, Germanys foreign minister has said.
Following a meeting of member states' foreign ministers in Berlin, the Foreign Secretary said security in Europe will be strengthened if Finland and Sweden forge ahead with their plans to join the alliance.
Meanwhile, Germans foreign minister Annalena Baerbock has said Germany has prepared everything for a quick ratification of Finlands and Swedens Nato membership.
The Finnish parliament will convene on Monday to debate the decision, with current projections showing that the majority of lawmakers are set to support the bid.
The Ministry of Defence's latest update also said that the Russian-imposed administration in Kherson has asked Moscow to include the region in the Russian Federation, in a move that continues Putin's ploy to place Ukrainian regions under Kremlin authority.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Sunday that Ukraine can win in the war against Russia, and Finland and Sweden joining the military alliance would strengthen global security.
Anastasia Gulej makes no attempt to veil her hatred for Vladimir Putin: the Russian leader, she says, is evil and no different to Stalin and Hitler. Its a bold statement, but she is one of the few people left alive in the world personally qualified to make such a judgement
As a young child she lived through the Holodomor, Stalins man-made famine that claimed the lives of millions of Ukrainians. A few years later the dictators Great Terror swept through the Soviet Union, a wave of repression and purges that killed hundreds of thousands more people including the director of her school. Her father, she recalls, always had a bag packed in case they came for him.
The Ministry of Defence said on Twitter: "Despite small-scale initial advances, Russia has failed to achieve substantial territorial gains over the past month whilst sustaining consistently high levels of attrition.
Given the backdrop of Russias brutal invasion of their homeland, nobody could begrudge Kalush Orchestra their victory at this 66th Eurovision Song Contest BBC One. It helped that their entry, Stefania, was a classic Eurovision bopper  mixing pop, rap and traditional woodwind. However, with Space Man having held pole position through the national jury voting, Ryders eventual second-place finish potentially carried the tiniest whiff of anti-climax...
She added that Finland has historically "had wars with Russia and we don't want that kind of future for ourselves or for our children".
"The object is completely destroyed. According to preliminary information, there are no casualties. No one sought medical help."
Nato is confident that it can overcome objections by Turkey and quickly admit Finland and Sweden, its deputy chief said on Sunday.
An aerial video shared on social media on Sunday showed a missile detonating in mid-air before releasing an array of sparks  a grouping of incendiary munitions  that fell to the ground over the plant and ignited.
First their yachts were impounded, then their assets frozen. Now, in possibly the most painful blow yet, Russians have been told they may not shop at Harrods  not seriously, at any rate
The US embassy added that Ukraine has deployed many of its new M-777 howitzers at the front lines that were sent by Washington.
Around 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers remain trapped in the besieged steelworks, their last remaining stronghold in the Russian-controlled port city, following weeks of intense fighting.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken travelled to Berlin to meet with other Nato foreign ministers, and told his Ukrainian counterpart that "more weapons and other aid is on the way to Ukraine".
Russia said on Sunday that it had hit Ukrainian positions in the east with missiles, targeting command centres and arsenals as its forces seek to encircle Ukrainian army units in the battle for Donbas.
The US has delivered all but one of the 90 artillery pieces they were due to send to Ukraine, the Kyiv embassy has said.
Michael Gove has pledged to shut down the "racket of illicit money" from Russian oligarchs who use remaining loopholes to buy and sell vast homes under a cloak of anonymity
I spoke to my husband last night, says Kateryna Prokopenko, married to Lieutenant Colonel Denis Prokopenko, 30. He said hed eaten only once and had only one glass of technical water.
Finland will apply to join Nato. President Sauli Niinist said the move marks a "new era" for his country, which has long been militarily-neutral, while he said Vladimir Putin acted "calm and cool" in a telephone call - but confirmed the Russian President believed the decision to be a mistake.
The Kalush Orchestra swept the board in Turin, Italy with their song Stefania, with the UK coming second.
The Russian president made the thinly veiled threat after Sauli Niinisto, the president of Finland, spoke to him by phone to confirm that Helsinki would apply to join the alliance in the next few days.
Russian diplomats in Washington are being threatened with violence and US intelligence services try to make contact with them, Tass news agency cited the ambassador as saying.
Intelligence from the UK's Ministry of Defence suggests that Russia's offensive in the Donbas region has "lost momentum and fallen significantly behind schedule". Meanwhile, the Russian military has likely lost around a third of the ground forces it originally deployed to Ukraine.
Anatoly Antonov told Russian television that since Russia invaded Ukraine, face-to-face meetings with US officials had ended.
Ukraine's forces were fighting off a fierce Russian onslaught on the east of the country Sunday.
Finnish President Sauli Niinisto said on Sunday that his latest talk with Vladimir Putin about Finland's decision to apply for Nato membership was "calm and cool" and did not contain any threats.
Foreign ministers from Nato's 30 member states are holding two days of talks this weekend in Berlin that are focused on the two Nordic countries' membership bids.
Then the Second World War broke out and Hitlers forces brought new horror. She was sent to the Auschwitz death camp as a forced labourer and sent on a death march. The end of the war saw her trapped in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where she was barely alive when it was liberated by the British Army on April 15, 1945.
Nato must maintain its open door policy for admitting new members, Liz Truss has said.
Some more words from Liz Truss at a meeting of Nato foreign ministers in Berlin, following our previous post.
The 96-year-old is currently living as a refugee in Germany having fled her home in Kyiv shortly after Putin ordered his forces to invade Ukraine in late February.
"Agents from US security services are hanging around outside the Russian embassy, handing out CIA and FBI phone numbers, which can be called to establish contact."
Timur Miroshnychenko, Ukraine's Eurovision presenter and commentator, reacted joyously to the news his country had won the contest on Sunday.
When it was suggested on Twitter that if Ukraine cannot host it, the UK should offer to, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace replied: "One way or the other it will be in Ukraine!"
After a government council meeting, they are expected to submit a membership proposal to parliament on Monday.
Ukrainian band Kalush Orchestra won the Eurovision Song Contest with their song Stefania, with President Volodymyr Zelensky saying: "Any victory is very important. So, let's cheer for ours. Glory be to Ukraine!"
Anastasia Gulej makes no attempt to veil her hatred for Vladimir Putin: the Russian leader, she says, is evil and no different to Stalin and Hitler.
I spoke to Dmytro last night, says Hanna Naumenko, 25, fiancee of Dmytro Danilov, 29. The connection was terrible, so the couple communicated by text. He wrote they only had a little rice left, and were trying to make a kind of flour.
During the Eurovision final, Italian police prevented numerous hacker attacks by pro-Russian cyber groups like 'Killnet' and 'Legion'. The former were responsible for a cyber attack on May 11 that targeted Italian institutions, such as the Senate, upper house of parliament and the National Health Institute ISS.
During performances and voting, the police cybersecurity department blocked several cyber attacks on network infrastructure conducted by the 'Killnet' group and its affiliate 'Legion'.
The MoD added that Russia was unlikely to dramatically accelerate its rate of advance over the next 30 days.
With Ukraine still fighting Russian forces, it is unclear where next year's Eurovision contest will be held, with the event hosted by the winning country.
"Indeed, this is not a war, but nevertheless, for us today, any victory is very important," Mr Zelensky said, according to a presidential statement. "So, let's cheer for ours. Glory be to Ukraine!"
The head of the railway service announced that the number 43 train from Kyiv to Ivano-Frankivsk will be renamed the Stefania Express.
The leader of Russian activist band Pussy Riot has told The Telegraph she plans to return to Russia in a few weeks despite the fact that she likely faces years in prison after recently escaping Moscow while under house arrest
He said he had spoken to Turkey's foreign minister about their concerns regarding the two Nordic countries' admission.
The countries broke their strict neutralities after the end of the Cold War by joining the EU and becoming partners Nato in the 1990s, solidifying their affiliation with the West. But the concept of full Nato membership was a non-starter until the war in Ukraine saw public and political support for joining the military alliance soar in both countries.
Three days after publicly saying their country "must apply for Nato membership without delay", Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin are due to announce Helsinki's decision on whether to seek membership at a news conference at 1pm 10am GMT.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Sunday he had met US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Berlin and that "more weapons and other aid is on the way to Ukraine".
Vladimir Putin on Saturday warned Finland it was making a "mistake" joining Nato, saying relations would be "negatively affected" if Helsinki ended decades of military neutrality.
"So we now have to acknowledge that this basic act was also unilaterally terminated by Russia, not by Nato."
Vladimir Putin on Saturday warned Finland it was making a "mistake" joining Nato, saying relations would be "negatively affected".
Putin has previously demanded that Finland and Sweden never join Nato, and invaded Ukraine in order to stop it from doing the same despite the low likelihood of it being granted membership.
Ukrainian officials said that Russian forces used 9M22C incendiary shells with thermite layers in the attack. The temperature of combustion for the bombs is around 2-2.5 thousand degrees Celsius.
Railway stations in Kyiv, Kalush and Ivano-Frankivsk will play the winning song when the train pulls in, he said.
The agreement was designed to build trust and limit both sides force presence in eastern Europe, reports Reuters.
"It's like a besieged fortress. Basically, our embassy is operating in a hostile environment ... Embassy employees are receiving threats, including threats of physical violence," Tass quoted him as saying.
The Foreign Secretary said: Ukraine must win the battle in Ukraine. We must also win the struggle beyond Ukraine, the struggle to shape the future of the world.
There is support from "almost across the board" of member states of Nato for Finland and Sweden to join the military alliance, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said.
