Russia denies accusations of false flag operation cyber attacks on Ukraine
20220219
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-denies-accusations-false-flag-124248256.html
Russia denied it was responsible for cyber attacks on Ukrainian banks and the country's Ministry of Defense and accusations that it is looking for a pretext to invade Ukraine.
The news comes amid allegations by the U.S. that Russia was responsible for cyberattacks on Ukraine's government and banks over the past week. President Biden's deputy national security adviser for cyber and emerging technologies, Anne Neuberger, said that wide-scale attacks were mitigated by Ukrainian cyber efforts.
Russian ambassador to Washington Anatoly Antonov on Friday also accused the U.S. of disseminating false information in a post to Facebook.
"The United States persistently continues its attempts to impress outright lies," Antonov wrote late Friday.
"Russia has nothing to do with the events mentioned and, in principle, has never carried out and does not conduct 'malicious' operations in the virtual space," the embassy wrote.
U.S. officials have countered that argument saying that Russia has used cyberattacks to further destabilize society in Ukraine, according to The Washington Post.
"Allegations of Russia's responsibility for the escalation cannot be regarded as anything other than an attempt to exert pressure and devalue Russian proposals on security guarantees," he said. "The authors of these statements should better visit Ukraine's contested eastern territories in person and learn about the tragic consequences of the 'military assistance' provided to Ukraine by the United States and its allies."
In addition, the State Department said Friday that an explosion that occurred in Donetsk and an evacuation of civilians in the area was an example of a false-flag operation that the Russian government could use as a pretext to justify an invasion in Ukraine.
"We paid attention to the frankly anti-Russian statements of the Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security E.Neiberger, who accused intelligence agencies of cyber attacks on  systems of the Ministry of Defense and a number of commercial banks," the Russian Embassy in the U.S. said in a statement on Twitter.
He also denied accusations that Russia was poised to carry out an invasion against Ukraine.
