Russian foreign minister clashes with deaf Truss as Ukraine talks stall in Moscow
20220210
https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/russian-foreign-minister-mocks-deaf-184257773.html
But Mr Johnson made clear that Britain could not intervene militarily if Ukraine was attacked.
"Fundamentally a war in Ukraine will be disastrous for the Russian and Ukrainian people for European security."
Meanwhile, 350 Royal Marines from 45 Commando are to begin deploying to Poland as part of a further strengthening of UK support to the country announced earlier this week.
The talks came as Boris Johnson warned that Vladimir Putin must not be allowed to bully eastern Europe.
Ms Truss trip to Moscow was the first such visit by a foreign secretary in more than four years. It came as the UK government seeks a path of diplomacy to help defuse tensions on the Ukrainian border.
In December the UK sent 100 Royal Engineers to the country after Moscows ally, Belarus, engineered a refugee crisis on the border.
Russias foreign minister claimed speaking to British foreign secretary Liz Truss is like the deaf talking to the blind as talks over the Ukraine crisis stalled in Moscow.
But Ms Truss responded: I cant see any other reason for 100,000 troops stationed on the Ukrainian border apart from threatening Ukraine, and if Russia is serious about diplomacy, they need to move those troops and desist from the threats.
Tory MP Tom Tugendhat, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, praised Ms Truss for standing up to her Russian counterpart tweeting: While were trying to bring peace and stability, Russia is playing games. Good to see trussliz standing up to Lavrov.
The latest estimates suggest Moscow has 130,000 troops massed in the border region and in neighbouring Belarus, close to the strength some analysts believe would be needed to mount a full-scale invasion.
Mr Lavrov claimed that UK-Russia relations had plunged to their lowest point in many years, saying Ms Truss was following the Wests playbook. He denied suggestions that Russia would invade Ukraine.
But Mr Lavrovs insulting remarks are a sign that diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the Ukraine crisis appear to be proving fruitless.
The prime minister said further military support could be offered to Ukraine if Russia invades as he carried out engagements at Nato headquarters in Brussels and alongside his Polish counterpart in Warsaw.
Speaking at a joint press conference, Mr Lavrov claimed the UK continued to be dismissive of Russias security concerns.
Sergei Lavrov said he was disappointed with the lack of progress in the negotiations as Ms Truss urged Russia to de-escalate amid growing fears it could invade Ukraine.
Im rather disappointed that it was a bit like talking to a deaf person, he said. Its like theyre listening to us but not hearing.
