Russian Parliament Speaker claims that those helping to arm Ukraine are war criminals
20220502
https://news.yahoo.com/russian-parliament-speaker-claims-those-063605679.html
Roman Petrenko - Monday, 2 May 2022, 09:36 Vyacheslav Volodin, Speaker of the Russian Parliament, voiced his indignance toward all countries providing military aid to Ukraine, calling them war criminals as they are allegedly "pushing the world to the brink of a catastrophe." Source: Vyacheslav Volodin, on Telegram Details: Volodin said that those who help Ukraine defend itself "tarnish themselves" by being party to the conflict. The Head of Parliament also called on history, in particular WWII and fascism. According to Volodin: "Leaders of some European countries, with Germany at their helm, might implicate their people in major difficulties. By supplying arms to Ukraine they become party to the conflict. They were silent when nazis in Odesa burned civilians alive, they did nothing to defend the people of Donbas. And now they are doing everything to kill slavs in Ukraine. They have forgotten about the tragedy of the Second World War and about the price that had to be paid to liberate the world from fascism. Their actions are pushing the world to the brink of a catastrophe. All heads of state who approved decisions to supply arms have tarnished themselves and must be brought to justice as war criminals." Significance: Russia attacked Ukraine on 24 February. Countries around the world are calling the actions of Russia "war crimes" and that a genocide is being committed against the Ukrainian people. Russian troops deliberately fire on civilians, on their houses and on their cars, and torture, rape, and kidnap Ukrainians. The world cannot intervene in this war due to the threat of a nuclear war posed by Russia's occupier-in-chief, Vladimir Putin. That is why the collective West is helping Ukraine with weapons and humanitarian aid. Under international law, they are not a party to the conflict, and are not taking part in the war.
