Russians outraged after Moscow car bombing kills daughter of Putins brain Aug 21 recap
20220821
https://www.yahoo.com/lifestyle/ukraine-denies-involvement-russian-car-115316540.html
Pedestrians on an avenue in Kyiv viewed destroyed Russian tanks on display on Saturday, rolled in on the beds of Ukrainian trucks.The burned-out tanks and infantry carriers were brought toKhreshchatyk boulevard leading to Maidan Square in central Kyiv, drawing public attention. Locals were able to walk beside the exhibit of military vehicles with the street blocked off to traffic.
Ukraine's military said it destroyed two Russian ammunition depots in the villages of Chornobaivka inKhersonand Starytsia in Kharkiv. The Kremlin said it destroyed an ammunition depot in the Odesa region where missiles for U.S. multiple-rocket launchers known as HIMARS were stored.
A former Ukrainian official was detained by Russian authorities in the occupied city of Melitopol, accused ofcommitting sabotage, the Russian administration said Sunday. The officials was accused ofconducting surveillance on Russian military flights  and components for explosives and manuals on the use of the military arsenal were found at his home, the administration said in a message on its Telegram channel.
Angry Russians calledSunday for attacks on Ukrainian government buildings after the death of a prominent Putin ally in a car bombing after a festival outside Moscow.
Amid all the hardships the war has caused, Usyk has served as inspiration for his fellow Ukrainians, and he drew a shoutout from Zelenskyy in his nightly video address to the nation.
The blast came at about 9 p.m. local time, shortly after Dugina left a festival where she attended a "Tradition and History" lecture led by her father, Russian authorities said.
Russian hard-liner Igor Girkin, formerly a minister in the self-declared Donetsk Peoples Republic, has become an increasingly outspoken critic of the Kremlins handling of the war in Ukraine, the British Defense Ministry reports.
The announcement came one day after theUkrainian militarysaid it had destroyed a Russian radar system and other equipmentin the region.
Indefending his titles, Usyk improved his record to 20-0 with 13 knockouts and lived up to his billing as the sporting pride of Ukraine.
Girkin, who has been sanctioned by the U.S. and several other countries, posted a grudgingly admiring critique of PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyys conduct during the war in contrast to Russia, where "at the end of the sixth month of the war ... we play tank biathlons and hold festivals of military bands."
Air defenses in the Crimean city of Sevastopol repelled an Ukrainian assault at a military airfield, Russian-appointed regional leaderMikhail Razvozhayev said via Telegram on Sunday, a day after a droneattack on Russia's Black Sea fleet in the same city also apparently failed.
I devote this victory to my country, to my family, to my team, to all the military defending this country, said Usyk, 35, who came into the ringwearing a blue-and-yellow top with thewords Colors of Freedom.
"There is another direction of our research needs for recovery," Nefyodov said. "And the 'Russia Will Pay' project is actively developing in this direction."
"It is very beautiful that we made such an exhibition because patriotic places come together and want to rush to go help and defend. And when everyone helps, it raises morale very much," student and Kyiv resident Irina Tupolenko told the Associated Press.
Tonight, there were powerful explosions in Melitopol, which the whole city heard, Melitopol MayorIvan Ferodovsaid. According to preliminary data, it was a precise hit on one of the Russian military bases, which the Russian fascists are trying to restore for the umpteenth time in the airfield area.
Russias Investigative Committee said the explosionripped through the Toyota Land Cruiser driven by Daria Dugina, 29, a conservative commentator, near the village of Bolshie Vyazemy on Saturday night. RTreported that the vehicle belonged to her father, well-known anti-Western Russian nationalist Alexander Dugin, giving rise to suspicions that he was the intended target.
Two Russians and a Ukrainian were arrested for alleged espionage at an Albanian military plant. Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has strongly renounced Russias invasion of Ukraine and has joined in sanctions against Moscow.
Ukrainian fighters typically draw praise from President Volodymyr Zelenskyy for their toil on the battlefield, not the boxing ring.
Direct losses to the Ukrainian economy from the war have reached$113.5 billion, a Ukraine economist says.Maksym Nefyodov, head of reform support projects at the Kyiv School of Economics Institute, said this during a nationwide television marathon, Ukrinform reports. Images of the destruction and damage to the infrastructure of Ukraine, collected with the help of UAVs and satellites, are being actively analyzed to record the damage caused and to prepare forrestoration of devastated cities, Nefyodov said.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyy, denied Ukrainian involvement:"We are not a criminal state, unlike Russia." Ukrainian officials, however, urged government employees in the capital to work remotely this week amid concerns that the buildings would be targeted for attack.
"A significant proportion of Russias military and security professionals probably believe that it is inappropriate to continue committing forces to peace-time military ceremonial events while Russian troops continue to suffer heavy casualties in Ukraine," the defense ministry said Sunday in an intelligence update.
Russias Investigative Committee said the explosionripped through the Toyota Land Cruiser driven by Daria Dugina, 29, a conservative commentator, near the village of Bolshie Vyazemy on Saturday night. RTreported that the vehicle belonged to her father, well-known anti-Western Russian nationalist Alexander Dugin -- often called "Putin's brain'' -- giving rise to suspicions that he was the intended target. Dugina herself was a hardliner who said documented Russian atrocities in Kyiv suburb of Bucha were staged.
We stick together, the president said. We help each other. We restore what was destroyed. We fight for all our people. And we cheer for those who represent Ukraine, today definitely for Usyk, our guy!
"Kyiv will shudder" said a headline on Russia'sTsargrad.tvwebsite, while state-run RT editorMargarita Simonyan retweeteda call to bomb the Ukrainian intelligence agency headquarters in Kyiv.
The defense ministry explains that the tank biathlon was the finale of Russias International Army Games that took place near Moscow last week.
The U.S.will ship another $775 millionpackage of arms to Ukraine, including long-range artillery ammunition used to devastating effect on Russian forces, according to a senior defense officialwho spoke on condition of anonymity under Pentagon guidelines.
Maria Zakharova, a Russian foreign ministry spokesperson, said on Telegram that Russia would consider any involvement by Ukraine in the incident to be "state terrorism."
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Sunday, Aug. 21.Follow here for the latest updates and news from Monday, Aug. 22, as Russia's invasion continues.
Six months after he was patrolling the streets of Kyiv with an automatic rifle and defending Ukraine from the invading Russians, Usyk outpointed Anthony Joshua in a closely fought rematch Saturday in Saudi Arabia to keep his WBA, WBO and IBF belts.
The vehicles were collected from battlefields in the east and south and signaled defiance to the Russian invaders, The New York Times reported.
