RussiaUkraine war latest 6 major developments from Thursday
20220303
https://news.yahoo.com/russia-ukraine-war-latest-major-developments-from-thursday-175850691.html
Putin makes his first gain Putin's forces have claimed to have taken control of their first Ukrainian city on Wednesday evening, the strategically important Black Sea port of Kherson. Russian tanks rolled in and Ukrainians were told to remain in their homes.
Negotiators meet again Russian and Ukrainian negotiators met for the second time on Thursday, but failed to come to an agreement. A Ukrainian negotiator said ceasefire talks with had not yielded the results Kyiv hoped for, but the sides had discussed humanitarian corridors and agreed to speak again.
Nuclear war 'not in the heads of Russians' Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov claimed that using nuclear weapons is "not in the heads of Russians" and blamed the West for stoking fears of nuclear war. Speaking in a virtual news conference in Moscow, Lavrov insisted Russia was trying to "stop any more violence" in Ukraine. Despite widespread damage and shelling of civilian buildings, Lavrov insisted Russian forces were under "very strict order to use weapons only against military infrastructure". Read more Sky News
"To our great regret, we did not get the results we were counting on," Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said. The first talks on Monday broke down without a resolution.
Formula One also tightened its stance on Russia, cancelling its contract with the Russian Grand Prix, stopping any races happening there for the foreseeable future. Read more Yahoo News UK
"The blood of those civilians  including the mother and father of two kids who were born just yesterday and only today lost their parents in a shelling  is not only on Russian hands."
Putin claims invasion going to plan Russian president Vladimir Putin made a televised address on Thursday afternoon, saying Moscow's military operations in Ukraine were going according to plan, and praising its soldiers as heroes.
Putin made a series of unsubstantiated allegations against Ukrainian forces, including that they were holding foreign citizens hostage and using human shields. Read more Sky News
He added: "We have nothing to lose but our own freedom." A 40-mile-long convoy of 15,000 Russian soldiers has stalled in its approach to the city, reportedly over supply issues. Read more Reuters
Paralympic ban Russian and Belarusian athletes have been banned from competing in the Beijing Winter Paralympic Games, as the two nations become further ostracised from the international community. The International Paralympic Committee apologised to the athletes affected, telling them: "You are victims of your governments actions."
Nato 'has blood on its hands' The Ukrainian deputy president claimed Nato had "blood on its hands" due to its refusal to agree to a no-fly zone. Ukraine has repeatedly asked for a no-fly zone to be implemented, but Nato has said no, due to fears it would further escalate global tensions. Speaking to the World Tonight on BBC Radio 4, Olha Stefanishyna said "it is inhumane knowing that the civilian population and kids will be killed by not taking this decision".
The capital city of Kyiv has remained under Ukrainian control, with president Volodymyr Zelenskyy stating on Thursday that defence lines were holding against the Russian attack.
