The helplessness is overwhelming Ukrainian Americans express anger sadness as Russia invades
20220225
https://www.yahoo.com/news/helplessness-overwhelming-ukrainian-americans-react-194753148.html
Ukraine "is a peaceful nation," Kovalchuk added after the prayer service. "We just would like to have our own country.  We would like to have our own choice."
Artem Agvanian, an 18-year-old college freshman in Rhode Island, said he and his family opted to speak Russian last summer during a visit to the part of eastern Ukraine where he grew up. Another, Viktor Meleta, a 41-year-old who works with robot technology, spoke Ukrainian when he lived in the country's western section.
Languages aside, they are in agreement on Ukraine. Both said they want to do whatever they can to keep the crisis from being ignored  a possibility Agvanian called "a threat of oblivion."
In the Midwest, Vlad Sazhen is a sophomore year exchange student from Ukraine studying aerospace engineering at the University of Missouri. His hometown, Kharkiv, where his girlfriend, parents and 8-year-old sister live, is roughly 25 miles from a border with Russia.
With prayers, calls for peace and protests outside Russian diplomatic facilities in Washington, D.C. and New York City, Ukrainian Americans across the U.S. spent the day after the start of a new war urging Russia to end the invasion that threatens their families, friends and ancestral homeland.
Although it has been more than two decades since she moved to the U.S., Ivasiv said, my heart is still with my country.
Suzanne P. Clark, president and chief executive of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, in a statement called the Russian attack an "affront to our steadfast belief in a world where democratic countries, following the rule of law and the free enterprise system, can be free and prosper."
At the nearby New York branch of the Selfreliance Association of Ukrainian Americans, a credit union, Daria Rekucha, 78, said she regularly sends money and care packages to to her family in Ukraine. She hopes to continue sending during the invasion.
Contributing: John Bacon and Christal Hayes, USA TODAY Roger McKinney, Columbia Daily Tribune Steven Spearie, The State Journal-Register Mark Reynolds, The Providence Journal
There are more than 1 million Ukrainian Americans in the U.S., according to 2019 U.S. Census Bureau data. New York City, with an estimated 160,000, and Philadelphia, with roughly 60,000, are the metropolitan areas with the largest groups, the data show.
Swytnyk is worried, too, for her own family in western Ukraine. They are avoiding the country's large cities in an effort to keep safe, she said.
Oksana Ivasiv, 71, stood outside St. George Ukrainian Catholic Church in New York City, where she attached U.S. and Ukrainian flags to the metal grating outside the church doors.
Mykola Murskyj, chair of the Ukrainian American Crisis Response Committee of Michigan, urged all Americans to pray for the resolution of the "senseless violence" and for the safety of the Ukrainian people.
In Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, Ukrainian immigrant Olena Danylyuk said she was disturbed, saddened, and angered by the violence. Danylyuk, vice-chair of the Ukrainian American Crisis Response Committee of Michigan, said one of her sisters and her children have fled Kyiv and are hiding in a small town. Others are in the city of Lviv. She said they had not expected war today.
We called our people for an evening vigil prayer so we could say a special prayer for Ukraine and for God's help, Koshyk said.
Corrections  Clarifications: This story has been updated to reflect the correct age and spelling of Sofia Demianchuk.
The attack crushed hopes for a diplomatic resolution, and Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy formally cut diplomatic ties with Russia.
Photos and videos from Ukraine showed injured residents, smoke pouring from buildings and rockets stuck in homes. Civil defense sirens wailed as long lines of cars slowly streamed out of the capital city of Kyiv.
'UNJUSTIFIED ATTACK': Who are Russia's allies in the Ukraine conflict and what is their stance?
Paul Skomoroch, an eighth grader at St. Nicholas and the son of a Ukraine-born mother, said he's scared for his cousins who remain in the country.
Both he and his wife, Olga, who immigrated to the U.S. 20 years ago, said they were in a state of shock watching the invasion in real-time television. Friends and family of the couple who still live in the country went into hiding, they said, including some who were taking shelter in subway stations.
"They have very good nervous systems," Brodsky said about his friends' reaction to the buildup of Russian troops before Wednesday's late-night invasion. "They have no panic. Some of them buy guns and if the Russians come, they will struggle with them.
In Springfield, Illinois, where Vlad Brodsky came after leaving Kyiv in 1994, the 69-year-old resident said he speaks with friends in Ukraine daily to keep up with news.
Thursday morning at St. Nicholas Ukrainian Catholic Cathedral in Chicago's Ukrainian Village neighborhood, parishioners prayed as daylight filtered through stained glass modeled after the Cathedral of St. Sophia in Ukraine's capital city of Kyiv.
I knew Putin was going to come, she said, but I have no idea how far hes going to go.
Ivasiv, whose family is from eastern Ukraine, came to the United States in 1995. She has relatives in the country but had not heard from them as of Thursday morning.
Speaking before Russian military forces launched the attack, Sazhen said he's kept in touch with his family and girlfriend through video calls "all the time while they're not asleep.
Its an unreal feeling, Olga said, breaking into tears. You really dont understand how much your country and your home means to you until you see it being torn apart and you see your people being gunned down for no reason at all.
"They don't need my analysis about the situation. They're ready to struggle for their state, for their families, against the Russians," added Brodsky.
Taras Slobodian, who braved freezing temperatures as he waved a Ukrainian flag in Chicago's Ukrainian Village neighborhood, said he may go in the other direction  to rejoin siblings and grandparents in Ukraine.
Brooklyn resident Sofia Demianchuk, 20, said she and her family also have tried sending money to relatives in Ukraine. They have also supported online fundraisers to aid Ukraine's defense, she said.
"People want to know they're giving to the places where it will do the most good," said Birchard.
In Los Angeles, Rev. Ihor Koshyk opened the doors of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary Ukrainian Catholic Church Thursday evening for a special service. About two dozen gathered in the small church, which is adorned with fragrant candles and colorful paintings of saints.
"I'll go back and help if I have to," he said. "I can't just stand by."
Tom Birchard, an owner of Veselka, a popular East Village Ukrainian restaurant, said he has reached out to Ukrainian community leaders for guidance on where supporters can send donations for their war-torn nation.
"They're nervous, but they're confident as well that the Ukrainian army will protect them," he said.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Ukrainian Americans express anger, sadness as Russia invades
The Very Rev. Serhiy Kovalchuk urged a crowd of dozens to send prayers for peace and safety to Ukraine.
At the St. Nicholas Cathedral School, assistant principal Lisa Swytnyk said teachers held students who cried with worry about their families in Ukraine. The school allowed students to attend mass together as a way to support them.
"They don't feel safe," said Paul, who added many have told him they are packing up and ready to move if they must.
