Trump joins Biden in calling Russias war on Ukraine genocide
20220414
https://news.yahoo.com/trump-joins-biden-calling-russia-022155283.html
Former President Trump joined President Biden in calling Russias war in Ukraine a genocide during an interview with Fox News on Wednesday night.
Biden announced Wednesday that his administration would authorize $800 million in additional security assistance to Ukraine, including artillery, helicopters and armored personnel carriers.
Though the Biden administration has refused to send troops into Ukraine or impose a no-fly zone over the country, the U.S. has ramped up military support for Ukraine amid the invasion.
Trump, who boasts of a close personal relationship with Putin, had previously called Russias invasion a holocaust.
I think in 100 years people are going to look back and they are going to say, How did we stand back and NATO stand back?' Trump said.
The civilian toll of the war is unclear however, the United Nations estimates that nearly 2,000 civilians have been killed, while the mayor of Mariupol this week claimed that 10,000 had died in his city alone.
While Trump was slamming Biden for policies he said have led to record high inflation, he said, And now add to that whats going on in Ukraine. Thats a genocide.
We have the strongest, most capable nuclear anywhere in the world because of what I did, Trump said, reiterating his claim that Putin would not have invaded were he in office.
Though the U.S. has not officially labeled Putins war genocide, it has determined that Russia is committing war crimes.
Its become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of being Ukrainian, Biden said. The evidence is mounting.
Trump said the U.S. has a more powerful nuclear arsenal than Russia and that people shouldnt be pushing us around.
Bidenlater affirmed his belief thatPutinsactions constitute genocide during an exchange with reporters but said his lawyers would make the ultimate determination.
The comment comes a day after Biden accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of genocide on Tuesday.
Trump elaborated on his comments later in the interview with Fox News host Sean Hannity, saying, This is a genocide thats taking place.
Your family budget, your ability to fill up your tank, none of it should hinge on whether a dictator declares war and commits genocide half a world away, Biden said.
