UK withdrawing some embassy staff and dependents from Ukraine
20220124
https://news.yahoo.com/uk-withdrawing-embassy-staff-dependents-201224531.html
"Some Embassy staff and dependants are being withdrawn from Kyiv in response to growing threat from Russia. The British Embassy remains open and will continue to carry out essential work," the British government said in a statement.
U.K. travelers in Ukraine are advised to stay knowledgeable of what is going on through the media and to register their presence in Ukraine.
While the situation in Kyiv and other eastern cities close to Ukraine border, like Donetsk and Luhansk, appears to be "calm," the FCDO warned that events are currently "fast moving" and there is "continuing uncertainty" around Russia's intentions.
On Sunday, the U.S. State Department ordered the family members of U.S. Embassy workers in Kyiv to leave Ukraine, while permitting nonessential workers to also depart.
The British government on Monday announced some staff members at its embassy and their dependents in Ukraine were being withdrawn due to the "growing threat from Russia."
"U.S. citizens in Ukraine should be aware that Russian military action anywhere in Ukraine would severely impact the U.S. Embassy's ability to provide consular services, including assistance to U.S. citizens in departing Ukraine," the department said in an advisory.
"Due to the growing threat from Russia, the FCDO has taken the decision to temporarily withdraw some Embassy staff and their dependants from Kyiv. The Embassy remains open and will continue to carry out essential work, including providing consular assistance and support to British nationals in Ukraine," said the FCDO, though it warned that its capabilities to help may be reduced due to military actions around Ukraine.
The U.K.'s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office FCDO advised that people limit themselves to only essential travel to Ukraine, also directly citing the buildup of Russia's military along the country's eastern border. Around 120,000 Russian military members are believed to have amassed at the border now.
