Ukraine and Russia What you need to know right now
20220621
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-russia-know-now-055626116-154158197.html
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy predicted Moscow would escalate attacks ahead of a European Union summit Thursday and Friday. He was defiant in a late Monday address despite "difficult" fighting in Luhansk for Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk.
 German self-propelled howitzers have arrived in Ukraine in the first delivery of heavy weapons promised by Berlin, Ukraine's defence minister said. Kyiv has pleaded with the West to send more and better artillery as the country runs out of ammunition for its existing Soviet-era arsenal, which is dwarfed by Russia's.
 Germany faces certain recession if already faltering Russian gas supplies completely stop, an industry body warned, as Italy said it would consider offering financial backing to help companies refill gas storage to avoid a deeper crisis next winter.
 The Russian defence ministry said its missiles had struck an airfield near the Ukrainian port city of Odesa, Russian news agencies reported. It said it had carried out the strikes in response to a Ukrainian attack on gas production platforms in the Black Sea.
 The Kremlin said it did not know the location of two Americans captured while fighting in eastern Ukraine, but that they were mercenaries and could be sentenced to death in Russian-backed breakaway territories.
 Ukrainian forces last week claimed their first successful use of Western-donated Harpoon anti-ship missiles to engage Russian forces, the British Military Intelligence said.
Reuters - Russia threatened to punish Lithuania with measures that would have a "serious negative impact" for blocking some shipments by rail to Moscow's Baltic Sea enclave of Kaliningrad, the latest dispute over sanctions imposed over war in Ukraine.
 Ukraine is set to become an official candidate for European Union membership on Thursday in a symbolic but morale-boosting decision following Russia's invasion, ministers and diplomats said.
 EU leaders aim to maintain pressure on Russia at a summit this week by committing to further work on sanctions, a draft document showed, with gold among assets that may be targeted in a possible next round of measures.
 U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland went to Ukraine to discuss efforts to identify, arrest and prosecute those involved in war crimes and other atrocities committed during Russia's invasion, a Justice Department official said. Russia denies accusations of war crimes, calling them fabricated.
