Ukraine claims it has killed another Russian general during fighting in Kharkiv
20220308
https://sg.news.yahoo.com/ukraine-claims-killed-another-russian-233152578.html
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
During the fighting near Kharkiv, Vitaly Gerasimov, a Russian military leader, major general, chief of staff and first deputy commander of the 41st Army of the Central Military District of Russia, was killed. A number of senior Russian army officers were also killed and wounded.
Russia claims 498 of its soldiers have been killed in Ukraine and another 1,597 have been wounded.
The Ukrainian army said on Monday that Russia was preparing to storm the countrys capital.
The latest high-profile killing, comes after Andrei Sukhovetsky, the commanding general of the Russian 7th Airborne Division and a deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army, was shot and killed by a sniper.
The embattled countrys Ministry of Defence claimed that its forces had killed Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, first deputy commander of the 41st Army of the Central Military District of Russia.
Vitaly Gerasimov took part in the second Chechen war and the Russian military operation in Syria. He received a medal for the return of the Crimea, they added.
The data obtained also indicate significant problems with communication in the occupiers army and with the evacuation of their broken units.
However, British officials say the actual number of those killed and wounded will almost certainly be considerably higher and will continue to rise.
Ukraine claims it has killed another Russian general during fighting in the city of Kharkiv.
The general staff of Ukraines armed forces said Russian troops were beginning to accumulate resources for the storming of Kyiv after they had failed to seize the capital for more than a week after the full-scale invasion was launched.
Mr Putin confirmed that a general had been killed in a speech updating the Russian people on the progress of the conflict, eight days into the deadly invasion.
Another loss among the senior command staff of the occupying army, the department claimed on Monday.
