Ukraine Latest Kyivs Immediate Funding Needs Hit 65 Billion
20220704
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ukraine-latest-russia-takes-city-065622647.html
Right now, we dont know when that one month period starts, so we are closely investigating Hagiuda told reporters in Tokyo. Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui  Co. own a combined 22.5 of the Sakhalin-2 project, and a majority of the gas produced there supplies Japan.
A representative for Griner, a two-time Olympic Gold medalist, delivered the letter to the White House, according to the AP. The basketball star, who was taken into custody about a week before Russia launched its invasion, faces a drug smuggling charge in Russia, where she could serve as many as 10 years in prison if convicted.
Russia last month filled senior government posts in the breakaway Moscow-backed eastern Ukrainian regions of Luhansk and Donetsk.
The Russian leader congratulated Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu after his forces took control of a Lysychansk. Speaking in televised comments, Putin told Shoigu to give the units involved in the latest offensive time off to rest and to shift responsibility for continuing operations to other forces.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will have a candid discussion about the war in Ukraine with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during a summit in Bali, Indonesia, thats set to be dominated by the fallout from Russias invasion, a top official said.
The European Union Parliament vote is set to take place Wednesday, and was supposed to mark the easy passage of a New Years proposal by the European Commission to include gas and nuclear energy in the blocs so-called green taxonomy. But Putins invasion -- and the energy crisis it fanned -- has upended that process.
This will be another opportunity, I think, to have a candid exchange on that, and to convey our expectations about what we would expect China to do, and not to do, in the context of Ukraine, he added.
Ukraine has indicated it needs up to $65 billion this year to meet its funding requirements, billions more than its allies have so far been able to pledge.
With Lysychansk under its control, Russia is switching its focus further west into Donetsk, intensifying shelling of the region, according to Ukrainian officials. Moscows forces also hit residential areas, killing nine civilians and wounding 25 there over the last 24 hours. Russia is attempting to blunt counteroffensives by Kyivs forces in the Kharkiv region in the northeast as well as the Kherson and Mykolayiv regions in the south, the Ukrainian military said.
Bloomberg -- Ukraines government has indicated it needs as much as $65 billion this year to meet its funding requirements as it faces continued economic and budgetary disruption from Russias invasion, billions more than its allies have so far been able to pledge.
The figure, which excludes defense and security spending, is part of a larger blueprint for the nations longer term reconstruction, which is estimated to exceed $750 billion.
The vessel has yet to dock or unload and is waiting off the port as Turkey investigates the origin and trajectory of the shipment, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the case. Turkey is handling the situation with care as it works to arrange four-way talks with the United Nations, Russia and Ukraine to establish a Black Sea corridor to restart Ukrainian food shipments disrupted by the war, one of the officials said. It may host the UN-backed dialogue as early as next week, he added.
The amount needed immediately includes so called macro-financial stability assistance for emergency budget funding and logistics infrastructure projects. The figure, which excludes defense and security spending, is part of a larger blueprint for the nations longer term reconstruction, which is estimated to exceed $750 billion and was unveiled at a conference in Lugano.
Weve had a number of communications at senior levels with our Chinese counterparts about what we expect, not just from the Peoples Republic of China but from really all responsible members of the international community regarding Russias brutal invasion of Ukraine, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Daniel Kritenbrink told reporters in Washington on Tuesday.
Ukraine is working with the United Nations and Turkey to make sure that civilized countries dont take its grain illegally exported by Russia, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said during a meeting with Swedens Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson in Kyiv.
Just last week, Ukraines ambassador to Germany called on lawmakers to reject the Commissions proposal, warning that it would benefit Russia and perpetuate European reliance on its gas supplies.
Japanese Trade Minister Koichi Hagiuda called on Russia to explain the decree signed by Putin that gave stakeholders, which include Shell and Japanese trading houses Mitsubishi and Mitsui, a month to say whether theyll take a holding in the new firm.
Unblocking grain exports from Ukraine is difficult and yet possible, Zelenskiy said, adding that he believes UN is ready to lead in making it happen. He said ships need to have security guarantees, except those from Russia, which Ukraine doesnt trust.
Shoigu had reported to Putin on Sunday that Russian forces had taken control of the city, a fiercely contested industrial center that was one of the last major targets outside Moscows control in Luhansk.
Turkey has begun an investigation into the origin of grain aboard a Russian vessel anchored off its Black Sea port of Karasu after Ukraine said the cargo was stolen, senior Turkish officials told Bloomberg. Kyiv has accused Russia of stealing grain from territories it has occupied since its February 24 invasion. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov confirmed on Monday the vessel was Russian but said Moscow was still working to clarify what had happened.
Blinken isnt expected to meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov during the G20 ministerial gathering in Bali this week, according to State Department spokesman Ned Price. He told reporters that the secretary will be a full and active participant at the gathering in Indonesia despite Russias presence.
Assets seized from the Russian state and oligarchs should make up the bulk of the $750 billion in aid needed to rebuild the country, Prime Minister Shmyhal said.
Natural gas in Europe rose to the highest level in almost four months as planned strikes in Norway threaten to further tighten a market thats already reeling from Russias supply cuts.
Aggregate crude flows from Russian ports were up week-on-week by 23, recovering most of the volume lost over the previous seven days during a brief halt in shipments from the Baltic port of Primorsk. Still, cargoes bound for Asia  a crucial market where China and India have stepped in to prop up Russian exports others have shunned in response to its invasion of Ukraine  were down by more than 15 on both a weekly and four-week average basis from the highs seen at the end of May.
Russia has unleashed this bloody war, they have caused this large-scale destruction -- and they must be held responsible for it, he told delegates at the recovery conference in Lugano. Ukraine lost $100 billion worth of infrastructure during the war, Shmyhal said. He estimated the volume of frozen Russian assets worldwide that could go toward the recovery at between $300 billion and $500 billion.
Since the invasion, Kyivstar has been subject to a tremendous increase in DDos and an even bigger jump in phishing attacks, Komarov said in a video interview from Lugano.
Alexander Komarov, the chief executive officer of Kyivstar, a subsidiary of Veon Ltd., said about 10 of the companys network cant function because Russian officials have switched off base stations and captured hardware.
Ukraines largest mobile-phone operator, Kyivstar, is struggling to maintain service as its employees are killed or displaced and infrastructure is seized or damaged in the war.
The US government is committed to a successful meeting, Price said, but it cannot be business as usual with Russia. He predicted that G20 members would express no shortage of condemnation for the actions on the part of the Russian Federation in the Ukraine invasion.
US basketball star Brittney Griner wrote to President Joe Biden and pleaded to bring her and other detained Americans home from Russia, saying shes terrified she might by there forever, the Associated Press reported.
Russias seaborne crude exports in the seven days to July 1 rebounded from the previous weeks plunge, but shipments to Asia are slipping, even as flows are diverted to the countrys Black Sea terminal to cut the voyage distance to India.
Right after the war is over and Ukraine achieves victory, we need to implement thousands of rebuilding projects, Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said at the conference.
European leaders are planning an international conference devoted to the rebuilding of Ukraine after the summer, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said at the Lugano conference.
Japan called on Moscow to explain a presidential decree to transfer rights to the Sakhalin-2 natural gas project to a new Russian company. Russias move to reshuffle ownership of the project may constrict global gas markets even more by pushing Japan to compete with Europe for alternative sources of supply.
A Russian official was appointed to head the government of the occupied southern Ukrainian region of Kherson, the Tass news service reported on Monday. Sergei Eliseev, a senior official from the Baltic exclave of Kaliningrad, named both Russians and Ukrainians as his deputies, Tass said, citing a statement by Khersons Russian occupation authority.
Though she didnt cite any aid targets or pledging of financial assistance in her remarks, she addressed the importance of spending any money wisely to bolster investor confidence.
Benchmark futures, which have more than doubled this year, surged as much as 10 on Monday. About 13 of Norways daily gas exports are at risk amid plans to escalate an impending strike by managers, the nations oil and gas lobby warned over the weekend.
Ukraine expects to harvest 60 million tons of grain this fall, Zelenskiy said, while there are already 22 million tons blocked by Russia in its ports. We need to export all the grain, he said.
US officials have said the WNBA player is being wrongly detained, a signal they believe Griners case is political, not criminal. Griners wife, Cherelle, has called her a political pawn.
