Ukrainian Armed Forces repel Russian assault on Siversk General Staff report
20220723
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-armed-forces-repel-russian-042100226.html
Two Russian naval missile carriers carrying Kalibr cruise missiles remain in the waters of the Black Sea.
There were no significant changes on the Volyn, Polissia, and Sivershchyna fronts. On the Sivershchyna front, Russian forces shelled the village of Mykolaivka, in Chernihiv Oblast.
Source: General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook, information as of 06:00 on 23 July
Russian forces did not undertake active combat operations on the Kharkiv front, though they used tanks and tubed and rocket artillery to fire on the areas around Kharkiv, Zolochiv, Pytomnyk, Borshchova, Lisne, Ruski Tyshky, Cherkaski Tyshky, and Mospanove.
Russia did not undertake active combat operations on the Sloviansk front either. Russian forces fired on the areas around Hrushuvakha, Dolyna, Krasnopillia, Dibrovne, Mazanivka, Protopopivka, Chepil, Velyka Komyshuvakha, Nortsivka, Bohorodychne, Virnopillia, and Karnaukhivka.
On the Avdiivka, Novopavlivka, and Zaporizhzhia fronts, Russian occupying forces fired on the areas around Novobakhmutivka, Pisky, Vuhledar, Opytne, Vodiane, Prechystivka, Mala Tokmachka, Novoiakovlivka, Uspenivka, Orikhiv, Pavlivka, Novopil, Shcherbaky, Novoandriivka, and Mali Shcherbaky, and conducted airstrikes near Krasnohorivka and Kamianka.
Details: On the Kramatorsk front, Russian occupying forces fired on the areas around Verkhnokamianske, Siversk, Starodubivka, Pyskunivka, Bilohorivka, Hryjorivka, Spirne, and Vyimka using tanks and tubed and rocket artillery.
On the Pivdennyi Buh front, Russian forces continue to defend their previously occupied positions and are focusing their efforts on holding back the Ukrainian counter-offensive. The Russians used tubed and rocket artillery, as well as tanks, to fire on the Ukrainian positions along the entire frontline.
On the Slobozhanshchyna front, Russias main efforts are focused on preventing the Ukrainian forces from advancing towards the Ukrainian state border in the northern and northeastern parts of Kharkiv Oblast.
The Ukrainian Armed Forces have repelled a Russian assault towards Verkhnokamianske and Siversk on the Kramatorsk front.
On the Bakhmut front, Russian forces used artillery to fire on the areas around Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmut, Pokrovske, Bakhmutske, and Novoluhanske, and conducted airstrikes near Novoluhanske. Once again, the Russians attempted to storm Pokrovske and the Vuhlehirska Power Plant, but were once again forced to retreat with losses.
