Ukrainian ambush destroys Russian tanks and kills top commander Colonel Andrei Zakharov
20220311
https://au.news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-ambush-destroys-russian-tanks-231824966.html
Meanwhile, Mr Putin said the sanctions were illegimate and Russia would solve the problems posed by them in a calm fashion.
Russians will also feel the consequences of harsh economic sanctions imposed by the west on individuals and entities, he added.
On Wednesday, in the Black Sea port city of Mariupol, three people including a child were killed when a maternity hospital was bombed during what was meant to be, a ceasefire, according to Ukrainian officials.
The attack drew fierce condemnation from leaders around the world, with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky describing it as a war crime and his British counterpart Boris Johnson said it was barbaric.
At least five other Russian commanders have been killed since the invasion was launched two weeks ago, Ukraine has claimed.
Russian troops had to move to the defence as a result of losses of personnel and equipment, according to Ukrainian defence intelligence quoted by Interfax-Ukraine news agency.
Footage showed a column of Russian tanks being fired at in the town of Brovary, on the northeastern outskirts of the capital.
Speaking at the same meeting, finance minister Anton Siluanov said the west had defaulted on its obligations to Russia by freezing its gold and foreign currency reserves.
He said in a video released on Thursday: You will definitely be prosecuted for complicity in war crimes.
Ukrainian forces have claimed to have killed a top Russian commander in an ambush on tanks that they forced into retreat outside Kyiv.
Mr Zelensky said: And then, it will definitely happen, you will be hated by Russian citizens  everyone you have been deceiving constantly, daily, for many years in a row, when they feel the consequences of your lies in their wallets, in their shrinking possibilities, in the stolen future of Russian children.
Ukrainian troops said they forced the tanks to retreat during the ongoing Russian invasion that has seen Vladimir Putins forces fail to capture Kyiv.
He could also resort to hiring mercenaries from the Wagner Group, it has previously been reported, as a number of troops from ally Belarus are said to be refusing to engage in combat.
Mr Putin could be forced to draw from other sources of fighters, the MoD said, because of dwindling manpower as a result of the high number of casualties within his armys ranks.
Mariupol is surrounded by Russian forces who are besieging the city, but it is still in Ukrainian hands, officials said.
Ukraine has claimed that Colonel Andrei Zakharov was killed, but this has not been independently verified.
Mr Zelensky warned Russian leaders that the Kremlins invasion of Ukraine will backfire and make Russian citizens hate them.
Addressing a government meeting, he also said Moscow  a major energy producer which supplies a third of Europes gas  would continue to meet its contractual obligations.
Despite Mr Putins forces having so far failed to capture Kyiv, they have continued their heavy bombardment of many towns and cities since he ordered the invasion on 24 February.
Huge explosions are seen when a number of tanks are hit by projectiles in a residential area of the town.
