Ukraine calls for banning athletes from Russian Federation and Belarus from competing under a neutral flag
20220701
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-calls-banning-athletes-russian-082255904.html
Earlier, in cooperation with the Office of the President and international partners, Ukraine managed to achieve more than 125 sanctions against representatives of Russian and Belarusian sports.
Ukraine calls on international partners to ban Russians and Belarusians from competing at sports competitions even under neutral flags.
"Russians and Belarusians have no place next to representatives of the civilised world  neither in sports arenas, nor in sports organisations, nor in the decision-making process. Ukraine insists on a FULL ban," he wrote on Facebook.
This was stated by the minister of Youth and Sport, Vadym Huttsait, during the summit of sports ministers on July 1.
"Ukraine insists on a full ban on athletes and sports officials from Russia and Belarus. Their participation in international competitions, even under neutral flags, is unacceptable", the minister said.
However, some federations are trying to return these athletes by allowing them to compete under a neutral flag.
Russian attacks have claimed the lives of more than 80 Ukrainian athletes and coaches, and destroyed more than 100 sporting facilities.
The summit of sports ministers was held via video-conference with representatives of Lithuania, Poland, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Slovakia, Romania, Japan, Norway, Germany, Sweden, Finland, the USA, Italy, and other countries.
Reminder: Athletes from the aggressor country of Russia and its de facto ally, Belarus, were excluded from more than 90 of world competitions.
In response, Ukrainian athletes will boycott competitions if Russians or Belarusians are allowed to attend them.
Meanwhile, Russian and Belarusian athletes are supporting the war with their silence, the minister said. Huttsait also condemned the attempts of certain sports federations to return Russians to international competitions, in particular in judo, bobsleigh, and skeleton.
