Ukraine theatre hit by airstrike where hundreds were sheltering had children written on pavement in Russian
20220317
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-theatre-hit-airstrike-where-000822371.html
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
Mariupol council posted an image of the citys theatre, showing the heavy damage it sustained during the attack. Russian forces had purposefully and cynically destroyed the drama theatre in the heart of Mariupol, it said.
By delivering a purposeful bomb attack to the place of mass gathering of civilians Russia has committed another war crime.
The number of victims is impossible to count, he said in a Facebook post, alongside images of the demolished theatre.
A statement from Ukraines Foreign Ministry said: The bomb strike demolished the central part of the theatre building, causing large numbers of people to be buried under the debris.
Satellite imagery shows a blown-up theatre in Ukraine where civilians were sheltering had the word children written in Russian on the pavement outside the building.
Meanwhile, Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional administration, accused Russia of committing war crimes in Mariupol by carrying out the attack.
Russian forces dropped a bomb on the theatre where more than 1,000 civilians  including women and children  were sheltering in the besieged city of Mariupol, local officials said on Wednesday.
However, Russias defence ministry swiftly denied it carried out the assault, according to the RIA news agency. Instead it accused the Azov Battalion, a far-right Ukrainian militia, of blowing it up.
The Kremlin has consistently denied its troops are targeting innocent Ukrainians, though officials in Ukraine have challenged these claims, particularly after a maternity hospital, also in Mariupol, was targeted last week.
A striking satellite image, taken by Maxar Technologies two days before the air strike on 14 March, shows that the Russian word for children  was written in large white letters in front of and behind the Donetsk Regional Theatre of Drama.
The number of people killed in the latest alleged civilian attack by Vladimir Putins soldiers was unclear on Wednesday evening, but Mariupols deputy mayor Sergei Orlov said earlier that between 1,000 and 1,200 people originally sought refuge inside the building and so could have been inside.
This suggests it would have been clear from above that civilians were sheltering inside it.
The assessment of the exact number of persons affected is currently impossible due to ongoing shelling.
