Ukrainian flag raised over Chernobyl nuclear plant after Russian troops withdraw
20220402
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-flag-raised-over-chernobyl-152511224.html
"Today, April 2, at 11:00, Ukrainian flag was raised over the Chernobyl NPP and the anthem was sung," Energoatom said in a Telegram statement.
The Ukrainian flag has been raised over the Chernobyl nuclear plant after Russian forces completely withdrew, Ukraine's state nuclear agency said on Saturday.
Russian forces invaded Chernobyl in late February at the start of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops had forced workers to stay on-site for close to a month before allowing another group of co-workers to switch with them.
Energoatom's announcement came shortly after the US defense official also said Russian troops were withdrawing the facility.
Two Ukrainian staff told Reuters on Thursday that Russian soldiers drove armored vehicles through the 'Red Forest," Chernobyl's most contaminated area without any protective gear when they invaded the site.
On Friday, the United Nations atomic watchdog said it's opening an investigation into Russian soldiers' exposure to radiation.
Russian troops took over the facility in late February at the start of the invasion.
Ukrainian scientists from the Institute for Safety Problems of Nuclear Power Plants have also said that Russia's invasion of the exclusion zone allowed looters to take radioactive isotopes used to calibrate instruments, and nuclear waste left over from the 1986 nuclear accident from a radiation monitoring lab near the nuclear site at Chernobyl.
This comes after the agency announced on Thursday that Russian forces were beginning to withdraw from the plant after suffering "a significant doses of radiation."
Ukraine's defense ministry also said that withdrawing Russian troops "took kettles, lab equipment, and radiation," before leaving.
The announcement came as Russia said its planning to scale back military operations in the northern parts of Ukraine.
