Ukrainians urged to use molotov cocktails to neutralise Russian troops
20220225
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainians-urged-to-use-molotov-cocktails-to-neutralise-russian-troops-100308035.html
And on Friday, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defences Facebook page posted: "We urge citizens to inform us of troop movements, to make Molotov cocktails, and neutralise the enemy."
The country has also claimed to have destroyed 10 aircraft, seven helicopters, 80 tanks and 516 armoured combat since Russia started its attack.
Zelenskyy said in an address early on Friday sanctions alone were not doing enough to deter Russia.
The city has gone into a defensive phase. Shots and explosions are ringing out in some neighbourhoods, saboteurs have already entered Kyiv, he warned.
Gunfire and and bombs have been heard in central Kyiv, sparking fears the city could fall.
Zelenskyy said subversive groups were encroaching on Kyiv, as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kyiv could well be under siege.
The name was a reference to Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov, one of the key architects of a peace treaty which brought the Winter War to an end.
They were first seen during the Spanish Civil War in the 1930s, but the name wasn't coined until the Winter War between the Soviet Union and Finland in 1939.
Among the new UK sanctions introduced were measures to hit five further oligarchs, including the Russian presidents former son-in-law, and to target more than 100 businesses and individuals.
US officials believe the action is an attempt byPutin to dismantle Ukraines government and replace it with his own puppet regime.
Britain, the US and the EU have hit Moscow with a concerted package of economic sanctions, but are facing calls to go further to exclude Russia from the Swift international payment system, a move backed by Mr Johnson but facing resistance in Europe.
Russian troops and armoured vehicles were spotted in the residential district of Obolon on Friday - only 15km from the city centre.
Leaders of the Nato defence alliance, of which Ukraine is not a member, will hold an extraordinary virtual summit on Friday afternoon to discuss the crisis.
Ukraine has told its citizens to prepare Molotov cocktails to use against Russian soldiers as Vladimir Putin's forces close in on Kyiv.
Putin's forces claimed they had blocked Kyiv . . . from the west, although this could not be independently verified.
In the US, President Joe Biden was targeting Russian banks, oligarchs and high-tech sectors, while deploying more troops to Germany to bolster Nato.
Ukraine has entered its second day of a fierce battle with Russia after a "full-scale" invasion was launched on Thursday.
Russian troops were feared to be on the verge of entering the capital on Friday morning after the city was hit by horrific rocket strikes overnight.
"We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities," he said.
Vitali Klitschko, Kyiv's mayor, said on Friday that "saboteurs have already entered" the city's borders.
As Russian soldiers advance on the capital city, the eyes of the world are watching to see if Russia will take control.
Was Russia convinced by yesterdays sanctions? We hear in our sky and see on our earth that this was not enough.
Unconfirmed claims by Ukraine's deputy defence minister have said Russia has lost 2,800 soldiers on the second day of conflict.
Kyivs city administration said in a statement: "Going outside is very dangerous now due to the approach of the enemy."
Read more: The faces of Putin's war: Bloodied Ukrainians pictured as Russian airstrikes claim first casualties
Experts have said if Kyiv is seized, that could potentially open a route for Russian reinforcements to make the journey from the south of Belarus.
A Molotov cocktail is an improvised weapon which sees fabric stabbed into a bottle of flammable liquid which can be set alight and launched at a target.
This morning we are defending our state alone. Like yesterday, the worlds most powerful forces are watching from afar, he said.
Ukraine has urged its citizens to take up arms against enemy troops, with President Volodymyr Velenskyy telling his people that anyone who wanted them would be supplied with weapons.
