Ukraines president told Biden to calm down Russian invasion warnings saying he was creating unwanted panic report
20220128
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraines-president-told-biden-calm-104928095.html
The conversation between Biden and Zelensky came days after the US decision to tell families of US embassy personnel in Kyiv to leave the country.
On Wednesday, Secretary of State Anthony Blinken went one step further, urging Americans in Ukraine to leave.
Biden told Zelensky on Thursday that a Russian invasion could happen as soon as February, when the ground freezes over, tweeted Emily Horne, White House National Security Council spokesperson.
Zelensky told Biden to tone down his predictions as they were creating panic, a Ukrainian official told CNN.
The US and UK have repeatedly warned of an imminent Russian invasion, though officials in Ukraine, France, and Germany appear less convinced.
Biden and Zelensky spoke by phone Thursday amid rising tensions between Russia  which is amassing tens of thousands of troops at Ukraine's border  Ukraine, the US, and NATO.
The White House also disputed a claim by Alexander Marquardt, CNN's senior national security correspondent, who tweeted Thursday that Biden told Zelensky during the call that Kyiv could be "sacked" by Russian forces.
The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
Horne, the NSC spokesperson, tweeted: "This is not true. President Biden said that there is a distinct possibility that the Russians could invade Ukraine in February. He has previously said this publicly  we have been warning about this for months. Reports of anything more or different than that are completely false."
"There is a history of the US trying to convince its European partners that the threat is imminent, based on the sources and intelligence it has, and they apparently do not," he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told President Joe Biden to "calm down the messaging" about the threat of a Russian invasion because it was stirring panic, CNN reported, citing an unnamed Ukrainian official.
"As of today, there are no grounds to believe Russia will invade," defense minister Oleksii Reznikov told parliament Tuesday, the Associated Press reported.
The split suggests "a gap in assessments of Russia's likely courses of action," Keir Giles, a senior consulting fellow on the Russia and Eurasia program at Chatham House, previously told Insider.
However, Zelensky told Biden in the call that Ukraine did not agree with the US assessment, and that it was bringing panic that could later bring economic hardship to Ukraine, CNN reported, citing a senior Ukrainian official.
Biden said Tuesday that the US would personally sanction Putin should Russia invade Ukraine. Russia repeatedly denies that it is readying an invasion.
