Ukrainian Intelligence Russia prepares to celebrate Victory Day in Mariupol instead of in Donetsk
20220504
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-intelligence-russia-prepares-celebrate-085336569.html
Olena Roshchina - Wednesday, 4 May 2022, 11:53 Sergey Shoigu, Russian Minister of Defence, has once again claimed that Russian troops are in full control of Mariupol. Meanwhile, Ukrainian intelligence reports that Russian occupiers are preparing to "celebrate" 9 May, Victory Day, in the devastated city of Mariupol rather than in Donetsk. Source: Chief Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine RIA Novosti According to the Ukrainian Intelligence Directorate: "Sergey Kirienko, Deputy Head of Russian Presidential Administration responsible for the internal affairs of the Russian Federation, has arrived in the devastated city of Mariupol. He is known to have recently been made responsible for matters relating to the ORDLO Temporarily Occupied Territories of Donetsk and Luhansk Region controlled by Russia in the Kremlin. The Putin official's main task is to prepare 'ceremonial celebrations' for 9 May. It has become known that the Ruscists have abandoned the idea of 'celebrating' in the occupied city of Donetsk, including revoking the pretend 'military parade'. No preparations are currently being undertaken in ORDLO to this end. According to the Ruscists' plans, Mariupol is now to become the site of the 'celebrations'. To this end, rubble, the bodies of murdered civilians and unexploded Russian ordnance are being cleared away from the city's central streets." Details: According to Ukrainian intelligence, the Russian propaganda media are preparing to air stories about local residents' "joy" on meeting the Russian occupation troops on Russian TV. Russian propagandist Vladimir Solovyov and Head of the Donetsk occupation administration Denis Pushylin have visited Mariupol to prepare relevant materials. Meanwhile, the Russian Defence Minister said during a conference call that Mariupol "is under the control of the Russian army and beginning to return to a 'peaceful life'". Shoigu called Mariupol the largest industrial and transport hub in the Sea of 82038203Azov. Ukrainian soldiers and civilians remain in the bunkers of the Azovstal steelworks. On 3 May, Russian troops once again stormed Azovstal.
