Ukrainian Armed Forces force Russian forces to retreat on 4 fronts General Staff report
20220820
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-armed-forces-force-russian-041824843.html
On the Pivdennyi Buh front, the Russian forces main efforts are focused on preventing the advance of Ukrainian troops. The invaders are taking measures to compensate for their losses of personnel and equipment.
Details: Russian forces fired cannon artillery at civilian and military infrastructure in the areas of the settlements of Bilopillia and Krasnopillia, Sumy region. They also conducted aerial reconnaissance using UAVs.
Attacks were recorded near Volodymyrivka, Vuhledar and Prechystivka on the Novopavlivka front. Russian forces conducted assault operations near the village of Zolota Nyva, had no success and retreated.
On the Avdiivka front, the invaders used tanks, tubed and rocket artillery in the areas of Novobakhmutivka, Nevelske, Neskuchne, Oleksandropil, Keramika, Kermenchyk and Piskiv.
Source: General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook, situation as of 06:00 on Saturday, 20 August
On the Slobozhansk front, Russian forces are conducting combat operations to hold occupied areas and prevent a counteroffensive by Ukrainian Defence Forces units, and sometimes attempt to improve their tactical situation.
On the Sloviansk front, attacks from tanks, tubed artillery and multiple-launch rocket systems were recorded near Dovhenke, Sulyhivka and Mazanivka.
On the Bakhmut front , civilian infrastructure was hit by fire in the areas of the settlements of Zaitseve, Bakhmutske, Vesele, Bakhmut, Andriivka, Kodema and Maiorsk.
Russian aircraft were deployed near Marinka. The Russians conducted aerial reconnaissance using UAVs in areas of combat operations on this front. Russian forces are advancing near the settlements of Opytne and Maiorsk, but have not been successful, and fighting continues.
The Ukrainian Armed Forces have repelled Russian assaults and pushed them back on the Kharkiv, Sloviansk, Bakhmut and Novopavlivske fronts.
The aggressor shelled civil and military infrastructure in the areas of the settlements of Prybuzke, Luch, Tavriiske, Novohryhorivka, Olenivka, Novoselivka, Blahodatne, Veselyi Kut, Shyroke, Yakovlivka, Bila Krynytsia, Andriivka and Otradne. UAVs continue to be actively used for conducting aerial reconnaissance.
On the Kharkiv front, Russian troops fired using tubed and rocket artillery on areas near the settlements of Chuhuiv, Zolochiv, Pytomnyk, Husarivka, Sosnivka, Ruski Tyshky, Korobochkyne, Shestakove, Duvanka and Prudianka. They were actively engaged in aerial reconnaissance using UAVs.
Russian forces carried out air strikes near Lebiazhe and Zalyman. They conducted offensive battles near Borshchiv, were unsuccessful and withdrew.
The invaders conducted offensive and assault operations in the areas of the settlements of Bakhmut, Zaitseve and Kodema, but had no success, and the fighting continues.
Near Novodmytrivka, Virnopillia and Kurulka, Russian units attempted to conduct assault operations, were rebuffed and retreated.
"The enemys personnel are demoralised, due to the constant postponement of their rotation dates and deception concerning promised payments. This leads to the occupiers refusing to participate in military operations," the General Staff said in a statement.
On the Kramatorsk front, Russian troops fired using tubed and rocket artillery near Rozdolivka, Sydorove, Spirne and Pryshyb. The Russians conducted aerial reconnaissance in areas where combat operations were taking place. They are attempting to conduct an offensive near Ivano-Darivka, and fighting continues.
On the Zaporizhzhia front, Russian troops used artillery and tanks to bombard areas near the settlements of Bilohiria, Novodanylivka, Novopil, Chervone, Vremivka, Charivne and Olhivske.
