Ukrainian Ballet Star Artyom Datsishin Dies at 43 from Injuries in Russian Invasion Report
20220318
https://www.yahoo.com/now/ukrainian-ballet-star-artyom-datsishin-195105223.html
The Russian attack on Ukraine is an evolving story, with information changing quickly. Follow PEOPLE's complete coverage of the war here, including stories from citizens on the ground and ways to help.
Details of the fighting change by the day, but hundreds of civilians have already been reported dead or wounded, including children. Millions of Ukrainians have also fled, per the United Nations.
His death was also mourned by Alexei Ratmansky, a Russian choreographer and former artistic director of the Bolshoi Ballet. After Russia launched their attack, Ratmansky  who grew up in Kyiv  immediately left Moscow for the United States, The New York Times previously reported.
RELATED: Ukrainians Search from Afar for Missing Family in Devastated Mariupol: 'I Feel More and More Useless'
"I can't express my heartache that is overwhelming me," she wrote. "May your memory be bright."
The invasion, ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin  who insists Ukraine has historic ties to Russia and he is acting in the best security  has drawn condemnation around the world and increasingly severe economic sanctions against Russia.
"Nobody is going to break us, we're strong, we're Ukrainians," he told the European Union in a speech in the early days of the fighting, adding, "Life will win over death. And light will win over darkness."
Throughout his career, Datsishin toured in Europe and the United States, according to the Evening Standard. He performed lead roles in several well-known ballets, including Swan Lake, Romeo and Juliet and The Nutcracker.
Datsishin, a principal dancer with the National Opera of Ukraine, was wounded in Kyiv two days after Russia launched a large-scale invasion on Feb. 24, according to the Evening Standard, which reported he was 43.
RELATED: American Killed in Ukraine Was Getting Medical Care for Partner with MS: 'He Was Not Going to Leave'
Datsyshyn died from "wounds received on February 26 when he got under Russian artillery fire," Ratmansky wrote in a social media post.
"He was a beautiful dancer loved by his colleagues," continued Ratmansky, who shared that the news caused "unbearable pain."
Anatoly Solovyanenko, who is the general stage director at the opera house, remembered Datsishin as a "beautiful artist" and a "wonderful man."
With NATO forces massing in the region around Ukraine, various countries have also pledged aid or military support to the resistance. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for peace talks  so far unsuccessful  while urging his country to fight back.
"I am furious," he wrote in a separate comment, noting that he had thought in the past of inviting the dancer to join the Bolshoi Ballet. "He was really good."
Artyom Datsishin, a Ukrainian ballet dancer, has reportedly died after being injured during the Russian invasion.
"On February 26, he was fired upon by the Russian military," friend Tatyana Borovik wrote on Facebook, according to the newspaper.
