Ukraine native Clemson resident concerned about her fathers safety amid Russian threat
20220209
https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/ukraine-native-clemson-resident-concerned-120043272.html
She said the escalation between the two countries is often mentioned in the news in Ukraine, but there is a sense of normalcy around it, which is part of the reason her father is wanting to stay.
The last time Tsykalovas father visited her in the U.S. was in 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and airport closures, he was stuck for approximately six months.
Tsykalova added that the ongoing inflation in Ukraine has added stress to their day-to-day activities.
The rising tension between Ukraine and Russia hits close to home, as Tsyklovas father still resides in Ukraine.
USA TODAY Voices: Daily life in Kyiv these days feels a lot like if 'Stranger Things' had a Ukraine edition
Tsykalova said that her father was planning to visit her for a couple of months in March, but now she is wanting to have him come earlier.
In Ukraine, having just retirement is not enough to pay utility bills so you cannot afford to abandon your job, said Tsykalova.
Tsyklova, left the country in 2013 to continue her studies. It led her to Clemson University where she graduated with a doctorate in international family community studies.
Despite Tsyklovas concerns, her father is extremely calm and less panicked about the potential Russian invasion.
Related reporting: U.S. says Russia is developing video of fabricated attack as pretext for invading Ukraine
Alexis Hamilton is a Beaufort, SC native covering higher education in the Upstate. Reach her at 727-514-5734 or ahamiltongannett.com.
Smiling and speaking with her father, Lyudmyla Tsykalova is able to escape the reality of an international conflict for the duration of their conversation.
But as soon as the conversation is over, Tsykalova's panic resurfaces and she is again worried about him.
Tsyklova said that the international issues have her concerned like many people with families in Ukraine.
The other reason is her father's partner and leaving her behind to care for the household by herself was not an option.
There is this attitude of 'oh well, I lived my life, so whatever happens, it's okay.' You learn to live with this military presence of the border that has been there for the past seven years.
Though she is uncertain of what will happen in the coming weeks, Tsykalova remains worried about her fathers safety.
This article originally appeared on Greenville News: Ukraine native, Clemson resident concerned for father's safety
If I were to pull my father out, it would be really unacceptable to just leave her behind paying the bills.
According to Tsykalova, Kiyv, where her father lives is less than a hundred miles away from the Belarusian border.
