Ukraines former defense minister explains why Russia wont be able to keep hold of Ukraines south
20220609
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-former-defense-minister-explains-105200262.html
In the southern region, the Ukrainian regular army is supported by partisans who operate in Zaporizhzhya Oblast, and a group of Mykolayiv self-defense volunteers whose main strategy so far has been exhausting Russian infantry.
In Kherson Oblast, Russian troops are substantially understaffed, so Russias Ministry of Defense deployed to that area so called Donetsk Peoples Republic Army  one of the least capable Russian military units, created through forced mobilization of civilians from the Russian-occupied parts of the Donbas.
Earlier, Ukraines General Staff reported another Russian operation in the south  the enemy tried to advance closer to Lozove and Bila Krynytsya in Kherson Oblast, deploying artillery and aircraft for this.
The destruction of the Russian fortifications in the south by the Ukrainian army is a matter of time, the former defense minister said.
Read also:  Situation for civilians in Russian-occupied Kherson Oblast getting worse, says operational command
Operational Command South revealed that on June 7 Russian troops started shelling Mykolayiv and the citys outskirts with artillery. The Ukrainian army responded to this with four major artillery strikes, targeting Russian military personnel.
Read also:  Russia plans to hold referendum in Kherson on annexation by the fall
As soon as Russians stop pushing forward, we have every chance to launch our counter-attack and our systemic counter-offensive operation, said Zagorodnyuk.
What did they do in Kherson Oblast, in southern region as a whole? They started digging trenches, building fortifications to keep own positions there and be somehow able to withstand the counter-attacks. But distances are really long there You cant really keep those territories under your own control by digging trenches and stationing tanks, weapons. This is unrealistic  Zagorodnyuk said.
