Ukrainian Armed Forces repel Russian assaults on 4 fronts General Staff report
20220730
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-armed-forces-repel-russian-042514403.html
On the Kharkiv front, Russian forces fired using artillery on the city of Kharkiv, as well as on the areas around Prudianka, Cherkasky Tyshky, Borshchova, Lisne, Korobochkine, Mospanove and Staryi Saltov.
On the Novopavlivka front, Russian forces opened artillery fire on the areas around Marinka, Vuhledar, Mykilske, Pavlivka, Vremivka, Novosilka and Novopil. They conducted assault operations near Marinka but were not successful and have retreated. Fighting is currently underway near Pavlivka.
Russian troops main efforts on the Pivdennyi Buh front are focused on maintaining their previously occupied positions and preventing the Ukrainian forces in the area from advancing. Russia has ramped up its use of UAVs to conduct aerial reconnaissance.
Russian forces continued to shell military and civilian infrastructure in the areas around Trudoliubivka, Osokorivka, Tokareve, Karierne, Ivanivka, Lozove, Velyke Artakove, Kobzartsi, Shevchenkove, Shyroke, Posad-Pokrovske, Ukrainka, Partyzanske, Mykolaiv and Dniprovske, and conducted airstrikes near Novohryhorivka and Andriivka.
Russian troops are actively working on restoring their logistics and supply routes in the area.Journalists fight on their own frontline. Support Ukrainska Pravda!
On the Sloviansk front, Russian forces used tubed and rocket artillery  as well as tanks  to fire on the areas in the vicinity of Asiivka, Protopopivka, Husarivka, Hrushuvakha, Karnaukhivka, Dolyna and Adamivka. The Russians conducted assault operations near Brazhivka and Dmytrivka but were unsuccessful and have retreated.
On the Bakhmut front, Russian forces fired on military and civilian infrastructure facilities in and around Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Kodema, Semyhiria, Travneve, Zaitseve, Kostiantynivka and Niu-York. Russian aircraft conducted an airstrike near Soledar. In addition, the Russians conducted assault operations near Vershyna and Travneve but were unsuccessful. Fighting is continuing near Semyhiria, Zaitseve and Vershyna.
Source: General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook, information as of 06:00 on 30 July
On the Kramatorsk front, Russian forces shelled the areas near Kramatorsk, Siversk, Spirne and other towns and villages and continued to use UAVs to conduct aerial reconnaissance.
Details: On the Sivershchyna front, Russia has continued to conduct aerial reconnaissance and fire on infrastructure targets using tubed and rocket artillery in the areas of Ukraines Chernihiv and Sumy oblasts near the Ukrainian-Russian border.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine have repelled Russian assaults on the Sloviansk, Bakhmut, Avdiivka and Novopavlivka fronts. Fighting is currently underway on several of those fronts.
On the Zaporizhzhia front, Russian forces shelled civilian and military infrastructure in the areas around Zaliznychne, Charivne, Bilohiria, Orikhiv, Novoandriivka and Kamianske and conducted an airstrike near Novomykhailivka and Mali Shcherbaky.
On the Avdiivka front, Russian occupying forces fired on the areas around Novobakhmutivka, Opytne, Vodiane, Pisky and Krasnohorivka using tanks, as well as tubed and rocket artillery. Russian aircraft conducted airstrikes near Selydove, Avdiivka and Pervomaiske. The Russians conducted assault operations in the vicinity of Pisky and Avdiivka but were not successful. Fighting is continuing near Krasnohorivka.
