Ukrainian celebs urge EU to stop fuelling Russias war of aggression
20220707
https://uk.style.yahoo.com/news/ukrainian-celebs-urge-eu-stop-095826617.html
Ukraines most famous celebrities, human rights activists and environmental campaigners are calling for gas to not be classified as a green energy source in the EU.
The choice is clear: MEPs either vote for more gas-funded wars, or learn from Ukraine and vote for a cleaner, safer, and more prosperous future.
If this proposal passes in Parliament, the Commission will be prolonging our addiction to gas - funding volatile dictatorships like Putins - and in doing so, willingly prolonging the suffering of Ukrainians.
New investments in these technologies do not make either environmental or economic sense, but will open the door to the Russian energy giants, which should be sanctioned.
When the European Commission released its REPowerEU strategy, the aim was to respond to the double urgency of dependence on Russia and climate change, says Oksana Ananyeva, policy advisor at the Centre for Environmental Initiatives in Ukraine.
Greenwashing nuclear energy and gas using the EU taxonomy, she adds, is a step in the opposite direction.
The European Commission is trying to convince us that gas is green and that gas hasnt been fuelling Russias war of aggression in Ukraine, says Dr Svitlana Romanko, Ukrainian environmental law expert, climate activist and founder of grassroots organisation Razom We Stand.
According to the group of TV stars, singers, artists, activists and influential figures, any measure which prolongs the EUs reliance on Russian gas will only strengthen Vladimir Putins grip on power and extend his reign of terror.
In June, a preliminary vote saw the EUs taxonomy struck down by two key parliamentary committees: The Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee and the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee.
The European Parlaiment decide today 6 July whether to block or accept a new EU law that labels investments in gas and nuclear as climate friendly. This 'taxonomy' dictates which economic activities investors can label and market as green in the EU.
Influential figures and stars, including 2016 Eurovision winner Jamala, have come together to ask MEPs to vote against the EU Commissions taxonomy on sustainable activities. They say that it will increase Europes dependence on gas, particularly from Russia.
An estimated 300 activists are gathering in Strasbourg, France this week as the results of the vote on the taxonomy are due to be announced. They come from countries across the EU including Austria, Denmark, Italy, Sweden and Ukraine.
Since the war in Ukraine began, the EU has spent more than 60 billion on Russian fossil fuels, according to campaign group Europe Beyond Coal.
New investments ... will open the door to the Russian energy giants, which should be sanctioned.
But critics say the inclusion of gas as a green investment creates uncertainty about what is truly sustainable.
Before the invasion of Ukraine, Russia supplied 40 per cent of the EUs natural gas and 27 per cent of imported oil, with the bloc paying an estimated 400 billion a year.
Now campaigners are calling for MEPs to continue the momentum by rejecting the proposal and forcing the European Commission back to the drawing board.
All the European countries returning to dirty coal as Russia threatens to turn off the gas tap
It is expected to be a tight vote and according to a recent survey by WWF, almost half of EU citizens believe Russia's invasion of Ukraine means it is even more important to leave gas out of the EU taxonomy.
I dont want to fight rich peoples wars: A Ukrainian climate activist tells their story at Davos
The activists will communicate directly with MEPs, calling on the European Parliament to stop the greatest greenwashing exercise of all time by rejecting the inclusion of nuclear and gas in the EU taxonomy.
