Ukraine news  live Kyiv accuses Russia of terrorism as 19 killed in apartment strike
20220701
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ukraine-news-live-17-killed-050108722.html
Vladimir Putin has denied that Moscow was blocking Ukrainian grain exports and questioned the impact of missing Ukrainian agricultural goods on the world food market.
He added that the island, known as Zmiinyi Island in Ukraine, is a strategic point, and significantly changes the situation in the Black Sea.
Russian missile attacks on residential buildings in Odesa early Friday killed at least 18 people, including two children, authorities have said.
It does not guarantee safety yet, it does not yet guarantee that the enemy will not return. But it already limits the actions of the occupiers significantly. Step by step, we will drive them out of our sea, our land, and our sky, Mr Zelensky said.
Mr Zelensky thanked the Ukrainian soldiers and said he is grateful to everyone who defends our positions in such conditions.
However, Russia said it withdrew from Snake Island as a gesture of goodwill and that it was not hindering UNs attempts to open a humanitarian corridor for shipping grains from Ukraine.
Ukraine now has a very clear European perspective following the European Unions decision to grant the country candidate status to join the bloc, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said in a speech to the Ukrainian parliament.
Vladimir Putin has lost another colonel - the 57th in just four months of war, as fighting intensifies in eastern Ukraine.
He was speaking at a news conference in Madrid at the end of a Nato summit on Thursday.
The death toll in a Russian missile strike on an apartment building and a resort near Black Sea port of Odesa has reached 17, Ukrainian officials said.
Satellite imagery published by Maxar Technologies showed smoke emitting from burning vehicles and structures at several locations across the northern section of the island.
Ever since Russias invasion of its neighbour on 24 February, Mr Johnson has made clear that, while supporting Ukraines efforts to drive Putins troops out of the country, he was not seeking regime change in the Kremlin.
A terrorist country is killing our people. In response to defeats on the battlefield, they fight civilians, Andriy Yermak, the chief of staff to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, said.
And what we had today at Nato was, yet again, the alliance being tested, being asked, being interrogated. Are we resolved? Are we determined? Will we give the Ukrainians the means to protect themselves?
Lets start with the headline that the government and the prime minister have helpfully provided: The UK will provide an additional 1bn of military support to Ukraine. What will it be spent on, Mary Dejevsky asks.
Ukraine now has a very clear European perspective. And Ukraine is a candidate country to join the European Union something that seemed almost unimaginable just five months ago, von der Leyen said in a speech by video-link to the assembly on Friday.
And the answer was absolutely yes and, if anything, the strength of the unity is greater than it was before.
A missile can be seen flying towards the building in footage from outside the shopping centre. Seconds later, a huge explosion takes place, throwing debris high into the air.
The EU flag was raised in the Ukrainian parliament after the country was granted candidate status to join the bloc.
The state-owned RIA news agency quoted Russias defence ministry as saying the refinery was now under its control, although details could not be immediately verified.
Because fundamentally, what Putin is trying to do is to reframe this as about Russia versus Nato.
Putin can hold onto power in Russia if he backs down over Ukraine, Boris Johnson says
Russia has highly likely withdrawn from Snake Island owing to the isolation of the garrison and its increasing vulnerability to Ukrainian strikes, rather than as a gesture of good will, as it has claimed.
The missile had struck a nine-story apartment building in Ukraines Black Sea port, following which a section of the building collapsed.
He has previously been critical of Western leaders, like Frances Emmanuel Macron, who have suggested that Putin must be offered a ladder to climb down to allow him to end the conflict without losing face.
We do not prevent the export of Ukrainian grain. The Ukrainian military has mined the approaches to their ports, no one prevents them from clearing those mines and we guarantee the safety of shipping grain out of there, Putin said, speaking alongside visiting Indonesian President Joko Widodo.
The DPR has had the death penalty on its statute books since 2014, but no legislation outlining how to enforce it until now. Rights group Amnesty International, which tracks the use of the death penalty worldwide, has not recorded any instances of official executions in the region.
The footage calls into question Russias claims the mall was non-functioning and was being used to store ammunition.
Undoubtedly, the main word today is Zmiinyi. Apparently, there was just as much talk about Zmiinyi only on the day when the Russian ship arrived there. Then the ship left - forever, and now the island is free again. I am grateful to the Defense Intelligence of Ukraine, the fighters of Alpha, I am grateful to our gunners, pilots of the army aviation and Air Force, the command of Oleksandriya, he said.
The Kremlin dismissed allegations that Russian missiles had struck an apartment building near the Ukrainian Black Sea port of Odesa early on Friday.
This comes just hours after Ukraine expelled Russian forces from the key Black Sea outpost of Snake Island.
The deputy head of the Ukrainian presidential office, Kirill Tymoshenko, said 18 people died, including two children.
Boris Johnson has played down the estimated 35 nuclear threats made by president Vladimir Putin since the start his military operation - insisting instead that he would be able to overcome Ukrainian resistance by conventional means.
The missile struck the building in Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi at around 1am on Friday, sparking fire in an attached store.
It was unclear what the new rules - outlined in an updated version of the DPRs criminal executive code that was published on the website of the breakaway entitys legislature - would mean for the men. Their lawyers were not immediately available for comment.
It comes a Ukrainian brigadier general said on Thursday that Moscow was using inaccurate Soviet-era missiles for more than half of the attacks.
The Kremlin has denied Moscow targeted the building, insisting the Russian Armed Forces do not work with civilian targets.
Ukraine marked its victory on Thursday after it drove Russian forces from the strategic Black Sea outpost of Snake Island.
Earlier this week, Mr Johnson jested that G7 leaders could take their clothes off to show that were tougher than Putin amid Russia-West tensions over Moscows military action in Ukraine.
Kislyakov, commander of a prestigious unit of Russian paratroopers, is the 57th known colonel to have been killed since president Putin ordered his troops to launch a special military operation in Ukraine.
In its daily update on the situation in Ukriane, the Ministry of Defence MoD questioned Moscows claims it pulled troops from the island as a gesture of goodwill.
In an interview marking the end of the Nato summit in Spain, Mr Johnson told LBCs Nick Ferrari : I think its very, very important that we shouldnt allow ourselves to be side-tracked by this kind of sabre-rattling.
Havent had a chance to catch up on the latest headlines from Russias invasion of Ukraine? Here were the key developments in the conflict yesterday.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said that the countrys fight in the east is fierce as Russia continues its weeks-long assualt to capture the separatist territory.
Russian forces committed a clear war crime in Ukraines coastal city of Mariupol when they launched a deadly airstrike on a theatre they knew was sheltering hundreds of civilians, according to a new investigation by Amnesty International.
The admission comes a month after The Independent revealed the UK government failed to deliver almost a quarter of a billion pounds in green projects aimed at hitting net zero emissions even as Boris Johnson urged governments around the world to drastically raise their investment in tackling the climate crisis.
The prime minnister underlined Hungarys interest seeking an end to the war in the neighbouring country as soon as possible.
Ukraine has released new footage of shoppers diving for cover the moment a Russian missile hit a busy mall.
Russian forces have withdrawn from Snake Island off Ukraines coast in the Black Sea as a gesture of goodwill, its defence ministry announced.
Russian terrorists attacked Odesa region last night. According to Operational Command South and Odesa RMA, at least 18 people died, Ukraines defence ministry said on Twitter.
However, senior Conservatives said the PMs ambition remained feeble and the target too far off, given the gravity of the immediate threat from Vladimir Putins Russia following the invasion of Ukraine.
The European Court of Human Rights ECHR said on Thursday it had issued an order to Russia to ensure that the men do not face the death penalty. The Kremlin said it was not bound by rulings from the ECHR, from which Russia has pulled out since it launched its invasion of Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin still has a way to get out of the war in Ukraine without losing his grip on power in Moscow, Boris Johnson has suggested.
General Oleksii Hromov estimated that 68 civilian sites had been hit in the second half of this month.
At least 10 people were killed after a Russian missile struck Ukraines southern port of Odesa early on Friday, regional official confirmed.
The prime minister wrapped up the Nato summit in Madrid with a pledge that could see more than 55bn added to military budgets this decade, following Ben Wallaces pleas for more money.
EU leaders last week granted Ukraine candidate status to join the bloc, formally opening a process that is expected to take years before it becomes a member of the union that now comprises 27 countries.
Ukrainian officials have released more images showing the damage caused by the bombing of an apartment block near Odesa this morning.
A court in the DPR in June sentenced two Britons - Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner - and Moroccan Brahim Saadoun to death for mercenary activities after they were captured fighting with Ukrainian forces. Their lawyers say they will appeal the decision, which was handed down after a hasty non-jury trial with no access for independent or international media.
The new criminal code, in effect from Friday, also states that the death penalty should be carried out by firing squad and that the head of the Russian-backed separatist republic has the final say on issuing pardons to anybody sentenced to death.
Ukraine authorities now say 19 people have died, including two children, in a Russian strike on an appartment block near Odesa.
And its about the Ukrainians right to protect themselves. That is what this is about.
He lauded the Ukrainian fighters including gunners, pilots of the army aviation and Air Force, the command of Oleksandriya for freeing the Snake Island from Russian forces after months.
Russian state sources are claiming troops have caputured the Lysychansk oil refinery, the second-largest refinery in Ukraine.
The attack comes after Russian forces withdrew from the strategically important Snake Island on Thursday, a move Ukrainians hoped would ease the threat to nearby Odesa.
I would like to remind you of the presidents words that the Russian Armed Forces do not work with civilian targets, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on a conference call with reporters.
Russian troops likely withdrew from the strategically significant Snake Island in western Ukraine due to their increasingly vulnerability to air strikes, the UK has said.
Putin repeated Russias assertion that Western sanctions are to blame for problems on the global food market and rising prices.
MPs applauded at the flag was carried into the Verkhovna Rada by soldiers on Friday morning.
This is a quantity which does not affect the world markets in any way, he added, saying it represented just 0.5 per cent of global production.
The UKs expanded 1bn commitment to military aid for Ukraine will be partly funded through underspending on climate finance, the business minister Kwasi Kwarteng has said.
A thin-skinned Vladimir Putin has hit back at the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and other Western leaders who mocked his tough-man topless exploits, with the Russian leader claiming they would look disgusting if they tried to copy him.
Ukraine has accused Russia of carrying out terrorism after 19 people, including two children, were killed in a missile strike on an apartment block.
Before the strike, shoppers can be seen calmly browsing busy stores and walking around the exterior of the mall.
The Ukrainian Armed Forces conducted attacks against the Russian garrison in the past few weeks using missile and drone strikes, the MoD said. In addition, it used anti-ship missiles to interdict Russian naval vessels attempting re-supply the island.
These are the same X-22 missiles that were fired at the mall in Kremenchuk. Its time to officially recognise russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.
The US Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC announced it has issued a Notification of Blocked Property to Heritage Trust, a Delaware-based trust in which OFAC-designated Russian oligarch Suleiman Abusaidovich Kerimov holds a property interest, the Treasury Department said in a statement.
A spokesman for the Odesa regional government, Serhiy Bratchuk, said on the Telegram messaging app that another 30 had been injured.Ukrainian news reports said the target of the missile attack was a multi-story apartment building and a recreational area.
Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban said that the country will speed up its defence development programme in a bid to end the ongoing war in Europe as soon as possible.
Video of the pre-dawn assault showed the charred remains of a nine-story buildings in the small town of Serhiivka, around 31 miles south-west of Odesa in western Ukraine.
Serhiy Bratchuk, spokesperson for Odesas regional administration said: The number of dead as a result of a strike on a multi-story apartment building has now risen to 10.
Preliminary reports indicated that at least six people, including three children, died in the night-time strike on a residential building.
Three more people, including a child, were killed in a separate missile attack on a resort facility, said Serhiy Bratchuk, spokesperson for Odesa regional administration.
Its not. Its about his attack on an entirely innocent country, with conventional weapons, with artillery, bombardments with planes, shells and so on.
Boris Johnson sought to heal a cabinet rift by promising to hike defence spending to 2.5 per cent of Britains economic output by the end of the decade.
The US treasury department has blocked a trust where sanctioned Russian oligarch Suleiman Kerimov held a property interest.
Ukraine says Russia should be recognised as a state sponsor of terrorism following a missile strike on an apartment block this morning left at least 18 people dead, including two children.
Vladimir Putin dismissed Boris Johnsons claim that he wouldnt have invaded Ukraine if he were a woman, citing Margaret Thatchers decision to send troops to the Falklands.
The situation in Donbas remains the toughest, extremely difficult. The fire superiority of the occupiers is still extremely tangible - they have already taken everything from their reserves to hit us: the Luhansk region, the Donetsk region, he said late on Thursday.
European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen told Ukraines parliament the country now had a "very clear European perspective" but the road to EU membership will take time and require hard work, in a speech on Friday.
Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine where two Britons and a Moroccan have been sentenced to death say the death penalty will start being used from 2025, according to an updated criminal code of the breakaway Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR.
He also downplayed Ukraines impact on the global market, saying there were only 5 million tonnes of wheat currently stuck in the country.
Video captured by CCTV cameras shows terrified customers running for their lives moments after the attack at the Amstor mall in Kremenchuk, central Ukraine on Monday.
Russia has been targeting the refinery since May, but had upped its offensive in the area in recent days.
Video of the pre-dawn attack showed the charred remains of buildings in the small town of Serhiivka, located about 30 miles southwest of Odesa. Ukrainian news reports said missiles struck a multi-story apartment building and a resort area.
So today is first and foremost. A moment to celebrate this historic milestone, a victory of determination and resolve and a victory for the whole movement that started eight years ago on the Maidan, she added.
Following the British governments announcement it would nearly double support to Ukraine to help stave off the Russian invasion, Mr Kwarteng tweeted: My department has contributed to the effort by surrendering climate finance and foreign aid underspends.
Lieutenant Colonel Pavel Kislyakov, 40, was buried on Thursday with full military honours in his hometown in the Moscow region.
Officials said that a rescue operation was underway as some people were reported buried under the ruble.
Efforts must be intensified for a lasting ceasefire in Ukraine, Turkish president Tayyip Erdogan has said.
Ukrainian authorities said Russian missiles had hit an apartment building and two holiday camps, killing at least 18 people and wounding dozens.
