Ukraine clarifies its POW policy
20220607
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-clarifies-pow-policy-093600180.html
International organizations, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, are regularly granted access to captive Russian combatants. A government agency has been set up to oversee Russian POWs and their exchanges.
They are kept temporarily under guard in designated facilities not as a form of punishment, but to prevent them from further participation in hostilities. At the same time, Ukraine reserves the right to prosecute enemy combatants on our territory, for any war crimes and crimes against humanity they may have committed.
Our state policy is based on the principle that POWs cannot be prosecuted for their participation in war, provided they didnt commit war crimes and other types of misconduct, as specified by international law, the ministrys message said.
Read also:  Putin signals readiness to lift blockade of Ukrainian ports, exchange POWs, says Austrian chancellor
The ministry stated that Ukraine strictly adheres to Internationally-accepted rules of engagement and treats POWs humanely. In accordance with international conventions, Russian prisoners are kept under guard in proper conditions and their rights and dignity are fully respected, the Ministry said.
Russian treatment of POWs is largely unknown, but reports have surfaced of torture and harsh interrogation methods used in so-called filtration camps, where Russian officials process Ukrainian nationals and residents for Russification. A number of POWs, particularly those captured during the fall of Mariupol, are believed to also have been processed through those filtration camps.
The ministry added that Ukraine demands the same treatment of captive Ukrainian military service members by Russia. The message mentions Russia withdrawing its signature from the 1977 amendment protocol to the Geneva Conventions, which covered the protection of victims of international conflicts.
Its clear now that abandoning the protocol was a step in Russias preparation for its full-scale aggression against Ukraine, the Ministry said.
