Ukrainian oligarch Akhmetov sues Russia for billions of dollars
20220627
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-oligarch-akhmetov-sues-russia-124400875.html
Akhmetov is a Ukrainian entrepreneur, investor, and philanthropist. Born in Donetsk, he has managed to amass a vast industrial empire in Ukraine, with most of his assets being folded into SCM. Akhmetov also owns Shakhtar football club, and is the founder of The Rinat Akhmetov Foundation.
These barbaric actions must be stopped, and Russia must pay in full. I believe in justice, and Im fighting for it.
Additionally, Akhmetov filed a request for interim measures that would prevent Russia from further blocking, looting, and destroying grain and steel produced by SCM.
System Capital Management or SCM, which was founded and is owned by Akhmetov, is suing Russia for gross violations of its property rights during the war.
Before the Russian aggression against Ukraine, SCMs sub-holdings and production assets employed nearly 200,000 people.
Established in 2000, SCM Group is an investor in sectoral sub-holdings and production assets under its umbrella. SCMs largest investees include Metinvest, DTEK, Media Group Ukraine, ESTA Holding, UMG, Lemtrans, and HarvEast Holding. Operating companies of SCM are located in Ukraine, the European Union, and North America.
The businessman asked the case to be prioritized, given the urgency of the matter. He also requested the European court to apply its pilot procedure to his case, as Russias aggression is damaging private enterprises across the whole of Ukraine.
Mr. Akhmetov asks the court to send a clear message to Russia that its contributions to the food security crisis and its steps to further cripple Ukraines economy will not be tolerated, SCM said in a message on its website.
The looting of Ukraines export commodities, including grain and steel, has already resulted in higher prices and people dying of hunger worldwide, Akhmetov said.
Read also:  Rinat Akhmetov to sue Kremlin for $10 billion for ruining his assets
This lawsuit is one of the first international legal steps against Russia to stop their ongoing crimes, destruction of the Ukrainian economy, and the plundering of Ukrainian assets.
While the precise amount cannot yet be assessed given the ongoing war, it is anticipated that Mr. Akhmetov is due billions of dollars from the Russian Federation for its violation of his human rights, the company statement said.
Russias crimes against Ukraine and our people are egregious, and those guilty of them must be held liable. With the help of the best Ukrainian and American lawyers, I have lodged an application with the European Court of Human Rights for damages.
