Ukraine neutrality on the table as facetoface talks with Russia to begin
20220328
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ukraine-ready-discuss-neutrality-unwilling-153507826.html
On the diplomatic front, Britains Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Putin must fail in Ukraine and said Russia was using abhorrent tactics by abducting Ukrainian politicians, activists and journalists.
I realise that its impossible to force Russia to fully leave the territory. It could lead to World War Three. I understand completely. Im fully aware of it, he said. That is why Im saying, yes, this is a compromise: Go back to where it all started and then well try to resolve the issue of Donbas, the complex issue of Donbas.
There is no medicine. A lot of people are just, I think, starving to death in their apartments right now with no help, she said. Its a mass murder thats happening at the hands of the Russians.
Negotiating teams have arrived in Istanbul for the first face-to-face talks in more than a fortnight between Kyiv and Moscow, although expectations remain low of any significant breakthrough.
Speaking in an interview with Serbian media, Lavrov alleged that Ukraine only want to imitate talks while Russia needs specific results that would be secured by the countries leaders.
Ukraine estimated on Monday that the war had cost the country more than 430 billion in terms of destroyed infrastructure.
Officials said up to 200,000 people were still trapped in the city which has been obliterated after weeks of shooting and shelling by Russian forces.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
He added: Thats why Im saying this is a compromise. Go back to where this all started and then well try to solve the difficult Donbas issue, said Mr Zelensky.
On the ground, Ukrainian forces claimed to have retaken the town of Irpin, close to Kyiv, though there was no independent confirmation.
Germanys energy minister that G7 had rejected a Russian demand that some countries pay rubles for its natural gas exports. Economists said that demand appeared designed to try to support the Russian currency, which is under pressure from Western sanctions imposed in the wake of the invasion.
If you ask the people who live in these areas, they wouldnt want to live in Russia, said Mr Rodnyansky. How can we leave them? Let alone the whole idea of slicing up our country.
Novaya Gazeta announced the decision on Monday, saying it would resume its investigative work after the war in Ukraine ends.
So we meet, we make a deal, and thats enough  we sign a deal, stamp it, or sign it in blood. Thats enough to start the troop withdrawal process. The troops must be withdrawn, everyone signs the guarantees, and thats it, he said.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky said his side was prepared to offer guarantees to Russia and was looking for peace without delay.
Russias foreign minister said that the talks could only begin after the key elements of a potential deal are negotiated. Sergei Lavrov said that the meeting is necessary once we have clarity regarding solutions on all key issues.
President Zelensky also called on Vladimir Putin to be directly involved in the talks and meet him face-to-face.
In Moscow, Russias top independent newspaper suspended its online and print operations after a warning from the countrys authorities.
The Ukrainian leader has suggested as much before, but rarely so forcefully, and the latest remarks could provide fresh momentum for Tuesdays talks.
Zelenskyy said one possible compromise could see Russia pull back its troops to areas where they had been before the invasion started on 24 February.
The war is well into its fifth week and has so far caused the deaths of thousands, forced some 10 million people from their homes, many fleeing Ukraine altogether.
We must come to an agreement with the president of the Russian Federation, and in order to reach an agreement, he needs to get out of there on his own feet.. and come to meet me.
On the ground on Monday, the situation continued to detioriate in the beseiged city of Mariupol.
Former Novaya Gazeta publisher Alexander Lebedev is the father of Evgeny Lebedev, a shareholder in The Independent.
Security guarantees and neutrality, the non-nuclear status of our state  were ready to do that. Thats the most important point... they started the war because of it, he said in an interview with Russian journalists.
His advisor, Alexander Rodnyansky, told the BBC that Ukraine was, however, unwilling to give up territory.
Supplies were increasingly scarce, said one resident who had fled. Alina Beskrovna, who made it across the border to Poland, said desperate people were melting snow for water and cooking on open fires under shelling and bombs just because if you dont, you will have nothing to eat.
Ukraine said it is ready to declare neutrality and offer security guarantees to Russia, including keeping the country nuclear-free if Moscow withdraws its troops, as both sides prepared to begin direct talks in Turkey on Tuesday.
