Ukraine Zelenskyy calls for Russia to be deemed a state sponsor of terrorism after attack
20220730
https://www.yahoo.com/gma/ukraine-zelenskyy-calls-russia-deemed-131307756.html
Lavrov told an Arab summit in Cairo on Sunday that Moscows overarching goal in Ukraine is to free its people from its unacceptable regime.
Russia launched nighttime attacks on several citiesin Ukraine, Ukrainian officials said Saturday as they and officials in Moscow blamed each other for the deaths of dozens of Ukrainian prisoners of war in a separatist-controlled area of the countrys east.Separatist authorities and Russian officials said the attack killed 53 Ukrainian POWs and wounded another 75.
Russia and Ukraineeach launched criminal investigations afteraccusingthe other of the attack.Separatist authorities and Russian officials said at least 53 people were killed and 75 injured in Olenivka, a settlement controlled by the Donetsk People's Republic.The prisoners were captured after Mariupol fell in May.
Linda Thomas-Greenfield told the U.N. Security Council that the United States is seeing growing signs that Russia is laying the groundwork to attempt to annex all of the eastern Ukrainian regions of Donetsk and Luhansk and the southern Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions, including by installing illegitimate proxy officials in Russian-held areas, with the goal of holding sham referenda or decree to join Russia.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Zelenskyy: Attacks shows Russia acting as a 'terrorist state'
Richard Moore, chief of Britain's MI6 foreign intelligence agency, quote-tweeted a post by the U.K. Ministry of Defense which said that Russia has "lost tens of thousands of soldiers and is using Soviet-era weapons." An attached video shows destruction in Ukraine and text describing Russia's purported failures.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for Russia to be recognized as a state sponsor of terrorism, citingthe "deliberate mass murder" of Ukrainian war prisonersvia shelling in theseparatist eastern region of Donetsk.
The International Committee of the Red Cross, which has organized civilian evacuations in the war and worked to monitor the treatment of prisoners of warheld by Russia and Ukraine, said it has requested access to the prison attacked overnight to determine the health and condition of all the people present on-site at the time of the attack.
"I am very disappointed with the lack of active U.N. leadership to stabilize the situation in Ukraine," Spartz wrote in the letter, which she sent to all other members of Congress and several top U.S. officials."The recent 'grain deal'is the latest failure."
Former President Donald Trump returned to Washington, D.C., in late July, making his first appearance in the nations capital since leaving office in 2021. AFacebook post claimed Trump had a high-profile meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin duringhis brief visit.
In a letter to the United Nations, U.S. Rep. Victoria Spartz, R-Ind., on Friday called for the grain deal negotiated by the group to be halted until "better security arrangements" can be put in place for Ukraine.
Russias Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has even stated that this is Russias war aim, she said.
Though theSenate on Wednesday passed a non-binding resolution urging Secretary of State Antony Blinken to label Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, hehas not taken that step.
UNITED NATIONS The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations said Friday there should no longer be any doubt that Russia intends to dismantle Ukraine and dissolve it from the world map entirely.
Spartz, who is the first and only Ukraine-born House member, cited a July 23Russian attack on a Ukrainian grain port, which took place just hours aftera deal had been struck withthe nations to restart exports.The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry denounced the strike as a spit in the face to Turkey and the United Nations, which brokered the agreements.
The Ukrainian president's calls come after dozens ofUkrainians held as prisoners of war were reportedly killedin a missile strike Fridayan attack for which Russia and Ukraineblameeach other.
"Russia has proven with numerous terrorist attacks that it is the biggest source of terrorism in today's world," Zelenskyy wrote on his official Telegram.
Theheadof Britain's spyagency wrote in a brief post on social media Saturday that Russian forces are "running out of steam."
Putins last known trip to the U.S.was in 2015, whenhe addressed the United Nations General Assemblyin New York City. FollowingRussia's invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. Treasury Department in Februaryannounced sanctions against Putin, including blocking any of his U.S. property and interests in property."
Asked about the matter this week, Blinken said sanctions against Russia were in line with what would follow from designating it as a sponsor of terrorism.
According tothe Kremlins website, Putins most recent foreign visit was to Iran on July 19. Itwas his first trip abroad sincethe invasion of Ukraine, CNN reported.
