Ukraine accuses Russia of killing 16 children and injuring 45 more in its invasion Russia has shown what it has become
20220228
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-accuses-russia-killing-16-143747327.html
In a press statement later that day, the US State Department said: "Russia's invasion has damaged and destroyed schools, hospitals, radio stations, and homes, killing and injuring civilians, including children."
A doctor looked at one point to address the camera directly and said: "Show this to Putin."
"In every conversation with our partners, I hear sincere respect. Ukrainians have shown the world who we are. And Russia has shown what it has become.
According to NBC News, a six-year-old boy in Kyiv was killed in a Russian attack on Saturday. The nearby children's cancer hospital he was also struck by artillery fire, but remained standing, the outlet reported.
Russian officials have not responded directly to the claim, but have issued blanket denials that they are targeting civilian areas, despite evidence of widespread damage to homes and apartment buildings.
It is not possible to verify the claims, and most of the victims have been named.
But the UN said it had confirmed 64 deaths and at least 240 wounded people as of Monday, according to the Associated Press. It did not specify whether any were children.
A video by Associated Press photographer Mystslav Chernov showed a six-year-old child's death on Sunday in Mariupol, a coastal city where fighting has been intense.
The video, which is graphic, was posted to his Instagram page. It showed medics attempting, but failing, to resuscitate the girl. Chernov says she was injured in shelling by Russia forces. One medic working to save the girl was crying.
Zelensky's figure of 16 children's deaths, attributed Ukraine's healthcare minister Viktor Liashko, was also circulated on Telegram in the official channel of the Ukrainian parliament on Sunday.
"Now we have shown ourselves to the fullest, and it's inspiring for everyone," Zelensky said.
The BBC also reported on the deaths of several other children in the conflict, including seven-year-old Alisa Hlans, one of six people who died when her kindergarten, in the town of Okhtyrka, was hit on Friday.
Russia did not respond to the claim. Some media outlets have also reported the deaths of children.
President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russian forces of killing 16 children and injuring 45 during its invasion of Ukraine.
"Just think about it: During the Russian invasion  in just four days  16 Ukrainian children died as a result of the Russian shelling. Sixteen! 45 children were wounded. Every crime, every shelling that the invaders commit against us, unites us and our partners even more."
Zelensky made the claim in a defiant speech posted to Telegram Monday, in which he made an unflattering comparison between Russia's attack and the resistance shown by Ukraine.
International observers have struggled to confirm independent figures of civilian deaths since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, as The Washington Post reported.
