Ukraine declares state of emergency as Putin orders Russian troops to enter
20220223
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-declares-state-emergency-putin-195944229.html
Danilov said the state of emergency would mean bringing in measures that result in the "strengthening security of public places and locations that are critical for the public," the FT reported.
The US and its allies have sought to find a diplomatic resolution to the crisis, but failed to reach any major breakthroughs. Russia made unacceptable demands during the recent discussions, including permanently banning Ukraine from NATO. The alliance and the US have repeatedly said this demand is a non-starter.
Oleksiy Danilov, Ukraine's top security official, said earlier on Wednesday that the state of emergency would last for 30 days, and can be extended for another 30 days, Reuters reported.
Russian President Vladimir then ordered troops into the region in a possible lead-up to a major attack, describing its actions as "peacekeeping." Ukraine has also called up reserve troops aged between 18 and 60.
He said stricter rules would be put in place in the regions closest to Russia and Belarus  where Russian troops are also stationed  as well as Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine like Crimea, the FT reported.
Putin on Wednesday said that Russia was still open to diplomacy but wouldn't compromise on its security, per Reuters. Meanwhile, the Biden administration accused Russia of not approach diplomatic discussions in good faith.
Ukrainian MPs ratified the measures in parliament on Wednesday, after a recommendation by the country's security council.
Since late 2021, Russia has gathered tens of thousands of troops on Ukraine's border. The Kremlin claimed it had no plans to invade  an assertion met with extreme skepticism by Western leaders.
It comes after Russia declared two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine independent and ordered in troops.
"This is and has been, in some ways, diplomatic Kabuki theater on the part of the Russians  making statements that they are committed to a diplomatic path while their actions suggest exactly the opposite," State Department spokesperson Ned Price said Wednesday. "That is not an environment in which diplomacy can achieve the results that it needs to achieve."
It will involve bringing in more security measures and inspections, the Financial Times reported. It also makes it easier for authorities to introduce a curfew, or to declare martial law, Ukraine's RBC news channel reported.
"This can include restrictions on the movement of transportation, additional inspections of transportation. This can include inspections of individuals' documents," Danilov said, per the FT.
Russia on Monday recognized the claims of Russia-backed separatists to regions of eastern Ukraine, and declared them to be independent.
Earlier Wednesday, Ukraine's parliament also voted to redistribute funds from any part of the country's budget to use for national security or defense.
The regions of Donetsk and Luhansk regions have already been under a state of emergency since 2014 due to conflict with Russia.
