Ukraine The Lessons of History
20220306
https://www.yahoo.com/now/ukraine-lessons-history-100303322.html
Jack Burgess is a retired teacher of American  Global Studies, and a member of Veterans For Peace.
Some see the Russian attack as just an aberration of Vladimir Putin, Russian president. While thats a part, its not that simple. If were honest about it, as world leaders we havent set a very good example in our own history. With our Monroe Doctrine, weve dominated our entire hemisphere. And when the Russian people revolted, in 1917, throwing off centuries of repressive Tsarist rule, we invaded Russia to try to abort their revolution  and to keep them in WWI against Germany. We failed. For those who doubt that happened, there are the graves of our Polar Bear doughboys near Detroit.
Meanwhile, following our lead, they developed nuclear bombs. Eventually, both Russia and the US, realizing neither side would survive a nuclear war, developed various treaties for their inspection and control  though the world came close to nuclear war when Russia tried to put missiles in Cuba, in 62, to counter similar ones we had placed in Italy and Turkey. After both sides withdrew those missiles, we settled into a nuclear standoff known as MAD  mutually assured destruction. In other words, both sides had so many nukes that using them would literally be mad, crazy.
Who knows what kind of nation Russia would have become if wed helped them recover from Tsarism, rather than trying to overthrow their government. During World War II, we did help Russia resist Hitlers invasion, partly to keep Russian oil out of German tanks. But after WWII, Russia  having been invaded five times in the 19th and 20th centuries, worried about encirclement by capitalist countries opposing their socialism. So they dominated eastern Europe, establishing the infamous Iron Curtain, as Winston Churchill called it.
Our interventions in Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Venezuela, and Syria  all having leaders who were Russian allies  alarmed Russian leadership.
In the late 80s, President Reagan realized nuclear war and the Cold War itself were bad ideas, and agreed with Russias Gorbechev to cut back on nuclear build-up. According to some sources, our government also agreed to not extend NATO one inch further toward Russia. But, after the Soviet Union was broken up in 1991, several countries that had been soviet joined NATO. Many Russians saw this development as a threat, especially when those countries then joined the European Union for economic purposes.
Then, in 2014, after much turmoil, Ukraine overthrew its pro-Russian government  with their president, Yanukovych, fleeing to Moscow -- and chose a government with strong ties to the West. There is pretty clear evidence that the US had a role in that overthrow, as American lawmakers and diplomats  including Sen. John McCain -- were there making speeches at the time. Asst. Sec. of State, Victoria Nuland, was taped in a phone conversation seeming to help choose the Ukrainian government. That overthrow endangered Russia militarily, as their main warm-water naval and shipping port is in Ukraines Crimean area on the Black Sea. Many people there identify as Russian, so Russia moved in militarily to hold onto the vital territory.
The whole matter has been up in the air since 2014. We did not expect Russia to try to retake Ukraine by force. Now that they are, we must deplore the death and destruction, but also work through the UN and other channels, public and private, to limit and conclude the disaster of this war. Luckily, President Biden, experienced in foreign policy, seems to be following a strong, calm approach in reacting to the aggression. Lets hope the sanctions work. Maybe, as JFK said in 1963, If we cannot end our differences, at least we can help make the world safe for diversity.
As President Kennedy pointed out, Things dont just happen. They are made to happen. So, events in Ukraine are the culmination of many events in the history of Europe and the world. As we pray for the Russian war on Ukraine to end, we need to look back at history  to figure out how we got here  and how to get out without blowing up the planet. Yes, we have to remember the Russians have thousands of nuclear warheads, as do we. Just one nuclear bomb could kill millions.
