Ukrainian soldier fighting Russia says his own parents are convinced by Putins propaganda and think hes on the wrong side
20220519
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-soldier-fighting-russia-says-135415858.html
Per those rules, Russian media still only refers to the invasion as a "special operation" conducted solely to liberate Ukraine from the grip of Nazism.
Experts estimate that only around 10 of Russians have access to a VPN, the encrypted networks that allow access to blocked media, as Insider's Erin SnodgrassandSarah Al-Arshani reportedin April.
Shadrin joined the Ukrainian army to resist the occupation of Crimea in 2014, but his parents stayed loyal to Russia. They only consumer pro-Kremlin media and believe its warped version of the invasion.
A Ukrainian soldier described being estranged from his parents in Crimea, who only have access to Russian propaganda about the war and believe he is fighting for the wrong cause.
The drought of accurate information was noticed early on by many Ukrainians with friends and family in Russia.
He is among many Ukrainians left estranged from family who have a warped view of the invasion.
One woman told Insider that her Ukrainian uncle, living in Russia, said he wanted to join up to fight on Russia's side, while another said she had cut ties with her father, who believed Putin's forces were "saving" Ukraine.
Russian forces have all but retreated from much of Ukraine but desperate fighting continues in Donbas, where most of Putin's troops are concentrated, as Reuters reported.
The report describes his hardships in the war, including how he received a shrapnel injury from a Russian tank attack, which he treated himself without anaesthetic.
Cpl. Andrii Shadrin told Axios his parents believe Kremlin propaganda that Ukraine is run by Nazis.
"I am a Nazi for them," Cpl. Andrii Shadrin told Axios in an in-depth report about his fighting experiences in Donbas, the region home the fiercest battles between Russia and Ukraine.
The experiences he described suggest that Putin's grip over the information landscape in Russia and Russian-controlled areas is as strong as ever.
It soon emerged that some were unable to persuade family members in Russia of the horror of the invasion, as Insider reported.
That was in early March. But even now, three months into a faltering invasion, Shadrin told Axios that his parents believe he is the one who is brainwashed, even as he personally experiences the war.
Those relatives generally refused to believe that Russian troops would attack civilians, bomb hospitals or commit other atrocities, despite abundant evidence and the testimony of their own family.
26-year-old Shadrin's parents are Soviet-born Russians who live in Feodosia, in Crimea, Axios reported. Even before Russia's 2014 annexation of the region, there was strong Russian influence there.
In late February, Putin ordered a clampdown on Russia's already-restricted media, outlawing what he described as "false information" and even requiring the deletion of articles describing the war as a war.
