Ukrainian refugee explains Russian invasion
20220719
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-refugee-explains-russian-invasion-091900392.html
So far, Pavlenko said more than 12 million people, mostly women and children, have fled Ukraine because of the war.
At the end of the meeting, Pavlenko and her family were presented two checks totaling $6,000 from the state and local Kiwanis officials.
"Russian soldiers steal everything from the homes," she said. "They just want to take our country and make it part of Russia."
She was on a bus with other civilians when Russians opened fire on the vehicle. Pavlenko said she told everyone to lie on the floor and all complied. Later it was clear by the bullet holes that there would have been casualties had people remained in their seats.
"We wanted to lead a normal life," she said. "Then at 4 a.m. the Russians launched an attack on our country. They bombed everything, hospitals, hotels, schools, apartments, grocery stores, everything. We were in shock,"
Pavlenko said it didn't take long to realize it was too dangerous for her family to remain in Ukraine, so they fled by train to Hungary.
"Russian soldiers thought they could take our cities in a couple of days," Pavlenko said. "Russian soldiers killed people for fun. It was a game for them."
She and many Ukrainians believed the talk of a Russian invasion was a bunch of bluster until it happened, she told the St. Mary Kiwanis Club on Monday.
In one instance, Ukrainian soldiers emphatically ordered her to stop walking immediately. She obeyed and learned she was one step away from stepping onto a land mine that could have killed everyone. In another instance, she was caught between Ukrainian and Russian soldiers that for some reason didn't fire on each other until she was out of the way.
"Everyone's depressed all the time," she said. "It's hard to understand what's happened to our people."
During the presentation, Pavlenko showed photos and video of the Russian invasion, including hospitals and schools bombed to rubble, bodies lying in pools of blood with their hands tied behind their backs and missiles striking civilian targets.
Pavlenko has visited the St. Marys Kiwanis Club three times as a representative of her Kiwanis Club in Ukraine over the past decade or so. This visit was not planned until she and other family members fled the war-torn nation.
Pavlenko's presentation was interpreted by her daughter, Renata Chorna, who explained the reaction of her daughter, Christina, the day of the invasion when told she would not be going to school.
