Ukrainian journalist accuses Russia of shelling Donetsk
20220619
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-journalist-accuses-russia-shelling-144300263.html
And weve been shooting for eight years, if were being frank. But were not shoot at just something, we either target concentrations of military equipment, or fuel and ammo depots  military targets. Were shooting very sparingly, as we dont have enough shells. Its true that were being more successful now than weve been during the last eight years.
We cant, even if we wanted to, afford to indiscriminately shell Donetsk, ... since we are very short on ammunition, the journalist said.
Their focus is now on Donetsk being attacked specifically with Western weapons. Obviously, its being done to accuse the West of causing civilian deaths and shift public opinion towards opposing further security assistance to Ukraine.
Modern Western weapons are starting to give Ukraine an advantage on the battlefield. Thats why, according to Garmash, Russian propaganda has started a media campaign about Donetsk being shelled.
Read also:  Russia and its proxies shell Donetsk to boost mobilization, ISW report says
First of all, we have problems with munitions, unfortunately. Second: it makes little sense to level a city we will eventually reclaim and would have to rebuild. Not to mention, many of us have homes there, friends, and family members.
Its shelling the city that is essentially under its control, in order to induce a humanitarian crisis, for which it will blame the West for supplying modern weapons to Ukraine. Russia will claim these weapons are used to kill civilians. To prove this point, Russia is actually killing civilians.
If we look at Russia media  including the ones in occupied Ukrainian territories  it becomes clear why they are shelling Donetsk, Garmash said.
According to Garmash, Russian is using scorched earth tactics in this war, while Ukraine is only targeting military infrastructure.
Garmash went on to explain why its not in Ukraines interests to attack civilian targets in the occupied city.
