Ukrainian Armed Forces repel Russian assaults on two fronts General Staff report
20220725
https://news.yahoo.com/ukrainian-armed-forces-repel-russian-040811905.html
Russian forces did not undertake active combat operations on the Avdiivka, Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia fronts, though they fired on the positions of Ukrainian troops along the entire frontline using tubed and rocket artillery, as well as tanks, in order to pin the Ukrainian Armed Forces down. Russian aircraft conducted airstrikes near Shevchenko, Vesele and Poltavka. Russia also conducted aerial reconnaissance over Omelnyk, Shcherbaky, Novodanylivka and Malynivka.
On the Sloviansk front, Russian occupying forces used all weapons in their arsenal to fire on the positions of Ukrainian forces near Nortsivka, Bohorodychne, Petrivske, Barvinkove, Kostiantynivka, Nova Dmytrivka, Dolyna, Nova Mykolaivka, Karnaukhivka, Dibrivne and Chepil.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine have repelled Russian assaults on the Kramatorsk and Bakhmut fronts.
Russian forces shelled the areas around Kryva Luka, Platonivka, Siversk, Verkhnokamianske, Zvanivka, Ivano-Dariivka and Spirne and conducted airstrikes near Hryhorivka and Serebrianka.
On the Kharkiv front, Russian forces fired on the positions of Ukrainian troops in the areas around Kharkiv, Malynivka, Borshchova, Ivanivka, Pytomnyk, Nove, Ruski Tyshky, Petrivka, Dementiivka, Husarivka, Prudianka, Shapovalivka, Rubizhne, Shevelivka, Duvanka, Mospanove, Ruska Lozova and Mykhailivka using tanks and tubed and rocket artillery. Russian aircraft conducted airstrikes near Prudianka, Petrivka and Yavirske.
A Russian attempt to conduct an assault operation towards Vershyna  Luhansk on the Bakhmut front has also failed: Ukrainian Armed Forces forced the Russians to retreat. Russian forces are conducting an offensive towards Myronivske  Luhansk, where fighting is continuing. The Russians also conducted airstrikes near Soledar and Pokrovske and on the territory of the Vuhelhirska Power Plant. The Russians fired on the areas around Berestove, Bilohorivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Pokrovske, Yakovlivka, Kurdiumivka, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Novoluhanske, Zaitseve and Travneve in an attempt to destroy Ukrainian defence fortifications in those areas. Russian UAVs were deployed in the vicinity of Kramatorsk.
Details: On the Kramatorsk front, Ukrainian forces repelled Russian assault operations in two directions: Berestove  Ivano-Dariivka and Verkhnokamianka  Ivano-Dariivka. Russian troops were forced to retreat. The Russians are attempting to advance near Spirne, where fighting is continuing.
Source: General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook, information as of 06:00 on 25 July
On the Pivdennyi Buh front, Russian forces fired using artillery on the areas around Potomkyne, Chervonopillia, Kvitneve, Kyselivka, Partyzanske, Pervomaiske, Luch, Posad-Pokrovske, Blahodatne, Shevchenkove, Prybuzke, Stepova Dolyna and Nova Zoria. The Russians actively conducted aerial reconnaissance in the area using UAVs and conducted an airstrike near Bilohirka.
There were no significant changes on the Volyn, Polissia and Sivershchyna fronts. Russian units used tubed artillery to fire on the areas around Yastrubyne, Hrabovske and Volodymyrivka in Sumy Oblast.
Russian forces are continuing to conduct combat operations in order to maintain their present positions and prevent Ukrainian forces from advancing towards the Ukrainian state border on the Slobozhanshchyna front.
