UN distances itself from source who defended Russias right to strike Odesa port
20220724
https://news.yahoo.com/un-distances-itself-source-defended-114654948.html
Details: Nikolenkos statement came in response to a New York Times article which he called "controversial".
Following the Russian missile attack on the port of Odesa on the morning of 23 July, UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres made a statement in which he unequivocally condemned the attack.
Source: Oleh Nikolenko, spokesman for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as cited in European Pravda
Nikolenko added that the international community has also been unanimous in its response, agreeing that Russia has violated its obligations to ensure the safe functioning of the port infrastructure used for grain exports.
"Allegedly an unnamed source in the UN stated that Russias missile strike on the port of Odesa may not have technically violated the grain deal which has just been signed in Istanbul. Apparently, Russia did not pledge to avoid attacking the parts of the Ukrainian ports that are not directly used for the grain exports. To put it mildly, we were surprised by this comment," Nikolenko noted.
He underscored that the unnamed officials comment contradicts the statement released by UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres, who has unequivocally denounced the strikes on the port of Odesa.
Bridget Brink, the US Ambassador to Ukraine, called the attack "outrageous" and said that the Kremlin "continues to weaponise food".
Russia has come up with several different excuses for the missile strike on the port of Odesa, some of which stated that there was a Ukrainian military boat in the area, others that there were Harpoon missiles, and still others that the Russian missiles were targeted at both the military boat and the Harpoon missiles.
"Only the statement made by Secretary General Guterres represents the organisations position," Oleh Nikolenko said.
The Ukrainian foreign ministry immediately asked the UN for a clarification of its position. Today, the UN assured Ukraine that the unofficial comment which the "unnamed source" gave to The New York Times does not represent the UNs official position.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine said that the UN has distanced itself from a comment made by an unnamed official who claimed that Russia has a right to fire on the seaport in Odesa as long as it does not strike targets involved in grain exports.
"Thats the problem with these unnamed sources: theyve introduced a controversial narrative and now bear no responsibility for it. Whether this was done on purpose or not is an open question," the foreign ministry spokesman added.
