US puts 8500 troops on heightened alert amid Russian tensions with Ukraine
20220124
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/us-puts-8-500-troops-211133502.html
NATO will take all necessary measures to protect and defend all allies, Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said. We will always respond to any deterioration of our security environment, including through strengthening our collective defense.
In a statement, the ministers said the EU has stepped up sanction preparations and they warned that any further military aggression by Russia against Ukraine will have massive consequences and severe costs.
"One of the reasons why I'm not giving you this today, is because the units are getting notified and we want to also give them time to talk about this with their families so that their families are ready for this potential, and I say potential, deployment order," Kirby told reporters.
Russia has massed an estimated 100,000 troops near Ukraines border, demanding that NATO promise it will never allow Ukraine to join and that other actions, such as stationing alliance troops in former Soviet bloc countries, be curtailed. Some of these, like any pledge to permanently bar Ukraine, are nonstarters for NATO  creating a seemingly intractable deadlock that many fear can only end in war.
The NATO announcement came as European Union foreign ministers sought to put on a fresh display of unity in support of Ukraine, and paper over concerns about divisions on the best way to confront any Russian aggression.
Later Monday, Biden is to hold a video call with several European leaders on the Russian military buildup and potential responses to an invasion, the White House said.
Tensions have soared Monday between Russia and the West over concerns that Moscow is planning to invade Ukraine, with NATO outlining potential troop and ship deployments, Britain saying it would withdraw some diplomats from Kyiv, and Ireland denouncing upcoming Russian war games off its coast as unwelcome.
Separately, the EU also committed to increase financial support for embattled Ukraine, vowing to push through a special package of 1.2 billion euros $1.4 billion in loans and grants as soon as possible.
Russias brittle economy is overly reliant on energy exports. President Vladimir Putin has made clear his ambition to diversify the economy, particularly in sectors like defense and civil aviation, but the U.S. and European allies have a dominant position in producing and exporting the technologies, software and equipment crucial for Russia in those sectors.
In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said it was NATO and the U.S. who were behind the escalating tensions, not Russia.
The Western alliances statement summed up moves already announced by member countries, but restating them under the NATO banner appeared aimed at showing its resolve. It was just one of a series of announcements that signaled the West is ramping up its rhetoric in the information war that has accompanied the Ukraine standoff.
Germany has issued no similar order, with Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock stressing that we must not contribute to unsettling the situation further.
Associated Press writers Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv, Ukraine, Dasha Litvinova in Moscow, Geir Moulson in Berlin, Aritz Parra in Madrid, Jill Lawless in London, Robert Burns and Aamer Madhani in Washington, Mike Corder in The Hague, and Raf Casert in Brussels contributed.
Fort Bragg is home to the nation's Immediate Response Force, which has capabilities to deploy anywhere in the world within 72 hours notice.
In August, soldiers with the 82nd Airborne Division deployed to Afghanistan on rapid notice in response to the withdrawal there.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said an invasion was not inevitable, but the intelligence is pretty gloomy. He added that I think that sense can still prevail.
But the White House has also suggested theyve approached talks with Russia with a measure of confidence and backing from European allies that they didnt have before the annexation of Crimea.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken held talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Friday and said the U.S. would give Russia written responses to Moscows proposals this week, offering some hope that any invasion could be delayed for at least a few more days.
BRUSSELS AP  The Pentagon said Monday that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has put up to 8,500 troops on heightened alert, so they will be prepared to deploy if needed to reassure NATO allies in the face of ongoing Russian aggression on the border of Ukraine.
In Washington, Pentagon leaders have proposed a range of options for President Joe Biden to reinforce the U.S. military presence in Eastern Europe and the Baltics as a demonstration of American commitment, according to two officials who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal planning.
He said some units were receiving notice of prepare to deploy orders Monday but would not confirm which units.
Ukraines Foreign Ministry spokesman, Oleg Nikolenko, said the U.S. decision was a premature step and a sign of excessive caution. He said Russia is sowing panic among Ukrainians and foreigners in order to destabilize Ukraine.
This isnt a time to increase military activity and tension in the context of whats happening with and in Ukraine. he said. The fact that they are choosing to do it on the western borders, if you like, of the EU, off the Irish coast, is something that in our view is simply not welcome.
At the EU meeting, Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said he would inform his counterparts about planned Russian war games 240 kilometers 150 miles off southwestern Ireland  in international waters but within Irelands exclusive economic zone.
This article originally appeared on The Fayetteville Observer: US puts 8,500 troops on heightened alert amid Russia tension
One of the officials said no specific deployments have been proposed but some unspecified U.S. military units have been told to plan for that possibility. The other official said Sunday it is possible that reinforcements could be sent from U.S. bases, in addition to possible shifts of troops within Europe, but for the moment the White House and Pentagon are only exploring options.
Asked whether the EU would follow a U.S. move and order the families of European embassy personnel in Ukraine to leave, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said: We are not going to do the same thing.
He said the order means that some units are required to prepare to deploy within five days, compared to 10, but that does not mean they're leaving in five days.
Diplomats and officials said hard-hitting sanctions are being drawn up with the EUs executive branch, the European Commission. They were reluctant to detail the measures but said they would come within days of any attack.
"It means they're ready to go in as little as five days if asked for," Kirby said.
A senior administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations said as theyve approached designing potential sanctions, theyve kept in the front of our mind the need to be responsible about their possible effect on European and global economies.
The West is nervously watching Russian troop movements and war games in Belarus for any signs of an invasion. Russia has already invaded Ukraine once, annexing the Crimean Peninsula in 2014. It also supported pro-Russian Ukrainian separatists fighting the Kyiv government in the countrys eastern region known as the Donbass. About 14,000 people have been killed in the conflict.
NATO members Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania said they plan to send U.S.-made anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine, a move endorsed by Washington.
But questions have arisen about EU unity. Diverse political, business and energy interests have long divided the 27-country bloc in its approach to Moscow. About 40 of the EUs natural gas imports come from Russia, much of it via pipelines across Ukraine, and many are skittish about being cut off from that supply in winter.
All this is happening not because of what we, Russia, are doing. This is happening because of what NATO, the U.S. are doing, Peskov told reporters.
Weve always said we would reinforce our allies on the eastern flank and those conversations and discussions have certainly been part of what our national security officials have been discussing with their counterpart now for several weeks, said White House press secretary Jen Psaki.
NATO said Monday it is bolstering its deterrence in the Baltic Sea region. Denmark is sending a frigate and deploying F-16 warplanes to Lithuania Spain is sending four fighter jets to Bulgaria and three ships to the Black Sea to join NATO naval forces and France stands ready to send troops to Romania. The Netherlands also plans to send two F-35 fighter aircraft to Bulgaria from April.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said no final decisions have been made on deployments. He said the order is about ensuring that the U.S. is ready to respond if NATO decides to deploy its response force.
Russia denies it is planning an invasion, and says the Western accusations are merely a cover for NATOs own planned provocations. Recent days have seen high-stakes diplomacy that failed to reach any breakthrough and maneuvering on both sides.
In talks with European allies throughout the crisis, administration officials said they have remained cognizant that Europes trade, energy and financial linkages with Russia are far more significant than they are for the U.S.
Throughout the talks, European officials have underscored having a legitimate analysis and understanding of ... what will actually make Russia hurt and what the collateral costs might be, according to a second senior administration official.
