US to provide 89 million for demining efforts in Ukraine
20220809
https://news.yahoo.com/us-89-million-demining-efforts-195918164.html
The $89 million in funding will also support a large-scale train and equip project to demine and dispose of explosive ordinances that are in civilian areas such as farmland and that block reconstruction efforts or prevent people from returning to their homes.
The grotesque use of improvised explosive devices in the manner that we are seeing in Ukraine by Russian actors was previously only associated with ISIS in Syria, it added.
Russias unlawful and unprovoked further invasion of Ukraine has littered massive swaths of the country with landmines, unexploded ordnance, and improvised explosive devices, the State Department said in a statement.
The intelligence update said that the Russians are likely deploying the mines to restrict freedom of movement along its defensive lines in Donbas and that the mines are deeply controversial and maim indiscriminately.
In March, Ukrainian Interior Minister Denys Monastyrsky told The Associated Press that it would take years to defuse and dispose of unexploded ordnances left behind by Russias invasion, including unexploded shells and mines and that also get trapped under the rubble of destroyed buildings.
The State Department announced Tuesday it will provide $89 million to help demining efforts in Ukraine, comparing the scale of unexploded ordnances Russia left behind to tactics ISIS employed in Syria.
The U.S. announcement follows an intelligence assessment by the United Kingdoms Ministry of Defence on Monday that Russia is likely deploying anti-personnel mines in Ukraines eastern Donbas region. Called butterfly mines, they allegedly maimed high numbers of children in Afghanistan during the Soviet-Afghan war between 1979 and 1989.
The State Department said that the remaining mines continue to kill and maim innocent Ukrainian civilians.
The demining assistance follows an announcement Monday that the U.S. is providing $1 billion in military equipment to Ukraine, the 18th drawdown of aid and the largest package to be delivered so far, as well as $4.5 billion in economic assistance.
The funding will help set up 100 teams that can defuse and dispose of unexploded ordnances that cover an area of 160,000 square kilometers nearly 62,000 square miles, roughly the size of Virginia, Maryland, and Connecticut combined.
