Very high risk of disaster at Europes biggest nuclear power plant in Ukraine
20220809
https://uk.news.yahoo.com/russia-ukraine-war-zelensky-calls-025326402.html
Speaking in his nightly video address on Monday, Mr Zelensky said the world "should not forget aboutChernobyl" and remember the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant isthe biggest in Europe.
It said Ukraine had suspended the Russian oil flows because Western sanctions prevented it from receiving transit fees from Moscow.
Two more grain-carrying ships have left Ukraine's Chornomorsk port, Turkey's defence ministry said, as part of a deal to unblock Ukrainian sea exports, bringing the total to leave the country under a safe passage deal to 12.
Mr Zelensky was quoted by the Post as saying that Russians should be forced to "live in their own world until they change their philosophy."
The Chernobyl power station in SovietUkrainewas the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster in 1986.
A Russian soldier has been sentenced to 10 years in jail after a Ukrainian court found him guilty of violating the laws and customs of war by firing tank shells at a multi-storey apartment block.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called for more sanctions against Russia after raisingthe threat of a nuclear disaster asstrikes bombarded Europe's largest nuclear power plant last week.
The highly sophisticated components show that Moscows war machine is reliant on highly sophisticated Western technology, according to the Royal United Services Institute Rusi.
The deal asks EU countries to reduce their gas demand, to attempt to fill gas storage and prepare for a possible full Russian cut-off. It also asks them to voluntarily cut gas use by 15 this winter and could make the cuts binding in a supply emergency, albeit with numerous opt-outs for some countries and industries.
Last month Iran's supreme leader offered his staunch support to Russian President Vladimir Putin for his country'swar in Ukraine.
The quotas werebased on average volumes over the last three years to prevent Kaliningrad being used to dodge sanctions.
"The situation in the region is tense - shelling is constant throughout the front line ... The enemy is also using air strikes a great deal," Donetsk regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko told Ukrainian television.
"On August 4, the delivery of Russian oil via the territory of Ukraine was halted," the oil pipeline operator said in a statement, adding that this would affect deliveries to Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin has said"it's not right that at the same time as Russia is waging an aggressive, brutal war of aggression in Europe, Russians can live a normal life, travel in Europe, be tourists".
One person was killed and four people were injured in a series of blasts at an airfield near a Russian military airbase in western Crimea
More than 10.5 million people have crossed border from Ukraine since Russia's invasion began, the United Nations Refugee agency UNHCR has said on its website.
Today Alireza Peymanpak, an official from the Ministry of Industry, Mine and Trade, said: "This week, the first official import order registration worth 10 million dollars was successfully completed using cryptocurrency.
"New sanctions are needed against the terrorist state and the entire Russian nuclear industry for creating the threat of a nuclear disaster," Mr Zelensky said.
Both Kyiv and Moscow have blamed each other for attacks on the power station, located in Russian-controlled territory, over recent days.
Once the residence of French kings and among Europe's best-preserved monuments of its kind, the castle is for the most part open to the public, including for tours, concerts, theatre plays and other events.
Berlin has frozen some 4.28 billion in assets belonging to Russians since to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Estonia's Prime MinisterKaja Kallas has backedUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's calls on Western countries to ban all Russian visitors.
"I mean it is on the news, but it's not dominating things, so this sort of - getting desensitised to the war is a dangerous thing, because it is the main thing happening and the threat to everybody's security and economic prosperity in the end."
The ministry said in its daily briefing thatit had destroyed more than 300 rockets in the strike.
The Ministry of Defence has said that Russia continued to focus efforts on reinforcing defences in southern Ukraine over the weekend.
He added some of the shelling landed near storage facilities for spent fuel, an area that has 174 containers of highly radioactive material,warning of the dangers of them being hit.
He added that it was vital Kyiv regains control of the Zaporizhzhia plant from the Russians in time for winter.
Russia has moved to dissolve the agency's Russian arm in a move seen as retaliation for Israel's criticism of its invasion of Ukraine.
Officials said Russian troops were launching waves of attacks in a bid to seize control of the industrialised Donbas region.
The head of Germany's network regulator welcomed the European Union's gas emergency plan, which came into effect on Tuesday, in comments to the ZDF broadcaster.
Around Kharkiv in the northeast, Ukrainian troops captured the town of Dovhenke from Russian occupiers and were advancing towards Izium, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said in a video on YouTube.
In an interview with The Washington Post, Mr Zelensky called on Western leaders to stop allowing Russians to travel to their countries as punishment for President Vladimir Putin's decision to send troops into Ukraine.
Moscow reacted with fury after Lithuania banned the land transitof goods such as concrete and steel to the Baltic territory after EU sanctions on them came into force.
Iran has registered its first official order to import 8.25m $10m worth of goods in cryptocurrency, which it is using to get around US-sanctions, according to thesemi-official Tasnim agency.
Herve Verhoosel, spokesman for theglobal health aid agency,said the stress of the waron pregnant women had led to an increase in the number of premature births, which had tripled in some areas.
Ukraine has arrested two people working for Russian intelligence services who planned to kill Ukraine's defence minister and the head of its military intelligence agency, Ukraine's domestic security service, the SBU has said.
The USState Department has approved $89 million worth of assistance for mine-clearing equipment and training for Ukraine.
It confirmed Russian nationals were banned from entering military installations because of its invasion of Ukraine.
Unitaid has donated 220 specialised breathing devices that can help save premature babies in frontline hospitalsto Ukraine.
Several loud explosions and black smoke have been seen rising from the direction of a Russian military airbase in Crimea.
Heavy fighting was reported in frontline towns near the eastern city of Donetsk, where Ukrainian officials said Russian troops were launching waves of attacks as they try to seize control of the industrialised Donbas region.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said there was no chance Russians could be isolated from the rest of the world, and questioned if Europe should continue supporting Mr Zelensky.
Last month the bloc agreed to impose limits on the volume of sanctions being imported into mainland Russia or Belarus by land.
One of the big losers will be the hospitality industry, which was already hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic and is likely to feel the pinch of consumers' waning purchasing power.
Yevgeny Balitsky, head of the Russian-backed administration in Ukraine's southern Zaporizhzhia region also said the nuclear station, Europe's largest, was working normally and damaged power lines have been restored.
"Over the last 30 days, Russias assault towards the town of Bakhmut has been its most successful axis in the Donbas however, Russia has only managed to advance about 10km during this time.
It will help it equip 100 ordnance removal teams for a year, a State Department official said on Tuesday.
But said that the rule cannot be applied in the same way for strategic sites and ones open to the public such as Chateau de Vincennes.
Today Kaliningrad governor Anton Alikhanov said some quotas had already been reached, making it impossible, for instance, for Kaliningrad to import cement from Belarus - which used to account for around 200,000 tonnes a year.
In May, a study by blockchain analytics firm Elliptic found:"Iran has recognised that bitcoin mining represents an attractive opportunity for a sanctions-hit economy suffering from a shortage of hard cash, but with a surplus of oil and natural gas.
"The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine cannot establish the cause of the fire, but once again reminds of the rules of fire safety and the prohibition of smoking in unspecified places," it said.
"This can only be seen extremely negatively. Any attempt to isolate Russia or Russians is a process that has no prospects."
Ukraine and Russia accused each other in recent days of shelling the nuclear plant, which is the largest one in Europe, and increasing the risks of a nuclear accident.
Russia's defence ministry has claimed its forces havedestroyed an ammunition depot near Uman in Ukraine storing US-made Himars missiles and M777 howitzers, the RIA Novosti news agency reported.
Mr Goerke said: "The duty of transparency should be extended to people who do business with oligarchs, like notaries, brokers, used car dealers, art dealers and banks.
I like sculpting because it helps keep me calm, she said. Its good to do things with my hands.
A child was among five people who were injured in a series of explosions near a Russian military airbase in western Crimea, the head of the annexed peninsula's health department has said, according to TASS.
"This rule cannot be applied in the same way for strategic sites and for sites accessible to the public, such as museums," a spokesman said.
Russia's pipeline monopoly has blamed western sanctions for the suspension of its oil supplies to southern Europe.
The mediaeval fortress andpopular French tourist attraction is on the edge of Paris has some 150,000 annual visitors.
Vladimir Putin and Isaac Herzog discussed the Jewish Agency, which promotes emigration to Israel, over the phone today, the Kremlin said.
Sooner or later Europe will "start wondering whether Zelensky is doing everything right, and whether its citizens should pay for his whims," Mr Peskov added.
Anti-aircraft defences around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant will be strengthened following days of reported shelling on the site, the RIA Novosti news agency quoted a Russian-installed separatist official as saying on Monday.
Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling the site of the vast nuclear power station in recent days.
The economy ministry says the seized assetsincluded 2.3 billion in deposits at German banksbutno declarations have been received by "theBundesbank or the Federal Office for Economy and Export Control," state secretary Udo Philipp saidin a letterto the Left party legislator Christian Goerke.
"Putin's oligarchs are laughing like a drain while authorities are despairing of ever tracking down and freezing their assets."
A blast has rocked an airdrome in Crimeas Saki district, Viktoria Kazmirova, deputy head of the local administration, told TASS news agency on Tuesday.
Ukraine's defence ministry has implied its forces were not behind the explosions which killed one person near a Russian airbase in western Crimea this afternoon.
The ministry told AFP that the guards had in fact "indiscriminately applied a rule established in February concerning all military installations".
Transneft announced it had halted shipments via the Druzhba route via Ukraine on August 4, leading to a $2 jump inBrent crude to trade near $98 per barrel.
The United Nations and Turkey brokered the agreement last month after warnings that the halt in grain shipments caused by the conflict could lead to severe food shortages and even outbreaks of famine in parts of the world.
Europe's biggest nuclear plant faces a 'very high' risk of shelling and must be retaken from the Russians
The Russian defense ministry earlier saidno one was hurt and no damage was done to aircraft afterseveral aviation bombs exploded on the territory of the Saki airfield near Novofedorovka.
One person has died following a series of explosions near a Russian military airbase in western Crimea, the head of the peninsula's administration Sergei Aksyonov has said.
It said on Facebook that it "cannot establish the cause of the fire", and went on to mock Moscowover the blasts at the Saki airfield nearNovofedorivka base.
The Ocean Lion left for South Korea, carrying 64,720 tonnes of corn, it said, while the Rahmi Yagci was carrying 5,300 tonnes of sunflower meal to Istanbul.
Russia and Ukraine have traded accusations that each side is shelling Europe's biggest nuclear power plant, in southern Ukraine.
"This is... the most radioactive material in all the nuclear power plant. This would mean the distribution of it around this place and then we will have like a radiation cloud and then the weather will decide... which direction the cloud goes," he said.
The invading Russian soldiers had gone on the hunt for women to rape. She was one of their victims.
The World Bank on Monday said it was mobilising a $4.5 billion grant for Ukraine provided by the United States that will help Kyiv meet urgent needs created by Russia's invasion, including healthcare, pensions and social payments.
Two Russian women were refused access to the Chateau de Vincennesbecause of the war in Ukraine, officials have said.
Applying the rule, security guards at the Chateau de Vincennes denied two Russian women access to the monument on July 28.
Kyiv and Moscow have traded blame on the shelling ofUkraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear complex amid international alarm their battle for control of the plant could trigger catastrophe.
The deal asks EU countries to reduce their gas demand, to attempt to fill gas storage and prepare for a possible full Russian cut-off.
Germany's economy will lose more than 260 billion euros 220 billion in added value by 2030 due to theUkrainewar and high energy prices, spelling negative effects for the labour market, according to a study by the Institute for Employment Research IAB.
The "Military Informant" Telegram channel said Kyiv sources have reported deliveries of theBMC Kirpi 4x4s from Turkey - which has acted as mediator between Ukraine and Russia.
An airfield used by Russian naval aircraft in western Crimea is on fire, an official has said.
Two Russians were barred entry to a French fortress and popular touristic site because its security guards had applied a ban on them entering military installations too rigidly, the defence ministry has said.
Margarita Simonyan, the influential editor-in-chief of the RT news channel, tweeted on Tuesday that the explosions were not caused by a Ukrainian airstrike but by sabotage.
In the southeast, Ukrainian forces again targetedthe key Antonovskyi bridge over the Dnipro river in an attempt to disrupt Russian supply lines.
Conservative peer and former party leader Lord Hague of Richmond has warned that "getting desensitised to the war is a dangerous thing".
"Despite the shift in effort, Russia has maintained attacks on Ukrainian positions in Donetsk oblast," it tweeted.
Ukrainereported intense Russian shelling across the front lines on Tuesday, as fighting rages in the Donbas
Heavy Russian shellingbombarded front line towns in Ukraine on Tuesday, with Ukrainian officials reporting intense fightingnear the eastern city of Donetsk.
Germany's sanctions law says those targeted by EU sanctions who fail to declaretheir assets immediately face a fineor up to a year in prison.
"A guard at the metal detector asked to see my passport," said one of the women, 31, who works as a journalist and has been in France for five months, having left Russia "because of the war".
"The situation in the region is tense - shelling is constant throughout the front line ... The enemy is also using air strikes a great deal," Donetsk regional Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko told Ukrainian television.
The agency said in a statement last month that it hasexpanded "protection, housing and assistance programmes, especially to reach those living in the areas hardest hit by the war.
The Pentagon announced $1 billion in fresh military aid for Ukraine, including additional precision missiles for the Himars system that have helped Kyiv's forces attack Russian troops far behind the front lines.
From March this year, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have relied extensively on supplies of Russian Urals crude via the Druzhba pipeline and reduced their purchases of maritime crude.
Estonia and Finland are expected to raise the visa issue at an EU foreign ministers' meeting soon, the BBC reports.
It also asks them to voluntarily cut gas use by 15pc this winter and could make the cuts binding in a supply emergency, albeit with numerous opt-outs for some countries and industries.
If energy prices, which have so far shot up by 160pc, were to double again, Germany's 2023 economic output would be almost 4pclower than it would have been without the war, according to the study. Under these assumptions, 660,000 fewer people would be employed after three years and still 60,000 fewer in 2030, it said.
The Russians were said to have fired over 120 rockets from Grad multiple rocket launchers at the southern town of Nikopol, which is across the Dnieper River from the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant - the largest in Europe.
"It is alleged that the Ukrainian army has already received 50 Turkish armored vehicles, and another 150 'dear friend' Erdogan the Turkish president will deliver in the near future."
The Kremlin has dismissed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's call for a travel ban on all Russians as irrational, saying that Europe would ultimately have to decide if it wanted to pay the bills for Mr Zelensky's "whims."
Shelling near Europe's biggest nuclear power plant means the "risk is very high" of something going dangerously wrong, the head of Ukraine's state nuclear power firm has warned.
"If all countries in Europe save gas, this can stabilise the price so to speak, maybe even reduce it, and contribute to making sure that there is enough gas supply for us to make it through the autumn and winter," Bundesnetzagentur President Klaus Mueller said.
Aviation ammunition was the cause of the blast at a Russian military airbase in western Crimea, Moscow's defence ministry said, adding there were no casualties, the RIA Novosti news agency reported.
The Russian exclave of Kaliningrad has reached its quotas for goods it can import across Lithuania from mainland Russia or Belarus, the region's governor has said.
The supply of Russian oil to three European countries through Ukraine has been halted as the transit payment cannot be processed due to sanctions, Russian firm Transneft has claimed.
"By the end of September, the use of cryptocurrencies and smart contracts will be widely used in foreign trade with target countries."
The medieval castle on the edge of Paris is for the most part open to the publicbut is technically a military installation and covered by the ban as it houses part of the French armed forces' historical archives, to which access is restricted.
"Despite its continued heavy use of artillery in these areas, Russia has not been able to generate capable combat infantry in sufficient numbers to secure more substantial advances."
In comparison with expectations for a peaceful Europe, Germany's price-adjusted gross domestic product GDP will be 1.7pclower next year and there will be about 240,000 fewer people in employment, said the study published on Tuesday.
It also houses part of the French armed forces' historical archives, to which access is restricted.
Four ships that left Ukraine on Sunday are anchored near Istanbul and will be inspected on Tuesday, the defence ministry statement said.
"In other Donbas sectors where Russia was attempting to break through, its forces have not gained more than 3km during this 30-day period almost certainly significantly less than planned.
Around Kharkiv in the northeast, Ukrainian troops captured the town of Dovhenke from Russian occupiers and were advancing towards Izium, Ukrainian Presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said in a video posted on YouTube.
"Similar MRAPs could be seen during joint Russian-Turkish patrols in Syria," the channel told its445,151 subscribers.
The Saki military airdrome near Novofedorovka is used by the Russian defense ministry, including for naval aircraft.
Unitaid funds medical innovation programmes, mainly in poor countries, and is hosted by the World Health Organisation.
Before the war, if someone had told the 42-year-mother of two that she would one day be in therapy, she would have laughed. It is the kind of treatment people with lots of money do, she said, but thanks to the state of Ukraine they are paying for her to process the traumas that she endured when the Russian Army invaded her rural village near the city of Borodyanka, about 60 km outside Kyiv.
"Iran-based miners are paid directly in Bitcoin, which can then be used to pay for imports - allowing sanctions on payments through Iranian financial institutions to be circumvented."
Witnesses claimed Russia's Saki Air Base in Novofedorivka in the west of peninsulahad been hit by Ukrainian forces.
The airdrome has a ground-based testing and training system NITKA, one of Russias two such simulators to drill the skills of takeoff and landing of ship-based aircraft, reported TASS.
Last month, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said that EU countries should restrict issuing visas for Russians, with an exemption for humanitarian reasons.
Yuri Sobolevsky, deputy head of Kherson regional council ousted by Russian occupation forces, said on Telegram the bridge had been seriously damaged after "overnight actions".
Oscillators and crystals produced by Somerset-based Golledge Electronics have been built into Russian radars and missile systems.
Mr Zelenskytold The Washington Post that Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy".
It is only when Viktoria Martsyniuk feels the soft, gloopy clay running through her fingers that she allows herself to think about what happened to her one awful night in March this year.
"Russia will not pay attention to words and concerns.The Chornobyl disaster is an explosion in one reactor, the Zaporizhzhia NPP is six power units."
Russia has lost so many cruise and ballistic missiles, electronic warfare equipment and specialist radios in Ukraine that the degradation in Russian military capability could be made permanent if appropriate policies are implemented, the report says.
The new bubble nasal continuous positive airway pressure bCPAP devices are now available in 25 facilities across Ukraine, Mr Verhoosel said.
Each year some 150,000 people visit the chateau, paying 9.50 euros 8.03 per adult admission.
He told Times Radio: "We're getting so used to 'oh there's a war going on over there' that when that happens, the Russians are firing from around that plant, to put explosives and mines there, potentially, a potential nuclear catastrophe in the view of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, it's not such big news any more is it?
Official confirmed to AFP news agency that the French military barred their access due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"Some 30 people were evacuated from nearby houses. People will be accommodated in hotels and sanatoriums and will be provided with meals. The airfield has been cordoned off," Oleg Kryuchkov, an aide to the Moscow-installed head of Crimea, added on his Telegram channel.
At least three Ukrainian civilians were killed and 23 others were wounded by Russian shelling in the last 24 hours,the office of Ukraine's president has said.
"The situation is very interesting.Ukraine's forces are moving very successfully. Attempts by Russia to regain lost ground were not successful.Ukrainemay end up encircling them," he said.
He tweeted: What the Ukrainians are doing is extremely important. By showing they can hit Crimea, they will further stretch Russia defensive capabilities. The Russians are going to have to protect a huge area behind the front lines.
"The Iranian state is therefore effectively selling its energy reserves on the global markets, using the Bitcoin mining process to bypass trade embargoes.
Phillips OBrien, professor of strategic studies at St Andrews University, suggests Ukrainan forces were behind the blast at a Russian military airbase in western Crimea.
Germany's sanctionregime has become a laughing stock as it emerged not a singlepenalised Russian oligarchhasdeclared their assets to the authorities.
Energoatom's chief, Petro Kotin, said that last week's Russian shelling had damaged three lines that connect the plant to the Ukrainian grid and that Russia wanted to connect the facility to its grid.
The employment level is expected to stay at around this level until 2026, when expansive measures will gradually begin to outweigh the negative effects and lead to a plus of about 60,000 gainfully employed in 2030.
"The irrationality of his thinking in this case is off the scale,"Mr Peskov said in a conference call with reporters.
A day after her Nordic neighbour Finland backed restrictions on Russian visitors,MsKallas tweeted: "Stop issuing tourist visas to Russians. Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right."
The Moscow defence ministry said earlier the blasts were caused by the detonation of aviation ammunitionon the territory of the Saki airfield near Novofedorovka airbase, and were not the result of any attack.
Energy-intensive sectors, such as the chemical industry and metal production, are also especially likely to be affected.
Alikhanov estimated that the limits permit Russia to ship around 500,000 tonnes of sanctioned goods in total in both directions each year.Moscow says trade with its outlying territory should not be subject to limits.
British technology has been found in Russian weapons used against Ukraine, a new report has revealed.
Kyiv has hailed the arrival of the advanced, long-range Himars from the US as a possible gamechanger, while Moscow has accused the West of "dragging out" the conflict by arming Ukraine.
