Vladimir Putin threatens nuclear strikes if West intervenes
20220427
https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-russia-latest-news-220-214349898.html
Moscow handed over a jailed ex-Marine in exchange for a Russian pilot convicted of drug smuggling.
President Vladimir Putin warned Wednesday that if any other country intervenes in Moscow's military operation in Ukraine, Russia will launch a quick-fire military response.
Volodymyr Zelensky said the EU's plan to suspend import duties on Ukrainian goods would be a "significant anti-crisis tool" for European and global markets.
Russia launched two missile strikes and damaged a strategic bridge in Ukraine's Odesa region, local officials said on Wednesday, an event that could affect Ukrainian plans to expand exports through Danube ports.
"Russia is waging a war in Ukraine and the imperative to move away from Russian oil and gas, for the world to move away from Russian oil and gas screams that there is an imperative that we electrify," said Jennifer Granholm. "Offshore wind is just a huge component in that."
A Ukrainian presidential aide described explosions heard in three Russian provinces bordering Ukraine on Wednesday as "karma" and payback for the war in Ukraine.
Canada is seeking novel powers to seize and sell off Russian oligarchs' assets to compensate Ukraine for war damages.
In what is billed by aides as a major foreign policy speech, the Foreign Secretary will say that the traditional Nato target of spending two per cent of GDP on defence should be a minimum.
Mr Borrell said the move would "only accelerate Europe's conversion to green energies, which do not create dependencies".
Hanna Malyar, Ukrainian Deputy Defence Minister, accused Russia of being ready to use the territory of the Moldovan region of Transnistria as a bridgehead to move on Ukraine or the rest of Moldova.
The plan will cover military, humanitarian and economic assistance for Ukraine, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki told reporters.
Most of the 159 member states of the UN World Tourism Organization UNWTO backed the move, taken at an extraordinary general assembly, said a spokesman for the Madrid-based body.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres announced his arrival in Kyiv on Wednesday following talks in Moscow with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
I couldnt stay with those people, shake their hands, watch the war on my phone as if this were a horrible film and pretend I didnt care, he told Ukrainian media outlet Liga.net in Kyiv.
The move replicates a decision by Britain on Monday to cut all trade tariffs to zero under the UK-Ukraine free-trade agreement.
"The need for a new payment method was a result of unprecedented unfriendly steps in the economic sphere and the financial sector, which were taken against us by unfriendly countries," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
I want to live in a world where free nations are assertive and in the ascendant, Ms Truss will say as she maps out her policy vision in the wake of the Russia invasion.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday warned that any countries attempting to interfere in Ukraine would be faced with a swift response from Russia and said all decisions on how Moscow would react in that situation have already been taken.
German gas lobby group Zukunft Gas has said that Germany must immediately start stockpiling more gas now that Russia is using the energy source as a political tool.
Nato's assertion of escalation dominance by stealth has helped the Ukrainians check the Russians and to contain the war, argues Hew Strachan.
The hospital was one of only two still working in the area more than two months since Russia invaded Ukraine, Gaidai said. The other is in nearby Lysychansk.
He spoke to The Telegraph from Kramatorsk, an eastern Ukrainian town in the Donbas region that is surrounded on three sides by Russian forces.
A message shared by a local resident with The Telegraph read: The Ukrainian Security Service highly recommends the evacuation of civilians to safer regions. We would like to assure you that the Ukrainian Armed Forces do not wish harm on peaceful residents but those who stay in town will be considered members of sabotage groups and will be eliminated with no prior warning.
Ukrainian-born Mr Volobuyev revealed that he was willing to take up arms to defend his native country.
The Chinese drone manufacturer DJI has suspended sales in Russia and Ukraine after accusations of helping "murder" civilians.
Russian forces used tear gas and stun grenades to disperse a pro-Ukraine rally in the occupied city of Kherson on Wednesday, Ukraine's Prosecutor General said, as Moscow tightened its grip over the southern region
Boris Johnson said he does not share concerns that Vladimir Putin will use tactical nuclear weapons in Ukraine as he suffers more losses
MPs who have been sanctioned by Russia should consider those restrictions a badge of honour, Boris Johnson said today.
Zurab Pololikashvili, the secretary general of the Madrid-based UNWTO, said earlier he hoped members would vote to suspend Russia.
The European Union warned Russia on Wednesday it would not bend to "blackmail" over its support for Kyiv, after the Kremlin cut off gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland.
The Interior Ministry of Moldova's pro-Russian breakaway region of Transnistria said that shots were fired from inside the territory of Ukraine overnight towards a village that houses a large ammunition depot.
The bridge links mainland Ukraine with part of the Odesa region near the mouth of Danube.
At the Moscow talks on Tuesday, Guterres repeated calls for both Russia and Ukraine to work together to set up "safe and effective" humanitarian corridors in war-torn Ukraine.
The United Nation's tourism body on Wednesday suspended Russia from the agency over its invasion of Ukraine, arguing that it had breached its statutes.
An independent research group says Germany was the biggest buyer of Russian energy during the first two months since the start of the war in Ukraine.
Western governments want to deny Russia any territorial gains from its invasion of Ukraine, officials have said in the clearest indication yet of the scale of the defeat they want to impose on Moscow
The UK's Ministry of Defence has advised Ukraine retains control over the majority of its airspace.
That would be around 1.5 billion francs more than Swiss authorities had reported on April 7.
A series of blasts sounded in the Russian city of Belgorod, near the Ukrainian border, in the early hours of Wednesday morning, regional governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said.
The United States does not expect any improvement in relations with Russia and will keep full support for Ukriane despite Wednesday's prisoner swap with Moscow, a US official said.
"Today, the Kremlin failed once again in its attempt to sow division among member states. The era of Russian fossil fuels in Europe is coming to an end."
Putin issued his own warning on Wednesday, saying that if Western forces intervene in Ukraine, they will face a "lightning-fast" military response.
Ukraine's Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov has warned the country has "extremely difficult weeks" ahead, warning of major "destruction" in a developing Russian offensive in the east.
On Wednesday European Commission head Ursula von der Leyen said Poland and Bulgaria were now receiving gas from their EU neighbours.
The White House said on Wednesday that a supplemental budget request that includes Ukraine aid could be sent to the Congress as soon as Thursday.
Liz Truss will call for an increase in defence spending on Wednesday, saying the West has overseen a generation of underinvestment which led to the invasion of Ukraine
The official said that the US had been in discussion with Russia for months despite the sharp deterioration of relations between the two powers over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine on Feb 24.
"The Russians knew that the hospital was not empty, there were patients there in different conditions along with doctors - and that did not stop them," Gaidai wrote on the Telegram messaging app.
Russia's invasion has forced Sweden and Finland to reassess their longstanding military neutrality, and they are expected to announce in May whether they will join the US-led Nato alliance.
Discussions will be held with the UN humanitarian office and the Russian Defense Ministry on the evacuation, Mr Dujarric said.
"Pending the current review, DJI will temporarily suspend all business activities in Russia and Ukraine."
Russia's warning it was shutting off gas supplies to Bulgaria over demands to change the payment scheme is a grave breach of a current contract and amounts to blackmail, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said today.
The second blow was on Wednesday morning and the condition of the bridge has not yet been reported.
Among those blacklisted are Sir Lindsay Hoyle, the Speaker, as well as Cabinet members including Jacob Rees-Mogg and George Eustice. However, several of those named are no longer members of parliament.
The US helped foil Moscow's efforts to take Kyiv and repelled its advances elsewhere by sharing such detailed intelligence that Ukraine knew exactly when and where Russian bombs would fall, it has emerged.
Moldova's pro-Russian breakaway region of Transdniestria said on Wednesday that shots were fired from Ukraine towards a village that houses an ammunition depot, the latest report to raise concern that Russia's "second phase" of war may expand.
Speaking to lawmakers, Putin said that "if anyone sets out to intervene in the current events from the outside and creates unacceptable threats for us that are strategic in nature, they should know that our response... will be lightning-fast".
Russia's defence ministry said its forces had destroyed a large quantity of Western-supplied weapons in Ukraine with long-range missiles.
The Justice Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I certainly don't think we should be... avoiding providing support to Ukraine at this critical moment in the war. And the Foreign Secretary is right about that."
"Our forces carried out strikes on enemy positions on Snake Island," the Ukrainian military said in a statement on social media late on Tuesday, claiming to have hit a checkpoint and an anti-aircraft system.
It would become the first G7 nation to permit such asset forfeitures, and is proposing that Western allies follow suit, Foreign Minister Melanie Joly told reporters in Ottawa.
"We have all the tools for this, that no one else can boast of having. We won't boast about it: we'll use them, if needed. And I want everyone to know that," Putin said.
"The prime minister said that Greece will help Bulgaria to deal with the new situation caused by the Russian decisions on energy," Mitsotakis' office said in a statement, without providing further details.
"The destruction of the building is significant. Several floors were damaged at once," Gaidai wrote. The footage could not immediately be independently verified.
Canadian lawmakers voted unanimously on Wednesday to call Russia's attacks in Ukraine a "genocide", with members of parliament saying there was "ample evidence of systemic and massive war crimes against humanity" being committed by Moscow.
Gazprom's move to halt gas to both Poland and highly dependent Bulgaria was "an act of aggression", said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell.
Mykhailo Podolyak said "the time of a meeting of the two countries' presidents and the context of the meeting have not yet been determined."
Ukraine, a major agricultural producer, used to export most of its goods through seaports but since Russia's invasion in February has been forced to export by train via its western border or via its small Danube river ports.
Russian energy giant Gazprom said it had halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for failing to pay in roubles.
Earlier this month, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said it was "absolutely right" for more and more people to describe Russia's actions in Ukraine as genocide, supporting an accusation made by U.S. President Joe Biden a day earlier.
The EU was on Wednesday split over Russian blackmail to pay for gas in roubles after Moscow's state-controlled energy giant halted deliveries to two European countries
A senior Gazprombank executive has vowed revenge against Russia after fleeing the country to join Ukraines territorial defence forces.
Finland and Sweden must prepare for increased Russian spy operations, cyber attacks and attempts to influence lawmakers as they consider joining Nato, the Nordic nations' intelligence chiefs said today.
"There was a weak link in our sanctions package, which was the ability for the government to be able to sell the assets that were seized and afterwards to use the profits to compensate the victims of this war against Ukraine," she said.
Russian forces are attacking the Azostval steel plant where Ukrainian fighters and some civilians are holed up in the southern city of Mariupol, an aide to the city's mayor said.
The intelligence led Ukraine to shoot down a Russian plane carrying hundreds of troops to Hostomel Airport in the Kyiv suburbs in the early days of the war, according to NBC News.
The European Parliament and Council still need to rubber-stamp the proposals, which are expected to comfortably pass scrutiny.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and Russian President Vladimir Putin met on Tuesday for the first time since Russia invaded Ukraine, agreeing on arranging evacuations from a besieged steel plant in the battered city of Mariupol.
Mr Dujarric said they also agreed in principle that the UN and the International Committee of the Red Cross should be involved in the evacuation of civilians from the Azovstal steel complex.
It came as Russia cut off natural gas to Nato members Poland and Bulgaria, prompting EU leaders to accuse Moscow of "blackmail".
The reported intrusions - some of which have not been previously disclosed - suggest that hacking has played a bigger role in the conflict than has been publicly known.
Ukrainian officials have accused DJI, the world's largest maker of consumer and industrial drones, of leaking data on the Ukrainian military to Russia.
"Russia not only carried out a brutal, murderous attack on Ukraine... but Russia also attacked all of Europe's energy security and food security," Mr Morawiecki told lawmakers.
"I assume written notification will follow which I'll frame and hang in the appropriate place," the former Foreign Office and defence minister said.
"Ukrainian exports will help stabilise markets," he added, saying that "all Europeans" will benefit from the move.
"These discussions with the Russians that led to this exchange were strictly limited to these topics - not a broader conversation or even the start of one," he said on condition of anonymity.
Russia says it is closely following events in Transnistria. The Russian foreign ministry was quoted by the Russian RIA news agency as saying it wants to avoid a scenario in which Moscow would have to intervene there.
Gazprom said on Wednesday it had halted deliveries to Bulgaria and Poland due to an absence of payments in roubles.
Liz Truss, the foreign secretary, said: Very pleased the EU is also offering duty free quota access for all Ukrainian goods. We stand with the people of Ukraine.
Mr Gladkov said no civilians were injured by the fire, which broke out at a facility near Staraya Nelidovka village.
However, Russia's economy ministry expects gross domestic product to shrink by 8.8 per cent in 2022 in its base case scenario, or by 12.4 per cent under a more conservative scenario, a document seen by Reuters showed on Wednesday, suggesting that sanctions pressure is taking its toll.
Ukraine announced this morning that Russian forces had pushed deeper into the east of the country and captured several villages, as part of Moscow's offensive to take control of the Donbas.
President Vladimir Putin has told lawmakers Russia's rouble, banking system, transport sector and economy as a whole have withstood sanctions imposed against Moscow and promised a response to attempts to isolate Russia.
A commander of Ukrainian troops making a last stand in Mariupol said he has 600 injured and no medicine to treat them
Ukrainian officials have complained that DJI's AeroScope system had problems when the war started, causing suspicion that the Chinese firm manually intervened in the system in support of Russia.
While most teachers on sick leave might choose to put their feet up, Guy Osborn, 65, drove a minibus from Kent to the frontlines of Ukraine.
Addressing lawmakers in St Petersburg, Putin claimed the West wanted to cut Russia up into different pieces and accused it of pushing Ukraine into conflict with Russia.
Sweden's security service has already been preparing for several years for possible Russian threats targeting the country's economy and political decision-making, intelligence chief Charlotte von Essen said.
The UNWTO, which provides technical support to promote tourism, has warned that the conflict in Ukraine will hamper the global tourism sector's uneven recovery from the impact from the Covid-19 pandemic.
The European Union will slash duties on most imports from Ukraine as Brussels seeks to boost Kyivs conflict-stricken country, Joe Barnes reports.
The ministry also said that it had detected drones that it said were launched from Ukraine.
Speaking to politicians in St Petersburg, the Russian president said that "if anyone sets out to intervene in the current events from the outside and creates unacceptable threats for us that are strategic in nature, they should know that our response... will be lightning-fast".
They included a central square named after 19th century writer Leo Tolstoy and a street named Russias Lake Baikal. A road named after Minsk, the capital of close Russian ally Belarus, was also on the list.
The Russian leader said that the military would not hesitate to use the most modern weaponry.
Kyiv has said its troops struck Russian positions on the Black Sea's Snake Island, which gained notoriety when Ukrainian soldiers deployed there rebuffed demands to surrender from Moscow's invading forces.
Russia has a contingent of troops in Transdniestria guarding many tonnes of ammunition stored in the region since before the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union. Moscow also has peacekeepers there after a conflict between separatist and Moldovan forces.
"It halting gas supply will have a ... very damaging effect on Russia as well because it is becoming further and further, more and more, not just a political pariah, but an economic pariah," the Deputy Prime Minister told Sky News.
The ministry said Russian air activity was primarily focused on the areas of southern and eastern Ukraine, providing support to Russian troops on the ground.
Russia has very limited air access to the north and west of Ukraine, limiting offensive actions to deep strikes with stand-off weapons, the ministry added.
The warning came as UN chief Antonio Guterres arrived in Kyiv to meet Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky following talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow.
Greece will offer help to Bulgaria after Russia cut off its gas supply, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis told his Bulgarian counterpart today.
It is unclear who is behind attacks that have taken place in the Moldovan breakaway region of Transnistria, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Wednesday.
Russia's decision to cut off gas supply to Poland will add to its status as an economic and political pariah, Dominic Raab said this morning.
The interior ministry of the unrecognised region that borders southwestern Ukraine said in a statement that several drones had been detected flying over the village of Cobasna overnight and they had come from Ukraine.
Nato member Turkey said it was still talking to Russia about procuring a second batch of one of its most advanced missile defence systems despite the war in Ukraine.
It comes as Bulgaria's energy ministry said Russia's Gazprom had informed Bulgarian state gas company Bulgargaz it would halt gas supplies as of Wednesday.
The amount of Russian assets frozen under sanctions Switzerland has adopted has risen to around 9 billion Swiss francs $9.34 billion, it has been reported by the Neue Zuercher Zeitung newspaper.
"DJI is internally reassessing compliance requirements in various jurisdictions," the company said in a statement late on Tuesday.
"It is a direct attack on Poland... We'll deal with this blackmail, this pistol to the head in such a way that it doesn't affect Poles," he added.
She will also underscore her support for Natos expansion by allowing Sweden and Finland to join, as well as vowing to double down on UK military support for Ukraine.
Russian gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria have been cut off in an escalation of tensions between Moscow and the West
Residents in Transnistria said they have also been receiving text messages, warning them of a possible Ukrainian invasion.
Although Western firms have pulled out of Russia in protest, many Chinese companies have not -mirroring Beijing's stance of refraining from being critical of Moscow.
"All those 287 should regard it as a badge of honour," the Prime Minister told parliament.
The motion, which required a two-thirds majority, was proposed by 22 member states including Spain, Japan, Poland and France in March.
The EU's executive proposed suspending all import duties on products from Ukraine in a bid to help the country's economy survive Russia's military assault.
He drew attention to increased hostilities in east Ukraine and Russian attempts to "completely destroy" the southern city of Mariupol.
Ukrainian cities plan to rename streets and squares associated with Russia under a process of "derussification" following Moscow's invasion.
The ministry said the sanctions on members of the House of Commons were in response to Britain imposing similar restrictions on 386 members of its own lower house of parliament on March 11.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has called on "unfriendly" countries to pay for gas imports in roubles, a demand only a few buyers have complied with, including Hungary, which signed a long-term gas supply deal with Russia last year.
A UNWTO spokesman said that although "Russia announced its withdrawal, the assembly continues because a suspension has immediate effects".
At an international forum on offshore wind energy in Atlantic City, Granholm said the US as well as its energy industries "are on a war footing," and called for a rapid acceleration of renewable energy including offshore wind power.
He is among 287 British MPs the Kremlin has banned from entering Russia in response to the UK's sanctions against Russian parliamentarians.
"Russia's possibilities for human intelligence operations are currently limited because the willingness of Finns to cooperate with Russian diplomats is at a low level," Antti Pelttari, the head of Finland's security service, told a joint news conference with his Swedish and Norwegian counterparts.
The opportunity for strategic surprise seems to have passed. Satellite and signal intelligence, much of it in the public domain, gives ample warning of unfolding operations. Russias immediate intentions are clear to the world, not just to the Ukrainians. But one big strategic shift has occurred. Almost imperceptibly, the Russians have conceded escalation dominance to Nato.
Russia is expelling three Norwegian diplomats, the Norwegian foreign ministry said on Wednesday, weeks after Oslo expelled a similar number of Russian diplomats over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Petro Andryushchenko said no agreements had been reached on trying to evacuate civilians from Mariupol today.
That day he had driven into Severodonetsk, a frontline town under heavy Russian shelling, to evacuate civilians, including one 97-year-old woman.
In a sharp deviation from the country's traditional neutrality, Switzerland has adopted European Union sanctions against Russians involved in Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
But Mr Demir told state television that the 2017 contract always envisioned Turkey receiving two batteries of the Russian weapon.
Meanwhile, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he expects a Biden administration request for supplemental funds to support Ukraine to include resources for food security.
Transnistria, a Russia-backed breakaway region of Moldova that borders Ukraine, has been subject to several attacks in the past day, local authorities say.
"This far-reaching step is designed to help boost Ukraine's exports to the EU. It will help alleviate the difficult situation of Ukrainian producers and exporters in the face of Russia's military invasion," the European Commission said.
Asked if there were any indications that gas from Russia could be cut off as in Poland or Bulgaria, Ms Gewessler said: "No, we have no such indications ... deliveries to Austria remain unrestricted."
The digital onslaught, which Microsoft said began one year prior to Russia's Feb 24 invasion, may have laid the groundwork for different military missions in the war-torn territory, researchers found.
The agency and its chief, Ismail Demir, were sanctioned by Washington in the closing weeks of US president Donald Trump's administration for its purchase of Russia's S-400 missile defence system in 2017.
The energy provider cut off gas supplies to the two countries after not receiving payment from them in rubles.
Russian forces used tear gas and stun grenades to disperse a pro-Ukraine rally in the occupied city of Kherson on Wednesday, Ukraine's Prosecutor General said, as Moscow tightened its grip over the southern region.
"We need to save gas now so that we have enough in winter," said the group's head Timm Kehler in a statement.
Putin said that the military would not hesitate to use the most modern weaponry, in an escalating war of words days after Russia warned of a real threat of World War Three. Four days after the February invasion, Putin put Russia's nuclear deterrence forces on high alert.
The EU said it was "prepared" for Moscow to suspend gas supplies to the 27-nation bloc and is planning a "coordinated" response after state-owned energy giant Gazprom turned off the taps to Poland and Bulgaria.
Russian government hackers carried out multiple cyber operations against Ukraine that appeared to support Moscow's military attacks and online propaganda campaigns, Microsoft has revealed in a report.
The proposed changes to its sanctions regime outlined in a budget implementation bill unveiled on Tuesday "will go a long way" to addressing that issue, she said.
Mr Petkov said Bulgaria was currently reviewing all of its contracts with Gazprom, including for transit of Russian gas to Serbia and Hungary, because "one-sided blackmail was not acceptable".
A day after the dismantling of a huge Soviet-era monument in Kyiv that was meant to symbolise friendship between Russia and Ukraine, the city's council said on Wednesday it had compiled a list of 467 locations that could be considered for renaming.
A woman was killed in Russian shelling of a hospital in the east Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk on Wednesday, the regional governor said.
Liz Truss will call for an increase in defence spending today, saying the West has overseen a generation of underinvestment which led to the invasion of Ukraine.
Russian gas supplies to Bulgaria continue to flow for the time being, Vladimir Malinov, executive director of Bulgarian gas network operator Bulgartransgaz said on Wednesday.
Since Ukraine declared independence of the Soviet Union in 1991, the names of some cities have been changed to erase the legacy of hated Soviet officials.
Since the initial shock of 24 February, the war in Ukraine has acquired a deceptive stability for those lucky enough to be viewing it from a distance. The situation maps published in the papers look much the same from day to day, with the Russians occupying territory in the east and to the south. In reality, buildings and ground change hands multiple times in fierce tactical actions. Generals talk about the big-hand, small map problem, in which scales simplify major problems, foreshorten distances and reduce the obstacles to a two-dimensional plane.
UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said the Russian leader and UN chief discussed "proposals for humanitarian assistance and evacuation of civilians from conflict zones, namely in relation to the situation in Mariupol."
The Canadian House of Commons' motion said war crimes by Russia include mass atrocities, systematic instances of willful killing of Ukrainian civilians, the desecration of corpses, forcible transfer of Ukrainian children, torture, physical harm, mental harm, and rape.
"It will allow us to maintain our economic activity in Ukraine to the maximum and preserve our national production," Zelensky said in a video on his Telegram channel as the war with Russia entered its third month.
Mr Petkov has talked to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who had assured him the 27-member bloc would have a common response, he said.
Igor Volobuyev, a former vice-president at Gazprombank, is the first executive from the company to speak out against the war in Ukraine, saying he could not bear to live in Moscow any longer.
On a dangerous mission to evacuate elderly citizens, the maths teacher at St John's Catholic School in Gravesend is now just a mile from advancing Russian forces.
The ban is unlikely to address a key Ukrainian fear that drone tracking technology sold by DJI can be used to locate soldiers flying the company's aircraft.
Moldova's pro-Russian breakaway region of Transnistria said that shots were fired from Ukraine towards a village that houses an ammunition depot.
"Thanks to our efforts, Poland will not need Russian gas at all starting this autumn."
It was like bonfire night, Mr Osborn said, of his first close experience of warfare.
In an unprecedented information sharing operation, US spy agencies have even divulged the coordinates of Russian forces and aircraft to Ukrainian forces, allowing them to pre-empt attacks.
Drone giant DJI Technology Co Ltd will temporarily suspend business in Russia and Ukraine, becoming the first major Chinese company to halt sales to Russia since the invasion began.
Russia did not immediately comment on the accusation by the Luhansk region's governor, Serhiy Gaidai. Moscow has denied targeting civilians or hospitals in its "special military operation" launched on Feb 24.
A study published by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air calculates that Russia earned $66.5 billion from fossil fuel exports since Russian troops attacked Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday welcomed EU plans to suspend import duties on Ukrainian goods, saying the move will help "maintain" Kyiv's economy, hard-hit by Russia's devastating invasion.
Meanwhile, independent Russian media are reporting that conscripts are refusing to serve, despite threats of legal action, and that there have been a number of suspicious fires at enlistment offices. As stories of mobile crematoria and abandoned corpses leak back into Russia from the front, young men appear increasingly unwilling to sacrifice themselves.
Russia has not confirmed the attack on Snake Island which Moscow captured shortly after launching its invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
More than 5.3 million Ukrainians have fled their country since Russia invaded two months ago, the United Nations said Wednesday.
Ukraine's lead negotiator said that no agreement had been reached for the Ukrainian and Russian presidents to discuss the war in Ukraine, despite efforts by Turkey to arrange such talks.
Poland and Bulgaria are now receiving gas from their EU neighbours after Russia's state energy giant Gazprom turned off the taps, European Commission head Ursula von der Leyen said Wednesday.
The meeting lasted nearly two hours and Putin and Mr Guterres sat at opposite ends of a long white table in a room with gold curtains bordered in red.
"It represents no change - zero - to our approach to the appalling violence in Ukraine," a senior US official told reporters.
The US Energy Secretary has said that Russia's war on Ukraine "screams" that the world needs to stop importing oil and gas from Russia.
Dominic Raab was non-committal when asked if Liz Truss was right to say that the West should supply warplanes to Ukraine.
The shoot-down helped thwart Moscow's hopes of flooding the area with troops and equipment, a significant setback for Russia in its attempt to take the capital.
"We are ready to express our solidarity with Germany...and support them in their complete departure from oil, from Russian resources," Ms Moskwa told state owned Polskie Radio.
While the outflow has slowed significantly since March, UNHCR has projected that three million more Ukrainians could become refugees by the end of the year.
"The reasons for the destruction of the military infrastructure in Russian border areas can be quite varied," he wrote, adding that "sooner or later the debts will have to be repaid" when one country decides to attack another country.
The European Commission said its move, which slashes import tax on 97 per cent of goods, would offer the Ukrainian economy a boost of nearly 500 million.
"We will continue our work to expand humanitarian support and secure the evacuation of civilians from conflict zones. The sooner this war ends, the better - for the sake of Ukraine, Russia, and the world," Guterres tweeted.
"Russia has already gathered forces for a large-scale offensive in eastern Ukraine," he added, saying Moscow "will try to inflict as much pain as possible" and warned of "destruction and painful casualties".
Gazprom has announced the halt of gas to both Poland and highly dependent Bulgaria after not receiving payment in rubles from the two EU members.
In total, 5,317,219 people have fled Ukraine as refugees since February 24, according to the latest data from the UN refugee agency, UNHCR, an increase of 52,452 in the latest 24 hour period.
Transnistria, once a sleepy separatist enclave in the former Soviet state of Moldova that borders Ukraine, this week saw a spate of hit-and-run attacks on critical infrastructure that Ukraine and Russia blamed on each other.
It said shots were later fired towards the border village from Ukrainian territory on Wednesday morning. It gave no further details, but said nobody had been hurt.
"On the territory of the Zaporizhzhia aluminium plant, high-precision long-range sea-based Kalibr missiles destroyed hangars with a large batch of foreign weapons and ammunition supplied by the United States and European countries for Ukrainian troops," the ministry said in a briefing.
Using data on ship movements, real-time tracking of gas flows through pipelines and estimates based on historical monthly trade, the researchers reckon Germany paid Russia about 9.1 billion euros for fossil fuel deliveries in the first two months of the war.
Local authorities say Russia appointed its own mayor of Kherson on Tuesday after its troops took over the administration headquarters in the regional capital, which was the first big urban centre to be seized after the Feb. 24 invasion.
The UK has imported around 220 million worth of Russian oil since the Kremlin sent troops and tanks across the border into Ukraine in February
Poland is ready to help Germany import non-Russian oil, its climate minister Anna Moskwa said today, as its Western neighbour aims to find alternative to Russian supplies after Moscow invaded Ukraine on February 24.
The head of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation UNWTO said that Russia had decided to quit the international agency just as its member states were preparing to vote on Russia's suspension over its invasion of Ukraine.
A senior Gazprombank executive has vowed revenge against Russia after fleeing the country to join Ukraines territorial defence forces
Ihor Terekhov, mayor of the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, said that as soon as the war ends, he would table a city council bill to rename places with Russian-affiliated names.
Some residents have staged occasional anti-occupation rallies and crowds gathered in the centre again on Wednesday, the date Kyiv had said Russia planned to stage a referendum to create a breakaway region like those in eastern Ukraine.
Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has called Russia's halt of gas deliveries "a direct attack" on Poland, adding that the EU member would not give in to "this blackmail".
Mr Szijjarto said Hungary's next payment was due on May 22 and the country would transfer funds in euros to Gazprombank to be converted into roubles.
Russia has hinted at an invasion of Moldova, saying it would like to avoid intervening in the breakaway region of Transnistria but suggesting it might have to act
"I want to assure everyone that the non-delivery of gas shipments to Bulgaria does not mean a halt in transit shipments via Bulgaria," Peter Szijjarto said on his Facebook page.
Russian soldiers are forcing civilians to dig mass graves and bury the dead in exchange for food and water, the mayor of Mariupol has claimed
The comments on state television by the head of Turkey's military procurement agency underscore Ankara's efforts to maintain good relations with Moscow during the conflict.
"Europeans can trust that we stand united and in solidarity with the member states impacted."
Presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak, in comments on the Telegram messaging app, did not acknowledge Ukraine as being responsible for the incidents.
Residents in a pro-Russian separatist region of Moldova have been told they will be eliminated with no prior warning in fake messages apparently designed to sow panic on Ukraines south-western border, report Nataliya Vasilyeva and Verity Bowman.
Pressed on whether she was right about providing the planes specifically, he said: "We need to listen very carefully to what the Ukrainians need and help with our allies to provide them with the military support, so that they win and so that Putin loses, and that's part of it, so is the sanctions."
Earlier in the day, Russia's foreign ministry said it has imposed personal restrictions on 287 MPs and banned them from entering the country.
"This need was dictated by the fact that, as you know, they blocked from us - or, to put it plainly, stole - a fairly significant amount of our reserves," Mr Peskov said, adding that this led to a "transition to a new payment system".
DJI, the world's largest consumer drone maker, said: "We are engaging with customers, partners and other stakeholders regarding the temporary suspension of business operations in the affected territories."
"I am grateful to her personally and to all our European friends for this step," he said.
The Kremlin said that the halt of natural gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria over their refusal to pay in roubles was a result of unfriendly actions towards Russia.
The exodus has been described as Europe's fastest-growing refugee crisis since World War II, but some have said even this is an understatement.
Vladimir Putin is widely expected on Wednesday to scrap key governors elections in Russia set for this autumn because of Western sanctions over the war in Ukraine
The United States would also focus on food security issues in May when it assumes the chairmanship of the U.N. Security Council, Mr Blinken added.
"So there is no question of blackmail here," Mr Peskov said in response to comments by European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen, who said this was "another attempt by Russia to blackmail us with gas".
"We will ensure that Gazprom's decision has the least possible impact on European consumers," von der Leyen said.
Hungary is receiving Russian gas as normal via Serbia and Bulgaria despite a clash between the latter and Russian gas supplier Gazprom, Hungary's foreign minister said on Wednesday.
"Russia has failed to effectively destroy the Ukrainian Air Force or suppress Ukrainian air defences," the ministry posted on Twitter.
"Gazprom's announcement is another attempt by Russia to blackmail us with gas. We are prepared for this scenario. We are mapping out our coordinated EU response," European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said on Twitter.
The defence ministry said that Russian forces had pushed out Kyiv's army from Velyka Komyshuvakha and Zavody in the Kharkiv region and had gained control over Zarichne and Novotoshkivske in the Donetsk region.
The problem for Putin is that there is no way out of it without admitting to Russian failure, and thus the state eventually finds itself telling the families of dead soldiers that their sons were nothing, not even worth remembering.
Ukraine's leader has accused Russia of "trying to provoke a global price crisis" and stir "chaos" in the world's food market.
"The Russian side has no basis for accusing the Norwegian diplomats to do anything else than normal diplomatic work," the ministry told Reuters.
During testimony in the Senate on Wednesday, Mr Blinken said Russia's Feb. 24 invasion and the ongoing conflict was having impacts on food security for Ukrainians and others, given the country's role as a major source of wheat.
Vladimir Putin has warned the West that he will use nuclear weapons if any other country intervenes in his war in Ukraine.
The bridge across the Dniester Estuary is a part of the only fully Ukrainian-controlled railway route to Ukraine's ports on Danube, which Kyiv regarded as a promising route for exports in a situation where Black Sea ports are blocked.
It was described as an unprecedented gesture of support for a country at war by the EUs Brussels-based executive.
"We have all the tools for this, that no one else can boast of having," the Russian leader told lawmakers, implicitly referring to Moscow's ballistic mis
"Even without these names, there will be too many scars that will remind us for a long time about what kind of neighbour is beyond our eastern and northern borders," he said.
"I have arrived in Ukraine after visiting Moscow," he wrote on his official Twitter account as he landed ahead of talks with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky.
"We have all the tools for this, that no one else can boast of having. We won't boast about it: we'll use them, if needed. And I want everyone to know that," Putin said, in a veiled reference to Moscow's nuclear arsenal.
Russia has imposed personal restrictions on 287 MPs and banned them from entering the country, accusing them of fuelling "unwarranted Russophobic hysteria", the foreign ministry said in a statement.
The first attack was on Tuesday evening, and as a result of a rocket hit, the bridge over the estuary was damaged, however, according to local officials, it could be quickly restored.
Russian natural gas deliveries to Austria are continuing unrestricted and there is no indication that this will change, Austrian energy minister Leonore Gewessler told ORF radio on Wednesday.
The ministry is set to give a news briefing on the situation later on Wednesday morning.
He spoke after Polish state-controlled gas utility company PGNiG confirmed that Russian giant Gazprom had "completely suspended" the supply of gas to Poland via the Yamal pipeline.
Between Feb 23 and April 8, Microsoft said it observed a total of 237 Russian destructive cyberattacks inside Ukraine.
The Russian foreign ministry said the list is made up of MPs who have taken "the most active part" in drawing up sanctions against Russia and contributed to "Russophobic hysteria".
The US revealed the coordinates of Russian forces and aircraft in an unprecedented information sharing operation that helped repel Kyiv assault, reports Rozina Sabur.
