Voices The fairytales Russian kids hear are different from Ukrainian stories  and tell us something about the war
20220324
https://news.yahoo.com/voices-fairytales-russian-kids-hear-163712408.html
The difference in traditional Russian and Ukrainian folklore might in part explain the difference between the Russian and Ukrainian armies performances.
In contrast, Russian childrens stories often revolve around a central character named Ivan Durak  Ivan the Stupid. Hes the third brother, inferior to his older brothers, one of whom is typically smart, the other average. When the main character is not explicitly called stupid he is portrayed as lazy, lounging in bed all daywhile his older brothers work hard.
Several weeks into the war, its clear many overestimated the Russian armys will and capability to fight and the Ukrainian armys will to resist an opponent superior in number, equipment and positioning.
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article.
Much has been written about how leaders, including allies, underestimated the leadership ability of Volodymyr Zelensky. But beyond miscalculating how a comedian could transform into a Winston Churchill-like figure, military assessments of the Ukrainian army were also way off.
What can explain the way the Ukraine war has played out, in contradiction to experts predictions? We believe that one factor underlying the unexpected performance of each countrys military can be traced to the cultural differences between Russians and Ukrainians. Those differences were cultivated in part through the fairytales of their childhoods.
Folklore is important for understanding peoples cultural narratives  story lines that describe something unique to the cultures history and its people. They help to define a cultural identity and, in subtle ways, shape future choices. The master narratives that Ukrainian children grow up with  which serve as the dominant cultural script  are radically different from the ones Russian children absorb.
One of us, Sophia Moskalenko, is an expert on the psychology of fairy tales. The other, Mia Bloom, studies childrens mobilization into violent extremism  why and how children turn to violence. We know the power of folklore in shaping the worldview of children and, ultimately, of the adults they grow up to be.
Mia Bloom is a Professor and Fellow at the Evidence Based Cyber Security Program at Georgia State University and Sophia Moskalenko is a Research Fellow in Social Psychology at Georgia State University
When facing the greatest challenge of their lifetimes, those in the Russian army failed to perform well and demonstrated poor morale. By contrast, Ukrainians rose to the challenge in a spectacular way, transforming themselves through grit and determination from the underdog to the hero who just might succeed against all odds.
Traditional Ukrainian bedtime stories, such as Kotygoroshko, Kyrylo Kozhumyaka and Ivasyk Telesyk, all portray unassuming characters persevering against insurmountable odds. The character arc takes them through challenges, testing their will and transforming them from vulnerable to triumphant. These fairy tales follow a well-known narrative arc of the underdog hero  a formula used for decades in bestselling books like Harry Potter and Hollywood blockbusters like Star Wars. In Ukrainian childrens bedtime stories, the main characters often start out as unlikely heroes, but their courage, cleverness and grit help them succeed against the odds.
Most adults dont walk around thinking about the fairytales they heard as children. However, these early stories, experienced through the magnifying glass of childhood emotions, shape our understanding about the world. They determine the repertoire of our actions, especially in times of crisis. Fairytales prepare us to recognize real-life heroes and villains, love and betrayal, good and evil. They guide our actions as we navigate these dichotomies.
In Russian fairytales such as By the Pikes Wish, Princess Frog and Sivka Burka, the main character eventually prevails. He doesnt win through his own virtues, though, but through the intervention of a magical being  a fish, a frog, a horse  that does all the hard work while the main character claims credit. These Russian folk tales seem to suggest that the recipe for success is not to be too smart or work too hard, like the two older brothers, but to sit tight in hope that magic will take care of everything.
At the outset of Russias invasion, almost no one in the West expected that Ukraine would be able to offer Russia any kind of serious opposition to its unprovoked aggression.
