War will cost Russia 15 years of economic gains UN says global costofliving crisis worsening Live updates
20220608
https://news.yahoo.com/elite-russian-regiment-routed-ukraine-125807501.html
Mariupol fell to the Russians in May, but not before several weeks of dogged resistance from fighters holed up in a sprawling steel mill that came to symbolizethe Ukrainian spirit of defiance against a larger foe.
President Joe Biden plans to visit European allies Germany and Spain in late June as he tries to hold together the coalition opposing Russias invasion of Ukraine.The White House said Biden will attend a Group of Seven summit June 25 in the Bavarian Alps and a meeting of NATO countries June 28 in Madrid.
The report by the U.N. Global Crisis Response Group says the war has exacerbated a global cost-of-living crisis unseen in at least a generation. With much of the world still dealing with the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic and climate change, the war has made conditions nearly untenable for millions of people not directly involved in it.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that sanctions have failed to deter Russia's military ambitions in his country. But sanctions have yet to reach the "top rung of the escalation ladder," the report says.
The wars impact on food security, energy and finance is systemic, severe and speeding up,U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said.
Turkey doesnt have enough power in the Black Sea to guarantee security of cargo and Ukrainian ports, he said.
The ripple effects of Russia's audacious invasion of Ukraine will wipe out 15 years of economic gains by the end of 2023, a global banking trade group reported Wednesday.
Slovakias government has approved a long-term plan to modernize and to increase the number of troops in its armed forces. The NATO member with a population of 5.5 million people should have 22,000 service members by 2035, up from 14,100 this year.
European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of weaponizing food supplies by preventing Ukraine from exporting more than 22 million tons of grain.This is a cold, callous and calculated siege by Putin on some of the most vulnerable countries and people in the world, she said.
Almost 30 of Poles favor allowing Ukrainians fleeing the war to settle in Poland permanently and another 64 supportproviding protection until they can return home, according to a University of Warsaw survey.
The fishing agreement in place since 1998 permits Japanese fishingaround the Russian-held Kurils, which Japan also claims and calls the Northern Territories. Japan has joined the U.S., theEuropean Union and others in imposing sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine, and the deal's suspension appears to be retribution for that and the closer military ties with NATO.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Ukraine live updates: War will cost Russia 15 years of economic gains
Denis Pushilin, president of the Donetsk People's Republic,told Russian TV the crimes they committed were monstrous."
The Ukraine military claims it routed an elite Russian regiment in the Donbas region amid conflicting reports on the fate of the crucial city ofSievierodonetsk.The "invaders" were trying to cut through a strategically important highway in eastern Ukraine when paratroopers from Ukraine's80th Brigade halted the advance, the brigade said in a Facebook post.
But the institute said the sanctions, partly by encouraging foreign companies to abandon Russia, are unraveling its economy, wiping out more than a decade of economic growth, and some of the most meaningful consequences have yet to be felt.
"The enemy has not gotten through!Units of the 80th separate paratrooping brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine continue to inflict losses on Russian occupants," the post claimed."This 'striped elite' retreated, leaving in the forest the bodies of their dead."
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM: Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone
But in a social media post, Haidai wrote that "nobody is going to surrender Sievierodonetsk!"
The focus of the war has turned to the eastern Donbas, whichincludes the Luhansk and Donetsk territories. Russia claims to control 97 of Luhansk.Sievierodonetsk is one of just two Luhansk cities not yet completely under Russian control. Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai told the Associated Press thatmaybe we will have to retreat, but right now battles are ongoing in the city. Haidai suggested that positions across the river, in Lysychansk, could be easier to defend.
The Russians made their own claims of success, saying they have restored railways, roads and a canal to connect territory they control in southern Ukraine with the Crimean Peninsula, which they illegally annexed in 2014.
Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Wednesday that his nation was willing to provide security for a shipping corridor for Ukrainian agricultural products. An estimated 22 million tons of grains are sitting in silos in Ukraine, aggravating food shortages across much of the developing world.
"Aiden is a much-loved man and very much missed," his family statement said. "We hope that he will be released very soon."
The families of two British soldiers held captive and possibly facing executionat the hands of Russian separatists in Ukraine say the men are not mercenaries and should be treated as prisoners of war.
The Institute of International Finance estimated the Russian economy will shrink by 15 this year and another 3 in 2023. Historically high oil and and natural gas prices have provided some protection from global sanctions, and the Russian central bank has raised interest rates and imposed capital controls to keep money from fleeing the country.
It's still very raw, Whelan's sister, Elizabeth Whelan, said of her brother being excluded from the Reed deal. And to think we might have to go through that again if Brittney is brought home first is just terrible.
A search of the bombed-out high-rises in the port city of Mariupol has yielded between 50 and 100 bodies in each, prompting workers to carry them to morgues and landfills in what a mayoral aide called anendless caravan of death.
"Western allies could take additional steps in coming weeks and months to keep up pressure on the Russian government," the report says.
The U.N. is trying to arrange a deal that would allow grain exports from Ukraine through the Black Sea and unimpeded access to world markets for Russian food and fertilizers. Guterres said hundreds of millions of people in developing countries could face severe hunger without such an agreement.
WNBA star Brittney Griner remains locked in a Russian prison, her case tangled up with that of lesser-known AmericanPaul Whelan. He hasbeen held in Russiasince his December 2018 arreston espionage charges he and the U.S. government say are false. Whelan wasleft out of a prisoner exchange in Aprilthat brought home yet another detainee, Marine veteran Trevor Reed. That has escalated pressure on the Biden administration to avoid another one-for-one swap that does not include Whelan in favor of Griner, an Olympic gold medalist whose case has drawn global attention.
Russia's relationship with Japan continues to deteriorate because of the war in Ukraine. A dayafter Japan agreed to increased military cooperation with NATO, Russia said it would suspend a dealthat allowed Japanese boats to fish in waters neardisputed islands in exchange for payment.
Russia has restored fresh-water supplyfrom southern Ukraine to Crimea through the North Crimean Canal, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said in a statement, a significant step toward Moscow's goal of connecting territory it controlsto the peninsula it annexed in 2014.
The U.N.'s goal of ending extreme poverty globally by 2030 is taking a major hit from the war inUkraine, which has contributed to a steep rise in food and energy prices, according to a report the organization released Wednesday.
Aiden Aslin, 28, and Shaun Pinner, 24, had brief court appearances this week in the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic. They could face the death penalty if convicted on charges ofcommission of crime by a group, violent seizure of power or retention of power by force, mercenarism and training for terrorist activity.Both families say they are working with the British and Ukraine governments in hopes of winning release.
Petro Andryushchenko said on the Telegram app that about two-fifths of the damaged buildings in the heavily shelled city have been searched.
Ukrainian authorities estimate at least 21,000 civilians were killed and hundreds of buildings destroyed during a weekslong Russian siege of Mariupol. Reports have surfaced of mass graves holding thousands of bodies.
Russia says commercial shipping could resume in the Black Sea if Ukraine removes mines from the area near the port of Odesa  and pledged not to use any cleared corridor to attack Ukraine. Kyiv has voiced doubt about that promise.Ukrainian Grain Union chief Serhiy Ivashchenko said Wednesday it was the Russians whomined the area and that it would take 3 to 4 months to remove sea mines.
Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno said it was regrettable that Russia one-sidedly announced it is suspending the cooperation in this manner.
