We will fight Russia launches offensive in eastern Ukraine April 18 recap
20220418
https://currently.att.yahoo.com/att/us-officials-warn-impending-russian-100011922.html
In recent days, Russia has reinforced its invading force in Ukraine, adding about 11 battalion tactical groups and as many as 11,000 troops, a senior U.S. Defense Department official said Monday.
This is nothing but deliberate terror. Mortars, artillery against ordinary residential neighborhoods, against ordinary civilians, Zelenskyy said.
Russia has had to divert troops and supplies to Mariupol, in turn slowing its advances elsewhere, the U.K. assessment said, adding, "Russian commanders will be concerned by the time it is taking to subdue Mariupol."
Ukrainian forces are largely holed up in the Azovstal steel mill as the city has been decimated over several weeks of Russia's attacks. Ukrainian officials have said its troops will not surrender, and foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba told CBS Face the Nation that Russia's continued attacks could be a red line that ends efforts to reach peace through negotiation.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Russia begins offensive in eastern Ukraine: April 18 recap
In all, there about 76 Russian battalion tactical groups in Ukraine. About 12 of those battalions are engaged in heavy fighting around the besieged Black Sea port city of Mariupol, which remains contested and isolated from other Ukrainian forces, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe intelligence assessments.
The Russian military forcibly removed over 100 children from Mariupol, many taken from hospitals without parents, the Crimean Human Rights Group reported, citing Mariupol's mayoral adviser Petro Andryushchenko.
Haidai later said on Ukrainian TV that Russians took control of the city after leveling everything to the ground, so his guys retreated to regroup and keep on fighting. It simply makes no sense to stand in one place, to die for everyone, without causing significant damage to the enemy, he said.
Lisa Monaco, U.S. Deputy Attorney General, told Bill Whitaker on "60 Minutes" that Russian state actors are already looking for weaknesses in U.S. cybersecurity and infrastructure.
"Many of the Russian strikes we've seen in recent days have targeted military installations, military adjacent installations," State Department spokesman Ned Price said at a Monday news conference. "But the fact is that Russia, more than just launching an invasion, more than just launching a war, is undertaking a campaign of terror, a campaign of brutality, a campaign of despicable aggression against the people of Ukraine.
Fighting continued to rage Monday in eastern Ukrainian cities as Russian forces sought to make advances the the Luhansk region, Ukrainian officials said.
Medvedchuk appealed to Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the video. Shortly after the video was published, two British men who surrendered to Russian forces in Mariupol also pleaded for their release. The men identified themselves as Sean Pinner and Aiden Aslin in the videos posted by Russian state media.
Belgium, Estonia, and Bulgaria barred all Russian ships from their ports beginning Sunday. Their announcement came the same day as Italy's and as part of expanded EU sanctions announced earlier this month.
The occupiers attempted to break through our defenses, said Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of Ukraines national security council. Fortunately, our military is holding out. They passed through only two cities  this is Kreminna and another small town.
Russian forces on Monday increased assaults in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions  both of which are part of the Donbas  as well as in the area of Zaporizhzhia.
The bans apply to all Russian-flagged ships, including those that have changed their flag from Russia to any other nationality since Feb. 24, the date of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
In his nightly address to the Ukrainian people, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian troops in southern Ukraine have been carrying out torture and kidnappings.
Meanwhile, a Russian strike on Kramatorsk destroyed several residential buildings Monday, Pavlo Kyrylenko, the regional state administrator in Donetsk, said via Telegram.
Luhansk regional military administrator Serhiy Haidai said the town came under heavy artillery overnight, setting seven residential buildings on fire, and that the Olympus sports complex where the nations Olympic team trains was targeted.
Serhiy Haidai, the head of the Luhansk Regional Military Administration, said Monday that the cities of Rubizhne and Popasna were "under the greatest threat" and that the city of Kreminna had been captured, according to Ukrainian state media Ukrinform. In nearby Zolote, at least two people were killed and four others injured in a strike, Haidai said, according to Ukrinform on Sunday.
Ships already in Italian ports must leave immediately after completing their commercial activity, according to a notice sent to port authorities throughout the country.
Russia has come under increasing scrutiny as mounting evidence builds of military attacks against Ukrainian civilians in Bucha and other parts of Ukraine, leading U.S. President Joe Biden to call Putin's actions "genocide."
Along with the soldiers about 1,000 civilians are also inside the Azovstal steel plant. Reports from CNN and Reuters say Russian forces have been advancing on the plant and fights have broken out on the streets surrounding it.
Russia is creating separatist states and introducing the Russian ruble in occupied parts of Ukraine's Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Sunday.
Torture chambers are built there, he said. They abduct representatives of local governments and anyone deemed visible to local communities.
Farther west, Ukrainian forces were able to push back Russian troops and liberate several settlements around the city of Izyum, said Alexander Motuzyanyk, spokesman for Ukraine's Defense Ministry, Ukrinform reported. But the city of Kharkiv was hit in a Russian strike, killing at least three people and wounded three others, according to Associated Press journalists on the scene.
Russian bombers have also launched long-range cruise missiles at Kyiv and Lviv, the official said. The targets appeared to be military facilities, but the regional governor in Lviv said at least seven people were killed and 11 more, including a child, were injured.
Russia has launched its long-foreshadowed offensive in eastern Ukraine offensive, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced Monday, vowing that his people will continue to fight and "defend ourselves."
Germanys employers and unions joined together in opposing an immediate European Union ban on natural gas imports from Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. They say a boycott would lead to factory shutdowns and job losses in the blocs largest economy.
An ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin currently being held by Ukrainian authorities on a treason charge offered himself in exchange for the evacuation of civilians in the besieged city of Mariupol.
The EU has imposed five rounds of sanctions against Russia, including the banning of ships in its fifth round. Leaders are still weighing a ban on Russian oil, with many European countries dependent on it.
Moscow said its missiles struck more than 20 military targets, including ammunition depots, command headquarters and groups of troops and vehicles, while its artillery hit an additional 315 targets and its warplanes conducted 108 strikes. The claims could not be independently verified.
Denys Prokopenko, whose soldiers have been holding out against Russian forces in the key southern port city, said in a video message that the bombs are dropping even though civilians are sheltering in the plants tunnels.
Overnight blasts were also reported in Ukraine's capital Kyiv, in the north in Kharkiv and in Mykolaiv, near the Black Sea port city Odesa.
"We're talking military intelligence actors, deploying malware, malicious code, on thousands of computers in hundreds of countries," Monaco said Sunday. "We're seeing them deploy that code and take control of these computers. It's like an army of infected computers that, with a single command, can be deployed to do everything from gathering information, stealing information, and sometimes to have destructive effect."
Russia is known to have powerful cyber actors. U.S. intelligence agencies and federal prosecutors have concluded that the Russian government sought to sway the 2016 presidential election. Recently, Microsoft said it disrupted Russian cyberattacks targeting Ukraine, the U.S., and European Union.
The British Defense Ministry said in an intelligence update Monday that Ukrainian forces' defense of the besieged city of Mariupol "has severely tested Russian forces."
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Monday, April 18. Follow here for the latest updates and news from Tuesday, April 19, as Russia's invasion continues.
Russia estimated that 2,500 Ukrainian troops and about 400 foreign mercenaries were dug in. The U.S. said nearly a dozen Russian battalion tactical groups have been tied up trying to defeat them.
Viktor Medvedchuk, the former leader of a pro-Russian opposition party in Ukraine, made the plea in a video posted Monday by Ukraines state security service, who captured Medvedchuk last week in a special operation. Medvedchuk, 67, escaped from house arrest shorty before the Russian invasion of Ukraine began earlier this year.
For a second day, Ukraine's government halted civilian evacuations. Government officials said Russian forces were targeting humanitarian corridors with shelling and blocking routes.
Airstrikes by Russia's military killed at least seven people and injured 11 more  including one child  early Monday in Lviv in western Ukraine, the regional governor said.
Russia moved more heavy artillery, helicopters and command and control units into the region ahead of launching its offensive in eastern Ukraine as heavy fighting continued, including near the strategic city of Izyum, a senior U.S. Defense Department official said Monday.
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said Monday that the city risks losing about 200,000 jobs as foreign companies leave the country. Russian President Vladimir Putin, however, dismissed the impact of Western sanctions, saying his country "has withstood the unprecedented pressure."
Kozytskyy said a preliminary investigation indicated the rockets that hit Lviv were fired from the direction of the Caspian Sea, an inland body of water that links Asia and Europe.
"We have to assume that there's going to be a breach," Easterly said on "60 Minutes." "There's going to be an incident. There's going to be an attack."
RUSSIA'S ARSENAL: What weapons are being used in Russia's invasion of Ukraine? A visual guide to key military equipment and locations
Russian forces have started dropping bunker-buster bombs on a Mariupol steel plant where Ukrainians are refusing to surrender, the commander of the Azov Regiment of the National Guard said Monday.
A Ukrainian military official said street battles have begun and evacuation is impossible in the town of Kreminna. Thats one of only two spots where the Ukrainians said the Russians managed to break through on Monday along a front stretching for hundreds of miles.
Those sheltering include women, children and elderly, Myhailo Vershynin, the chief of the Mariupol patrol police, told CNN. He added while the plant had reserves of food and water, supplies were quickly running out.
The deaths in Lviv were confirmed by regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy. He said four rockets were fired, striking three targets including several warehouses not used by Ukraine's military and a service station near Lviv Railway Station.
The deaths were the first to be reported in the city since Russia's assault on Ukraine started in late February. On March 13, Russia fired 30 cruise missiles at the Yavoriv military training base, outside the city of Lviv, killing at least 35 people and wounding 134.
He added: No matter how many Russian troops are driven there, we will fight. We will defend ourselves. We will do it every day.
Ukraine took another step in its bid for European Union membership, completing a questionnaire that European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen handed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy earlier this month.
White House officials have repeatedly warned that evolving intelligence suggests Russia may be exploring potential cyberattacks against the United States. Now, that possibility is all but certain, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Director Jen Easterly said Sunday.
Now we can already state that the Russian troops have begun the battle for the Donbas, for which they have been preparing for a long time, Zelenskyy announced Monday in a video address, stating that a significant portion of the Kremlin's army was concentrated in the effort.
