White House looks to clarify Bidens minor incursion comment on Russia and Ukraine
20220120
https://news.yahoo.com/white-house-looks-clarify-bidens-005207321.html
The answer immediately drew ire from Republican lawmakers who said the president gave Putin a green light to cross the border. And during the news conference, Biden didnt do much to alter his answer when asked whether he was giving Putin permission, as long as it was a minor incursion, and whether Russia could avoid severe sanctions the U.S. has threatened.
White House officials have been vocal this week about their growing concerns about a looming Russian invasion. The alarmist chatter comes after last weeks talks between Russia, the U.S. and allies flamed out, doing little to divert the path toward war.
President Biden has been clear with the Russian President: If any Russian military forces move across the Ukrainian border, thats a renewed invasion, and it will be met with a swift, severe, and united response from the United States and our Allies, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement. President Biden also knows from long experience that the Russians have an extensive playbook of aggression short of military action, including cyberattacks and paramilitary tactics. And he affirmed today that those acts of Russian aggression will be met with a decisive, reciprocal, and united response.
The statement came less than an hour after Biden wrapped up a marathon news conference, in which he said Russia would be held accountable for invading  though he added that the U.S. response would depend on the nature of Russian President Vladimir Putins actions. National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne took to Twitter during the news conference to clarify that Biden was talking about the difference between military and non-militarypara-militarycyber action by the Russians.
I think we will if theres something that is  where theres Russian forces crossing the border, killing Ukrainian fighters, et cetera. I think that changes everything, Biden said. But it depends on what he does.
The White House on Wednesday sought to clarify President Joe Bidens comments about a potential Russian invasion into Ukraine, after Biden said the U.S. response would depend on the severity of Russias actions.
Its one thing if its a minor incursion, and then we end up having a fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. But if they actually do what theyre capable of doing with the force amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia.
Russia will be held accountable if it invades, and it depends on what it does, Biden said, when asked how he would hold Russia accountable for an invasion.
