Zelensky speech  live Biden considers Switchblade drone deal as Ukraine leader speaks to Congress
20220316
https://money.yahoo.com/zelensky-speech-live-biden-considers-105839880.html
Writing for The Independent, Skylar Baker-Jordan looks at the case of Maria Ovsiannikova, the journalist who stood behind a news anchor on Russian state TV with a hand-made sign reading Stop the war. Dont believe the propaganda. They lie to you here.
On Tuesday more than 350 of 425 Ukrainian MPs were present at the session according to Ms Sovsun, who described singing their anthem as highly emotional.
Volodymyr Zelensky has personally thanked a Russian TV editor for denouncing the war live on Russian state TV.
Inna Sovsun, the deputy leader of the Holos Party, was among those at the emergency session in the Verkhovna Rada in the centre of Ukraines capital  which Russian bombardments have edged closer to in recent days.
While Joe Biden is winning some praise for his administrations aggressive response to Russias war in Ukraine, it seems there has been little effect on his dismal standing among the electorate.
However, the assistance does not include a no-fly zone or fighter jets to Ukraine, demands that president Volodymyr Zelensky has repeatedly made.
I know that you want to survive, Mr Zelensky said, vowing that those who surrender will be treated as people, decently.
The package of military assistance will include anti-tank missiles and more of the defensive weapons that the US has already been providing, including Javelin anti-tank and Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, reported CNN.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said Ukraine should accept it will not become a member of Nato, hinting at a potential key concession to Russia, which demanded such a guarantee before launching its deadly invasion three weeks ago.
After facing a grassroots effort to prevent him from running for re-election, far-right Republican Congressman Madison Cawthorn has been branded deplorable by a newspaper in his home state.
Volodymyr, in the years Ive known you, Ive always thought of you as a champion for democracy, Mr Trudeau said.
Its a different story for the American publics impression of Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky ahead of todays historic address to Congress.
Mr Biden is also reportedly considering providing Ukraine with US-made drones, including the recently developed so-called loitering missile system known as Switchblade. Drones have played a major part in Ukraines defence against the Russian assault, in particular TB2 drones supplied by Turkey.
US president Joe Biden is expected to announce an additional aid of $800m 612m to Ukraine on Wednesday.
In his nightly TV address, the president of Ukraine said Vladimir Putins forces had suffered worse losses during their invasion than in the Chechnya conflict, adding that they are beginning to understand they will not achieve anything by war.
John Bowden explains what to watch out for when President Volodymyr Zelensky addresses Congress today.
Ukraine is not a member of Nato. We understand that. We have heard for years that the doors were open, but we also heard that we could not join. Its a truth and it must be recognised, Zelensky said.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky echoed Winston Churchill and compared his countrys fight against Russia to Britains battle against the Nazis in an historic address to parliament a week ago.
Canadas prime minister Justin Trudeau and senior members of his cabinet have been banned from entering Russia.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is set to speak to the US Congress in a virtual address at 9am ET today after being invited by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer .
It came after Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky addressed Canadas Parliament on Tuesday morning to call for a Nato no-fly zone over his country. Zelensky will address the US Congress on Wednesday.
As he writes, her subsequent arrest and trial  which saw her fined 30,000 roubles, or $280  is a reminder that plenty of ordinary Russian people deserve the wests support for the crime of speaking out against their government.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky will deliver a historic early-morning address to Congress on Wednesday morning as his government continues to battle a brutal Russian invasion.
In his 10-minute video address, Mr Zelensky told parliament: We do not want to lose what we have, what is ours, our country Ukraine, just the same as you did not want to lose your country when the Nazis started to fight your country and you had to fight for Britain.
Hundreds of Ukrainian MPs have gathered again for an emergency parliamentary session to pass laws in response to Russias invasion and sing their national anthem.
The embattled leader urged Boris Johnson to increase the pressure on Vladimir Putins regime by going further on sanctions, asking the prime minister to declare Russia a terrorist state.
Volodymyr Zelensky was described as a champion for democracy by Justin Trudeau before he received three standing ovations from the Canadian parliament.
Responding to the stunt, the president of Ukraine shared his thanks to Ms Ovsyannikova for not being afraid to protest.
With the new tranche, the total aid to Ukraine in the last week alone would reach $1bn.
I am personally thankful to that young woman who came into the studio of Channel One with the banner against war, Mr Zelensky said.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer invited Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to give a virtual joint address to Congress on Wednesday morning at 9am.
The Congress, our country and the world are in awe of the people of Ukraine, who have shown extraordinary courage, resilience and determination in the face of Russias unprovoked, vicious, and illegal war, a letter from the leaders said.
Speaking to military officials of the UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force in a video message on Tuesday, the president, who has won plaudits around the world for his conduct during the war, said it was a truth that it would not join the military alliance.
Marina Ovsyannikova stood behind the newsreader on her nations most-watched programme and held a banner that read: Stop the war. Dont believe the propaganda. Theyre lying to you here.
As Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, US president Joe Biden is expected to announce $800m 612m of aid to the eastern European country, a sum that would bring the total aid sent to Ukraine in the last week alone to $1bn.
In an editorial, the Winston-Salem Journal wrote that Mr Cawthorn  whom it described as North Carolinas gift to Crazytown  went too far recently by describing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky as a thug. This is a David and Goliath story, wrote the editors, and Cawthorn thinks Goliath got a bad rap.
The president of Ukraine was addressing politicians via video link on Tuesday, delivering a powerful and personal appeal to Canada urging for more help to withstand Russias invasion.
We look forward to the privilege of welcoming President Zelenskys address to the House and Senate and to convey our support to the people of Ukraine as they bravely defend democracy.
