Zelenskyy vows strong response if Russia ups attacks on Ukraines Independence Day
20220823
https://news.yahoo.com/zelenskyy-vows-strong-response-russia-160100269.html
Read also:  Only one out of 20 Russian missile strikes on Ukraine hits military facility, says SBU
In addition, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Valerii Zaluzhnyi said that Ukraine's was concerned by the placing of missile systems along the state border from the Republic of Belarus, including at the Zyabrovka airfield in Belarus.
Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council Oleksiy Danilov said that the Ukrainian forces are aware of the possible Russian provocations on Independence Day and are working to prevent them.
The same thing we do now. ... If we are hit, we hit back in response. And it will be a powerful response."
Zelensky added that this response would scale up every day. It will get stronger and stronger, the Ukrainian president said.
The Belarusky Gayun monitoring group reported on Aug. 15 that Russia had amassed significant forces in Belarus, probably for a massive missile attack on Ukraine. Similar risks were reported on Aug. 16 by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, noting "the threat of missile and air strikes by the Russian forces of invasion from Belarusian territory."
What will Ukraine do if they attack Kyiv?, Zelenskyy said at a press conference with visiting Polish President Andrzej Duda.
Read also:  Russia sends air defenses to Belarus, invaders make small advance on Mykolaiv axis, says General Staff
Since the first day of the war, Russia has been doing this all the time. Can they increase the number of these hits? Yes, they can do it on the 23rd-24th of Aug. This is all the information I have. I have no other information.
He also said that there is a threat of an increase in missile strikes, but these happen every day.
At the end of July, President Zelenskyy announced that Ukraine would celebrate the current Independence Day on Aug 24, despite the war.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs urged Ukrainians to be vigilant and not ignore air raid alarms before and on Independence Day due to possible enemy attacks. The Ukrainian militarys South Operational Command reported that on the eve of the Independence Day of Ukraine Russia was increasing the number of its missile carriers on station in the Black Sea.
The threat remains, Zelenskyy said. It is a daily threat I believe. Is there any additional information? We know the priorities in terms of infrastructure facilities or state institutions, but I don't see that much has changed.
