Zelenskyy warns of war in Donbas like the world has not seen in hundreds of years as Russia masses troops for a new offensive on the eastern front
20220409
https://news.yahoo.com/zelenskyy-warns-war-donbas-world-135134194.html
The attack took place Friday morning in Kramatorsk, a town in Donetsk, an oblast that is also home to pro-Russian separatist forces. Donetsk is part of the Donbas region.
This chilling forecast echoes what Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba told NATO members on Thursday.
Zelenskyy warned on Friday of a "big war" in Donbas like "the world has not seen in hundreds of years."
Stoltenberg told reporters that a battle could last for "weeks, but also months, and possible also for years."
Speaking to the German newspaper BILD, owned by Axel Springer, Insider's parent company, Zelenskyy predicted intense fighting in the coming days.
Even before the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24, Ukraine had fought Russian-backed separatists in the region since 2014.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday they were "expecting a major offensive" in Donbas imminently.
The US is giving intel to Ukraine for operation in Donbas in advance of the battle, US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Thursday.
"It could be a big war in Donbas  like the world has not seen in hundreds of years," he told BILD reporter Paul Ronzheimer.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday warned of fighting in Donbas that could result in the biggest war in centuries.
He used this warning to immediately call on Western allies to provide more heavy weaponry, including air defense systems, artillery, armored vehicles, and jets.
Donbas incorporates Luhansk and Donetsk, which runs from outside Mariupol in the south to the northern border.
Ukraine's deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk has encouraged Ukrainians living in the east to escape while they still can. She said civilians "will come under fire" if they do not flee.
Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces are regrouping for a new eastern offensive on the Donbas region after failing to capture Kyiv.
President Zelenskyy was speaking in the aftermath of a Russian rocket attack that hit a train station in eastern Ukraine that was packed with people who had fled their homes. More than 50 people were killed.
Speaking to BILD, owned by Axel Springer, Insider's parent company, Zelenskyy said Ukraine will defend the country "until the end."
