Russia Rejects UK Claim Of Trying To Replace Ukraine Leader
20220124
https://www.newson6.com/story/61edc536a058320c1c7b9f7d/russia-rejects-uk-claim-of-trying-to-replace-ukraine-leader
Russias Foreign Ministry on Sunday rejected a British claim that the Kremlin is seeking to replace Ukraines government with a pro-Moscow administration, and that former Ukrainian lawmaker Yevheniy Murayev is a potential candidate.
Britain has sent anti-tank weapons to Ukraine as part of efforts to bolster the countrys defenses against a potential Russian attack.
Ukrainian political analyst Volodymyr Fesenko described Murayev as a significant figure in Ukraines pro-Russia camp, but added: Murayev is a second-place player. I dont think Murayev has direct connections in the Kremlin.
Murayevs Nashi party  whose name echoes the former Russian youth movement that supported Putin  is regarded as sympathetic to Russia, but Murayev on Sunday pushed back on characterizing it as pro-Russia.
Murayev told The Associated Press via Skype that the British claim looks ridiculous and funny and that he has been denied entry to Russia since 2018 on the grounds of being a threat to Russian security. He said that sanction was imposed in the wake of a conflict with Viktor Medvedchuk, Ukraines most prominent pro-Russia politician and a friend of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The U.K. governments unusual decision to release the thinking of British spies, though not the evidence behind it, comes as Prime Minister Boris Johnson is distracted by a leadership crisis over lockdown-breaching parties by his staff during the coronavirus pandemic.
This is very much part of the Russian tool kit, he said in an interview on CNN. It runs the gamut from a large, conventional incursion or invasion of Ukraine to these kinds of destabilizing activities in an attempt to topple the government. And its important that people be on notice about that.
Keir Giles, a Russia expert at the international affairs think-tank Chatham House, said the British warning was a sign of the U.K. effectively taking the lead of a strong NATO and European response to Russias threats to Ukraine.
Mark Galeotti, who has written extensively on Russian security services, said: I cant help but be skeptical about the British claim.
The time of pro-Western and pro-Russian politicians in Ukraine is gone forever, he said in a Facebook post.
Everything that does not support the pro-Western path of development of Ukraine is automatically pro-Russian, Murayev told The AP.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the information shines a light on the extent of Russian activity designed to subvert Ukraine, and is an insight into Kremlin thinking.
Those politicians include Mykola Azarov, a former prime minister under Viktor Yanukovych, the Ukrainian president ousted in a 2014 uprising, and Yanukovychs former chief of staff, Andriy Kluyev.
He also said he supports Ukraine having neutral status and believes that striving for NATO is tantamount to continuing the war. Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists have been fighting in the countrys east since 2014, a conflict that has killed more than 14,000.
The U.S. has mounted an aggressive campaign in recent months to unify its European allies against a new Russian invasion of Ukraine. The White House called the U.K. government assessment deeply concerning and said it stands with the duly elected Ukrainian government.
Truss urged Russia to deescalate, end its campaigns of aggression and disinformation, and pursue a path of diplomacy, and reiterated Britains view that any Russian military incursion into Ukraine would be a massive strategic mistake with severe costs.
The Ukrainian people have the sovereign right to determine their own future, and we stand with our democratically elected partners in Ukraine, National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne said.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he could not comment specifically about the British claim, but weve been warning about just this kind of tactic for weeks.
Some of these have contact with Russian intelligence officers currently involved in the planning for an attack on Ukraine, the Foreign Office said.
The U.K. government made the claim based on an intelligence assessment, without providing evidence to back it up. It comes amid high tensions between Moscow and the West over Russias designs on Ukraine and each sides increasing accusations that the other is planning provocations.
With the U.S. apparently willing to engage with Russias demands on Moscows terms, and the EU irrelevant and asleep at the wheel, it has fallen to the U.K. to deal with the challenge both in terms of rhetoric  and in terms of direct action, raising the likely cost of a Russian incursion in Ukraine by providing direct shipments of defensive munitions, Giles said.
Amid diplomatic efforts to defuse the crisis, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace is expected to meet Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu for talks in Moscow. No timing has been given for the meeting, which would be the first U.K.-Russia bilateral defense talks since 2013.
This is one of those situations where it is hard to know whether what were facing is a genuine threat, a misunderstanding of the inevitable overtures that were being made to various Ukrainian figures by Russians or strategic communication  which is what we call propaganda these days when were doing it, Galeotti, who is honorary professor of Slavonic and East European Studies at University College, London, told the AP.
The disinformation spread by the British Foreign Office is more evidence that it is the NATO countries, led by the Anglo-Saxons, who are escalating tensions around Ukraine, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on the Telegram messaging app Sunday. We call on the British Foreign Office to stop provocative activities, stop spreading nonsense.
The assessment came as President Joe Biden spent Saturday at the presidential retreat Camp David outside of Washington huddling with his senior national security team about the Ukraine situation. A White House official said the discussions included efforts to de-escalate the situation with diplomacy and deterrence measures being coordinated closely with allies and partners, including security assistance to Ukraine.
Britains Foreign Office on Saturday also named several other Ukrainian politicians it said had links with Russian intelligence services, along with Murayev who is the leader of a small party that has no seats in parliament.
