Eurovision bans Russia from 2022 contest after widespread outrage
20220225
https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2022/02/25/eurovision-russia-ukraine-ban/
Manizha Dalerovna Sangin Manizha of Russia during the 65th Eurovision Song Contest grand final. Dean MouhtaropoulosGetty
The European Broadcasting Union EBU, which produces the Eurovision Song Contest, announced on Friday 25 February that Russia will no longer be allowed to take part.
We remain dedicated to protecting the values of a cultural competition which promotes international exchange and understanding, brings audiences together, celebrates diversity through music and unites Europe on one stage.
Ukraine was plunged into a state of emergency in the early hours of Thursday morning when Russian president Vladimir Putin announced that he would be launching a special military operation in a surprise televised announcement.
The union said its executive board made the decision after it received a recommendation from its governing body. That recommendation was based on the rules of the event and the values of the EBU, the EBUs statement said.
The decision reflects concern that, in light of the unprecedented crisis in Ukraine, the inclusion of a Russian entry in this years contest would bring the competition into disrepute, the union said.
What unfolded was a full-scale invasion. Civilian casualties have been reported and countless people have fled the country and their homes to get to safe zones.
However, the Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine UA:PBC had called on the EBU to ban Russia from the contest, citing concerns that the Russian broadcaster is acting as a mouthpiece for the Kremlin thats spreading political propaganda about Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The U-turn comes after the union initially defended its decision to allow Russia to compete on Thursday, describing Eurovision as a non-political cultural event.
Therewas widespread backlash on Thursday 24 February when Eurovision bosses said Russia would still be allowed to send an entry to the hugely popular competition. The announcement came just hours after Russia launched a full-scale invasion in Ukraine, prompting international outcry.
Eurovision organisers have backtracked on their decision to allow Russia to compete in the contest this year following the countrys invasion of Ukraine.
The EBU is an apolitical member organisation of broadcasters committed to upholding the values of public service.
