Head of Russian Orthodox Church blames Ukraine war on sinful Pride parades
20220308
https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2022/03/08/russia-ukraine-war-orthodox-church-kirill-lgbt-pride/
If humanity accepts that sin is not a violation of Gods law, he continued, if humanity accepts that sin is a variation of human behaviour, then human civilisation will end there.
In a televised sermon on Sunday, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church patriarch, Metropolitan Epiphanius,made the Ukrainian Orthodox Churchs stance perfectly clear. Dear brothers and sisters, he said, we pray and we act.
Following the independence of Ukraine in 1991, the Ukrainian Orthodox Churchwas granted legitimacy in 2019 by the Patriarchate of Constantinople, the senior authority in Eastern Orthodoxy.
Aligning himself strongly with Putin, whose Orthodox faith is central to his policy-making, Kirill has compared marriage equality to Nazismand Soviet totalitarianism as well as blaming the rise of Isis on the godless acceptance of homosexuality.
The war, however, has dealt a blow to this, with clergy and worshippers at Ukrainian Orthodox churches tied to Moscow now distancing themselves altogether from Russiain open defiance of threats from Moscow.
We know that if people or countries reject these demands, they are not part of that world, they become strangers to it.
Russias president Vladimir Putin L congratulates Patriarch Kirill of Moscow on the 13th anniversary of his enthronement. Alexei NikolskyTASS via Getty Images
Thats why in order to join the club of those countries, you have to have a gay Pride parade.
Kirill, real name Vladimir Mikhailovich Gundyayev, has long been in lockstep with president Vladimir Putin of Russia, whom he regards as a miracle from God.
The Russian Orthodox bishop, 75, who leads the most popular and influential religion in the country, said that Ukraines pro-LGBT laws and parades have presented a loyalty test to Russia for aligning with progressive values.
And every hour of our resistance inspires more and more people around the world to support Ukraine.
In his first public addresslast month, he stressed that he deeply empathises with everyone affected by this tragedy all without quite saying the word war or specifying that Russia launched what Kirill simply described as a military operation.
The Patriarch claimed that the West essentially organises genocide campaigns against countries that refuse to stage gay parades before saying that the breakaway Ukrainian regions at the heart of the conflict, collectively known as Donbas, have rejected such values.
For his Forgiveness Sunday sermon, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow backed the Russian-Ukraine war and said the bloodshed will decide which side of God humanity will be on.
Metropolitan Epiphanius conducts a service marking the Orthodox feast of Palm Sunday. Maxym MarusenkoNurPhoto via Getty Images
Our heroic people are defending ourselves from the attack of Russia, which is throwing its soldiers and weapons at our villages and cities.
The church, otherwise known as the Moscow Patriarchate, is deeply entangled with the seemingly secular Kremlin. Capturing how Putin has used the war as a sledgehammer to reassert Russias influence in the region, the Russian church has long desired to unite with its Ukraine branch under a single patriarch in Moscow.
The head of Russias Orthodox Church has seemingly blamed the invasion of Ukraine that has killed hundreds and displaced millions on LGBT Pride parades.
For eight years there have been attempts to destroy what exists in Donbas, he said.
Today, some 700 parishes have swapped allegiance to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. But the remaining 12,000 have sworn loyalty to the Moscow Patriarchate, giving Putin a key channel of influence into the country.
Pride parades are designed to demonstrate that sin is one variation of human behaviour, he said, according to The Moscow Times.
And in Donbas, there is a rejection, a fundamental rejection of the so-called values that are offered today by those who claim world power.
