Ukraines Eurovision entry quits over visit to Russianoccupied Crimea
20220216
https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2022/02/16/ukraine-eurovision-crimea/
The countrys national broadcaster UA:PBC suspended the signing of her contract, theBBC reported on Tuesday 15 February, over allegations that she visited Crimea under falsified documents.
Both the UK and the US have evacuated embassy staff from Kyiv, while Western allies are drawing up sanctions against Russia if the country does invade.
She told the BBC: I believe in my message that we dont need a war but if they Russia are going to push us were going to stand together.
I am a citizen of Ukraine, I abide by the laws of Ukraine and I try to spread Ukrainian traditions and values to the world, she wrote on Instagram.
Pash, 28, was set to represent Ukraine at this years Eurovision Song Contest in May.
Artists like myself want to create something good. We want to create light and positive news but were living in this reality. Were going to react. Were not going to run.
Pash said in light of rising tensions, it is very hard to stay positive and calm.
Ukraine puts Eurovision star on hold amid controversy over visit to Russia-occupied Crimea Evgen Kotenko UkrinformBarcroft Media via Getty Images
Pash told the BBCthat some have accused her of being un-Ukrainian due to the controversy.
Ukrainian activists have stated that they will try their hardest to fight, amid fears that in the event of a Russian invasion,progress on LGBT rightscould be stripped back.
There are strict rules in place about visiting the region, with foreigners only permitted to visit through official land checkpoints. Under Ukrainian law it is illegal to travel to Crimea via Russia.
The two countries have been at war with each other since 2014, however tensions have increased after Russia deployed tens of thousands of troops to its border with Ukraine in late January.
If Pash is to represent Ukraine at the Eurovision Song Contest, she will sing her song Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors, named after a famous Ukrainian film.
Im a Ukrainian girl. Im talking in Ukrainian and my song is about Ukraine, she said. There is no way that I can be against it.
In an earlier statement to the BBC, Ukrainian broadcasterUA:PBC said it was expecting the response of the State Border Guard Service to confirm the validity of the document Pash provided explaining how she travelled to Crimea.
Ukraines Eurovision entry Alina Pash has withdrawn over claims surrounding her visit to Russian-occupied Crimea in 2015
