Ukrainian queer teen explains why he wont flee despite terrifying war I want to be free
20220301
https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2022/03/01/ukraine-russia-war-lgbt-transgender/
The second day after the full-scale invasion began, I was walking the streets and it just dawned on me how many little things make up my childhood. The things that I love are here, in Ukraine, in this city. My parents are here, my relatives are here, my favourite buildings are here, my favourite trees and park benches. Everything that makes up a home is here. I cannot just leave.
Ukraines LGBT community are calling on the rest of the world to stand with them and support them in whatever way they can. Opinions differ from person to person on what the world could and should be doing  Franz thinks the best thing the queer community abroad can do is donate money to their causes.
We have a lot of funds right now that you can donate to like Come Back Alive or humanitarian organisations helping both the military and civilians. We even have organisations like LGBTQ Soldier. Helping monetarily is important right now. Its important to support refugees, its important to help people on the frontlines, its important to support civilians, especially medically. Its also important to urge politicians to act in an efficient manner, because it will save lives.
Still, hes living in constant fear. As a trans, bisexual man, hes terrified of what it would mean if Russia were to successfully seize power in Ukraine.
I have been gathering courage for a while to come out to my family. Thats something Ive promised to myself  to be completely open once its peaceful again. I think these last few days have brought me a much deeper understanding about how much I actually want to live and be free and do the things that I want. Im ready to fight for that.
Its not easy work, but I think thats something each of us can be proud of, and each of us wants to keep going in that direction.
Franz is already imagining a life after the war with Russia. He had hoped to start his medical transition this month, but those plans are now on hold. As of now, hes not fully out  the invasion has made him think about the kind of future he wants for himself.
???? LGBTQI Militaries need your donations for equipment! Bank info details in the post. pic.twitter.comcKvReIDoX7
For now, all Franz can do is try to stay safe as the war continues to escalate  but if and when the time comes, hell be ready to join the fight.
Activists hold placards and flags as they gather in Lafayette Square to protest Russias invasion of Ukraine in Washington, DC. MANDEL NGANAFP via Getty
Demonstrators take part in a rally outside Downing Street in London on 25 February 2022 to protest against Russias invasion of Ukraine. Tolga AkmenAFP via Getty
Weirdly enough, Im not really worried about myself, but its really scary when your friends dont respond to your messages in time or when you dont know where your parents are. Its very draining. You cant really rest or restore your energy in any way. Its like your brain is alert every second, every moment, to danger.
Franz is currently studying physics at university in Slovakia, but he recently returned home to Ukraine for a visit. He ended up staying, even though his parents wanted him to leave for his own safety.
Like many people in Ukraine, Franz hasnt gotten much sleep since Russia invaded his home country last week.
This month, Franz was supposed to start on gender-affirming treatments. Instead, hes preparing to take up arms to fight for his countrys freedom. Hes just 18 years old, and hes faced with the prospect of wading into a war so he can protect his freedoms.
Franz  whose name is being withheld to protect his identity  lives in western Ukraine in the city of Lviv. So far, hes been lucky there have been barely any airstrikes and he and his loved ones have managed to stay safe.
I think these last few days have brought me a much deeper understanding about how much I actually want to live and be free.
The borders are absolutely overwhelmed. My initial plan was to return by car, but its just impossible right now. The other thing is that I dont really want to leave my home. Everything I care about is here and I want to do anything I can. I can be more helpful here. While its probably not happening any time soon, in case there is fighting on the streets, I hope that I can take part.
Franz is now bracing himself for the possibility that he might have to join the fight for Ukraines freedom. Thats a feeling shared by many in the LGBT community  they have spent years fighting for equality and dignity. Theyre not going to let Russias aggression jeopardise that.
No matter how real it is, its really hard for me to believe that this is reality Im living right now, Franz tells PinkNews.
Hes determined to fight for Ukraines freedom because of how intimately connected he feels to his home country.
For me, to be queer and to be Ukrainian are interconnected things, Franz explains. I know theres no life for me here unless Ukraine is free and prospering. Ive seen how far weve come as a nation in terms of acceptance and tolerance in the past decade or so. Queer Ukrainians are on the front line reviving Ukrainian culture and establishing Ukrainian democracy. Weve been on protests and were continually making sure its a nation that everyone feels welcome in.
