Live Zelensky vows victory on 100th day of Russian invasion
20220603
https://www.europesun.com/news/272574626/live-zelensky-vows-victory-on-100th-day-of-russian-invasion
Street battles were raging in the industrial hub of Severodonetsk in Lugansk, part of the Donbas.
"We just have to be prepared for the long haul," Stoltenberg said, while reiterating that NATO does not want direct confrontation with Russia.
"Forcibly transfering children" in particular qualifies as genocide, the most serious of war crimes, under the 1948 Genocide Convention that outlawed the intent to destroy - in whole or in part - a national, ethnic, racial or religious group.
"Instead of advancing, the Russian armies are constructing layered defences" in southern occupied regions, primarily Kherson, he said.
Ukraine marked 100 days since Moscow's invasion on Friday with Russian forces hammering the Donbas in their push to capture the country's east.
In the city of Sloviansk, about 80 kilometres 50 miles from Severodonetsk, residents said there were constant bombardments by Russian troops.
Prosecutors investigating war crimes cases in Ukraine are examining allegations of the forcible deportation of children to Russia since the invasion as they seek to build a genocide indictment, the country's top prosecutor said in an interview.
"To this end, on Monday, June 6, the heads of the Moscow offices of all American media will be invited to the press centre of the Russian Foreign Ministry to explain to them the consequences of their government's hostile line in the media sphere," she added. "We look forward to it."
Germany strongly condemns Russian President Vladimir Putin's attempt to create a narrative that the West is responsible for causing famine in Africa, said a Foreign Ministry spokesperson.
Ukraine will emerge victorious in the war started by Russia, President Volodymyr Zelensky said Friday as Moscow's invasion of its neighbour entered its 100th day with Russian troops pounding the Donbas region. Thousands of people have been killed, millions sent fleeing and towns turned into rubble, since Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops into Ukraine on February 24. Follow FRANCE 24's liveblog for all the latest developments. All times are Paris time GMT2.
12:50pm: Lukashenko would allow Ukrainian grain to transit Belarus in exchange for access to Baltic ports
In the southern city of Mykolaiv, Russian shelling killed at least one person and injured several others, Ukrainian military officials said late Thursday.
The ministry statement said the exercises, taking place from June 3-10, would involve, among other matters, "groups of ships together with naval aviation taking part in search operations for enemy submarines".
The topic was discussed in a phone call between Lukashenko and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Friday, Belta added.
Ukraine has four working nuclear power stations, the largest of which, in Zaporizhzhia, fell under Russian control days after the Russian invasion began in February but is still operated by Ukrainian technicians.
"It's very difficult here," said paramedic Ekaterina Perednenko, 24, who only returned to the city five days ago but realises that she will have to leave again.
Since Russia's February 24 invasion, thousands of people have been killed and millions forced to flee, with Ukraine's east now bearing the brunt of Russia's assault, which Zelensky said was killing up to 100 Ukrainian soldiers every day.
The somber milestone came less than 24 hours after Kyiv announced Moscow was now in control of 20 percent of Ukrainian territory, including Crimea and parts of the Donbas seized in 2014.
"Today, about 20 percent of our territory is under the control of the occupiers," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an address to Luxembourg lawmakers.
"Measured against Russia's original plan, none of the strategic objectives have been achieved," Britain's Ministry of Defence said in a Twitter update, but it said it was achieving tactical success in the eastern region of the Donbas and was controlling more than 90 of Luhansk Oblast.
The UK ministry of defence said earlier that intelligence shows Russia has failed in its objectives. However, "it's a bit funny for the British to present this as military intelligence because this is really the opinion that's presenting in all the media and which is the very widely shared opinion on the ground in Ukraine", FRANCE 24's Gulliver Cragg reported from Kyiv. "The Ukrainian forces had great success in pushing the Russians back from Kyiv region in the north of Ukraine and also to some degree from the Kharkiv region."
Ukraine has signed a deal for the US nuclear power company Westinghouse to supply fuel to all of its atomic power stations in an effort to end the country's reliance on Russian supplies, Ukraine's state nuclear company said on Friday.
After being repelled from around the capital, President Vladimir Putin's troops have set their sights on capturing eastern Ukraine, prompting dire warnings the war could drag on.
"If the work of the Russian media - operators and journalists - is not normalised in the United States, the most stringent measures will inevitably follow," ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Friday.
Russia is close to capturing all of Luhansk, one of two Ukrainian regions that make up the swathe of land known as the Donbas.
Britain's defence ministry said that on the 100th day of Russia's invasion of Ukraine that Moscow failed to achieve its initial objectives to seize Kyiv and Ukrainian centres of government but was achieving tactical success in the Donbas.
"The Kremlin is trying to move the war into a protracted phase," Reznikov told the GLOBSEC 2022 Bratislava Forum by video link.
Russia's Pacific Fleet launched a week-long series of exercises with more than 40 ships and up to 20 aircraft taking part, Russian news agencies quoted the defence ministry as saying.
Severodonetsk's Azot factory, one of Europe's biggest chemical plants, was targeted by Russian soldiers who fired on one of its administrative buildings and a warehouse where methanol was stored.
Kyiv's ambassador to Ankara said on Friday Turkey is among the countries that is buying grain that Russia stole from Ukraine.
The exercises were taking place amid Russia's three-month-old incursion into Ukraine, described by Moscow as a "special military operation". Ukraine lies thousands of kilometres to the west of where the exercises are occurring in the Pacific.
"We have to stress that the fact that there is a risk of famine in parts of the world, that some countries are being cut off from grain exports, is a consequence of the Russian war of aggression and not of western sanctions," added the spokesperson at a regular government news conference on Friday.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova, who is overseeing multiple war crimes inquiries in Ukraine, said "we have more than 20 cases about forcible transfer of people" to Russia from various regions across the eastern European country since the invasion began on February 24.
Ukrainian troops were still holding an industrial zone, Gaiday said, a situation reminiscent of Mariupol, where a huge steel works was the southeastern port city's last holdout until Ukrainian troops finally surrendered in late May.
Some children are returning to school in Mariupol after Russian troops captured the Ukrainian port city in a bloody, weeks-long siege. Trucks pass through the streets playing videos from Russian state television as the occupying forces seek to portray a return to normalcy. But signs of death and devastation are everywhere, including in backyard grave sites and massive new cemeteries on the city's outskirts. A census of those killed in the battle for Mariupol has yet to even begin.
Following White House talks with US President Joe Biden, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg warned Thursday that Ukraine's allies needed to brace for a gruelling "war of attrition".
The agreement also increases the number of new nuclear units Westinghouse will build to nine from an earlier five, and the company will establish an engineering centre in the country.
International humanitarian law classifies the forced mass deportation of people during a conflict as a war crime.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said it was summoning the heads of US media outlets in Moscow to a meeting next Monday to notify them of tough measures in response to US restrictions against Russian media.
Minsk is ready to allow the transit of Ukraine's grain to Baltic sea ports via Belarus if it is allowed to ship Belarusian goods from these ports, the Belta news agency quoted Belarus leader Alexander Lukashenko as saying on Friday.
Ambassador Vasyl Bodnar also told reporters he has sought help from Turkish authorities and Interpol investigating who is involved in the shipments of grains transiting Turkish waters.
Ukraine does not plan to use multiple-launch rocket systems it receives from the United States to attack facilities in Russia, a Ukrainian presidential advisor said on Friday.
Ukraine's defence minister on Friday said he believed the Kremlin was trying to move the war into a "protracted phase" by building layered defences in occupied regions in the south of the country.
"Ukraine is waging a defensive war and does not plan to use the MLRS to attack facilities in Russia," Mykhailo Podolyak said in a Twitter post. "Our partners know where their weapons are used."
While the advance has been much slower than Moscow expected, Russian forces have expanded control beyond the 43,000 square kilometres 16,600 square miles.
Russia already controls about 80 percent of the strategic city but its defenders are putting up stiff resistance, with Lugansk regional governor Sergiy Gaiday vowing Ukrainian forces will fight "until the end".
