Live  Russia launches rockets on Kharkiv advances troops on Kyiv
20220301
https://www.europesun.com/news/272349350/live--russia-launches-rockets-on-kharkiv-advances-troops-on-kyiv
On the sixth day of the war, Russian troops are pushing deeper into Ukrainian territory, advancing on the capital and setting up checkpoints outside some towns and cities.  A senior US defence official said a Russian military convoy stretching more than 60 kilometres that is headed toward Kyiv is making little progress, in part due to 'logistics and sustainment' challenges.  Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a decree banning cash exports of foreign currency exceeding $10,000 that takes effect Tuesday, the Kremlin said in a statement.   Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, was shelled Tuesday morning, killing at least ten civilians.  The strategic southern port city of Mariupol was without power after heavy shelling.  The Russian army on Tuesday reached the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson near Crimea and is setting up checkpoints on the city's outskirts, said its mayor.  In the northeastern town of Okhtyka, nearly 70 Ukrainian servicemen were killed in a Russian shelling on Monday, according to the regional governor.  Russian Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov, an ally of Putin, on Tuesday said two Chechen fighters were killed and six wounded in his first casualty report in the war.  The International Court of Justice will begin public hearings concerning a suit Kyiv filed against Russia over Moscow's claim it invaded Ukraine to prevent a genocide against Ukraine's Russian-speaking population on March 7.  The International Criminal Court plans to open an investigation into Russia's invasion of Ukraine and alleged war crimes committed there.  Kyiv says 352 civilians have been killed, including 14 children, since the invasion began last Thursday.  The UN refugee agency says more than 660,000 refugees have now fled Ukraine for neighbouring countries.
A Russian attack on a TV tower in Kyiv Tuesday killed five people, Ukrainian officials said, and a Russian rocket strike on a local administration building in the city of Kharkiv killed at least 10 civilians. A Russian military convoy stretching more than 60 kilometres and headed toward Ukraine's capital is making little progress, a senior US defence official said, partly due to 'logistics' challenges. Follow our live blog for the latest developments.
