Live Russian airborne troops land in Ukraines second city Kharkiv
20220302
https://www.europesun.com/news/272350261/live-russian-airborne-troops-land-in-ukraines-second-city-kharkiv
US President Joe Biden touted Western unity against Russia's invasion of Ukraine in his State of the Union speech Tuesday. "Putin is now isolated from the world," Biden said, labelling the Russian leader a "dictator". Deadly Russian air strikes hit a residential block in Ukraine's second city of Kharkiv and the main TV tower in the nation's capital, Kyiv said Tuesday. At least ten civilians were reported killed. "This is state terrorism on the part of Russia," charged Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, accusing Moscow of committing a "war crime". On the sixth day of the war, Russian troops are pushing deeper into Ukrainian territory, advancing on the capital and setting up checkpoints outside some towns and cities.  A senior US defence official said a Russian military convoy stretching more than 60 kilometres that is headed toward Kyiv is stalled, in part due to 'logistics and sustainment' challenges.  Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a decree banning cash exports of foreign currency exceeding $10,000 that took effect Tuesday, the Kremlin said in a statement.   The strategic southern port city of Mariupol was without power after heavy shelling.  The Russian army on Tuesday reached the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson near Crimea and is setting up checkpoints on the city's outskirts, said its mayor.  The International Court of Justice will begin public hearings concerning a suit Kyiv filed against Russia over Moscow's claim it invaded Ukraine to prevent a genocide against Ukraine's Russian-speaking population on March 7.  The International Criminal Court plans to open an investigation into Russia's invasion of Ukraine and alleged war crimes committed there.  The UN refugee agency says more than 660,000 refugees have now fled Ukraine for neighbouring countries.
Russian airborne troops landed in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv on Wednesday, a day after Russia bombed a TV tower in Ukraine's capital and a residential block in Kharkiv, with President Volodymyr Zelensky accusing the Kremlin of a "war crime" as the civilian toll mounted. President Joe Biden said in his State of the Union Speech on Tuesday that President Vladimir Putin launched an "unprovoked" war, and would pay a "high price" for it. Follow our live blog for the latest developments.
