Robbed of the Most Precious Thing Missile Kills Liza 4
20220716
https://www.europesun.com/news/272622257/robbed-of-the-most-precious-thing-missile-kills-liza-4
VINNYTSIA, Ukraine - Liza, a 4-year-old girl with Down syndrome, was en route to see a speech therapist with her mother in central Ukraine when a Russian missile hit.
'She remembered that she was reaching for her daughter, and Liza was already dead,' Iryna's aunt, Tetiana Dmytrysyna, told The Associated Press on Friday. 'The mother was robbed of the most precious thing she had.'
After the Russian missile strike, Ukraine's emergency services shared photos showing her lifeless body on the ground next to her blood-stained stroller. The videos and photos have gone viral, the latest images and stories from the brutal war in Ukraine to horrify the world.
'Liza was a sunny baby,' her great aunt recalled. 'They say that these children do not understand or know how to do everything. But this is not true. She was a very bright child. She knew how to draw, spoke, always helped adults and always smiled. Always cheerful.'
She never made it to the appointment. Now the images that tell the story of her life and its end are touching hearts worldwide.
Dmytrieva gave birth to her only daughter when she was 29. The girl was born with a heart defect, but doctors saved her. She also had Down syndrome.
'She is a fighter. She will get out. We are all praying for her,' her aunt said.
Liza's father was at the morgue Friday, completing the paperwork to receive his daughter's body for burial.
Wearing a blue denim jacket with flowers, Liza was among 23 people killed, including boys ages 7 and 8, in Thursday's missile strike in Vinnytsia. Her mother, Iryna Dmytrieva, was among the scores injured.
After the explosion, the mother and daughter went in different directions. Iryna, 33, went into a hospital's intensive care unit while Liza went to a morgue.
Olena Zelenska, wife of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, posted that she had met this 'wonderful girl' while filming a Christmas video with a group of children who were given oversized ornaments to paint.
'The little mischievous girl then managed in a half an hour to paint not only herself, her holiday dress, but also all the other children, me, the cameramen and the director. ... Look at her alive, please,' Zelenska wrote in a note accompanying the video.
The explosion site is now cordoned off. People come to leave flowers, candles and teddy bears. Another item at a makeshift shrine is a page from a children's lesson book. Among the mourners are mothers deeply touched by the story of Iryna and Liza Dmytrieva.
When the war started, Dmytrieva and her family fled Kyiv, the capital, for Vinnytsia, a city 268 kilometers to the southwest. Until Thursday, Vinnytsia was considered relatively safe.
Anna, the aunt of the 4-year-old girl named Liza who was killed girl during Russian shelling on Thursday, cries as she waits for her injured sister at an intensive care unit of a hospital in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
Shortly before the explosion, Dmytrieva had posted a video on social media showing her daughter straining to reach the handlebars to push her own stroller, happily walking through Vinnytsia, wearing the denim jacket and white pants, her hair decorated with a barrette. Another video on social media showed the little girl twirling in a lavender dress in a field of lavender.
