Russia ready to negotiate with Ukraine Kremlin
20220224
https://www.europesun.com/news/272333121/russia-ready-to-negotiate-with-ukraine-kremlin
These are terms that, according to Peskov, would enable the achievement of the demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine, and eliminate what Russia currently views as a threat to the security of its state and people.
"The operation has its goals - they must be achieved. The president said that all decisions have been made, and the goals will be achieved," Peskov continued, suggesting that, if Kiev were to agree to meet the demands, the current military attack on Ukraine could be called off.
The press secretary added that Putin would determine the timing of the negotiations, but gave assurances that Russia would only engage "if the leadership of Ukraine is ready to talk about it."
Throughout the course of Thursday, the operation has become a full-scale assault, with Ukrainian airports, military bases, and cities, including the capital Kiev, all being damaged in air strikes in an attempt by Russia to cripple any Ukrainian military response.
Moscow is willing to negotiate terms of surrender with Kiev regarding the ongoing Russian military offensive currently taking place in Ukraine, Kremlin Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday.
The leaders of the republics have made claims in recent days of attacks on their territory by the Ukrainian army.
According to Peskov, Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed his preparedness to engage in discussions with his Ukrainian counterpart, with a focus on obtaining a guarantee of neutral status and the promise of no weapons on its territory.
"The president formulated his vision of what we would expect from Ukraine in order for the so-called 'red-line' problems to be resolved. This is neutral status, and this is a refusal to deploy weapons," Peskov clarified.
In the early hours of Thursday morning, Putin instigated a "special operation" in Ukraine, with the supposed aim of "securing the peace" in the breakaway Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics in the Donbass region.
