Ukraines timeline for EU candidate status revealed
20220622
https://www.europesun.com/news/272594844/ukraines-timeline-for-eu-candidate-status-revealed
The statement came after a briefing with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba on Tuesday, which focused on Kiev's conflict with Russia.
The Kremlin has since demanded that Ukraine officially declare itself a neutral country that will never join the US-led NATO military bloc. Kiev insists the Russian offensive was completely unprovoked and has denied claims it was planning to retake the two republics by force.
EU Foreign Policy Chief Josep Borrell has said he hopes that Ukraine will be offered the status of an EU membership candidate later this week, calling such a move "historic."
Last week, the leaders of Germany, France, Italy and Romania visited Kiev and expressed their support for Ukraine receiving candidate status. The European Commission also gave its approval last week.
In a tweet, Borrell expressed the his bloc's "unwavering support" for Kiev for "as long as it takes". The European Council is to review the Ukrainian candidacy bid as well. as those of Moldova and Georgia, on Thursday and Friday during a summit in Brussels.
Ukraine has been seeking EU membership for years and even enshrined the aspiration in its constitution. The request for integration has been reinvigorated since Russia launched its offensive against Ukraine, in February. Officials in Kiev claim that their country deserves to be a full member of the European economic bloc for allegedly defending it from "Russian aggression."
If realized, the step would not necessarily lead to full accession. Turkey has been a candidate since 1999.
Skeptics say Ukraine is nowhere near ready and has serious problems with the rule of law, corruption, crime, and political freedoms.
Russia attacked the neighboring state in late February, following Ukraine's failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements, first signed in 2014, and Moscow's eventual recognition of the Donbass republics of Donetsk and Lugansk. The German- and French-brokered protocols were designed to give the regions special status within the Ukrainian state.
