UN official reveals technical details of Black Sea grain export deal
20220723
https://www.europesun.com/news/272629308/un-official-reveals-technical-details-of-black-sea-grain-export-deal
ISTANBUL, July 22 Xinhua -- A senior UN official revealed on Friday the details of the grain export deal which aimed to resume grain shipments from Ukrainian ports to international markets via the Black Sea.
Ukraine has some 20 million tons of grains waiting for transfer, as the country's biggest export hub Odesa port were closed due to safety concerns, according to media reports.
More than 800 million people around the world at the moment directly face the possibility of hunger, and the numbers could still rise, according to United Nations reports.
"The ships will go across the Black Sea in and out through the Bosphorus Strait for the grain export to the world, according to an agreed corridor," said the source who asked to be quoted as "a senior UN official" hours ahead of the signing ceremony.
Signed separately by Russia and Ukraine with Trkiye and the United Nations, the deal is expected to decrease the costs of skyrocketing fertilizer and grain prices.
"Ships will be inspected to make sure that there will be no weapons going into Ukraine," said the official, adding that "both parties also agreed that there should be no attacks on any of the vessels going from those ports out of the territorial waters by any party."
"There is no solution to the food security crisis if we do not reintegrate Ukraine's exports of grain, sunflower oil, and foodstuff to the global market and if we do not facilitate the export of food and fertilizers from the Russian Federation," the official said.
The agreement could potentially ease the stress experienced by up to 1.6 billion people living in 94 countries that are exposed severely to one of the dimensions of the crisis, whether it is food, energy, or tightening conditions in finance, said the official.
The agreement also committed the efforts to facilitate the exports of food fertilizers and raw materials to produce fertilizers from Russia, according to the UN sources.
According to the official, the process will be monitored by a joint coordination center which will be established immediately in Istanbul and will include representatives of Russia, Ukraine, and Trkiye.
