UN ship brings food relief from Ukraine to Horn of Africa
20220731
https://www.europesun.com/news/272696316/un-ship-brings-food-relief-from-ukraine-to-horn-of-africa
The total shipment is being unloaded in Djibouti and will be transported to Ethiopia where it will provide enough cereals to feed 1.5 million people for a month.
The Russia-Ukraine conflict sent fertiliser and food prices soaring as Russia blockaded Ukrainian ports. Energy prices have also surged following Western sanctions on Russia, a major energy exporter.
"It's not enough food. People are hungry," said one Eritrean refugee in Alem-Wach Camp in northern Ethiopia.
A ship carrying wheat from Ukraine to the drought-stricken Horn of Africa has docked in Djibouti - the first to make the journey since the Russian invasion of Ukraine six months ago led to a dramatic drop in cereal exports.
Among them are 150,000 Eritrean refugees sheltering in Ethiopia, many of whom have been repeatedly displaced by conflict in the north, whose rations were cut in June to half the recommended amount of food.
"They explained to us the reasons, because of war in Ukraine," said the man, who declined to give his name. "But it is especially hard because it is so cold now... the situation is so difficult."
While the shipment will help people displaced by conflict, none of it will be sold commercially, meaning it will not lower food prices for ordinary Ethiopians.
Last month, the United Nations and Turkey brokered a deal between Moscow and Kyiv to unblock three Black Sea ports, making it possible to send hundreds of thousands of tonnes of Ukrainian grain to buyers.
That barely begins to alleviate the problems of Eastern Africa, where the UN's World Food Programme WFP says extreme weather, surging food prices and conflict mean 82 million people need food aid across nine countries - Burundi, Djiouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan and Uganda.
Officials hope the successful voyage will inspire private companies to begin shipping grain from Ukraine to Eastern Africa, where rising global food prices and difficulties raising donor funding have forced the UN to cut rations for refugees and displaced people.
The vessel Brave Commander is carrying 23,000 tonnes of grain and will soon be followed by another carrying 7,000 tonnes.
"This shipment, the first of many we hope, will allow WFP to deliver this grain to 1.53 million people in Ethiopia and cover their needs for a month. It's a start but we must continue to keep the food flowing to save lives across the region," said Michael Dunford, the WFP director for Eastern Africa.
Ukraine is strengthening the humanitarian part of the grain initiative, officials said. On Tuesday, the bulk carrier Karteria departed, carrying 37,500 tonnes of wheat for Yemen, where 16 million people are hungry.
