Xinhua world news summary at 0030 GMT March 15
20220315
https://www.europesun.com/news/272389557/xinhua-world--summary-at-0030-gmt-march-15
UNITED NATIONS -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Monday announced the release of 40 million U.S. dollars from the world body's Central Emergency Response Fund to ramp up vital humanitarian assistance in Ukraine.
ROME -- Yang Jiechi, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, met with U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Monday in Rome, capital of Italy.
Both sides conducted candid, in-depth and constructive communication over China-U.S. relations, as well as international and regional issues of common concern. China-U.S.-Relations
This funding will help get critical supplies of food, water, medicines, and other lifesaving aid into Ukraine and provide cash assistance to the needy, he said at a press encounter. UN-Ukraine-Funds
The ministry's Undersecretariat of Agricultural Markets said in a statement that as of Sunday and until further notice, registration of export sales of soy oil and meal will be suspended for all purposes. Argentina-Exports
DAR ES SALAAM -- Four passengers were killed and 35 others injured on Monday after their bus plunged into a gorge in Tanzania's southern highlands region of Songwe, police said.
"A technical pause has been taken in the negotiations until tomorrow. For additional work in the working subgroups and clarification of individual definitions," Podolyak tweeted. Ukraine-Russia Negotiations
BUENOS AIRES -- The Argentine government suspended exports of soy oil and meal "until further notice," the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries said on Sunday.
KIEV -- Ukraine and Russia took a technical pause in their peace talks, Ukrainian Presidential Advisor Mykhailo Podolyak, also a member of the delegation, said Monday.
"The bus overturned for several times before it stopped after it had plunged into the gorge at Senjele hills in Mbozi district," Rashid Ngonyani, acting police commander of the region, told a press conference. Tanzania-Accident
