RussiaUkraine conflict Sanctions may not deter Putin  Don
20220301
https://www.pulse.ng/news/world/russia-ukraine-conflict-sanctions-may-not-deter-putin-don/w6z3blm
I am confident that it is fair. I am confident we have deserved it. I am confident that all this is possible, he added.
Onuoha, who is the Head of the Political Science Department, University of Nigeria Nsukka UNN, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria NAN in a reaction to the raging conflict between the two eastern European countries.
Putin, who made the remark after talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, said Russia had been informed by Western powers that its neighbour would not join the transatlantic military alliance in the near future. But he warned that was not a satisfactory assurance.
He added that Ukraines prime minister and head of parliament also signed a joint statement.
He, however, said the intervention of neutral parties could help bring about a ceasefire and give room for negotiations towards sustainable peace in the area.
World leaders should give priority to how to reach a cease-fire agreement between Russia and Ukraine rather than focusing attention on placing sanctions that may not have the desired effect.
The News Agency of Nigeria NAN reports that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy Monday officially signed an application for Ukraines membership in the European Union, according to a post from his verified Facebook page.
If this war is allowed to continue, Russia might overrun Ukraine and the casualty rate might be too high for Ukraine, he said.
The Ukranian leader urged the EU to allow Ukraines immediate entry under what he described as a new special procedure, on which he did not elaborate.
Russia believes if Ukraine were to join NATO, it would provide the opportunity for western countries to attack it.
The bone of contention of Russia as far as the invasion of Ukraine is concerned is that Ukraine indicated interest to join NATO which Russia sees as a threat, with Ukraine being a neighbouring country.
Our goal is to be with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be equal, he said, according to a translation from The Guardian.
The signing of the document occurred hours after Zelenskyy had released a video appealing to the EU for membership and calling on Russian forces to go home.
Whatever sanctions are placed against Russia, it will take time before the country begins to feel the full effect.
The don said the neutral countries could assure Russia that Ukraine would not join North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO as well as prevail on Ukraine to suspend every move to join NATO.
Speaking at a news conference on Feb. 15 amid rising tensions, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Moscow did not want a war in Europe but demanded that the issue of Kyivs relationship with NATO be resolved in its entirety immediately.
Russia does not see any sanction imposed against it as anything so significant that it will panic and pull out from Ukraine.
The political scientist said that imposing sanctions on Russia would not solve the problem or achieve the desired results now because Russia has a strong economy and is among the worlds superpowers.
Zelenskyy has just signed a historic document  Ukraines application for European Union membership, tweeted Andrii Sybiha, the deputy head of the presidents office.
If Russia is assured that Ukraine would not join NATO, it will pull out its military forces in Ukraine the next minute and that will end the war, he said.
