Easter tradition spells out a message of hope for Ukraine
20220414
https://catholicphilly.com/2022/04/news/local-news/easter-tradition-spells-out-a-message-of-hope-for-ukraine/
Throughout the region, Ukrainian communities have been making pysanky, elaborately decorated Easter eggs whose designs are rich with symbols of salvation and new life.
But pysanky  the name for which comes from the Ukrainian word for writing  sends a message of encouragement, Prokopovich said.
If no psyanky are made, she said, he goes completely free and does what he wants.
A woman uses a stylus called a kistka to trace designs in wax on an egg as part of Manor Colleges April 1 Make a Pysanky for Ukraine event. Manor College
Chrystyna Prokopovich, curator of the Ukrainian Heritage Studies Center at Manor College, guided participants in an April 1 Pysanky for Ukraine event. Manor College
Such findings are only the tip of the iceberg, said Archbishop Borys Gudziak of the Ukrainian Catholic Archeparchy of Philadelphia, metropolitan archbishop for Ukrainian Catholics in the U.S., who pointed to more occupied and besieged territories of Ukraine where it can be expected much more torture and death will be exposed.
The legend evokes the current horror of the latest Russian invasion of Ukraine, which began Feb. 24 and has since seen thousands killed and more than 10 million displaced.
Pysanky makers traditionally made the sign of the cross and whispered God help me prior to their work to ensure the profound religious meanings of the designs would come to life, she noted.
There is a legend that says an evil monster is chained up in a cave somewhere, and every year he sends out his little henchmen to see how many pysanky have been made, she said. The fewer that are made, the looser his chains get. The more that are made, the tighter his chains get.
Traced in beeswax with a stylus called a kistka and colored with aniline dyes, psyanky have taken on even deeper significance this year, with many organizations holding pysanky gatherings to raise awareness of and humanitarian aid for Ukraine.
Each region in Ukraine had its own influence on the craft, she said  but under Soviet communism, pysanky, along with other Ukrainian folk arts and the Ukrainian language itself, was suppressed.
In recent days, gruesome discoveries have emerged of mass graves and summary executions, along with survivor accounts of torture and rape at the hands of Russian troops.
This was one of the arts we all grew up with  but it was very much frowned upon by the communist government, said Prokopovich. So you couldnt make pysanky and brag about it in school, thats for sure. And you couldnt go to church, she added, noting the Soviet ban on the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church.
Youre actually writing  with the wax youre writing a Hallmark card for somebody, she said. Pysanky was kind of a dying art in Ukraine, but its very much alive again.
Prokopovich said according to the customs ancient history, psyanky plural for psyanka are a force for holding evil in check.
Theres one designed called the 40 triangles, and for each triangle you said a prayer, Prokopovich said.
On April 1, Manor College in Jenkintown hosted Make a Pysanky for Ukraine Day, led by Chrystyna Prokopovich, curator of the schools Ukrainian Heritage Studies Center, the museum of which contains more than 200 pysanky, most made by members of the colleges community.
An April 12 report by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe found clear patterns of international humanitarian law violation by Russian forces in Ukraine.
Pysanky is thousands of years old, and it was used to welcome spring, said Prokopovich. Once it was incorporated into Easter customs, some of the symbols changed. What used to be the four corners of the earth became the cross. Grapes, which represented a good harvest, became the growing church.
Amid such suffering, the meditative process of creating pysanky invites participants to reflect on goodness and renewal, said Prokopovich.
A beloved Easter tradition is providing fresh hope for local Ukrainians as Russia wages a brutal war upon their native land.
The craft has pre-Christian roots, she said, but has always used symbols that affirm life and prosperity.
