Papal Foundation adds key members to team
20220810
https://catholicphilly.com/2022/08/news/people-and-events/papal-foundation-adds-key-members-to-team/
In an Aug. 10 announcement by the foundation, Sharon Kucia and Ian Rangel were namedVice Presidents of Steward Development, respectively serving the nations Midwestern and Western regions.
For the year ending June 30, 2021, the foundation reported disbursing grants of just over $9.8 million and scholarships of $794,000.
The Papal Foundation has appointed two new vice presidents to expand the charitable organizations national presence.
In their roles, the two will invite Catholic philanthropists across the country to become Stewards of St. Peter, a select group committed to supporting foundation projects and initiatives.
I look forward to bringing my expertise in nonprofit strategy and philanthropic business development to The Papal Foundation, supporting the needs of families, widows, orphans and children in developing nations around the world, she said.
Longtime Catholic development professionals Sharon Kucia and Ian Rangel will expand The Papal Foundations presence in the Midwestern and Western regions of the U.S. The Papal Foundation
Over the past two decades, Kucia has spearheaded major gift initiatives in the Archdioceses of Milwaukee, Chicago, and Indianapolis, raising morethan $700 million in general $175 million specifically for Catholic education for upwards of 1500 Catholic organizations. Afounding member and president of the Charlotte chapter of Legatus, Kucia serves on the board of St. Joseph College Seminary.
Rangel comes to the foundation from the Diocese of Orange County, where as director of development and pastoral services he revamped the annual diocesan appeal with record results.Previously, he held advancement positions atJSerra Catholic High School and Santa Margarita Catholic High School in Orange County.
Jim Coffey, The Papal Foundations senior vice president of development, welcomed Kucia and Rangel  and the team is ready to roll up its sleeves, he added.
Board president Eustace Mita pointed to the pairs breadth of experience and philanthropic expertise, coupled with a genuine love of the Faith and authentic leadership qualities.
The foundation later announced the approval of$14 million in grants, scholarships and humanitarian aid for international distribution, includingmore than $9 million in grants requested by the Vatican for 123 projects in 64 countries.
During an April 28 meeting, Pope Francis commended foundation members for aiding victims of Russias war in Ukraine.
I am excited to work with Sharon and Ian to ramp up outreach to Catholic leaders across the country and grow the foundations resources to help the Holy Father and the Church, he said.
Rangel was recently selected for the inaugural cohort of the Mathis Liturgical Leadership Program, an executive leadership initiative at the University of Notre Dames McGrath Institute for Church Life.
With more than $200 million in grants awarded to date, The Papal Foundationfocuses on serving the poor in developing nations by building churches, schools and hospitals countering hunger, abuse and trafficking and offering the hope of the Gospel message.
I am excited and blessed to join The Papal Foundation, answering Gods call to serve our most vulnerable brothers and sisters, he said. I am passionate about helping people experience the joy God provides when they invest in the works of the universal church.
Established in 1988, the Chester-based foundationis the only one in the U.S.exclusively dedicated tofulfilling the requests of the Holy Father for the needs of the Church.
Our board of trustees is committed to increasing the foundations service to the church by growing its community of Stewards of St. Peter and its charity to the poor, said executive director David Savage. The addition of Sharon and Ian to the Foundations team is an important step in our plan to expand the foundations impact around the world.
