Pope Francis on Ukraine Stop this massacre
20220315
https://catholicphilly.com/2022/03/news/world-news/pope-francis-on-ukraine-stop-this-massacre/
With pain in my heart, I unite my voice to that of ordinary people who implore an end to the war, he said. In the name of God, listen to the cry of those who are suffering and stop the bombings and attacks.
With thousands of people gathered under the bright sunshine of a Roman spring to pray the midday Marian prayer, Pope Francis turned their attention to Mariupol, Ukraine, a city named in honor of Mary it has been besieged by Russian troops for two weeks.
A sign in St. Peters Square calls for the consecration of Russia and Ukraine to Mary, during Pope Francis Angelus at the Vatican March 13, 2022. Appealing again for peace in Ukraine, Pope Francis said those who support violence profane the name of God. CNS photoVatican Media
Before the barbarity of the killing of children, of innocents and unarmed civilians, there are no strategic reasons that hold up, the pope said. The only thing to do is to stop the unacceptable armed aggression before it reduces the cities to cemeteries.
With the U.N. Refugee Agency reporting March 13 that almost 2.7 million refugees had fled Ukraine since Feb. 24, Pope Francis thanked all the individuals and agencies in the neighboring countries who have welcomed them, and he encouraged continued generosity.
He also asked Catholic parishes and religious orders around the world to increase moments of prayers for peace.
Pope Francis led the people in the square, including several carrying Ukrainian flags, in a moment of silent prayer that God would convert hearts to a firm desire for peace.
After the Angelus, the Vatican used the popes English-language Twitter account to send, in 10 tweets, his entire appeal in Russian and Ukrainian.
In the name of God, I ask: Stop this massacre, the pope said March 13 at the end of his Sunday Angelus address.
Children hold Ukrainian flags as Pope Francis leads the Angelus from the window of his studio overlooking St. Peters Square at the Vatican March 13, 2022. Appealing again for peace in Ukraine, Pope Francis said those who support violence profane the name of God. CNS photoPaul Haring
The city, he said, has become a martyred city of the heart-wrenching war that is destroying Ukraine.
Negotiations to end the war must begin seriously, he said, and the humanitarian corridors agreed upon to evacuate civilians and to bring basic necessities to people in besieged towns must be respected and secure.
VATICAN CITY CNS  Appealing again for an end to the war in Ukraine, Pope Francis said those who invoke God to promote or justify violence profane his name.
God is the God only of peace, he is not the God of war, he said. Those who support violence profane his name.
