Day 46 of Russias invasion of Ukraine in photos
20220416
https://www.columbiamissourian.com/visuals/day-46-of-russias-invasion-of-ukraine-in-photos/article_596ceede-bccb-11ec-b208-f7933a3f2fbb.html
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Sunday in his nightly address to the nation that the coming week would be as crucial as any in the war, saying Russian troops will move to even larger operations in the east of our state.
An Ukrainian national take ammo during a training at a shooting range Sunday in Brno, Czech Republic. Since Russia launched its brutal attack against Ukraine, Ukrainians living across Czech Republic have been arriving in the second largest Czech city of Brno. They have come for courses designed to teach them skills to safely handle lethal rifles while being able to inflict damage on their enemy.
This gallery was produced and published April 15. Its content reflects day 46 of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which was April 10.
Oleg, 56, mourns for his mother Inna, 86, killed during the war against Russia on Sundayin Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine.
Ukrainian student from Mykolaiv, Yana Alimova, center, places a flower during a wreath laying ceremony marking the 77th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi concentration camp Buchenwald on Sunday near Weimar, Germany. On April 11, 1945 the US Army liberated the concentration camp Buchenwald.
A young man pushes a wheelbarrow in front of a destroyed apartment building on Sunday in the town of Borodyanka, Ukraine.
People receive food from a church on Sunday in the town of Borodyanka, about 40 miles northwest of Kyiv, Ukraine. Several apartment buildings were destroyed during fighting between the Russian troops and the Ukrainian forces and the town is without electricity, water and heating.
Cemetery workers guide a crane that lifts the corpse of a man from a mass grave to be identified in a morgue Sunday in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine.
My name is Gracie Smith. I'm a photo editor at the Columbia Missourian, studying photojournalism.
An instructor trains Ukrainian nationals at a shooting range Sunday in Brno, Czech Republic. Since Russia launched its brutal attack against Ukraine, Ukrainians living across Czech Republic have been arriving in the second largest Czech city of Brno. They have come for courses designed to teach them skills to safely handle lethal rifles while being able to inflict damage on their enemy.
When people lack the courage to admit their mistakes, apologize, adapt to reality and learn, they turn into monsters. And when the world ignores it, the monsters decide that it is the world that has to adapt to them, Zelenskyy said.
As Ukrainian forces dug in on Sunday, April 10, Russia lined up more firepower and tapped a decorated general to take centralized control of the war ahead of a potentially decisive showdown in eastern Ukraine that could start within days.
