South Carolina liquor store among businesses snubbing Russian vodka in protest
20220227
https://www.13wmaz.com/article/news/nation-world/ukraine/south-carolina-liquor-store-snubbing-russian-vodka-protest/101-15a61366-eeaa-4107-82fa-f56e968a88a8
Stoli, owned by the Russian-born tycoon Yuri Shefler, is actually made in Latvia. On its website, Stoli Group says it stands for peace in Europe and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
INDIAN LAND, S.C.  Some bars and liquor stores think theyve found a potent way to punish Russia for invading Ukraine: Theyre pulling Russian vodka off their shelves and promoting Ukrainian brands instead.
Quay announced the move on Facebook, and it blew up. Weve got people coming in whove never been in the bar before.
Governors entered the fray, too. Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine directed the state's Commerce Department to cease the purchase and sale of Russian Standard, the only Russian vodka sold in Ohio under the brand names Green Mark and Russian Standard. New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu signed an executive order requiring state liquor outlets to remove Russian-made and branded alcohol.
I woke up yesterday morning, and I saw that Russia had invaded Ukraine. You wonder what you can do, said Bob Quay, owner of Bobs Bar in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The U.S. obviously is putting on sanctions. I thought I would put on sanctions as well.
Its selling out a lot faster than we thought, said general manager Drew Podrebarac. Its been awesome.
So he rid his shelves of the old Soviet brand Stolichnaya and started promoting Ukraines Vektor. We have a sign above it that says: Support Ukraine.
In Grand Rapids, Quay said he may never sell Russian products again. And hes taken another step: Ive ordered a Ukrainian flag, and that will be going up next week.
The Southern Spirits liquor store in Indian Land, South Carolina, is doing a booming business in the Ukrainian vodka Kozak after pulling Russian brands off its shelves.
In Canada, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario on Friday announced that all products produced in Russia will be removed from LCBO channels, including 679 of its stores across the province. It also promised to accept the return of any Russian products and declared that it stands with Ukraine, its people, and the Ukrainian Canadian community here in Ontario."
The Magic Mountain ski resort in Londonderry, Vermont,posted a video on Twitter showing an employee pouring Stolichnaya down the drain and saying: Sorry, we dont serve Russian products here.
