Biden tells Ukraine leader US will respond decisively if Russia invades
20220103
https://www.daily-sun.com/post/597374/Biden-tells-Ukraine-leader-US-will-respond-decisively-if-Russia-invades
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke Friday with NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg afterwards, Blinken urged Russia to "engage meaningfully" in the upcoming talks on the tense standoff between Moscow and Kiev.
Zelensky tweeted afterwards that he appreciated the United States' "unwavering support" and that the call "proves the special nature" of the two countries' relationship.
Some 100,000 Russian troops are massed near the border of the country, where Putin already seized the Crimea region in 2014 and is accused of fomenting a pro-Russian separatist war which erupted that same year in the east.
But there was no disguising the depth of disagreement -- or the dangerously high stakes on the fringes of eastern Europe.
In Thursday's call, Biden warned Putin against invading Ukraine, while the Kremlin leader said anti-Moscow sanctions would be a "colossal mistake."
After a 50-minute phone call -- their second in just over three weeks -- both presidents indicated support for further diplomacy.
Psaki also said in Sunday's post-call statement that Biden reaffirmed "the United States' commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity."
Moscow describes the troop presence as protection against the expansion of NATO, although Ukraine has not been offered membership in the military alliance.
Discussing the call with Putin on Friday, Biden said: "I'm not going to negotiate here in public, but we made it clear he cannot -- I'll emphasize, cannot -- invade Ukraine."
US President Joe Biden on Sunday reassured his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky that Washington "will respond decisively" if Russia moves to invade its pro-Western neighbor, the White House said in a statement.
High-ranking US and Russian officials are due to sit down on January 9 and 10 in Geneva to discuss the crisis.
Under the Minsk agreement -- brokered by France and Germany -- Ukraine agreed to carry out political reforms while Russia agreed to end its support for pro-Russian separatist rebels.
The US leader additionally "expressed support for confidence-building measures to de-escalate tensions in Donbas and active diplomacy to advance the implementation of the Minsk Agreements."
With a Russian military buildup on Ukraine's borders, Biden "made clear" to Zelensky during a phone call that the "United States and its allies and partners will respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said.
A senior US official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the tone "was serious and substantive."
In his call with Zelensky, Biden also stressed Washington's commitment "to the principle of 'nothing about you without you,'" in an apparent reference to the need to include Ukraine in negotiations about its own future.
Earlier this week, Biden spoke to Putin, the two leaders' second conversation by phone in three weeks as tensions mount over Ukraine.
