Briton arrested in Germany for spying for Russia
20210712
https://www.daily-sun.com/post/570081/Briton-arrested-in-Germany-for-spying-for-Russia
His arrest was the result of a joint operation by German and British authorities. The British embassy in Berlin declined to comment on the case and referred inquiries to the Home Office.
Despite the frictions, Berlin has pressed ahead with plans to finish the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline, set to double natural gas supplies from Russia to Germany.
The move came after an Italian navy captain was caught red-handed by police selling confidential military documents from his computer to a Russian embassy official.
And German prosecutors in February filed espionage charges against a German man suspected of having passed the floor plans of parliament to Russian secret services in 2017.
In June, Italy said it had created a national cybersecurity agency following warnings by Prime Minister Mario Draghi that Europe needs to protect itself from Russian interference.
Chancellor Angela Merkels government has moreover worked to maintain a sanctions regime over Moscows annexation of the Crimean peninsula.
The Metropolitan Police in London said the suspect was a 57-year-old British national and that the investigation was conducted by the Mets Counter Terrorism Command and German counterparts.
It said his alleged offences were related to being engaged in Intelligence Agent activity under German law and that the German authorities would retain primacy over the probe.
In June, German police arrested a Russian scientist working at a German university accused of working for Russian secret service since early October 2020 at the latest.
The suspect identified only as David S., who worked until the time of his arrest as local staff at the British embassy, on at least one occasion passed on documents he acquired as part of his professional activities to a representative of Russian intelligence.
It said David S. was taken into custody Tuesday in the eastern city of Potsdam on an arrest warrant issued on August 4. His home and place of work were searched.
The leaders of nine eastern European nations in May condemned what they termed Russian aggressive acts, citing operations in Ukraine and sabotage allegedly targeted at the Czech Republic.
Relations between London and Moscow have been at a low point since the attempted poisoning of former spy Sergei Skripal in British Salisbury in 2018.
Moscow is at loggerheads with a number of Western capitals after a Russian troop build-up on Ukraines borders and a series of espionage scandals that have resulted in diplomatic expulsions.
Germany has arrested a number of people in recent years accused of spying for Russia, but the capture of a citizen of a closely allied country is highly unusual.
BERLIN: A British man suspected of spying for Russia in exchange for cash has been arrested in Germany, federal prosecutors said on Wednesday, in a case expected to stoke tensions between Berlin and Moscow, reports AFP.
Several central and eastern European countries expelled Russian diplomats in solidarity with Prague, but Russia has branded accusations of its involvement as absurd and responded with tit-for-tat expulsions.
Last month, Russian security forces said they had detained Estonias consul to Saint Petersburg for allegedly receiving classified documents.
The latest espionage case also comes at a time of highly strained relations between Russia and Germany on a number of fronts, including the ongoing detention of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, who received treatment in Berlin after a near-fatal poisoning.
