Air strikes hit Ukraines strategic port city of Odessa
20220403
https://www.thejournal.ie/latest-ukraine-air-strikes-odesa-5728756-Apr2022/
On Friday, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Russia was consolidating and preparing powerful strikes in the south, joining a chorus of Western assessments that Moscows troops were regrouping.
Despite the rocket attacks, there were no casualties, said officer Vladislav Nazarov in a statement from the southern regional command that reiterated a ban on publishing the exact sites under fire or the extent of damage.
This morning, high-precision sea and air-based missiles destroyed an oil refinery and three storage facilities for fuel and lubricants near the city of Odessa, from which fuel was supplied to a group of Ukrainian troops in the direction of Mykolaiv, it said.
Ukraine describes Kyiv suburb as 'new Srebrenica' amid reports of bodies scattered in town's streets
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
With Mariupol, to the east of Odessa, squarely in Russias crosshairs, Ukraine insists it has gained a leg up elsewhere in the country, leading to troops retaking territory north of the capital, Kyiv, as Russian forces departed.
The Odessa region is one of the enemys priority targets. The enemy is pursuing the sly tactic of attacking sensitive infrastructure.
At least three huge columns of black smoke and flames rose into the sky over an industrial zone.
The city authorities had earlier said the attack caused several fires and some missiles had been shot down by Ukraines air defence systems
Where Russian troops recede, Ukraine said it will continue its attacks, shelling and targeting them as they pull out.
Ukraine has gained invaluable time, time that is allowing us to foil the enemys tactics and weaken its capabilities, Zelenskyy said late yesterday.
Mariupol is in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas region, where Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian troops for eight years. Its capture would create an unbroken land corridor from Russia to Crimea, which Moscow seized from Ukraine in 2014.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
AIR STRIKES ROCKED Ukraines strategic Black Sea port of Odessa in the early hours today, AFP reporters said, but there were no casualties, according to the army.
About 100,000 people are believed to remain in the Sea of Azov city, less than a quarter of its pre-war population of 430,000, and dire shortages of water, food, fuel and medicine persist.
As Ukrainian troops moved cautiously to retake territory north of Kyiv, the country and its Western allies said Russia is building strength in eastern Ukraine.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Odessa, a historic city of around one million people, is Ukraines largest Black Sea port and has escaped the worst of the fighting.
However, inside Mariupol, which has been surrounded by Russian forces for more than a month and suffered by some of the wars worst attacks, conditions remain dire and prospects for escape uncertain.
Ukraine says it has regained 'whole Kyiv region' as over 200 protesters detained in Moscow
Many still in Mariupol await fulfilment of promises to help them reach safety. Among those trying to get residents out was the International Committee of the Red Cross, which still had not reached the city yesterday, a day after local authorities said it had been blocked by Russian forces.
The rocket attacks came as Russian forces and appeared to be withdrawing from the countrys north after Kyiv warned that Moscow was trying to consolidate troops in the south.
Ukraines whole eastern flank from Crimea, which Russia seized in 2014, to the pro-Moscow enclaves of Donetsk and Lugansk in the Donbas region is occupied by Russian forces, with the exception of the besieged city of Mariupol.
