Another 500 million EU arms fund for Ukraine proposed as von der Leyen travels to Kyiv tomorrow
20220407
https://www.thejournal.ie/von-der-leyen-kyiv-5733081-Apr2022/
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
In the previous 500 million fund given after the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February, Ireland contributed 1.9 of the total, or about 9 million overall.
The pair are to meet with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, before attending the Stand Up For Ukraine event in Warsaw on Saturday.
Ireland has committed to funding non-lethal military support only as part of this fund  this involves supplying military materials like body armour and fuel.
The Ukrainian people deserve our solidarity. Thats why I will travel to Kyiv tomorrow, she told reporters during a visit to Stockholm.
Once swiftly approved this will bring to 1.5 billion the EU support already provided for military equipment for Ukraine, Michel tweeted, thanking also EU diplomatic chief Josep Borrell for proposing the extra funding.
Their visit is to come after one made last Friday by the speaker of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola  the first trip to Ukraine by the head of an EU institution since the war began.
I want to send a very strong message of unwavering support to the Ukrainian people and their brave fight for our common values.
The Czech, Polish and Slovenian prime ministers on 15 March visited Kyiv in the first trip by European Union leaders since the start of the Russian invasion on 24 February.
This may seem like a lot, but 1 billion is what we pay Putin every day for the energy he provides us, Borrell said.
The EU had earlier this week announced that Von der Leyen would travel to Kyiv sometime this week, accompanied by EU diplomatic chief Josep Borrell.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced earlier today that she would travel to Kyiv tomorrow to show Europes unwavering support for Ukraine in its fight against Russia, she said.
EUROPEAN COUNCIL CHIEF Charles Michel has backed a proposal to release an additional 500 million to provide arms for Ukraine.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
