As it happened Russia uses hypersonic missiles as Zelenskyy urges Swiss to freeze oligarchs assets
20220319
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukraine-russia-latest-developments-5715302-Mar2022/
The Kinzhal missile was one of several weapons that Russian President Vladimir Putin unveiled in a state-of-the-nation address in 2018.
Only four years ago, the Russian military intelligence services used a chemical weapon on British soil  it happened in Salisbury, whose inhabitants would have felt completely safe.
Minister Denys Monastyrsky told the Associated Press that Ukraine will need assistance to defuse the Russian mines in a process that will take years, not months.
These are the indicative estimates of Russias losses as of March 19, according to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comNotLoVGhkV The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 19, 2022
The Kinzhal aviation missile system with hypersonic aeroballistic missiles destroyed a large underground warehouse containing missiles and aviation ammunition in the village of Deliatyn in the Ivano-Frankivsk region, the defence ministry said.
Ukraine and Russia have agreed on 10 new humanitarian corridors, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has announced.
Times of conflict, my friends, emphasises our need to remain watchful. I know from the briefings I receive from the intelligence and security services that instability around the world brings with it greater threats, Patel said.
Good morning all, Lauren Boland here. Its been three and a half weeks since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine.
Russia says its soldiers have entered the centre of the besieged port city Mariupol as foreign intelligence suggests its forces are facing issues with food and fuel supply.
In addition, Ukrainian troops have planted land mines at bridges, airports and other key locations to prevent Russian forces from using the infrastructure in their assault.
Well be bringing you all the latest updates here today  lets start with a quick look at the current situation:
The truth is that a very small number of people can wreak utter havoc and Russia has a history of covert, hostile activity.
Its defence ministry has stated that it used its newest Kinzhal hypersonic missiles to destroy a weapons storage site in western Ukraine.
These are the indicative estimates of Russias losses as of March 19, according to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comNotLoVGhkV
Ukraines latest assessment of Russias losses suggests that 200 more troops, two planes, three helicopters, and 16 tanks have been hit since yesterday.
It will take years to defuse unexploded Russian mines even after the invasion ends, according to Ukraines interior minister.
In an address last night, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian forces are blockading cities to try to create a humanitarian catastrophe and push Ukrainians into cooperating with them
It includes a corridor from Mariupol, which has been under heavy attacks, and others around Kyiv and Luhansk.
At the Conservative Party spring conference, Priti Patel said she has been asked why the UK didnt suspend the checks.
He said Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in the centre and south east of Ukraine.
10 humanitarian corridors to open on March 19.This will include evacuation from the besieged port city of Mariupol, cities in Luhansk and Kherson oblasts, and several cities northwest of Kyiv.Delivery of humanitarian aid to various war-torn cities will also take place. The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 19, 2022
In his video address last night, filmed outside Kyiv, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian forces are blockading Ukraines largest cities to create a humanitarian catastrophe in an effort to convince Ukrainians to cooperate with them.
The UKs Home Secretary is defending its decision not to remove security checks for Ukrainian refugees applying for visas.
10 humanitarian corridors to open on March 19.This will include evacuation from the besieged port city of Mariupol, cities in Luhansk and Kherson oblasts, and several cities northwest of Kyiv.Delivery of humanitarian aid to various war-torn cities will also take place.
A huge number of shells and mines have been fired at Ukraine, and a large part havent exploded. They remain under the rubble and pose a real threat, Monastyrsky said.
He appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to hold talks with him directly: Its time to meet, time to speak.
