As it happened Irelands UN ambassador says Russian denials insult memory of civilians killed in Bucha
20220405
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukraine-latest-developments-7-5730064-Apr2022/
Denmark said it was expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers accused of spying on its territory.
A spokesperson said the pair will travel to Kyiv this week to meet with President Zelenskyy ahead of the StandUpForUkraine event in Warsaw on Saturday.
Zlata Filipovic, a documentary maker in Ireland who escaped Sarajevo as a teenager when the city was under siege, has described the heartbreak for anyone fleeing home during a war.
Really enjoyed the conversation with RyanTubridyShow this morning marking the 30th anniversary of the siege of Sarajevo. You can listen back here RTERadio1 https:t.coWH6UIcc9Sk Zlata Filipovic ZlataFilipovic April 5, 2022
Today the foreign ministry has decided to expel three Russian diplomats who are not working in Sweden in concordance with the Vienna convention on diplomatic relations, Foreign Minister Ann Linde said.
"We always think of war as something that happens to other people."The childhood diary ZlataFilipovic kept is a story of survival and the siege of Sarajevohttps:t.cobk2iGOcrXL pic.twitter.comQmrqe2onx6
Germany, France, Denmark, Italy, Sweden and Spain have expelled a wave of Russian diplomats as part of a joint European effort
The Stand Up For Ukraine event in Warsaw referred to in the tweet is to mark global donation drive jointly organised by the EU and Canada to raise money for refugees.
US President Joe Biden has called for a war crimes trial and more sanctions on Russia over the deaths
"We always think of war as something that happens to other people."The childhood diary ZlataFilipovic kept is a story of survival and the siege of Sarajevohttps:t.cobk2iGOcrXL pic.twitter.comQmrqe2onx6 BBC World Service bbcworldservice April 5, 2022
Zelenskyy has visited Bucha, not far from Kyiv, where dozens of bodies were discovered after the withdrawal of Russian troops
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and the EUs foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell are due to travel to Kyiv this week to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is addressing the UN Security Council today, where he is expected to call for new sanctions on Russia over killings in the town of Bucha
Swedens foreign ministry announced it was expelling three Russian diplomats who conducted illegal operations there.
Really enjoyed the conversation with RyanTubridyShow this morning marking the 30th anniversary of the siege of Sarajevo. You can listen back here RTERadio1 https:t.coWH6UIcc9Sk
Italy, Denmark, Sweden and Spain have joined other EU allies today in expelling Russian diplomats, with well more than 100 expelled in the last two days.
Last Friday, the speaker of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola visited Ukraine,  the first trip by the head of an EU institution since the war began.
The announcements follow similar moves by EU allies France, which yesterday expelled 35 Russian diplomats, and Germany, where officials said 40 diplomats had been sent home.
A Red Cross team that was detained on its way to evacuate civilians from Mariupol has been released
We have expelled 30 Russian diplomats for national security reasons, Italian Foreign Minister Luigi di Miao told Italys Rai television in Berlin
Russias ambassador to Italy, Sergey Razov, was summoned earlier today to notify him of the Italian governments decision to expel the diplomats as personae non grata.
Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said diplomatic ties would remain with Moscow, and the Russian ambassador and the rest of the embassy in Copenhagen are therefore not included in the expulsion.
Good afternoon. Lauren Boland here  lets look at whats happened in the war in Ukraine today:
Also yesterday, Lithuania said it was expelling the Russian ambassador in response to Russias military aggression and what it called the horrific massacre in Bucha.
