As it happened Zelenskyy urges Israel to abandon neutrality on invasion Russia fires hypersonic missiles again
20220320
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukraine-latest-developments-5715915-Mar2022/
Russia has again fired its newest hypersonic missiles in Ukraine after admitting to using them for the first time yesterday
Zelenskyy said the siege of the city will go down as a war crime: To do such a thing to a peaceful city, what the occupiers have done, this is a terror that will be remembered even in the next century.
The Kinzhal Dagger hypersonic missiles were fired from airspace over Russian-controlled Crimea while Kalibr cruise missiles launched from the Caspian Sea also targeted the depot.
In Rubizhne, three people were killed in Russian attacks, while 24 hourses and apartment buildings were destroyed in Rubizhne and Severodonetsk over the past 24 hours.
Aid agencies have warned they are struggling to reach hundreds of thousands of people trapped by Russianforces.
Good morning, Lauren Boland here. It has been 25 days since Russia first invaded Ukraine.
The Russian defence ministry said that it also used long-range precision weapons against other facilities in Ukraine on yesterday evening and early today.
Well be bringing you all the latest updates here today  lets start with a quick look at the current situation:
A total of 6,623 people were evacuated yesterday along humanitarian corridors, including 4,000 from the devastated southern city of Mariupol.
It killed more than 100 members of Ukrainian special forces and foreign mercenaries when it targeted a training centre in the town of Ovruch in northern Ukraine with sea-based missiles, the ministry said.
6,623 people were evacuated along humanitarian corridors yesterday, including 4,000 from the port city of Mariupol.
Aid agencies have warned they are struggling to reach hundreds of thousands of people trapped by the invading forces
     24.02  20.03  The total combat losses of the enemy from 24.02 to 20.03  https:t.coHupApM7JQH pic.twitter.com1MI3Khd9JO Defence of Ukraine DefenceU March 20, 2022
Russias defence ministry said it has fired its newest Kinzhal hypersonic missiles in Ukraine again, destroying a fuel storage site in the countrys south.
     24.02  20.03  The total combat losses of the enemy from 24.02 to 20.03  https:t.coHupApM7JQH pic.twitter.com1MI3Khd9JO
Thousands of people have been evacuated from besieged cities but Russian shelling is blocking efforts to deliver humanitarian supplies, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his latest address.
Air raid alerts go off in almost every region of Ukraine.Sirens have been activated in the Sumy, Mykolaiv, Ternopil, Poltava, Kirovohrad, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, Kyiv, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Rivne, Volyn, Cherkasy, Zhytomyr, Vinnytsia, Odesa oblasts. The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 20, 2022
The Ukrainian armed forces confirmed to AFP on Saturday that the depot had been targeted but said they had no information of the type of missile.
Air raid alerts go off in almost every region of Ukraine.Sirens have been activated in the Sumy, Mykolaiv, Ternopil, Poltava, Kirovohrad, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, Kyiv, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Rivne, Volyn, Cherkasy, Zhytomyr, Vinnytsia, Odesa oblasts.
Ukraines defence ministry says that Ukraine has taken out 14,700 Russian troops, 476 tanks and 1,487 armoured personnel vehicles since the start of the invasion.
