As it happened Mariupol theatre sheltering civilians bombed Taoiseach speaks with Zelenskyy
20220316
https://www.thejournal.ie/liveblog-russia-ukraine-invasion-5712637-Mar2022/
It is not only about every other Russian perhaps having relatives or friends living in Ukraine, or about my grandfather being Ukrainian. It is that we continue to live as if this were the 20th century.
Ukraines neutral status is now being discussed seriously, of course, alongside security guarantees, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov told the RBK business news outlet in an interview.
He said one of their friends was talking to Pierre on Sunday and it was very clear things were getting very grim and tricky.
The ambulances, which have been donated by the HSE will be leaving Lifelife Ambulance Services, where the ambulances will be loaded with the equipment on site.
Ukraine gained a complete victory in its case against Russia at the International Court of Justice. The ICJ ordered to immediately stop the invasion. The order is binding under international law. Russia must comply immediately. Ignoring the order will isolate Russia even further   ZelenskyyUa March 16, 2022
At least three loud explosions were heard just after dawn in the western part of the city, and thick clouds of smoke billowed into the sky.
The minister also recalled the names of other journalists killed in the three weeks of conflict so far, including US documentary maker Brent Renaud and Ukrainian journalist Evgeny Sakun.
The government of the Russian Federation respectfully requests the Court to refrain from indicating provisional measures and to remove the case from its list, Moscow said, arguing that it had not appeared because it did not have enough time to prepare.
Yes, it is not easy for us now, Putin said at a government meeting, announcing an increase of all social payments in the near future. He added that the West had one aim: the destruction of Russia but that its economic blitzkrieg against Russia has failed.
Ukraines Minister for Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba has shared photos showing the aftermath of the attack on the theatre in Mariupol alongside an image showing what the building looked like previously.
The Democrat also announced $1 billion in new security help, promising Ukraine Americas unprecedented support in its war with Russia.
More than three million people havefledUkraine since the start of the invasion, the UN migration agency IOM has said.
The mayor of Melitopol of the Zaporizhzhia oblast Ivan Fedorov was released from Russian captivity.On the video a conversation of the President ZelenskyyUa with the mayor. WARINUKRAINE RussiaUkraineWar RussiaInvadedUkraine StopRussia pic.twitter.comlJKMULUwf6 SSSCIP Ukraine dsszzi March 16, 2022
The beauty of KyivAlexandra Kuvshynova, young journalist was murdered by the Russians.Her I loved.Decade of happiness and sadness, joy and pain, meaning and loss. Only death could have parted us.Now I learn to hate. You shall never be forgotten.They shall never be forgiven. pic.twitter.comavipg7CeGX
Today a video posted on Telegram showed President Volodymyr Zelensky speaking to him on the phone and telling him he was happy to hear the voice of a man alive.
As somber music played in the background, the short video showed ruined buildings and injured civilians including children, with the final frame showing the words close the sky in an appeal for a no-fly zone.
Russia must comply immediately. Ignoring the order will isolate Russia even further, the Ukrainian leader tweeted.
Over the past 15 years Tigran has worked tirelessly to help to transform Yandex into a world-class information technology business while serving the interests of the companys stakeholders.
According to the Ukrainian president and parliament, mayor Ivan Fedorov was abducted on Friday by Russian soldiers occupying the southern city because he refused to cooperate with the enemy.
US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the task force will co-ordinate efforts to freeze and seize assets of these individuals in jurisdictions around the world and deny safe haven for their ill-gotten gains.
Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, immediately welcomed the decision, posting on Twitter that there was no place for Russia in European bodies as it wages a barbaric war of aggression against Ukraine and commits multiple war crimes.
The Russian Federation shall immediately suspend military operations that it commenced on 24 February on the territory of Ukraine, pending the final decision in the case, judge Joan Donoghue told the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
Its understood that Martin told Zelenskyy that everyone in Ireland admired his great leadership in the face of an invasion by Russia.
Just spoke to President ZelenskyyUA.I told him the Irish people stand fully behind Ukraine.He thanked us for our continued humanitarian aid, shelter, global support and sanctions against Russia.He offered sympathy to the family of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski. pic.twitter.coms3tsa7aAIJ
Garland said the United States is already working with our international partners to freeze and seize properties belonging to sanctioned Russian oligarchs worldwide.
Russia snubbed hearings on 7 and 8 March, arguing in a written filing that the ICJ did not havejurisdiction because Kyivs request fell outside of the scope of the 1948 Genocide Convention on which it based its case.
After delegations from Ukraine and Russia met again yesterday via video, Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyysaid that Russias demands were becoming more realistic. Talks are to continue today.
US President Joe Biden has called Russias Vladimir Putin a war criminal over his invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine has rejected proposals pushed by Russia for it to adopt a neutral status comparable to Austria or Sweden, saying talks with Moscow to end fighting should focus on security guarantees.
Now I learn to hate. You shall never be forgotten. They shall never be forgiven.
The Ukrainian parliaments human rights chief Lyudmyla Denisova said Tuesday that another Ukrainian journalist, Viktor Dudar, was killed in fighting around the southern port city of Mykolaiv.
The CEO of Russian tech company Yandex,Tigran Khudaverdyan, has stepped down due to sanctions which were placed on him by the West.
NEW: Details on the possible Russia-Ukraine deal Russia ceases fire and withdraws Ukrainian "neutrality" without Nato Kyiv keeps its army but can't host foreign bases  Russian gets legal status in Ukrainewith ArashMassoudi and Roman Olearchykhttps:t.covPMUR0dekS
Ukrainian authorities say the mayor of Melitopol has been released after he was abducted by invading Russian forces.
The Spanish transport ministry said that they impounded the 135-foot long yacht, named the Crescent, and it can no longer leave the port of Tarragona until Spanish authorities determine whether or not it belongs or is under the control of someone on the sanctions list.
Russian invaders continue to abduct democratically elected local leaders in Ukraine. Mayor of Skadovsk Oleksandr Yakovlyev and his deputy Yurii Palyukh abducted today. States  international organizations must demand Russia to immediately release all abducted Ukrainian officials! pic.twitter.combmaAuurx9h Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 16, 2022
AFP said it was not possible to immediately visit the scene as journalists are restricted from moving around the city during the curfew, which lasts until Thursday morning.
In the programme Zelenskyy played a teacher who unexpectedly becomes president of Ukraine after a video of him complaining about corruption goes viral.
Russias defence ministry denied that its forces bombed the city today and stated the building was destroyed in an explosion set off by Ukraines nationalist Azov battalion.
Radiation around the power plant, which exploded in 1986 killing hundreds and spreading a radioactive cloud across Europe, remain at normal levels, the statement said citing local monitors.
The show ended production when Zelenskyy decided to run for president in 2019 as a member of the Servant of the People political party.
Its also offering fee-free An Post Current Accounts and free An Post Mobile SIM cards to people arriving from Ukraine with free calls and texts to Ukraine and providing access to its secure personal Address Point service for those in temporary accommodation.
US President Joe Biden has announced that America is sending longer range anti-aircraft weapons to Ukraine.
Greg and Nick Zakrzewski told RTsToday with Claire Byrnethat the family is on autopilot and that they havent processed anything since they heard the news of his death.
AFP have said this afternoon that they were unable to access at least dozen Russian and foreign-based media platforms within Russia.
Russias media watchdog has blocked access to the BBCs main news website, with Moscows foreign ministry warning of more retaliatory measures against the media.
Another horrendous war crime in Mariupol. Massive Russian attack on the Drama Theater where hundreds of innocent civilians were hiding. The building is now fully ruined. Russians could not have not known this was a civilian shelter. Save Mariupol! Stop Russian war criminals! pic.twitter.combIQLxe7mli Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 16, 2022
Just in: The US Embassy in Ukraine have said that Russian soldiers killed 10 civilians standing in line for bread in the city of Chernihiv.
Satellite images of the theatre on 14 March, shared by private satellite company Maxar, showed the words children clearly etched out in the ground in Russian on either side of the building.
UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said there was no guarantee sanctioned oligarchs like Roman Abramovich would be free to return to the UK after the Russian war with Ukraine ends.
Netflix in the US has made Volodymyr Zelenskyys Servant of the People TV show available on the platform again.
The UKs Ministry of Defence have put out a new map of the war in Ukraine, detailing Russian attacks on cities around the country.
Zelenskyy has welcomed the news that the International Court of Justice has called on Russia to immediately stop its military actions in Ukraine.
Stephen ODea was a classmate of Pierre Zakrsewski, the Irish journalist killed in Ukraine. They both attended St Conleths College in Ballsbridge. He told RTs Morning Ireland today that Pierre was a great guy to be with and instinctively trustworthy.
Talked to  Prime Minister MichealMartinTD. Discussed countering aggression  horrific crimes of Russia against civilians. Expressed condolences over the murder of  journalist Pierre Zakrzewski by Russian soldiers. Thanked for helping the people of . StopRussia   ZelenskyyUa March 16, 2022
You asked and its back!Servant of the People is once again available on Netflix in The US. The 2015 satirical comedy series stars Volodymyr Zelenskyy playing a teacher who unexpectedly becomes President after a video of him complaining about corruption suddenly goes viral. pic.twitter.comPp9f48jutF Netflix netflix March 16, 2022
The decision is unprecedented in the 73-year history of the Council of Europe, of which Ireland is proud to be a founding member, Coveney said.
The only thing we confirm at this stage is a ceasefire, withdrawal of Russian troops and security guarantees from a number of countries, he said.
Its also said that postage for letters and parcels to Ukraine for all Ukrainians in Ireland will also be free.
Zelenskyy has previously addressed other parliaments, including the European Parliament as well as the House of Commons in the UK.
The mission will primarily focus on assessing the needs of unaccompanied minors fleeing from Ukraine and whether the Immigrant Council of ireland need to play a further role supporting organisations on the ground financially.
Speaking to the US Congress this afternoon, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has compared the Russian invasion of Ukraine to both Pearl Harbour and the 911 attacks.
I welcome the decision to immediately exclude Russia from the Council of Europe just taken by the Council of Ministers. No place for Russia in European bodies as it wages a barbaric war of aggression against Ukraine and commits multiple war crimes. Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 16, 2022
Zelenskyy also said his country should accept that it will not become a member ofNATO.
Striking satellite imagery taken on Monday of the Mariupol Drama Theatrehit by an air strike today. 1,200 civilians were sheltering in it. The image shows that the word children is written in Russian in large white letters in front of  behind the theatre.: Maxar pic.twitter.comJEuvRadBUK
Just the messages coming in, the memories of everyone coming in and the condolences coming in from everyone, its been a real rollercoaster, he said.
The prosecutor opened an investigation into the situation in Ukraine on March 3, after getting the green light from more than 40 ICC states parties.
I recall the obligation incumbent on armed forces to protect journalists in line with international humanitarian law, Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said in a statement.
Good morning, Hayley Halpin here. To kick things off heres a quick update on the latest from the situation in Ukraine:
Russian forces have remained largely tied to Ukraines road network and have demonstrated a reluctance to conduct off-road manoeuvre. The destruction of bridges by Ukrainian forces has also played a key role in stalling Russias advance.
Olga Smirnova right performing as Margarita perform during the ballet adaptation of Mikhail Bulgakov's novel The Master and Margarita late last year.
Alongside Bellingcat, the Russian media regulatorRoskomnadzor has blocked at least a dozen media outlets today.
Representatives from the US, the European Commission, Australia, the UK, Canada, Germany, France, Italy and Japan held a meeting today to discuss the matter.
The ambulances will then be driven to Rosslare Port, where they are scheduled to leave Ireland on the 9.30pm ferry this evening. They will arrive in Ukraine later this week.
Nine fully equipped ambulances, which have been stocked with extra medical supplies, will be leaving Rosslare Europort this evening.
Pierre was killedalongside Ukrainian journalist Oleksandra Kuvshynova when their vehicle was struck by incoming fire in Horenka, outside of Kyiv, on Monday. Their colleague Benjamin Hall was wounded and remains in hospital.
The Journal understands that it was a scheduled call and that it lasted approximately 20 minutes.
He called for Irish people to show the same cooperation and spirit that was seen during the Covid-19 crisis.
Authorities in Mariupol say hundreds of civilians were taking shelter in the theatre hit by Russian forces.
Bellingcat is an independent international collective of researchers, investigators and citizen journalists using open source and social media investigation to probe a variety of subjects.
"Right now, the destiny of our country is being decided, the destiny of our people, whether Ukrainians will be free, whether they will be able to preserve their democracy," said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in remarks to U.S. Congress. pic.twitter.commWi70rFbvd
We support peace efforts, we call on Russia, on President Vladimir Putin to withdraw its forces, but we have no plans of deploying NATO troops on the ground in Ukraine, Stoltenberg told journalists after a meeting of NATO defence ministers.
The law was first signed by Russian President Vladimir Putin on 4 March and people who break it can receive up to 15 years for publishing knowingly false information about the Russian military.
The beauty of KyivAlexandra Kuvshynova, young journalist was murdered by the Russians.Her I loved.Decade of happiness and sadness, joy and pain, meaning and loss. Only death could have parted us.Now I learn to hate. You shall never be forgotten.They shall never be forgiven. pic.twitter.comavipg7CeGX Sviatoslav Yurash SviatoslavUA March 16, 2022
President Zelenskyy united a room full of members of the U.S. Senate and House quickly and intensely with equal parts resolve and unity and determination to save democracy from an hour of darkness.Congress and the American people stand with the people of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comuFffzlXJz0
Mykhailo Podolyak, a senior adviser to Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said Ukraine has its own requesting positions in the negotiations.
In case you missed it earlier, the only way we can wrap things up this evening is by sharing the devastating video Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy played for the US Congress today.
Delegations from the Polish, Slovenian and Czech governments have returned safely to Poland, a Polish government spokesperson has said.
Russians dropped a bomb on the drama theater in Mariupol,which was designated as a gathering place for people who lost their homes and livelihoods. Among those who were in the theater, there were many children and patients in need of special attentionSource Maripol City Council pic.twitter.comazL0Xs3fnT
Images released by the emergency services showed the top corner of one building had been partially destroyed, while the other had damage and scorch marks to its roof and upper part.
Russian forces have targeted the southern Ukraine city of Zaporizhzhia, where thousands of refugees are taking shelter after escaping the besieged port city of Mariupol, regional officials said.
Civilian objects have been bombed for the first time in Zaporizhzhia, the regional governor Alexander Starukh wrote on the Telegram social media platform.
Smirnova, considered one of the greatest dancers of her generation, had already expressed her opposition to the war on messaging app Telegram earlier this month, saying she cannot remain indifferent to this global catastrophe.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
The 47-nation organisations committee of ministers said today that the Russian Federation ceases to be a member of the Council of Europe as from today, after 26 years of membership.
Tigran Khudaverdyan has stepped down with immediate effect from his positions as Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Yandex.
But Moscow justified its use of force in Ukraine, saying it was acting in self-defence.
A task force is being set up to pursue Russian oligarchs and violators of the sanctions imposed on Russia.
Ukraine gained a complete victory in its case against Russia at the International Court of Justice. The ICJ ordered to immediately stop the invasion. The order is binding under international law. Russia must comply immediately. Ignoring the order will isolate Russia even further
Separately, Moscows lead negotiator said his delegation was pushing for Ukraine to assume a status comparable Sweden or Austria, two neutral countries in western Europe.
The pair met virtually, the Hague-based court tweeted. We agreed all efforts are needed to ensure international humanitarian law is respected and to protect the civilian population, Khan said.
BREAKING: Pres. Biden calls Russian Pres. Vladimir Putin a " war criminal." https:t.coSFaVioYGol pic.twitter.comJfzN2lmJZ7 ABC News Politics ABCPolitics March 16, 2022
In her Telegram post, Smirnova had said: I am against war with all the fibres of my soul.
Delegacje Polski, Sowenii i Czech po wizycie w Kijowie wrciy bezpiecznie na teren naszego kraju.Polish, Slovenian and Czech delegations safely returned from Kyiv to Poland.
Ukrainian emergency officials say five people, including three children, were killed when Russian forces shelled a residential building in the city of Chernihiv in northern Ukraine.
The two sides have held several rounds of negotiations aimed at finding common ground and bringing the hostilities to a halt.
The UNs top court has ordered Russia to suspend its invasion of Ukraine, saying it was profoundly concerned by Moscows use of force.
The postal service is waiving all fees for financial donations to charity appeals for Ukraine and for all money transfers by Western Union to and from Ukraine.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine  16 March 2022Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.coI8svQhu5Y7 StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comBRfAGjiwwX Ministry of Defence  DefenceHQ March 16, 2022
The Dutch National Ballet confirmed the departure in a statement, saying: Smirnovawas outspoken in her recent denouncement of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which is making it untenable for her to work in her native country.
City authorities were trying to establish the number of casualties, but their efforts were hampered by the fact that residential neighborhoods were under shelling.
Russia purposefully destroyed the Drama Theatre, where hundreds of people are hiding, Mariupol city authorities said in a statement on Telegram.
US President Joe Biden will announce $800 million in newsecurity assistanceto Ukraine on Wednesday, a White House official said.
He further called for a no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying that Russia has turned the Ukrainian sky into a source of death.
The International Criminal Courts chief prosecutor Karim Khan has visited Ukraine and held a video call with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
At 10:00 am 8am irish time, servicemen of the Russian Armed Forces fired at people standing in line for bread near a grocery store. According to preliminary data, 10 civilians were killed, the Attorney Generals office said in a statement.
Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney has issued a statement on Russia being excluded from the Council of Europe.
Another horrendous war crime in Mariupol. Massive Russian attack on the Drama Theater where hundreds of innocent civilians were hiding. The building is now fully ruined. Russians could not have not known this was a civilian shelter. Save Mariupol! Stop Russian war criminals! pic.twitter.combIQLxe7mli
Talked to  Prime Minister MichealMartinTD. Discussed countering aggression  horrific crimes of Russia against civilians. Expressed condolences over the murder of  journalist Pierre Zakrzewski by Russian soldiers. Thanked for helping the people of . StopRussia
Briefly. FT published a draft, which represents the requesting position of the Russian side. Nothing more. The  side has its own positions. The only thing we confirm at this stage is a ceasefire, withdrawal of Russian troops and security guarantees from a number of countries   PodolyakM March 16, 2022
The U.S. embassy in Kyiv says Russian forces have shot and killed 10 people standing in line for bread in the Ukrainian city of ChernihivFor more on this and other news visit https:t.coNEDMP2uP6W
Ar scth a chile a mhaireann na daoineWe live in each others shelter On this StPatricksDayIreland  stands in solidarity with the people of UkraineWe are thinking of you today pic.twitter.com4yvXaowhO6
Russians dropped a bomb on the drama theater in Mariupol,which was designated as a gathering place for people who lost their homes and livelihoods. Among those who were in the theater, there were many children and patients in need of special attentionSource Maripol City Council pic.twitter.comazL0Xs3fnT Oleksandra Matviichuk avalaina March 16, 2022
Thank you for not abandoning me. I will need one or two days to recover and then I will be at your disposal to contribute to our victory, he says.
Ukrainian prosecutors have issued a statement saying that 10 people were killed by Russian forces while waiting in a line to collect bread in the northern city.
From the people of Ireland, the admiration of you and your people is very high. We as a government reflect that. They are behind you.
Moscow would face its first default in decades if it fails to make 107 million in interest payments on two dollar-denominated bonds.
Her I loved. Decade of happiness and sadness, joy and pain, meaning and loss. Only death could have parted us, Yurash wrote about 24-year-old Oleksandra.
One of Ukraines negotiators in the ongoing diplomatic talks says a Financial Times report about a proposed peace plan between Moscow and Kyiv only shows the requesting position of the Russian side.
Just spoke to President ZelenskyyUA.I told him the Irish people stand fully behind Ukraine.He thanked us for our continued humanitarian aid, shelter, global support and sanctions against Russia.He offered sympathy to the family of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski. pic.twitter.coms3tsa7aAIJ Michel Martin MichealMartinTD March 16, 2022
Sanctions over Russias operation in Ukraine have targeted $300 billion of its foreign currency reserves held abroad.
Kyiv wants the court to take provisional measures ordering Russia to immediately suspend the military operations.
The probe by Frances specialised anti-terror prosecutors will investigate possible charges of causing deliberate harm to a person protected by international law and a deliberate attack against a civilian who was not taking part in hostilities.
In its latest update, the UK Ministry of Defence MoD says Russias advance in Ukraine has been stymied by a lack of manoeuvrability, which has been adeptly exploited by the Ukrainian forces.
Economic experts have warned that Russia could start defaulting on its international debt within the coming hours due to sanctions imposed on the nation.
OBrien met with 150 organisations, including local government, to work out the community response to the humanitarian crisis arising from Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said that he was grateful for the help provided by the US but said that additional sanctions were needed on a weekly basis to stop the Russian invasion.
The Financial Times Moscow Bureau Chief Max Seddon has some potentially positive news to report on the ongoing talks between Russian and Ukrainian representatives.
The council posted an image of the theatre showing it sustained heavy damage in attack today.
It said Russian forces had purposefully and cynically destroyed the Drama Theater in the heart of Mariupol.
The plane dropped a bomb on a building where hundreds of peaceful Mariupol residents were hiding. It said casualty numbers were being confirmed.
The former actor and current Ukrainian President starred in the show on Ukrainian television from 2015 to 2019.
And there will need to be a reckoning with all the people who supported Putin, including Abramovich.
Briefly. FT published a draft, which represents the requesting position of the Russian side. Nothing more. The  side has its own positions. The only thing we confirm at this stage is a ceasefire, withdrawal of Russian troops and security guarantees from a number of countries
Ukraine says Russian rocket attacks on a convoy fleeing the besieged port city of Mariupol has claimed the lives of civilians, including children, after earlier strikes targeted a nearby hub for displaced people.
I condemn any action targeting them with the greatest firmness, he said, adding that these events illustrate the extreme danger in the Ukrainian theatre today.
Russia has said tht Ukrainian neutrality was taking centre stage at ongoing talks between Moscow and Kyiv.
The expulsion comes after Russias foreign ministry said yesterday that it was launching a procedure to exit the council.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said today that the alliance was looking to substantially bolster forces on its eastern flank, but would not send troops to Ukraine.
Ukraine is now in a direct state of war with Russia. Consequently, the model can only be Ukrainian and only on legally verified security guarantees, its top negotiator Mikhailo Podolyak said in comments published by President Volodymyr Zelenskyys office.
We believe such rhetoric to be unacceptable and unforgivable on the part of the head of a state, whose bombs have killed hundreds of thousands of people around the world, Putins spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, according to the state news agencies TASS and Ria Novosti.
TeresaBuczkowska, the integration manager of the Immigrant Council of Ireland is currently on a fact-finding mission to the Ukrainian border to identify how Ireland can best support refugees fleeing from the war.
At the current time the electricity supply is being provided from the Belarusian power grid, it added.
I welcome the decision to immediately exclude Russia from the Council of Europe just taken by the Council of Ministers. No place for Russia in European bodies as it wages a barbaric war of aggression against Ukraine and commits multiple war crimes.
It is important that we travel to the Ukrainian border to assess the situation on the ground, so that we can ensure that our efforts in Ireland in supporting refugees are sufficient, and that we are providing relief in the right areas.
US lawmakers watched a moving video of the destruction caused by Russias invasion of Ukraine as Zelenskyy addressed the US Congress this afternoon.
Around 20,000 people have left the besieged port city ofMariupolby driving along a humanitarian corridor agreed with Russian forces.
The UNs top court is set to rule today on Ukraines urgent request for Russia to immediately halt itsinvasion, with Kyiv claiming that Moscow falsely accused its pro-Western neighbour of genocide to justify the war.
Vladimir Putin has said that the Wests economic blitzkrieg against Moscow has failed, while telling his government to increase social payments amid what he called a not easy period.
The U.S. embassy in Kyiv says Russian forces have shot and killed 10 people standing in line for bread in the Ukrainian city of ChernihivFor more on this and other news visit https:t.coNEDMP2uP6W Sky News Breaking SkyNewsBreak March 16, 2022
These are direct transfers of equipment from our Department of Defense to the Ukrainian military to help them as they fight against this invasion, Biden said.
French prosecutors have opened a war crime probe into the death of Franco-Irish Fox News cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski who was shot near Kyiv.
Truss also said she did not think the conflict was near the end, in comments made on Sky News.
Russian oligarchs who have supported Vladimir Putin should face a "reckoning" and pay towards the reconstruction of destroyed cities in Ukraine, says the foreign Secretary Liz Truss.KayBurley: https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comRP2Wrt42Sb
Ukraine accuses Russia of illegally trying to justify its war by falsely alleging genocide in Ukraines Donetsk and Lugansk regions.
Russia must be stopped, and the court has a role to play in stopping that, Ukraines representative Anton Korynevych told the ICJ.
The retired Chernobyl nuclear reactors are enclosed in a giant steel and concrete sarcophagus but electricity is needed to power security systems including the cooling systems for the spent nuclear fuel storage facility.
Because Im saying even if the war was to end  and I fear we are not near the end, at this stage  huge devastation has been caused, lives have been lost as a result of this war.
The cash includes $200 million allocated over the weekend and $800 million in new funds from an aid package approved last week by Congress.
The court has decided to suspend the examination of all applications against the Russian federation pending its consideration of the legal consequences of this resolution for the work of the court.
Moscow has already blamed the military unit for last weeks bombing of a maternity hospital in Mariupol, which sparked an international outcry.
Ar scth a chile a mhaireann na daoineWe live in each others shelter On this StPatricksDayIreland  stands in solidarity with the people of UkraineWe are thinking of you today pic.twitter.com4yvXaowhO6 Irish Foreign Ministry dfatirl March 16, 2022
She said the UK was working with allies in the G7 and beyond to ensure oligarchs have nowhere where it is legitimate for them to live their lifestyles, have their yachts or have their planes.
Prima ballerina Olga Smirnova has quit the Bolshoi in Moscow to join the Dutch National Ballet, becoming the biggest star to leave Russia over the war in Ukraine.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Striking satellite imagery taken on Monday of the Mariupol Drama Theatrehit by an air strike today. 1,200 civilians were sheltering in it. The image shows that the word children is written in Russian in large white letters in front of  behind the theatre.: Maxar pic.twitter.comJEuvRadBUK Shashank Joshi shashj March 16, 2022
The International Court of Justice will hand down its judgement at 3pm in The Hague after Ukraine filed an urgent application shortly after Russias attack on 24 February.
It comes after NATO member Poland yesterday suggested the alliance deploy an armed peace mission in Ukraine to provide humanitarian aid in the face of Moscows invasion.
According to the MoD, the map is based on the latest intelligence coming from Ukraine.
Russian forces bombed a theatre where civilians were sheltering in Mariupol, the city council said.
"Right now, the destiny of our country is being decided, the destiny of our people, whether Ukrainians will be free, whether they will be able to preserve their democracy," said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in remarks to U.S. Congress. pic.twitter.commWi70rFbvd The Associated Press AP March 16, 2022
Belarus is supplying electricity to Ukraines Chernobyl nuclear power station, the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster in 1986, local Belarusian authorities have said.
I think this is only the beginning of retaliatory measures to the information war unleashed by the West against Russia, foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Telegram.
The video that President Volodymyr Zelensky demonstrated during his virtual address to the U.S. Congress earlier on March 16.Video: ZelenskiyOfficialTelegram pic.twitter.comvmhxGFv0VE
Fox News said yesterday that French-Irish cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski and producer Oleksandra Kuvshynova died and correspondent Benjamin Hall was wounded when their vehicle was struck Monday by incoming fire in Horenka, outside the Ukrainian capital.
But the IAEAsaid earlier this month that given the time that has passed since the accident in 1986, the heat load and the volume of the cooling pools are together sufficient for effective heat removal without need for electrical supply.
Twojournalistsworking for Fox News were killed when the vehicle they were travelling inwas hit by fireon Monday on the outskirts of Kyiv, the network said. One of these journalists was an Irish citizen,Pierre Zakrzewski.
Following Russia exiting the Council of Europe earlier today, the European Court of Human Rights have suspended all petitions against Russia.
Sviatoslav Yurash, a member of Ukraines parliament, has paid tribute to OleksandraKuvshynova  who was killed near Kyiv while working for Fox News alongside Irish citizen Pierre Zakrzewski.
Officials posted a photo of the theatre building, whose middle part was completely destroyed, with thick white smoke rising from the rubble. Officials said a bomb was dropped on the building from an airplane.
Spain has impounded a third yacht owned by a Russian oligarch as part of the package of sanctions against Russia by the EU.
Put to her that Abramovich could return once Russian troops had withdrawn, Truss said: No, I havent said that.
The parliament said the mayor was seized while at the citys crisis centre dealing with supply issues.
Delegacje Polski, Sowenii i Czech po wizycie w Kijowie wrciy bezpiecznie na teren naszego kraju.Polish, Slovenian and Czech delegations safely returned from Kyiv to Poland. Piotr Mller PiotrMuller March 16, 2022
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on US President Joe Biden to be the leader of peace as he concluded his speech to the US Congress this afternoon.
Russian invaders continue to abduct democratically elected local leaders in Ukraine. Mayor of Skadovsk Oleksandr Yakovlyev and his deputy Yurii Palyukh abducted today. States  international organizations must demand Russia to immediately release all abducted Ukrainian officials! pic.twitter.combmaAuurx9h
US Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer says Zelenskyy united the US Congress with his speech earlier today.
The Council of Europe has officially expelled Russia from the continents foremost human rights body in an unprecedented move over its invasion and war in Ukraine.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Several explosions rocked Kyiv early this morning, according to AFP journalists in the city, with emergency services saying two residential buildings were damaged and two people wounded.
Russian oligarchs who have supported Vladimir Putin should face a "reckoning" and pay towards the reconstruction of destroyed cities in Ukraine, says the foreign Secretary Liz Truss.KayBurley: https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comRP2Wrt42Sb Sky News SkyNews March 16, 2022
Le Drian singled out Zakrzewski as someone who covered a great number of theatres of war as a passionate fighter for the right to inform.
These include Bellingcat, a Russian-language Israeli news site and other regional news sites, like Permdaily.ru.
Today at around 3.30pm 13:30 Irish time, a column of civilians being evacuated from Mariupol to Zaporizhzhia was fired on by inhuman Russian occupiers, the Ukrainian military said, adding that the number of victims is being clarified.
Bidens assessment tallies with that of Human Rights expert Professor Ray Murphy who told The Journal he believes Putin is guilty of thecrime of aggression, which involves large-scale and serious aggression using state military force.
Mariupols deputy mayor Serhiy Orlov has told the BBC that between 1,000 and 1,200 people were in the theatre that was hit by Russian bombing.
The city of Zaporizhzhia is the first safe port of call for those fleeing Mariupol.
The Department of Foreign Affairs international St Patricks Day video is a lot different this year as it focuses on Ukraine.
Zelenskyy thanked the Irish people for their humanitarian aid and shelter as well as giving sympathies of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski.
Emergency workers recovered the five bodies from under the rubble of a multi-storeyed apartment building, Ukraines emergencies ministry said in a statement on Telegram.
Russias continued failure to gain control of the air has drastically limited their ability to effectively use air manoeuvre, further limiting their options.
The 30-year-olds departure from Russias most prestigious cultural institution carries echoes of defections during the Cold War.
NEW: Details on the possible Russia-Ukraine deal Russia ceases fire and withdraws Ukrainian "neutrality" without Nato Kyiv keeps its army but can't host foreign bases  Russian gets legal status in Ukrainewith ArashMassoudi and Roman Olearchykhttps:t.covPMUR0dekS max seddon maxseddon March 16, 2022
The first criminal cases under a new Russian law against spreading false information about Russias invasion of Ukraine have gotten underway today.
The company, dubbed the Russian Google, is registered in the Netherlands and has subsidiaries in the EU, UK and US but a majority of its business is done in Russian speaking countries.
The brothers of Fox cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski have said he was so proud of being Irish and that he would want to be remembered as a truth teller.
Two residential buildings were damaged in an overnight bombardment in the central part of Kyiv, Shevchenkivskyi district. Two people reported wounded, 35 evacuated, the Ukrainian state emergency service said on Telegram.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is set to address the US Congress at 1pm Irish time.
The tactics of the Ukrainian armed forces have adeptly exploited Russias lack of manoeuvre, frustrating the Russian advance and inflicting heavy losses on the invading forces.
The Associated Press has shared more video footage of Zelenskyys address to the US Congress.
Closer to home, Minister of State for Communities and Charities, Joe OBrien, has met with local community groups to discuss how the Irish community can respond to the war in Ukraine, particularly on the humanitarian efforts.
The mayor of Melitopol of the Zaporizhzhia oblast Ivan Fedorov was released from Russian captivity.On the video a conversation of the President ZelenskyyUa with the mayor. WARINUKRAINE RussiaUkraineWar RussiaInvadedUkraine StopRussia pic.twitter.comlJKMULUwf6
Mikhailo Podolyak, the top Ukrainian negotiator called for a legally binding security agreement that would also be signed by international countries so they would not stand aside in the event of an attack on Ukraine, as they do today.
The video that President Volodymyr Zelensky demonstrated during his virtual address to the U.S. Congress earlier on March 16.Video: ZelenskiyOfficialTelegram pic.twitter.comvmhxGFv0VE The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 16, 2022
President Zelenskyy united a room full of members of the U.S. Senate and House quickly and intensely with equal parts resolve and unity and determination to save democracy from an hour of darkness.Congress and the American people stand with the people of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comuFffzlXJz0 Chuck Schumer SenSchumer March 16, 2022
Khan last week urged parties to Ukraines conflict not to use heavy, high-explosive weapons in populated areas as the Russian military continued its bombardments of homes and civilian infrastructure.
It reflects the strongest possible condemnation of Russias unjustified and unprovoked aggression against Ukraine, another Council of Europe member, and its disavowal of the values, principles, and legal obligations which membership of the Council of Europe entails.
The electrical supply to the Chernobyl nuclear power station is completely restored, the Belarusian energy ministry said in a statement published on the Telegram page of the Gomel region.
In an interview on Russian TV foreign minister Sergei Lavrov accused NATO and EU countries of abusing their majority in the council, eventually transforming it into a tool for anti-Russian policy.
Zelenskyy offered his sympathies to the family of Irish journalist, PierreZakrzewski, who was killed in Ukraine while covering the war.
You asked and its back!Servant of the People is once again available on Netflix in The US. The 2015 satirical comedy series stars Volodymyr Zelenskyy playing a teacher who unexpectedly becomes President after a video of him complaining about corruption suddenly goes viral. pic.twitter.comPp9f48jutF
France has called for the protection of journalists covering Russias war in Ukraine, following the deaths of a Fox News cameraman and a Ukrainian producer near Kyiv.
Power at the facility was knocked out on Monday according to Ukrainian authorities after Russian forces damaged a power line, but the International Atomic Energy Agency said later that day it had been informed external power had been restored. It said work was underway to reconnect the facility to the power grid.
Hes the kind of guy who if you hadnt seen him for ten years youd still give him your life savings to deposit in the bank. He just had that rare quality that not many people have.
It reportedly belongs to Ivor Sechin, the head of Russian oil company Rosneft and an ally of Vladimir Putin.
It is impossible to find words to describe the level of cynicism and cruelty, with which Russian invaders are destroying peaceful residents of a Ukrainian city by the sea, the official statement read.
The rockets landed in the area of the Zaporozhye-2 railway station, he added, specifying that there were no casualties.
