As it happened No significant achievements in talks so far Russia says Zelenskyy says Ukraine could become neutral
20220328
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukraine-latest-developments-3-5722828-Mar2022/
France, Greece and Turkey are hoping to launch a humanitarian operation to evacuate civilians from the besieged city of Mariupol within days.
The UN estimates that at least 1,100 civilians have died and more than 10 million have been displaced.
Negotiators from Ukraine and Russia are resuming face-to-face talks soon to try to chart a path to peace.
Good morning all. Lauren Boland here. Its Monday morning and well be bringing you all the latest developments on the war in Ukraine as they happen.
Commissioner for Human Rights in Ukraine Lyudmyla Denisova has stated that 143 children have been killed and 216 injured since the beginning of Russias invasion.
HERE ARE THE latest developments on the war in Ukraine ahead of talks between both sides in the conflict:
The head of Ukraines Lugansk separatist region has indicated it may hold a referendum on becoming part of Russia.
Russia kills 143 children in Ukraine. Since the beginning of Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine, 143 children have been killed and 216 injured, according to Ukraines Ombudsman.The actual numbers may be higher as Ukraine cannot reach some cities due to heavy fighting.
The talks, which are being held in Turkey, come as the two sides face a near-stalemate as Russia faces greater losses than it anticipated.
Russia kills 143 children in Ukraine. Since the beginning of Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine, 143 children have been killed and 216 injured, according to Ukraines Ombudsman.The actual numbers may be higher as Ukraine cannot reach some cities due to heavy fighting. The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 28, 2022
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said Ukraine could hold a referendum on neutrality and agreeing to stay out of Nato after Russian troops pull out of the country.
It would be funny if it werent so tragic, he said, according to the Ukrainian news agency RBK Ukraina.
The total tally may be higher as heavy fighting prevents access to some areas, the Kyiv Independent reports.
Speaking to independent Russian journalists, Zelenskyy said that a vote could take place within a few months after troops leave.
Russia quickly banned the interview from being published through communications regulator Roskomnadzor, which said action could be taken against outlets that took part, including those that are foreign media outlets acting as foreign agents.
