As it happened Over 160 civilian cars escape Mariupol EU agrees new sanctions
20220314
https://www.thejournal.ie/live-russia-ukraine-invasion-5710241-Mar2022/
The successful evacuation comes after several failed attempts since Russian forces surrounded the port city on the Azov Sea early this month.
The exercise began today with naval operations and the deployment on land of part of NATOs rapid reaction force.
A lot of work going on here in Medyka. The makeshift tents for the refugees being dug out and given solid flooring. Also clearing land to provide more tent space. Smaller crowds here today but there are still 2m people in Kyiv. More to come. thejournalie pic.twitter.comARw1CNYiz6 Niall OConnor NiallJournalie March 14, 2022
Higher education minister Simon Harris said: When it comes to higher education, the immediate priority is to ensure Irish students fleeing Ukraine can continue their studies here.
Defence minister Simon Coveney has approved sending approximately 5,000 units of ready-to-eat meals and 200 units of body armour to Ukraine.
He was described as a prominent Russian businessman and pro-Kremlin oligarch, who is closely associated with both the Russian government and President Vladimir Putin.
Putin's dream of creating a Greater Russia is my country's nightmare. SaveUkrainekyiv StopPutinsWar Standtogether FreeUkraine WeAreAllUkrainians StandWithUkraine StopTheWar pic.twitter.comEKw3K6BsbZ Klitschko Klitschko March 14, 2022
Bayer has suspended advertising and investments in Russia. Deliveries are focused on medicines and essential health products, i.e. for infants and children. Crop supplies for the 2023 growing season are contingent on peace. Full statement here: https:t.cofSwC41fXNM pic.twitter.comq0cLjppDnf
1,758,000 people fleeing Ukraine have crossed the Polish border since the Russian invasion began, Polish officials have said.
We have a minimal level of details right now, but Ben is hospitalized and our teams on the ground are working to gather additional information, it said.
The spokesman said the department is in close contact with the Home Office and the Department for Levelling Up, Communities and Housing and with colleagues in other jurisdictions.
We will participate fully in this humanitarian effort. Partnership across sectors and wider society will be key to ensuring we can support as many Ukrainian people seeking sanctuary here as possible.
The parties actively express their specified positions. Communication is being held yet its hard. The reason for the discord is too different political systems.  is a free dialogue within the society  an obligatory consensus.  is an ultimatum suppression of its own society pic.twitter.comO00fnCd1WP   PodolyakM March 14, 2022
Government has already brought in an array of measures to try to help with all of the affordability issues that we know so many are facing with the rising cost of energy.
Im ashamed that I allowed lies to be spoken from the TV screen. Im ashamed I allowed Russian people to be zombified, she added.
The retired nuclear plant  enclosed in a giant steel and concrete sarcophagus  lost power early last week but supply was restored Sunday.
A missile strike brought down the passenger jet over eastern Ukraine in July 2014, killing all 298 people on board.
My last day here. Just off the train from Kyiv this girl needs better shoes so an aid worker does the fitting in the foyer of the train station.Follow along on thejournalie: 'We need military aid now - Russia will not stop until Ukraine is destroyed' https:t.coeL4KyjfyHP pic.twitter.comZ0r80oMnLD
An air strike on a residential building in Kyiv killed one person and injured 12 others.
We do have deep concerns about Chinas alignment with Russia, the official told reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity.
South Dublin County Council has announced it will fly the Ukrainian flag over Tallaghts County Hall, while the County Hall and Civic Offices in Clondalkin will be lit up blue and yellow at night to show solidarity with Ukraine.
Putin gave orders to hold back on any immediate assault on large cities because the civilian losses would be large, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters, adding however that, the defence ministry does not rule out the possibility of putting large cities under its full control.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said that the ongoing talks between Ukraine and Russia are progressing with some difficulty, but said that he hoped a breakthrough could be announced later today.
Huge crowds here about to board buses. This family have come from Denipro via Kyiv and Lviv. Just one example of the trip which is similar to all others: two day journey by train and now are hoping to join family in Lithuania. thejournalie pic.twitter.com9n55oheYW6 Niall OConnor NiallJournalie March 14, 2022
1,758,000 people fleeing Ukraine have crossed the  border since the beginning of Russia's aggression against this country.82,100 people were cleared by Polish Border Guard officers yesterday.PolandFirstToHelp solidarityWithUkraine pic.twitter.comEbpgGdUVx1 Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Poland PremierRPen March 14, 2022
In stranger news this afternoon, just over an hour ago, billionaire Elon Musk has just challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to a fight.
To those abroad scared of being dragged into WWIII. Ukraine fights back successfully. We need you to help us fight. Provide us with all necessary weapons. Apply more sanctions on Russia and isolate it fully. Help Ukraine force Putin into failure and you will avert a larger war.
Hall who covers the State Department for Fox News, was injured while newsgathering outside of Kyiv, the US news outlet said in a statement.
The woman who carried out the anti-war protest on Russian TV which can be seen below also recorded a message beforehand saying she wasashamed to be an employee of the Channel One state-run TV station.
Nearly 2,200 residents of Ukraines besieged city of Mariupol have been killed since hostilities began, the local authorities say.
There are some challenges around the special licence that his been created in relation to the sanctions.
We look forward to the privilege of welcoming President Zelenskys address to the House and Senate and to convey our support to the people of Ukraine as they bravely defend democracy, House leader Nancy Pelosi and her Senate counterpart Chuck Schumer said in a joint letter to lawmakers.
Ratings agency Fitch last week downgraded Russias sovereign debt rating deeper into junk territory, warning that the decision reflects the view that a default is imminent.
Lollipops, toys and flowers - just some acts of kindness which Ukraine's refugees have been met with at other countries' bordershttps:t.coPTlp6YJWSK pic.twitter.comMFjOmL6ELK BBC News World BBCWorld March 14, 2022
NATO allies Turkey and Germany have appealed for a ceasefire and to open humanitarian corridors for civilian evacuations.
Unfortunately in recent years I worked on Channel One, making Kremlin propaganda and I am now very ashamed of this, she said.
They were stopped by police near the property belonging to Oleg Deripaska in Belgrave Square, west London, at around 6:30pm.
It accuses Russia of illegally trying to justify its war under an international convention by falsely alleging that Ukraine committed genocide in regions held by pro-Russian separatists.
Downing Street has confirmed this afternoon that it is examining whether properties of sanctioned oligarchs could be used to accommodate Ukrainian refugees.
Germany plans to buy up to 35 F-35 fighter jets made by US firm Lockheed Martin and 15 Eurofighter jets, a parliamentary source has said, as part of a major push to modernise the armed forces in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warnsNATOcould see member states come under Russian attack if they dont act to impose a no-fly zone over his country.
The F-35 purchase would replace Germanys decades-old Tornado fleet, the only jets capable of carrying US nuclear bombs, according to media reports confirmed by the source.
More than 160 civilian cars have been able to drive out of the besieged southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol along a humanitarian evacuation route, the city authorities said earlier today.
We would certainly want to see wherever is possible used, we are open to all options.
The woman was rushed to another hospital, closer to the frontline, where doctors worked to keep her alive.
More than 30 minutes of resuscitation of the mother didnt produce results, Marin said on Saturday. Both died.
16 deaths have been recorded the self-proclaimed regions health ministry said, adding that another 23 people had been injured.
Ukraines Foreign Affairs MinisterDmytro Kuleba spoke with his Estonian counterpart Eva-Maria Liiments about the crucial next steps to force Russia to stop aggression and war crimes against Ukrainians.
The spokesperson also did not rule out using Chelsea Football Clubs hotel to house refugees.
Rivne is around 200 kilometres northeast of Lviv, which has become the exit point for many Ukrainians fleeing the country to Poland.
Reports are emerging that Russian soldiers blew up explosives at Ukraines Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
My Department has contacted them all and they are deeply traumatised by what has unfolded. We will work to extend supports and care to them.
10 months of talks in Vienna have brought major powers close to renewing a landmark 2015 agreement on regulating Irans nuclear programme.
Without directly addressing US media reports of a Russian request for help from Beijing, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said: The US has been spreading disinformation targeting China on the Ukraine issue, with malicious intentions.
Cold Response 2022, planned long before Moscows invasion of Ukraine, aims to test how Norway would manage Allied reinforcements on its soil, in line with Article 5 of NATOs charter which requires member states to come to the aid of another member state under attack.
A Ukrainian firefighter stands outside a destroyed building after it was hit by artillery shelling in Kyiv
Negotiations between Moscow and Kyiv will restart tomorrow after meetings concluded without breakthrough earlier in today.
The operator added that Chernobyl cannot be left without a reliable energy supply and the residents of the nearby town of Slavutych depend on it for electricity.
The International Criminal Court ICC has begun an investigation into possible war crimes in Ukraine.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 14 March 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.cowg3FhtrkiY StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comcJikRzwVpQ
As just noted in our catch-up, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has urged NATO to impose a no-fly zone over his country or see its member states attacked by Russia.
The squatters broke into the property in Belgrave Square at around 1am today and declared that it belongs to Ukrainian refugees.
To those abroad scared of being dragged into WWIII. Ukraine fights back successfully. We need you to help us fight. Provide us with all necessary weapons. Apply more sanctions on Russia and isolate it fully. Help Ukraine force Putin into failure and you will avert a larger war. Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 14, 2022
Several loud explosions heard in central Kyiv, according to our reporters.The explosions appear to be the city's air defense systems shooting down the missiles targeting Kyiv. The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 14, 2022
Our Political Correspondent, Christina Finn, is in New York ahead of the Taoiseachs visit to Washington DC for the annual St Patricks Day celebrations.
NATOs Twitter account has just issued another reminder that its beefing up troop numbers in Europe in response to Russias war.
To those abroad scared of being dragged into WWIII. Ukraine fights back successfully. We need you to help us fight. Provide us with all necessary weapons, Dmytro Kuleba tweeted.
The line that supplies the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the town of Slavutych was damaged by the occupying forces, Ukrenergo said on its Facebook page, referring to Russian forces that invaded Ukraine on 24 February.
The Irish Universities Association has agreed to provide places for Irish students who have had to leave Ukraine in the middle of their studies.
A far cry from the recent images of the besieged city where officials say nearly 2,200 people have been killed.
At least five people have been occupying the property in Belgrave Square since early Monday morning.
Russia is due to make an interest payment on its external debt later this week and Moscow warned it will be doing so in rubles if sanctions prevent it from using the currency of issue.
It comes on top of existing pressure on the supply chain, higher energy prices and inflation.
Instagram is no longer accessible in Russia after its parent company Meta was accused by Moscow of allowing calls for violence against Russians on its platforms.
Rebel officials said fragments from a Ukrainian Tochka missile that was shot down had landed in the centre of the city leaving more than two dozen dead with many more injured.
Good morning, Hayley Halpin here. To kick things off heres a quick update on the latest from the situation in Ukraine:
Mindful of the pressure on social housing stock, officials are also engaging with councils and the voluntary and community sector to find creative ways of bringing suitable accommodation into use and identifying all available capacity.
Russia has accused Kyiv of committing a war crime in an attack on the separatist stronghold of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine in which it claims 23 people have been left dead.
Russian forces also shelled and captured the Zaporizhzhia plant, Europes biggest atomic power plant, on 4 March, causing a fire that raised alarm in Europe over a possible nuclear catastrophe.
Officers remain on scene engaging with four people who remain on the balcony of a building there.
Peace, an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of all Russians troops  and only after this can we talk about regional relations and about political differences, Kyivs lead negotiator Mikhailo Podolyak said in a video statement posted to Twitter.
Ukrainian soldiers and firefighters search in a destroyed building after a bombing attack in Kyiv
Four people have been arrested after trying to breach a cordon outside a Russian oligarchs London mansion which has been occupied by squatters.
A spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in Washington told multiple outlets Ive never heard of that when asked about the alleged requests.
Ukraines Foreign Minister has again this morning reiterated the countrys plea for Western countries to provide more support in the fight against Russia.
1,758,000 people fleeing Ukraine have crossed the  border since the beginning of Russia's aggression against this country.82,100 people were cleared by Polish Border Guard officers yesterday.PolandFirstToHelp solidarityWithUkraine pic.twitter.comEbpgGdUVx1
A technical pause has been taken in the negotiations until tomorrow, senior Ukrainian negotiator and president aide Mikhailo Podolyak wrote on Twitter, after both sides over the weekend raised hopes that an initial agreement would be announced.
Ukraine has said it would demand an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops during a fourth round of negotiations to end more than two weeks of fighting after Moscow launched an invasion of Ukraine.
TASS cited a law enforcement source as saying the woman has been detained and could be charged under legislation banning public acts that aim to discredit the use of Russias armed forces.
Nine people died and another nine were injured when Russian forces hit a television tower outside the city of Rivne today, local authorities said.
The Executive Office has strongly encouraged expressions of interest, and these can be made through an online portal due to open today.
While not all the details have yet been announced by Westminster, we are working at pace, making preparations so we stand ready to provide sanctuary to Ukrainian refugees, the spokesman said.
Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine claim that a missile strike by Ukrainian forces on their de facto capital Donetsk has left at least 16 people dead, including children.
I think in the first instance the two visa routes that we have are how we expect people will be housed in the UK, either through family or through this sponsorship route.
What we will be doing both today and tomorrow is assessing whether any further steps can be taken at European level, Donohoe said.
Renaud was shot dead in Irpin, according to medics and and eye witnesses. He is the first foreign reporter killed since Russia invaded Ukraine.
He spoke a day after 35 people were killed and more than 130 injured when Russian troops launched air strikes on a military training ground outside Ukraines western city of Lviv, near the border with NATO member Poland.
I extend my heartfelt condolences to the family of Brent Renaud who lost his life while documenting the ruthlessness  evil inflicted upon  people by Russia. May Brents life  sacrifice inspire the world to stand up in fight for the forces of light against forces of darkness. pic.twitter.combvQjM470OU   ZelenskyyUa March 14, 2022
We were silent in 2014 when this was all just beginning, she said, apparently referring to Moscows takeover of Crimea and support for Ukraines pro-Russian separatists.
The woman reportedly works for the TV station and she has been detained by police.
The current round of negotiations started in late November in the Austrian capital between Iran and Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia, with the US taking part indirectly.
The strike made clear that western Ukraine, largely spared so far since Russian forces invaded on 24 February, was vulnerable especially from long-range missiles.
Ukrenergo said the line was damaged again before the power supply was fully restored and that one of its repair crews will be going into occupied territory again for more repairs.
Tsikhanouskaya said her country was de-facto military occupied as the invasion continued  as Russia had been basing a large proportion of its troops along the Belarus-Ukraine border since the build-up to the war began.
The billionaire owner of the Chelsea football club and the others are being added to a list of individuals whose assets in the EU  including superyachts and mansions  can be seized and entry into the bloc refused, diplomats said.
Healthcare staff all over the world have been on the front lines over the past two years battling Covid-19 and now our Ukrainian colleagues are facing another monumental task working in the most arduous and tragic circumstances in the midst of a war, HSE CEO Paul Reid said.
Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney has accused Russia of completely unacceptable breaches of international law.
Deripaska, an industrialist who has had close links with the British political establishment, was targeted with sanctions by the Government last week.
Call with my Estonian counterpart eliimets on crucial next steps to force Russia to stop aggression and war crimes against Ukrainians. More biting sanctions must be imposed on Russia as soon as possible. I underlined the importance of speeding up Ukraines accession to the EU.
Bayer has suspended advertising and investments in Russia. Deliveries are focused on medicines and essential health products, i.e. for infants and children. Crop supplies for the 2023 growing season are contingent on peace. Full statement here: https:t.cofSwC41fXNM pic.twitter.comq0cLjppDnf Bayer AG Bayer March 14, 2022
Four protesters who have been surrounded by police on the balcony of a central London mansion owned by oligarch Oleg Deripaska say they have made their peace with getting arrested.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Official separatist Telegram channels distributed photos and video of the aftermath, showing burnt out cars, bodies strewn in the street, and damage to the exterior of shops.
My last day here. Just off the train from Kyiv this girl needs better shoes so an aid worker does the fitting in the foyer of the train station.Follow along on thejournalie: 'We need military aid now - Russia will not stop until Ukraine is destroyed' https:t.coeL4KyjfyHP pic.twitter.comZ0r80oMnLD Niall OConnor NiallJournalie March 14, 2022
Its flagship 9pm news show called Time has run since the Soviet era and is watched by millions around the country, particularly by older Russians.
Russia declined to turn up to a hearing at the UN court on 7 March.
Former heavyweight boxer Wladimir Klitschko has shared another update from Kyiv, this time showing the aftermath of a rocket attack in the Ukrainian capital.
Russian forces shelled a residential building and the Antonov factory  According to a preliminary toll, two people are dead and seven wounded, city hall said in a message on its Telegram account.
The parties actively express their specified positions. Communication is being held yet its hard. The reason for the discord is too different political systems.  is a free dialogue within the society  an obligatory consensus.  is an ultimatum suppression of its own society pic.twitter.comO00fnCd1WP
Any build-up of NATO military capabilities near Russias borders does not help to strengthen security in the region, Russias embassy in Norway told AFP last week.
The HSE said the minutes silence is to honour those who have died in Ukraine and healthcare colleagues who are working tirelessly and in great danger to continue to treat people in harrowing circumstances.
Moscow has accused Ukraines army of firing a missile at a residential area in Donetsk.
The Kyiv Independent has said its reporters have heard several loud explosions in central Kyiv.
His wealth is estimated to be 2.3 billion and he has a multimillion-pound property portfolio in the UK which, according to a 2007 High Court judgment, includes the house at 5 Belgrave Square. Records indicate it has not changed hands since and is owned by an offshore British Virgin Islands company.
EU finance ministers are meeting today and tomorrow to discuss the impact of Russias invasion of Ukraine on the European economy.
It is asking all staff, patients and visitors to HSE health services to observe the minutes silence at 12pm tomorrow, unless it is not clinically safe to do so.
Russia has the capacity out there to follow the exercise in an entirely legitimate manner, Odlo said.
Apply more sanctions on Russia and isolate it fully. Help Ukraine force Putin into failure and you will avert a larger war.
WARNINGRussia is going to blow up ammunition in front of the Zaporizhzhia NPP power unit. In the next hour, the occupiers, who captured the Zaporizhzhia NPP, plan to begin "disposal" of ammunition right on the site of the station near the ruins of the ZNPP training center.
As of 7.40, the bodies of two people were found in a nine-storey apartment building, three people were hospitalised and nine people were treated on the spot, the emergency service said on Facebook, adding that the building was in Kyivs Obolon district.
Tehrans Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian will head to Moscow tomorrow, his ministry said, days after negotiations on an Iran nuclear deal stalled amid new Russian demands.
Nine dead, nine wounded, the head of the regional administration, Vitaliy Koval, said on messaging app Telegram.
The four men have been sitting on the edge of the balcony, surrounded by police both inside and outside the building, for more than an hour.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has written a letter of condolence to the family of US documentary maker Brent Renaud.
A woman holding an anti-war poster jumped on screen during a live news broadcast on Russias state-run Channel One TV station this evening.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has dismissed as irrelevant the Russian demands for guarantees, saying that they just are not in any way linked together.
One person has been killed and 12 others injured after an air strike on a residential building in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
The Netherlands and Australia have launched a legal case against Russia seeking to hold Moscow accountable for its alleged role in the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17.
A pregnant woman and her baby have died after Russian forces bombed the maternity hospital in Ukraine where she was meant to give birth, medics have revealed.
Squatters have broken into a central London mansion apparently owned by Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska and declared it belongs to Ukrainian refugees.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz met in the Turkish capital Ankara with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who hopes to facilitate a solution via direct talks with Moscow.
Arrived in New York last night ahead of Taoiseachs visit to Washington DC this week for the annual St Patricks Day celebrationsAs reported, the global greening programme is on pause this week so buildings can remain in the Ukrainian colours such as the Empire State Building pic.twitter.comFccwvgUS5x Christina Finn christinafinn8 March 14, 2022
Video of a Russian strike on Kyiv. https:t.co3xLBJuCRS4 pic.twitter.comHpWBpDnoWX Rob Lee RALee85 March 14, 2022
Niall reports that work is underway by Polish authorities to turn the make-shift arrival centre for Ukrainian refugees into a more permanent structure.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 14 March 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.cowg3FhtrkiY StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comcJikRzwVpQ Ministry of Defence  DefenceHQ March 14, 2022
The poster says Stop the war. Dont believe the propaganda. They are lying to you.
It comes after high-ranking US and Chinese officials met for seven hours on the Ukraine war and other security issues.
Arrived in New York last night ahead of Taoiseachs visit to Washington DC this week for the annual St Patricks Day celebrationsAs reported, the global greening programme is on pause this week so buildings can remain in the Ukrainian colours such as the Empire State Building pic.twitter.comFccwvgUS5x
Several loud explosions heard in central Kyiv, according to our reporters.The explosions appear to be the city's air defense systems shooting down the missiles targeting Kyiv.
TheUnited Nations top court said it will give a judgment on Wednesday on Ukraines charge that Russia falsely justified its invasion by accusations of genocide.
Britains defence ministry says Russia has established a naval blockade on theBlack Sea coast, effectively isolating Ukraine from international maritime trade.
Two people were killed as various neighbourhoods of the Ukraine capital Kyiv came under shelling and missile attacks, city officials have said.
CCTV footage captured the moment a Russian projectile destroyed a Kyiv city bus and damaged the surrounding street, killing one person and injuring six.
We didnt go to protests when the Kremlin poisoned Alexei Navalny. We just silently observed this anti-human regime. And now the whole world has turned away from us.
Putin's dream of creating a Greater Russia is my country's nightmare. SaveUkrainekyiv StopPutinsWar Standtogether FreeUkraine WeAreAllUkrainians StandWithUkraine StopTheWar pic.twitter.comEKw3K6BsbZ
The footage shows the projectile impacting the ground from an angle in the park as pedestrians and cars pass by, sending debris across the street as the area soon begins to fill with black smoke.
One person was killed and 10 wounded when a residential building was shelled in the Obolon district in the north of the city, officials said, adding that later in the morning missile fragments fell on the street in the Kurenivka district killing one person and wounding six.
Moscow also asked Beijing for economic assistance against the crippling sanctions imposed against it by most of the Western world, the New York Times said, again citing anonymous officials.
Russian police detain more than 800 people across 37 cities for protesting Moscows military operation in Ukraine. Nearly 15,000 people have reportedly been detained at rallies across the country since the invasion began.
Speaking in Brussels this afternoon, Donohoe said the government has been proactive in trying to support citizens, but the EU may be able to do more together.
Some 200 aircraft and 50 vessels are also taking part in the manoeuvres, which last until 1 April.
Communication is being held yet its hard. The reason for the discord is too different political systems.
Talksbetween the two sides are to resume today by videoconference, according to Ukrainian negotiators and the Kremlin, after both sides hailed progress at earlier rounds aimed at ending more than two weeks of fighting.
We have all been shocked and saddened by the scenes coming out of Ukraine since the illegal attack by the Russian Federation began a fortnight ago. I am proud to say that many of the people of South Dublin County have already arranged collections of money and goods for the Ukrainian people, the Mayor of South Dublin County, Cllr Peter Kavanagh, said.
Electricity supplyhas been restoredat Ukraines retiredChernobylnuclear power plant that was seized by Russian forces in the first days of the invasion.
Almost 2.7 million people have fled the war in Ukraine, more than 100,000 of them in the past 24 hours, the UN says. More than half have gone to Poland.
Meanwhile a spokesman for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has told Chelsea fans that they must stop the completely inappropriate chanting of Abramovichs name.
We are in agreement on the issue of reaching a ceasefire as soon as possible, Scholz told a joint news conference after the meeting.
The social network also appeared on a list of online resources with restricted access published by Russias media regulator Roskomnadzor.
A couple dozen cruise missiles were launched from bombers flying over Russia to the Yavoriv overnight Saturday, killing 35 people and wounding 134.
As during previous editions of the exercise, neighbouring Sweden and Finland, which are military non-aligned but increasingly close partners of NATO, will also participate in Cold Response.
The 2105 deal gave Iran sanctions relief in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme.
The base was located west of Lviv and just 20 kilometers from Ukraines border with EU and NATO member Poland.
I took those photos in beautiful Mariupol just months ago. Mind-blowing and heart-breaking that it has come to this: More than 2,000 dead, and 400,000 trapped without heat, food or clean water. https:t.cowctRynmDFe pic.twitter.comN1jRSb9gPB Matthew Luxmoore mjluxmoore March 14, 2022
In response to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, NATO Allies have increased readiness and vigilance across Europe to defend and protect all Allies NATO NATO March 14, 2022
WARNINGRussia is going to blow up ammunition in front of the Zaporizhzhia NPP power unit. In the next hour, the occupiers, who captured the Zaporizhzhia NPP, plan to begin "disposal" of ammunition right on the site of the station near the ruins of the ZNPP training center. Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine uaparliament March 14, 2022
Russia, not Europe, must feel the greatest cost from EU sanctions, Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe has said.
Zelenskyy extends martial law in Ukraine for another 30 days pic.twitter.comx4781hdVJ2 NEXTA nextatv March 14, 2022
Nearly 2,200 residents of Ukraines besieged city ofMariupolhave been killed since hostilities began, the local authorities say.
Kyiv filed the case at the International Court of Justice ICJ shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February, demanding that the tribunal order an end to the offensive.
A senior US official has told AFP that the United States has deep concerns about alignment between Russia and China.
In a statement carried by state news agency TASS, Channel One said that an incident took place with an extraneous woman in shot. An internal check is being carried out.
Energoatom, Ukraines state-run nuclear energy company, said explosives had been detonated and that further explosions were planned.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
AFP could not independently verify the death toll reported by authorities in the territory that has been controlled by pro-Moscow rebels since 2014.
A Kremlin spokesman says that Russian forces have so far held off on a full-scale onslaught on large cities because the civilian losses would be large but that Moscow does not rule out the possibility of putting large cities under its full control.
Images of the woman being rushed to an ambulance on a stretcher had circled the world, epitomising the horror of the attack.
Heavy bombardment has left some 400,000 inhabitants with no running water or heating and food running short.
Energoatom: Russian troops blew up explosives at Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant.Ukraines state-run nuclear energy company said on March 14 that the explosives had been blown up near the Russian-controlled Ukrainian plants main reactor and that further explosions are planned.
One person was killed and 12 others injured after an airstrike on a residential building in the capital Kyiv, which has been bracing for a major offensive. The toll was revised down from an earlier figure of two dead.
It was corroborated by a message from mayor of the city and former world heavyweight boxing champion Vitali Klitschko.
Britains defence ministry says Russia has established a naval blockade on the Black Sea coast, effectively isolating Ukraine from international maritime trade.
I took those photos in beautiful Mariupol just months ago. Mind-blowing and heart-breaking that it has come to this: More than 2,000 dead, and 400,000 trapped without heat, food or clean water. https:t.cowctRynmDFe pic.twitter.comN1jRSb9gPB
Tweeting a photo of the discussions, which are being held via video call, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said: The parties actively express their specified positions.
In response to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, NATO Allies have increased readiness and vigilance across Europe to defend and protect all Allies
According to the presidency official website, Zelenskyy made a visit to the hospital to award militaries with orders and medals for courage and dedication, and to honor the hospital staff for exemplary work in difficult conditions
I hereby challenge  to single combatStakes are  Elon Musk elonmusk March 14, 2022
Fighting rages in theKyivsuburbs as Russian forces advance ever closer to the capital. Only roads to the south remain open and Kyiv is preparing to mount a relentless defence, according to the Ukrainian presidents office.
The HSE is to hold a minutes silence tomorrow in solidarity with healthcare workers in Ukraine.
This is a small gesture we as a health service, along with our patients, service users and visitors can observe, Reid said.
The plant has emergency diesel generators that can temporarily provide the electricity needed to power security systems including the cooling systems for a spent nuclear fuel storage facility, Ukraines nuclear power inspection body SNRIU said last week.
Lollipops, toys and flowers - just some acts of kindness which Ukraine's refugees have been met with at other countries' bordershttps:t.coPTlp6YJWSK pic.twitter.comMFjOmL6ELK
The Chernobyl nuclear power plant lost power for the second time since falling into Russian hands at the start of the invasion, according to authorities.
A firefighter hugs an elderly woman after evacuation from an apartment building hit by shelling in Kyiv
Moscow correspondents from various western news outlets, including The Guardian and the Washington Post, have reported that it is genuine footage.
Two people have been killed after an Antonov aircraft factory in Kyiv and a nearby residential building were targeted by Russian shelling, city officials said.
Ukraines Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster in 1986, has once again lost its electricity supply, according to the countrys energy operator Ukrenergo.
The meals and body armour came from existing Defence Forces stocks and have already been shipped. They are expected to arrive at a co-ordinating Polish logistics hub in the next few days.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned NATO that its members could come under Russian attack if they do not act to impose a no-fly zone over his country.
An explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 1986 killed hundreds and spread a radioactive cloud across Europe.
Surgeon Timur Marin found the womans pelvis crushed and hip detached. Medics delivered the baby via caesarean section, but it showed no signs of life, the surgeon said. They then began work on the mother.
A fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia will get underway via videoconference today. Russian officials described the talks as hard as the two sides trade accusations over civilian deaths.
The AFP news organisation is reporting that the European Union will sanction RomanAbramovich and other oligarchs in its latest round of punishment of Russians seen as supporting Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
The officials declined to explain exactly what Russia had requested, or whether China had responded, according to the reports.
But the US unilaterally withdrew from the accord in 2018 under then-president Donald Trump and imposed tough economic sanctions on different sectors, including oil exports.
At least two people died and 12 have been wounded following an air strike on a residential building in Ukraines capital Kyiv, the countrys emergency service said this morning.
US officials told media that Russia had requested military equipment and support from its key ally.
Energoatom: Russian troops blew up explosives at Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant.Ukraines state-run nuclear energy company said on March 14 that the explosives had been blown up near the Russian-controlled Ukrainian plants main reactor and that further explosions are planned. The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 14, 2022
Organised every two years, the naval, air and ground drills are held over vast swathes of Norways territory, including above the Arctic Circle.
If you dont close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian rockets fall on your territory, on NATO territory, Zelenskyy said in a video address released shortly after midnight.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Our reporter Niall OConnor has arrived in the Polish town of Medyka on the border with Ukraine.
Our reporter Niall OConnor continues to report from thePolandUkraine border. He will be keeping us up-to-date with the very latest on the growing refugee crisis there.
A reporter from The Wall Street Journal has shared striking images of Mariupol just months ago.
Most people in Belarus are against the invasion, she told presenter Joe Duffy  noting that, historically, there had long been very close ties between the people of Belarus and the people of Ukraine.
Call with my Estonian counterpart eliimets on crucial next steps to force Russia to stop aggression and war crimes against Ukrainians. More biting sanctions must be imposed on Russia as soon as possible. I underlined the importance of speeding up Ukraines accession to the EU. Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 14, 2022
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy yesterday visited a military hospital following fighting in the Kyiv region.
Huge crowds here about to board buses. This family have come from Denipro via Kyiv and Lviv. Just one example of the trip which is similar to all others: two day journey by train and now are hoping to join family in Lithuania. thejournalie pic.twitter.com9n55oheYW6
The Kremlin says that it may still opt to take control of large cities in Ukraine, as Moscows military advances steadily towards several major urban hubs.
The Metropolitan Police said: Four people, inc the two detained earlier, have been arrested after attempting to gain access to the row of buildings where a protest remains ongoing in Belgrave Square, W1.
We are keep to offer practical supports too and the HSE coordinated a donation of medical equipment to Ukraine and we are planning a number of further donations, in conjunction with the Department of Health.
Russia has accused the West of seeking to push it into an artificial default through unprecedented sanctions over Ukraine, but vowed to meet its debt payments.
I extend my heartfelt condolences to the family of Brent Renaud who lost his life while documenting the ruthlessness  evil inflicted upon  people by Russia. May Brents life  sacrifice inspire the world to stand up in fight for the forces of light against forces of darkness. pic.twitter.combvQjM470OU
With Irelands global greening programme being paused due to the war in Ukraine, Christina snapped a photo of the Empire State Building lit up in Ukrainian colours.
But the negotiations were halted again after Russia on 5 March demanded guarantees that Western sanctions imposed following its invasion of Ukraine would not damage its trade with Iran.
The cruise missiles that devastated a western Ukrainian military base over the weekend were launched from aircraft flying in Russian air space, a US defense official has said, indicating that a no-fly zone would not have prevented the attack.
They are part of a fourth round of EU sanctions against Russia, the details of which are expected to be published later today.
Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine have said that a strike by Kyivs forces on the rebel de facto capital Donetsk left at least 16 people dead, ahead of talks to resolve the war.
The executive director of the Bellingcat investigative journalism group also verified that the incident took place and was broadcast on Channel One.
Amir-Abdollahian will go to Moscow on Tuesday to continue discussions on the nuclear deal, ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh told reporters today.
Already during this war the UN human rights office said it is gravely concerned by the rising death toll andwarned Russia last week that attacks targeting civilians are banned and could amount to war crimes.
Mr Deripaska, an industrialist who has had close links with the British political establishment, was targeted with sanctions by the Government last week.
This practical assistance is a further tangible demonstration of Irelands support for and solidarity with the people of Ukraine, Coveney said.
Beijing has today accused Washington of spreading disinformation over Chinas role in the Ukraine war, ahead of talks between the two countries envoys in Rome.
The decision to provide this additional material is in response to a direct request from Ukraine for specifically defined non-lethal equipment.
The city council said on Telegram that currently the ceasefire regime is being maintained along the humanitarian corridor.
          pic.twitter.com3EMbhSdIGU   YaroslavConway March 14, 2022
A lot of work going on here in Medyka. The makeshift tents for the refugees being dug out and given solid flooring. Also clearing land to provide more tent space. Smaller crowds here today but there are still 2m people in Kyiv. More to come. thejournalie pic.twitter.comARw1CNYiz6
The squatters call themselves the London Mahknovists  after Nestor Makhno, who led an anarchist force that attempted to form a stateless society in Ukraine during the Russian Revolution of 1917-1923.
A senior US official said the United States has deep concerns about alignment between Russia and China.
China accused Washington of spreading disinformation over Beijings role in the Ukraine conflict, without directly addressing reports in US media that Russia is seeking Chinese military and economic aid.
US media yesterday reported that Russia has asked China for military and economic aid for its war in Ukraine.
Ukrainian firefighters work in a resident building after it was hit by artillery shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz last month pledged to invest 100 billion in the nations chronically underfunded Bundeswehr.
The freezing of foreign currency accounts of the Bank of Russia and of the Russian government can be regarded as the desire of a number of foreign countries to organise an artificial default that has no real economic grounds, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in a statement.
Major military exercises involving 30,000 NATO troops and partner countries have kicked off in Norway today.
The EU today brought in a fourth round of sanctions, further targeting individuals and companies implicated in the assault on Ukraine.
