Biden says Russia has made the decision to invade Ukraine
20220218
https://www.thejournal.ie/russian-military-drills-ukraine-tensions-5686932-Feb2022/
Rebel leader Pushilin called on people to listen to the authorities and cooperate with the evacuation plan.
Biden said Moscow is conducting a disinformation campaign, including accusing Kyiv of planning its own attack in order to create a pretext for a Russian invasion.
Weve been taking steps to coordinate with major energy consumers, major energy producers to ensure that we have steady energy supplies and stable energy markets, he said.
The war games follow US president Joe Bidens warning on Thursday that Russia could invade Ukraine within days.
But Moscow has demanded that the US and its allies keep Ukraine and other ex-Soviet nations out of Nato, not deploy weapons in Ukraine and pull back Nato forces from Eastern Europe.
The strategic forces of both Russia and the United States include a nuclear triad of land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarine-based ICBMs and nuclear-capable bombers.
All these are consistent with the playbook the Russians have used before to set up a false justification to act against Ukraine, Biden said at the White House.
The leader of the Lugansk separatist region in eastern Ukraine Leonid Pasechnik also urged residents to evacuate to prevent civilian casualties.
UN chief Antonio Guterres said it would be catastrophic if the Russia-Ukraine crisis escalated into a war.
With a concentration of Russian troops around Ukraine, I am deeply concerned about heightened tensions and increased speculation about a military conflict in Europe, Guterres said.
If Russia decides to weaponise its energy supply, were ready, White House deputy national security advisor for international economicsDaleep Singh told reporters.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
But in the rebel-held areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, separatist leaders accused Kyiv of planning an offensive and government forces of carrying out sabotage, in what US Secretary of State Antony Blinken dubbed a strategy of creating false provocations.
Biden is to hold video talks with Western allies, including the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Germany and NATO, later today to discuss the crisis.
US PRESIDENT JOE Biden has said that he believes Russian leader Vladimir Putin has decided to invade Ukraine, but added that there is still room for diplomacy to defuse the crisis.
The Russian military said it started pulling troops back to their permanent bases after the drill. The US and its allies questioned the claim and said that Moscow has actually moved thousands of new troops closer to Ukraine.
It comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin says that he plans on personally overseeing massive drills of the Russian militarys strategic forces, including the launch of cruise and ballistic missiles.
Washington and its allies bluntly rejected the Russian demands, and Moscow threatened to take unspecified military-technical measures if the West continues to stonewall.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin would observe the drills from the Defence Ministrys situation room and supervise the practice missile launches himself.
The American people are united. Europe is united. The Transatlantic community is united. The entire free world is united. Russia has a choice  between war and all the suffering that it will bring  or diplomacy that will make the future safer for everyone, he said.
Amid concern that Moscow would take the purported Ukrainian offensive as a pretext to launch its own intervention, Ukraines foreign minister furiously denied the allegations.
The ministry said it planned the manoeuvres some time ago to check the readiness of Russias military command and personnel, as well as the reliability of its nuclear and conventional weapons.
Russia holds massive drills of its strategic nuclear forces on an annual basis, but the manoeuvres planned for Saturday pointedly involve the Black Sea Fleet.
Western fears focus on an estimated 150,000 Russian troops  including about 60 of Russias overall ground forces  concentrated near Ukraines borders. The Kremlin insists it has no plans to invade.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Ukraine does not conduct or plan any such actions in the Donbas. We are fully committed to diplomatic conflict resolution only.
The fleet is based on the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014.
There is simply no evidence to these assertions and it defies basic logic to believe the Ukrainians would choose this moment, with well over 150,000 Russian troops arrayed on its borders, to escalate a years-long conflict, Biden said.
Earlier, eastern Ukraines separatist pro-Moscow republics said they will begin evacuating civilians to Russia as fears of a large-scale conflict grow.
The US has already said it is ready for fallout if Russia decides to weaponise its massive energy reserves in response to Western sanctions, a senior US official said this evening.
An AFP reporter near the front between government forces and rebel-held territory in the Lugansk region heard the thud of explosions and saw damaged civilian buildings on Kyivs side of the line.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Peskov said Russia notified foreign partners in advance and the exercise should not cause worries in the West.
The exercise of Russias nuclear forces follows a series of sweeping drills that the Russian military held near Ukraine and in Belarus, an ally of Moscow that neighbours Ukraine to the north.
The Black Sea Fleet has surface warships and submarines equipped with Kalibr cruise missiles, but it does not have intercontinental ballistic missiles and did not take part in similar previous drills of the countrys strategic forces.
From today, a mass centralised departure of the population to the Russian Federation has been organised. Women, children and the elderly are subject to be evacuated first, said Denis Pushilin, head of the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR
We categorically refute Russian disinformation reports on Ukraines alleged offensive operations or acts of sabotage in chemical production facilities, Dmytro Kuleba declared on Twitter.
As of this moment Im convinced hes made the decision. We have reason to believe that, said the president  saying an attack could come in the next weeks or days.
The West says Russia could attack Ukraine at any moment, despite Moscow saying it has pulled back some of its forces from Ukraines borders.
But with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken scheduled to speak with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Thursday, Biden said there is still time for negotiations to defuse the crisis.
Practice launches of ballistic missiles are part of regular training, he said. They are preceded by a series of notices to other nations via different channels.
We believe they will target Ukraines capital Kyiv, a city of 2.8 million innocent people, he said of Russian forces.
Moscow argued that the pullback takes time and rejected Western criticism, saying that it would deploy troops wherever it is necessary to ensure national security.
Temporary escape will protect your life and health, and that of your relatives, Pushilin said.
