Choose the side of good Ukrainian nationals protest outside Chinese Embassy in Dublin
20220228
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukrainian-protesters-chinese-embassy-dublin-5696883-Feb2022/
He said that as the western world imposed punitive sanctions on Russia, it was important to get China on side.
Chinese leader Xi Jinping met with Russian president Vladimir Putin in Beijing earlier this month, and China has refused to either condemn or endorse Russias actions, despite its insistence on upholding national sovereignty above all.
Sergey Koloskov, who attended the protest, is from Donetsk, one of the two breakaway republics recognised by Russia.
The Chinese embassy, on the Ailesbury Road in south Dublin, is only a short walk from the Russian Embassy residence, the scene of a large demonstration on Sunday.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
She hears her mum talking to university friend, who is stuck in an apartment right in the middle of the worst fighting in Kyiv. Like a World War Two tank battle.
I am the example of a Russia-speaking Ukrainian citizen, which Putin is allegedly protecting, he said.
My own family is relatively fine. But when I hear stories of my friends, they are not fine. Many of them are in big trouble.
A SMALL CROWD of Ukrainians gathered outside the Chinese Embassy in Dublin today calling on the global superpower to wield its influence against Russia.
We are staying here to push China to have some statement against Russia and show their support for Ukraine and, ironically, democracy.
He said that his daughter is becoming aware of what is going on in her parents country.
We decided to go to Chinese Embassy, because right now China doesnt really have any statement about Russia  neither support, neither deny. And Russia is really looking to China to support its trade, he said.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Demonstrators, who have taken to the streets of the Irish capital in the days since since Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, called on China to choose the side of good.
