Commodity prices going through the roof says Taoiseach
20220313
https://www.thejournal.ie/micheal-martn-cost-of-living-commodities-5709658-Mar2022/
With petrol prices now topping 2 per litre at the pump in some areas, the government has come under pressure to reduce the impact on households.
It has also been under pressure to cut fuel taxes ahead of presidential elections next month, with more than half of prices at the pump made up of taxation.
Last October, the government of President Emmanuel Macron announced a cap on gas and electricity prices until the end of 2022 and handed out cheques to poor households to help them with their domestic energy bills.
Underlying petrol and diesel costs are linked to global oil markets which have risen by around 30 since the start of the year due to strong global demand and Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Ireland is heavily reliant on imported grain, with around 60 of the 5.5 million tonnes used in the country every year sourced from overseas.
Asked how concerned he is about the shortage of certain products, he said: I think Europe is capable of feeding itself.
Martin, who was speaking to reporters during a visit to London, said the precise impact of the war is yet to be determined.
That has very serious repercussions across the continent, which will impact on Ireland, and thats why theres been discussions with Irish farming organisations.
Pressed on potential shortages of particular products and lack of choice, Mr Martin said: I dont want to scaremonger at this stage.
That means every time you fill up for 60, you save around 9, Castex said.
The bill will be slashed by this amount when vehicle owners pay, with the state then reimbursing gas station owners for the difference.
I think there will be a very significant issue around grain, and it looks very likely Ukraine will not be planting this season.
Meanwhile, the French government has announced a package worth 2 billion to help consumers struggling with soaring fuel prices.
French Prime Minister Jean Castex announced yesterday evening that petrol and diesel prices would be reduced by 15c per litre.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Martin said this will feed into the economy, with the three main areas being fuel prices, food and general commodities.
The Taoiseach said there will be an impact on food but said he was not clear yet about any specific issues around shortages.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Im just not in a position to predict this. But I want to say to people though, the war will impact on us, particularly in terms of prices of many products, and thats probably the earliest manifestation of the war through food and everything else, he said.
The precise nature of that impact is yet to be determined, but commodity prices are going through the roof basically.
Asked if the country is in a war economy, he replied: Not quite yet but were heading into that direction.
MICHEL MARTIN HAS said commodity prices are going through the roof as he warned people to expect an economic impact from Russias war in Ukraine.
The Taoiseach said the conflict will affect how much products cost and said a possible shortage of grain will have very serious repercussions.
