Daughter of Kremlin hardline ideologue killed by car bomb
20220821
https://www.thejournal.ie/daria-dugina-putin-car-bomb-5845501-Aug2022/
THE DAUGHTER OF Alexander Dugin, a hardline Russian ideologue close to President Vladimir Putin, has been killed in a car bombing on Moscows outskirts, authorities said on Sunday.
The head of one of Ukraines breakaway separatist regions blamed the blast on Kyiv authorities.
In July Britain put her on a list of sanctioned Russians for allegedly spreading online disinformation about Ukraine.
Daria Dugina was killed when a bomb placed in the Toyota Land Cruiser went off as she drove on a highway near the village of Bolshie Vyzyomy, some 40 kilometres 25 miles outside Moscow, Russias Investigative Committee said in a statement.
He has long advocated the unification of Russian-speaking territories in a vast new Russian empire and wholeheartedly supported Moscows operation in Ukraine.
He was put on a Western sanctions list after Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, a move he also backed.
Dugin, 60, sometimes called Putins Rasputin or Putins brain, is an outspoken Russian ultranationalist intellectual.
Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Telegram that if the Ukrainian theory is confirmed  and it must be verified by competent authorities, it will amount to state terrorism on the part of the Kyiv regime.
Ukraine surely doesnt have anything to do with yesterdays explosion because were not a criminal state, he said in televised remarks.
Dugina, a journalist born in 1992 who herself openly supported the offensive, died at the scene and a homicide investigation has been opened, said the committee, which probes major crime cases in Russia.
The Ukrainian regime terrorists tried to liquidate Alexander Dugin, but blew up his daughter, DNR chief Denis Pushilin wrote on Telegram.
According to family members quoted by Russian media, Dugin  a vocal supporter of Kremlins offensive in Ukraine  was the likely target of the blast as his daughter borrowed his car at the last minute.
