Disinformation Ukraine and the war of words on social media
20220224
https://www.thejournal.ie/false-news-about-ukraine-conflict-5692894-Feb2022/
Elliot Higgins, founder of the fact-checking website, debunked a video of a saboteur attempting to blow up a sewage treatment plant that was described as evidence of the criminal intentions of the Ukrainian side.
Propaganda Canetta describes as an ideological belief based on an element of truth, for example the Russian government stating that Nato started the aggression by building up more bases in the region. Disinformation would be more specific about an alleged event happening, eg a fake video of Ukrainian soldiers defecting to Russia.
Evidence of a Russian government campaign to spread fake information remains to be seen, according to Canetta.
I think we must be ready and continue our monitoring of the situation. Moreover, we need to have a clear and honest picture of what is happening, he told The Journal.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Reports of pro-Russian disinformation started to filter in as open source intelligence OSINT specialists picked apart viral videos in the days leading up to this mornings pre-dawn assault.
According to fact-checkers monitoring the situation closely, the rates of false news relating to Ukraine were low. However, Tommaso Canetta of Pagella Politica and the European Digital Media Observatory or EDMO, of which this publication is also a member told The Journal that as February went on, a growth in dodgy content was detected. While levels of disinformation were not alarmingly high, Canetta said following the invasion he expects the situation to change substantially.
Ruslan Stefanov, programme director at the Bulgarian Centre for the Study of Democracy disagrees and called pro-Russian content springing up in Serbia a state-sponsored reality.
In the last weeks, we have observed all sorts of false flag operations. It starts from the Kremlin, it goes through the official media, it goes through all these fringe and social media with photos that are doctored, with claims that are doctored, he said.
So what to do in the avalanche of information? According to Canetta for fact-checkers its keep calm and carry on.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
That kind of content is aimed at Russian viewers to drum up support for a Ukrainian invasion according to Eliot Higgins, who told the Guardian that international audiences were impervious to this kind of disinformation.
The video shown on Russias state-run broadcaster was supposedly shot from the enemys helmet camera and stolen after a gunfight with pro-Russian militia. Except internet sleuths scraped the metadata info attached to media that reveals things like creation dates and file names. They found the video had been made up with extra sources of video and audio, then searched YouTube for the same filenames and found out the video actually contained audio ripped from an old Finnish military video.
Bellingcats Investigation Team tracked claims made by Russian state media and pro-separatists channels in a spreadsheet. They then verified photos and videos of alleged Ukrainian aggression using metadata and YouTube.
There are now more platforms than ever to get information instantly, leaving little to no time to check if its true during an unfolding crisis. As international communities turn to digital sources to keep up with on-the-ground Ukrainian updates, it puts them in the firing line of questionable reports. Ukrainian English-language publication The Kyiv Post tweeted this morning that its website had been under constant cyber attack from the moment Russia launched its military offensive.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
However, false reports around the Ukrainian conflict have leapt from the depths of pro-Russian Telegram a messaging app channels and into the news feeds of wider European audiences.
The EDMO page tracks in real time how many European fact-checks are completed on the Ukranian conflict. In the first 14 hours of the conflict, 34 claims, mostly videos and photos of explosions or shelling were debunked or verified. That number is expected to grow as the conflict goes on.
With the website cutting in and out all day, it turned to social media to put out rapid fire updates in English on the number of Russian aircraft shot down, for a large international audience locked out of other local outlets due to a language barrier. Then it was revealed that the established outlet had used an image of a 1993 air crash under a tweet claiming it was an image of the sixth Russian aircraft shot down today.
Fact checkers from Spain and Portugal picked up a fake BBC video in early February claiming a nuclear war between Nato and Russia was imminent. The video isnt a real newscast  instead, it was made by an Irish company with an actor to see how their clients would react in a disaster scenario in 2016. The post with the false claims was in English and had popped up in both Portuguese and Spanish news feeds, which means Ukraine-related disinformation is being targeted outside the countries in the conflict to wider European audiences.
AS THE RUSSIAN invasion of Ukraine escalates, an information war is being waged online as fact-checkers across Europe brace for a new, targeted wave of false news.
AFP similarly disproved a video of Ukrainian troops entering Russia by revealing they were actually made up of years-old military drills and footage from the 2014 Crimea conflict.
I cannot say we see a state sponsored spread of false news in the EU about Ukraine, he said. Instead he describes claims coming from official Kremlin sources, such as those made in Putins latest speech, more at propaganda level than disinformation.
