Europe must turn off tap of money going to Russia for oil and gas Eamon Ryan says
20220503
https://www.thejournal.ie/eu-readies-for-end-of-russian-gas-5753706-May2022/
During the meeting, European officials were forced to deal with media reports that Italy wants to continue to pay in roubles until there is a legal alternative.
I mean, paying with one currency is one thing, but if that involves another countrys central bank, then it becomes part of a different part of the package, and that is going to be a bit tricky.
She added that Russias actions showed they are not reliable suppliers and that means that all the member states have to have plans in place for full disruption.
Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba earlier told Morning Ireland that since the beginning of the war, EU countries have paid more than 40 billion to Russia for gas and oil.
Ryan attended the meeting in Brussels yesterday. Speaking on Morning Ireland today, the minister said Europe needs to turn off the tap of money going to Russia to fund this war.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Simson and some ministers seemed to say that this would still constitute a sanctions breach. But other member states demanded further clarification from the European Commissions experts.
Ryan said he agreed with Kubela, stating: I think hes right. I think we need to go strong and as quickly as we can.
Many countries, including the Baltic states, Denmark, the Netherlands and Finland, have today reaffirmed solidarity and that they will certainly not pay in roubles, she said.
The European Union supports Ukraine with one hand and at the same time EU members pay for Russian gas and oil with the other hand  subsidising the Russian war machine.
But energy and environment ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday addressed the larger and potentially more complicated issue of Russias natural gas, upon which several countries  including EU top economy Germany  depend for much of their power generation.
Ryan was speaking after the European Union warned member states to prepare for a possible complete breakdown in gas supplies from Russia, insisting it would not cede to Moscows demand that imports be paid for in roubles.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Germanys minister for economic affairs and climate Robert Habeck said Berlin would follow EU policy but also suggested the dual Gazprombank accounts plan could be a face-saving solution for Putin.
Ryan noted that yesterdays meeting was in response to Russia cutting off supplies to Poland and Bulgaria, adding that Moscow is likely to cut supplies to other countries who have refused to pay for their energy in roubles.
The commission will propose a tapered ban over six to eight months, to give time to diversify supply. One senior official said there could be opt-outs for the most dependent countries, like Hungary.
After the talks, the French chair of the meeting, ecological transition minister Barbara Pompili, and the European commissioner for energy, Kadri Simson, said the 27 member states were united with Poland and Bulgaria and would stockpile gas to be prepared for a breakdown.
Kadri said she had spoken to Italian minister Roberto Cingolani, who did not attend the meeting, and that the report was misleading  but she promised to provide him and all EU capitals with clearer guidance on resisting Putins ultimatum.
On Monday, the EUs top diplomat, Josep Borrell, said the new sanctions package would result in more Russian banks that will leave SWIFT during a visit to Panama.
Moscow has demanded clients from unfriendly countries  including EU member states  pay for gas in roubles, a way to sidestep Western financial sanctions against its central bank. It has cut off Bulgaria and Poland after their firms refused to comply.
This is why sanctions are so crucial. However, I want to be clear on this, the time for half measures when it comes to sanctions is gone because of what is happening now.
The European Commission will today propose to member states a new package of sanctions to punish President Vladimir Putins Kremlin for its invasion of Ukraine, including an embargo on Russian oil, officials said.
We understand that Russia still has some reserves which allow them to uphold their economy. But in a midterm perspective, Russia will be exhausted and Putin will be stopped, Kubela said.
The Green Party leader said energy has been used as a weapon by Russia to try and divide Europe.
Energy is being used in this conflict as a weapon. Its a weapon against the European people, as well as the people in Ukraine.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Simson said that following the full procedure as set out by Russia constitutes a breach of sanctions imposed by the European Union. She said that, to her knowledge, no European company was preparing to follow Putins decree and change its payment methods.
The Czech minister of industry and trade, Jozef Sikela, said he had asked for a clear explanation of how to proceed.
The sixth package of anti-Russian measures will also target the countrys largest bank, Sberbank, which will be excluded from the global banking communications system SWIFT, diplomats said.
The EU will tomorrow propose a phased-out ban on imports of Russian oil  but not gas.
But Swedens Khashayar Farmanbar, minister for energy and digital development, said: I think the clarification is still ongoing  it is a complex process.
What has happened today is that the European Commission and the presidency have confirmed that paying in roubles is unacceptable, that it is a breach of sanctions and a breach of European solidarity, Polands environment minister Anna Moskwa said.
This would entail a firm opening two accounts in Russian state energy giant Gazproms bank. Payments would be deposited in one account in euros or dollars, then be passed through the sanctioned Russian central bank, before arriving in the second account in roubles.
ENVIRONMENT MINISTER EAMON Ryan has said Europe needs to act decisively to turn off the tap of money going to Russia for oil and gas.
The minister said the Irish government has called for the strongest possible sanctions, because the risk we have is that kind of gradual approach will see this war dragging, and terrible loss of lives and also damage to the everyday lives of everyone in Europe because the high energy prices were seeing are a direct consequence of the war.
Several European countries are to renew supply gas contracts at the end of May, and reports suggest some could seek to work around the sanctions by following the method put forward by Moscow.
At the end of the council meeting yesterday  and for all the differences and all the difficulties  there was actually a real sense of unity and solidarity and common purpose to support the Ukrainian people and to to take on this use of energy as a ransom weapon, Ryan stated.
