Father to leave family in Limerick to fight in war in native Ukraine
20220310
https://www.thejournal.ie/mykola-krutsyk-leaving-ireland-fight-ukraine-russia-5706800-Mar2022/
Placing the palm of his right hand on his chest, he declared my only training is my love for Ukraine, it is in my heart.
'I owe it to my homeland': Ukrainians at the Polish border explain why they're going back home
Me and some friends will be going and we will be staying in Kyiv  this is very important as it is the capital city for Ukrainians, he said.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Yes, of course Im worried about him but I know that this is something he would do in a situation like this, I understand, said Nicolay.
He is also bringing military helmets, vests, uniforms, shoes and boots for those he will join to defend Ukraine from Russias invasion.
Speaking at his home, Krutsyk, said he is going to Ukraine because Russia started this war and they are killing Ukrainian people, children, women, and I must help, I must be there to help my fellow Ukrainians.
I am staying, but I had thoughts of going but I have to look after my mum and other family members are going to be coming here so I have to be here.
I have talked with him and he does not want to go from Kyiv, he wants to stay there, but it is not good.
Ukraine will not blindly defend their masters but they will defend their homes. We are a proud country, he said.
His son Nicolay 20 who was born in Limerick, said he had considered traveling to Kyiv with his father, however, he will stay to look after his mother and welcome relatives crossing the Ukraine borders and onto Limerick.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
The former electronics shop owner again returned to Ukraine in 2014 after Russia annexed Crimea to deliver clothes to children and other supplies, for which he was awarded with a volunteer medal.
'We saw things no family should ever see': Irish aid worker meets refugees at the border
Krutsykplans to bring some medical supplies with him to the frontline, including thermometers, bandages, surgical stitches, ice-packs and surgical gloves.
Over the years he has collected eight such medals for his volunteer work for Ukraine.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
My wife and son must stay here because they can help as well from here. Just talking to me when Im over there will be a help, he said.
A LIMERICK FATHER has told how he is to leave his wife and son here to fight Russian troops in his native war-torn Ukraine.
Mykola Krutsyk, who has lived and worked in Limerick for over 20 years is preparing to journey to the shelled city of Kyiv where his elderly father who is suffering from cancer has remained through daily missile strikes as he is too frail to leave.
Some off my family, including my dad, are there in Kyiv city. My dad is too old, he is 76, he has cancer, he is very sick and he is living in the city centre in Kyiv, but he cant walk, he added.
Krutsykis leaving behind his son Nicolay and wife Liliya, who are preparing to welcome family members and friends evacuating the war.
Krutsyk, who is the Limerick director of the Association of Ukrainians in the Republic of Ireland charity AURI, has been receiving basic military training ahead of his departure.
Krutsyk 53 and a group of friends plan to take a ferry to France and drive through Germany and Poland before crossing into the Ukraine war-zone.
