Fears of radiation leak mount near Ukraines Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant
20220826
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukraine-war-zaporizhzhia-5850829-Aug2022/
Russia-installed officials in the Zaporizhzhia region, however, said that the plant was supplying electricity only to Russia-controlled areas of the country and not the rest of Ukraine.
Ukrenergo, Ukraines transmission system operator, reported on Friday that two damaged main lines supplying the plant with electricity had resumed operation, ensuring a stable power supply.
Lana Zerkal, an adviser to Ukraines energy minister, told Ukrainian media that the logistics for an IAEA visit were still being worked out.
The countrys nuclear power agency, Energoatom, said the plant had been reconnected to the grid and was producing electricity for Ukraines needs.
UKRAINIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE begun distributing iodine tablets to residents near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in case of a radiation leak, amid mounting fears that the fighting around the complex could trigger a catastrophe.
The move came a day after the plant was temporarily knocked offline because of what officials said was fire damage to a transmission line.
Zaporizhzhias reactors are protected by thick, reinforced concrete containment domes that experts say can withstand an errant artillery shell.
In yesterdays incident, Ukraine and Russia blamed one another for the transmission-line damage that knocked the plant off the power grid.
Exactly what went wrong was not clear, but Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the plants emergency backup diesel generators had to be activated to supply electricity to operate the complex.
Ukraine has accused Russia of using the plant as a shield by storing weapons there and launching attacks from around it.
The UNs atomic energy agency has been trying to send a team in to inspect and help secure the plant.
Officials said preparations for the trip were under way, but it remained unclear when it might take place.
Continued Russian shelling of Nikopol, a city across the Dnieper River from the Zaporizhzhia plant, damaged 10 houses, a school and a healthcare facility but caused no injuries, Dnipropetrovsk governor Valentyn Reznichenko said.
Continued shelling was reported in the area overnight, and satellite images from Planet Labs showed fires burning around the complex  Europes biggest nuclear plant  over the last several days.
Iodine tablets, which help block the absorption of radioactive iodine by the thyroid gland in a nuclear accident, were issued in the city of Zaporizhzhia, which is about 45 kilometres from the plant and remains under Ukrainian control.
French President Emmanuel Macron said a visit by the UNs International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA should be allowed to take place very quickly, warning: Civilian nuclear power must not be an instrument of war.
Many of the fears centre instead on a possible loss of the cooling system, and also the risk that an attack on the cooling ponds where spent fuel rods are kept could scatter radiation.
The Zaporizhzhia plant has been occupied by Russian forces and run by Ukrainian workers since the early days of the six-month-old war.
The incident heightened dread of a nuclear disaster in a country still haunted by the 1986 explosion at Chernobyl.
The nuclear workers of Zaporizhzhia power plant are real heroes! They tirelessly and firmly uphold the nuclear and radiation safety of Ukraine and the whole of Europe on their shoulders, the agency said in a statement.
A Russian serviceman guards an area of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station in territory under Russian military control in south-eastern Ukraine
