Government to investigate Ukrainian concerns over accommodation centres
20220526
https://www.thejournal.ie/varadkar-ukrainian-refugees-conditions-accommodation-5775256-May2022/
Tanaiste Leo Varadkar said that while the claims will be examined, he does not have a major concern that pro-Putin agents are arriving in Ireland and staying in refugee centres.
I think as Irish people you can kind of understand that sort of relationship that can exist between two neighbouring countries, often friends, sometimes enemies.
We will look into this but I dont have a major concern that there are pro-Putin or pro-Kremlin Russian agents getting into the country under the guise of being Ukrainian.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Some BOTPs may be of Russian ethnicity and have been resident in Ukraine prior to the invasion.
A department spokeswoman said it provides short-term accommodation to those who are deemed by the Department of Justice to be eligible for protection under the Temporary Protection Directive.
When a person has received Beneficiary of Temporary Protection BOTP status from the Department of Justice, DCEDIY then provides temporary accommodation according to their particular needs.
A spokeswoman for the Department of Children, Equality, Disability, Integration and Youth DCEDIY said that where issues arise in accommodation centres, managers deal with those involved on site.
I think its important to appreciate that there are a lot of people who are Ukrainian who have Russian family and vice versa, Varadkar added.
It said that when a resolution cannot be reached, the department will endeavour to provide alternative accommodation.
The countries are not dissimilar to England and Ireland in many ways. So you do have people that have dual citizenship, and you have people who are Ukrainian but have Russian family members and vice versa.
Where issues arise in any of the procured DCEDIY accommodation centres, managers deal with BOTPs onsite and only when a resolution cannot be reached will the department endeavour to provide alternative accommodation.
But we do have to bear in mind that thats not impossible, and thats why we will look into it.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
THE GOVERNMENT IS to investigate claims that some Ukrainian refugees have raised concerns about being placed in centres with people of Russian ethnicity.
Some Ukrainian refugees stay at temporary accommodation centres before moving on to long-term accommodation in different parts of the country.
