Ireland calls for Russia to end illegal occupation of Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant
20220812
https://www.thejournal.ie/war-in-ukraine-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-power-plant-5839204-Aug2022/
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned Russia could cause an incident even more catastrophic than Chernobyl  a reference to the nuclear disaster in then-Soviet Ukraine in 1986.
Ambassador Cait Moran told the meeting: If Russia is serious about safety at the Zaporizhzhia power plant, what it needs to do it clear.
He said that the agency must urgently be allowed to conduct a mission to Zaporizhzhia.
Only the Russians full withdrawal  would guarantee nuclear safety for all of Europe, Zelensky said in a video address to the nation.
Moscow and Kyiv yesterday accused each other of new shelling near the plant, a dangerous escalation five months into the war.
Today, the UNSC meets to discuss the situation at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine.  is deeply concerned by situation at the plant  the strong risk of a radiological incident due to military activity at the site. This could have devastating consequences. pic.twitter.comjMJ3WHs6G8 Ireland at UN irishmissionun August 11, 2022
The Ukrainian plant is under the control of Russian troops, and Ukraine has accused Moscow of basing hundreds of soldiers and storing arms there.
Both sides said there were five rocket strikes near a radioactive material storage area at the plant, Europes biggest nuclear facility which has been a focus of renewed fighting in recent days.
The Soviet-era plant in southern Ukraine was captured by Russian troops at the beginning of March  shortly after Moscow launched its invasion of its neighbor  and has remained on the frontline since then.
This would allow for Ukraine to restore the impeccable safety, security, and safeguards performance it upheld for decades at the facility.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba hailed it as a timely move and urged other countries to follow suit, while Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova called it xenophobia.
Vladimir Rogov, a member of the Moscow-installed regional administration, said Ukrainian forces had once again struck the plant.
Latvia has also urged all EU countries to ban tourist visas for Russian citizens and said the measure should be extended to Belarusians because of the Belarusian regimes support for the invasion.
Ukraines nuclear agency Energoatom said later there had been fresh Russian shelling near one of the plants six reactors that had caused extensive smoke and several radiation sensors are damaged.
In Kyiv, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Moscow of nuclear blackmail as he urged the international community to react immediately to chase out the occupiers from Zaporizhzhia.
Amb. Moran urged Russia to:end illegal occupation of Zaporizhzhia  withdraw troopscommit to iaeaorg 7 pillars of nuclear safety  securitynot violate or undermine the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weaponsstop using the UNSC to advance disinformation pic.twitter.comNDmQACVWbh
In New York, Security Council members all supported calls for an urgent IAEA mission to Ukraine  but there was no consensus over who was to blame for the attacks and who should be responsible for facilitating the mission.
Russia has turned the nuclear station into a battlefield, he said earlier Thursday, addressing a Ukraine donors conference in Copenhagen by video link.
A tweet from the account for Irelands UN mission said the country was deeply concerned by situation at the plant  the strong risk of a radiological incident due to military activity at the site.
IRELAND HAS CALLED for Russia to end its illegal occupation of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, as Moscow and Kyiv traded accusations of new shelling near the facility.
Today, the UNSC meets to discuss the situation at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine.  is deeply concerned by situation at the plant  the strong risk of a radiological incident due to military activity at the site. This could have devastating consequences. pic.twitter.comjMJ3WHs6G8
File photo: A staff member on the premise of the spent-fuel storage at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant
End its illegal occupation of the site, withdraw its troops and ammunitions.Amb. Moran urged Russia to:end illegal occupation of Zaporizhzhia  withdraw troopscommit to iaeaorg 7 pillars of nuclear safety  securitynot violate or undermine the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weaponsstop using the UNSC to advance disinformation pic.twitter.comNDmQACVWbh Ireland at UN irishmissionun August 11, 2022
This is a serious hour, a grave hour, Rafael Grossi, chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency, told an emergency meeting of the Security Council yesterday.
He called for stronger sanctions against Russia, saying it was a terrorist state  on the same day that Latvian MPs adopted a resolution calling Russia a state sponsor of terrorism.
We call on states that support the Kyiv regime to bring their proxies into check to compel them to immediately and once and for all stop attacks on Zaporizhzhia nuclear power to ensure the safe conditions for the conduct of the IAEA mission, Nebenzya told the Council.
The head of the UN nuclear watchdog has warned the Security Council  of which Ireland is a member  of the grave crisis unfolding at the power plant.
But Russias UN ambassador Vasily Nebenzya put the blame for the attacks around Zaporizhzhia squarely on Ukrainian forces.
Bonnie Jenkins, the US State Departments undersecretary for arms control and international security, said the visit cannot wait any longer but added that only a full withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine would keep the nuclear plant safe.
