Israeli PM Bennet accepts apology from Putin over Hitler remarks
20220505
https://www.thejournal.ie/israeli-pm-putin-hitler-5756089-May2022/
Israel gained independence in the wake of the Holocaust and has served as a refuge for the worlds Jews. The Holocaust and its remembrance remain central to Israels national identity, and the country marked its annual Holocaust memorial day last week. The Nazis and their collaborators killed 6 million Jews during the Second World War.
That paved the way for Bennett to be able to try to mediate between the sides in Ukraine, a role he seems to have resumed this week.
Asked in an interview with an Italian news channel about Russian claims that it invaded Ukraine to de-Nazify the country, Lavrov said that Ukraine could still have Nazi elements even though its president, Volodymyr Zelensky, is Jewish.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
The two leaders talked over the phone, after which an Israeli statement said Putin had apologised.
Evoking Russias deeply-rooted narrative of suffering and heroism in the Second World War, Mr Putin has portrayed the war in Ukraine as a struggle against Nazis, even though it has a democratically elected government and a Jewish president whose relatives were killed in the Holocaust.
Bennett, who has been more measured in his criticism of Russias invasion, also condemned Mr Lavrovs comments. On Thursday, he said Putin had apologised.
Israel has tried to maintain ties with Russia despite the war, in part because Russia has a large military presence in neighbouring Syria, where Israel routinely strikes suspected Iranian military targets. Israel and Moscow coordinate their actions in Syria to avoid coming into conflict.
The Jews did not murder themselves in the Holocaust, said Lapid, the son of a Holocaust survivor. The lowest level of racism against Jews is to blame Jews themselves for antisemitism.
Bennetts office said he and Putin discussed plans to evacuate civilians from a besieged steel plant in the port city of Mariupol in southern Ukraine. That came after a call between Bennett and Zelenskyy yesterday.
The Prime Minister accepted President Putins apology for Lavrovs remarks and thanked him for clarifying the presidents attitude towards the Jewish people and the memory of the Holocaust, Bennetts office said in a statement.
In my opinion, Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesnt mean absolutely anything. For some time we have heard from the Jewish people that the biggest antisemites were Jewish, he said, speaking to the station in Russian, dubbed over by an Italian translation.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Instead, it said they emphasised the importance of marking the Nazi defeat in the Second World War, which Russia celebrates on Monday.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER Naftali Bennett has said he accepted an apology from Russian President Vladimir Putin for controversial remarks about the Holocaust made by Moscows top diplomat.
However, that role was thrown into doubt this week when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov made comments about the Holocaust that were deeply offensive to Jews.
Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid, who has harshly criticised Russia over the invasion, called Lavrovs statement unforgivable and scandalous and a horrible historical error.
