Israel hits out at Russia over Lavrovs unforgivable and scandalous Nazism remarks
20220502
https://www.thejournal.ie/israel-lavrov-5753299-May2022/
The comparisons drew an angry condemnation from Yad Vashem, which said Zelenskyy was trivialising the Holocaust.
While it has sent humanitarian aid to Ukraine and expressed support for its people, Israel has been measured in its criticism of Russia and has not joined international sanctions against it.
The Holocaust and the constant manipulation of its history during the conflict has sparked outrage in Israel before.
Repeatedly reaching for the historical narrative that places Russia as a saviour against evil forces has helped the Kremlin rally Russians around the war.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
In his bid to legitimise the war to Russian citizens, President Vladimir Putin has portrayed the battle as a struggle against Nazis in Ukraine, even though the country has a democratically elected government and a Jewish president whose relatives were killed in the Holocaust.
Nazism has featured prominently in Russias war aims and narrative as it fights in Ukraine.
By trying to rewrite history, Moscow is simply looking for arguments to justify the mass murders of Ukrainians, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted.
Israel, which summoned the Russian ambassador in response, said the remarks blamed Jews for their own murder in the Holocaust.
In a speech to Israeli legislators in March, Zelenskyy compared Russias invasion of his country to the actions of Nazi Germany, accusing Mr Putin of trying to carry out a final solution against Ukraine.
Lavrov is propagating the inversion of the Holocaust  turning the victims into the criminals on the basis of promoting a completely unfounded claim that Hitler was of Jewish descent, it said in a statement.
ISRAEL HAS HIT out at Russia over unforgivable comments by its foreign minister about Nazism and antisemitism  including claims that Adolf Hitler was Jewish.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesnt mean anything, he said, speaking to the station in Russian, dubbed over by an Italian translation.
Asked about Russias efforts to denazify Ukraine in an interview with an Italian news channel, Sergei Lavrov explained that Ukraine could still have Nazi elements even if some figures, including the countrys president, were Jewish.
In some of the harshest remarks since the start of the war in Ukraine, Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid called Lavrovs statement unforgivable and scandalous and a horrible historical error.
It was a steep decline in the ties between the two countries at a time when Israel has sought to stake out a neutral position between Russia and Ukraine and remain in Russias good stead for its security needs in the Middle East.
That paved the way for Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to be able to try to mediate between the sides, an effort which appears to have stalled as Israel deals with its own internal unrest.
That has forced Israel to tread lightly in its criticism of the war in Ukraine.
The Second World War, in which the Soviet Union lost an estimated 27 million people and helped defeat Nazi Germany, is a linchpin of Russias national identity.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Russia has a military presence in neighbouring Syria, and Israel, which carries out frequent strikes on enemy targets in the country, relies on Russia for security co-ordination there.
For Israel, the Holocaust is central to its national ethos and it has positioned itself at the centre of global efforts to remember the Holocaust and combat antisemitism.
Israels Holocaust memorial Yad Vashem called the remarks absurd, delusional, dangerous and deserving of condemnation.
