Kremlin says nothing too promising came from RussiaUkraine peace talks in Istanbul
20220329
https://www.thejournal.ie/kremlin-peace-talks-istanbul-ukraine-russia-5726011-Mar2022/
Kyiv wants legally binding security guarantees from Western countries in order to drop its NATO aspirations.
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR Zelenskyy said he didnt trust Russian vows to scale back military activity and that his army was getting ready for further fighting in the east.
We will not give anything away. We will fight for every metre of our territory.
Condemning Western sanctions over Moscows military action in Ukraine, he told his Iranian counterpart that Russia will be arranging practical steps to allow us to go round these unlawful actions, TASS state news agency reported.
The issues of Crimea and Donbas will be settled for good after Ukraine restores its sovereignty over them, Nikolenko wrote on Twitter. During the talks in Istanbul, the Ukrainian delegation presented its proposals on how to achieve this goal.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
A defence official at the talks said Russia would be significantly reducing its military activity near Ukraines capital Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv.
We carefully avoid making statements on the matters that are discussed at the talks because we believe that negotiations should take place in silence, he added.
Work is continuing, talks are continuing, he added, while Russias position on Crimea, annexed by Moscow in 2020, and the separatist regions in Donbas in eastern Ukraine remains unchanged.
However, Ukrainian authorities said Russian forces had later bombarded the northern city of Chernigiv today, despite Moscows claims.
Meanwhile, Moscows lead negotiator said the opposite Vladimir Medinsky described talks in Istanbul on Monday as meaningful, suggesting discord within the Kremlin.
If all these commitments are fulfilled, the threat of the creation of a NATO base of operations will be liquidated, he said.
He added that Moscow considered it positive that Kyiv had started outlining its demands in writing.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
It comes as the Kremlin played down hopes of a breakthrough following peace talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegates in Istanbul a day earlier.
Medinsky said in a video he posted on Telegram today that Ukraine expressed readiness to fulfil fundamental demands that Russia had insisted on all these past years.
We cannot state that there was anything too promising or any breakthroughs, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who is visiting China, said Moscow was pleased with the negotiations.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
As it happened: Russian strikes hit Red Cross building in Mariupol as Zelenskyy addresses Norwegian parliament
In a video clip posted on Twitter by the Russian Foreign Ministry on twitter, Lavrov described as progress Ukraines readiness to refrain from joining NATO, as well as understanding that the issues of Crimea and Donbass have been settled for good.
We dont believe anyone, not a single beautiful phrase, Zelenskyy said in a video address to the nation, adding that Russian troops were regrouping to strike the eastern Donbass region.
