Mr Filatov where are you Dozens gather at Dublins Russian embassy
20220227
https://www.thejournal.ie/dozens-rally-in-dublin-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-5695963-Feb2022/
Dozens more people attended a protest in support of Ukraine in Waterford City this morning, while another small demonstration was held in Cork City this afternoon.
Several Irish ministers have today defended the decision not to expel Filatov, pointing to the importance of having a communication channel with Moscow amid the uncertainty of the situation in Ukraine.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
A range of speakers addressed the rally, promising that Ukrainians would fight on until the death.
Some speakers spoke of friends and family at home preparing to fight to defend their country.
The demonstration comes amid growing calls for Russias ambassador to Ireland Yury Filatov to be expelled from the country.
The rally, which grew over the course of this afternoon, partially blocked the leafy Ailesbury road for a time.
Garda were present at the protest in Dublin, which heard from several speakers  with speeches and chants in both Ukrainian and English.
The crowd in Dublin was told that more protests were planned in the days to come.
DOZENS OF PEOPLE gathered outside the Russian Embassy residence in Dublin today for the latest protest against the invasion of Ukraine.
However, opposition parties in Ireland have been joined by some TDs, senators and MEPs from Fianna Fil and Fine Gael in recent days in demanding the exit of the Russian ambassador.
Last night, nearly 40 Fianna Fil TDs, senators and MEPs signed a petition calling on Filatov to be ejected from Ireland. The list included TDs Jim OCallaghan and Dara Calleary, as well as senators Lisa Chambers and Fiona OLoughlin.
As it happened: New EU sanctions on Russia announced, as Putin puts nuclear 'deterrence' forces on alert
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
