Opinion  Putins obsession with making Russia great again is driving his approach to Ukraine
20220201
https://www.thejournal.ie/readme/russia-at-ukraine-border-5669198-Feb2022/
RUSSIA HAS ASSEMBLED 100,000 troops along Ukraines border in what looks set to be one of the most intense confrontations between east and west since the Cold War era ended.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
And, of course, if Ukrainians are merely a branch of a pan-Russian nation, they have little right to independence or sovereignty over their borders in Putins view  which would helpfully give Russia access to considerable economic and agricultural resources in Ukraine, once the second-largest economy in the Soviet Union.
The current military build-up along the Ukrainian border can be broadly explained as part of Russias long-running campaign to re-assert its power over former Soviet states. The latest escalation follows the United States refusal to accede to a series of Russian demands in December concerning the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO.
Russia views NATO and the defensive alliance of Western military powers it represents as a threat to its regional power and influence over former Soviet states. Georgia and Ukraines interest in greater cooperation with the West and NATO protection have been particularly antagonising for Moscow.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
But a costly war with a country that Russia is supposed to have a brotherly relationship with may prove hard for even Russian state media to spin.
The Russian state media pushes the Kremlins depictions of Ukraine as a puppet state for the United States, while the lack of free press and political opposition to Putin in Russia means that there is little real public debate on the countrys military interventions overseas.
In 2014 Russia annexed the Ukrainian coastal territory of Crimea and it has effectively occupied the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine since 2015 by providing military support to separatists there. At least 14,000 people are estimated to have died in fighting since 2014.
The United States, the most powerful member of NATO, has deemed the Russian demands largely unacceptable and NATO members have been preparing for worst-case scenarios along the Ukrainian border and an overspill of proxy wars in Eastern Europe.
Russian President Vladimir Putin should by no means be expected to be rational in how he conducts policy. Putin has spent much of the pandemic cocooned in a Covid isolation bubble with little interaction with the outside world and holds an obsessive view rooted in white Slavic nationalism that Russian and Ukrainians are one people.
Today the Kremlin is continuing to practice a policy of Russification in Ukraine. Authorities orchestrated the relocation of Russians to Crimea, while almost one million Ukrainians in the occupied territory are estimated to have received Russian passports.
The annexation of Crimea in 2014 coincided with record popularity for Putin. Despite the punishing economic sanctions imposed by the West in the wake of the annexation, polling in 2019 showed that a majority of Russians continue to support the move.
But as the Russian economy has flailed under economic sanctions and endemic corruption, public support for Putin has dwindled. The current display of military power along the Ukrainian border now provides a convenient way for him to resuscitate his popularity and his strongman image.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
While Ukrainian officials have downplayed the likelihood of war, the United States has described the move as a precursor to another invasion of Ukraine.
In December, Russia issued a series of demands to NATO including a limit on further expansion of its operations eastward towards Russia, the removal of international NATO troops from Poland and the Baltic states, and a guarantee that Ukraine would never be allowed to join NATO.
In 2014, the Kremlin tried to bribe the Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich with a $15 billion loan in return for not signing an association agreement with Brussels which would bring Ukraine a step closer to EU membership and away from Russia.
