OPW refuses to grant permission for Russian Victory Day rally at Papal Cross in Phoenix Park
20220504
https://www.thejournal.ie/russian-v-day-rally-refused-permission-5755114-May2022/
The event was planned to take place at the Papal Cross in Phoenix Park on 8 May, with concerns being raised by both Minister Eamon Ryan and Ukrainians living in Ireland.
The day is a bank holiday in Russia and is typically marked with a large-scale military parade in Moscow. It is usually celebrated by Russian communities across the world.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
THE OFFICE OF Public Works has said that it will not be granting permission to a Russian V Day rally in the Phoenix Park this weekend.
The OPW is the state-body responsible for Phoenix Park and any large event taking place within the park requires permission from the department.
There is an aggressor, it is the Russian Government and the Russian army and I think celebrating or in any way supporting that, I think for Irish people would be absolutely insulting.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
In a statement to The Journal, the OPW said that it received an applicationfor the event in January  before Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine  and sought additional information on the plans.
Earlier today, Minister Ryan raised concerns about the proposed rally, saying that it should be called off.
A Garda spokesperson said that the force did not comment on speculation on potential events organised on social media by disparate groups but that where necessary will implement appropriate and proportionate policing plans to monitor public gatherings.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
The spokesperson added that the event organisers were expected to meet with both the OPW and An Garda Sochna.
As all these requirements have not been met, the OPW is not in a position to grant permission for this event, said the spokesperson.
TheAssociation of Ukrainians in the Republic of Ireland AURI had said that they were deeply saddened by the planned V Day rally.
The rally was planned to commemorate V Day or Victory Day, which is the Russian commemoration of the countrys victory over the Nazis during WW2 and the sacrifice made by Russian soldiers during the war.
The OPW said that some of the requirements had not been met  without specifying which ones  and as a result they could not grant the organisers permission.
In January, the OPW received an application for an event at the Papal Cross in Phoenix Park on 8 May 2022. The organisers were requested to provide a signed indemnity form, to submit an event safety management plan and to provide the relevant insurance cover, said a spokesperson for the OPW.
We believe that this march offends the Irish people along with all Ukrainians. Ireland has sheltered tens of thousands of Ukrainians fleeing from war, suffering from the Russian invasion of their country, said a spokesperson for AURI.
I think it will antagonise people here. People have a real sense of outrage as to whats happening in the Ukraine, said Ryan.
