People Before Profit TDs didnt clap Zelenskyys speech in protest over sanctions
20220406
https://www.thejournal.ie/people-before-profit-zelenskyy-speech-5731397-Apr2022/
He said there are still some political leaders in the world who do not believe that stopping Russia is more important than any financial loss to other countries from sanctions.
The sanctions that have been imposed so far and the sanctions that are coming are not targeted sanctions, they are indiscriminate sanctions, he said.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Zelenskyy also told the House of the Oireachtas: In the 42 days of all-out Russian war, at least 167 children were killed in Ukraine.
Speaking this evening on RTs Drivetime programme, Murphy said that he and his colleagues stood in solidarity with the people of Ukraine but that it would have been disingenuous to applaud for an extension of sanctions they disagreed with.
Taoiseach Michel Martin, Tnaiste Leo Varadkar, the leaders of the main parties and a number of TDs spoke after Zelenskyys address.
We dont know yet all the atrocities of Mariupol and victims in other areas of Ukraine where fighting is still going on.
In his address, Zelenskyy asked Ireland to push other EU countries to impose more sanctions on Russia, cut it off from global markets and stem its income from oil.
As it happened: US sanctions target Putin's daughters as residents of Ukraine's eastern regions warned to evacuate
Speaking to The Journal after the speech, Murphy said: We stood for the people of Ukraine and stand with them in their struggle against the Russian imperialist invasion. We cant applaud calls for more sanctions which are hurting ordinary Russians and only bolstering the Putin regime at home.
A number of TDs wore the Ukrainian colours of blue and yellow, while others  including Smith and Kenny  wore white as a symbol of peace.
Directly referencing Irelands response to the invasion, Zelenskyy said: Even though you are a neutral country, you have not remained neutral to the mishaps Russia has brought to Ukraine.
PBP TDs stood up after the speech but Paul Murphy, Brd Smith, Richard Boyd Barrett and Gino Kenny did not applaud.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
I am grateful to you. To every citizen of Ireland, thank you for supporting sanctions against Russia.
Its worrying that the Zelensky government has banned opposition parties with almost 20 of the vote in Ukraine. Thats not because we support those parties but because its a worrying attack on democratic rights which undermines the struggle against the invasion.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
In his response, Boyd Barrett said: We must all join in condemning the barbaric invasion and the war crimes which Vladimir Putin has undoubtedly committed. However, he added that the US and the UK and some of their allies have also committed war crimes.
We still have to convince, even some European countries, to abandon the Russian market, he added.
I am sure your leadership can make a difference and change this, he stated, via an interpreter.
When were hearing new rhetoric about sanctions against Russia, I cant tolerate any indecisiveness after everything we have gone through and everything Russia has done.
PEOPLE BEFORE PROFIT TDs did not clap after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed the Dil and Seanad this morning, in protest against sanctions.
He said the war in Ukraine should not be used as a justification for Ireland changing its stance on neutrality.
