Putins daughters and Russian coal hit in EUs fifth round of sanctions
20220408
https://www.thejournal.ie/fifth-round-eu-sanctions-russia-coal-putin-daughters-5734306-Apr2022/
Minister for Foreign Affairs Simon Coveney said the package was particularly important following the atrocities committed in Ukraine that came to light last week.
The EUs blacklist is also being expanded by more than 200 names, including Russian oligarchs and Vladimir Putins two daughters, according to a document seen by AFP.
THE EUROPEAN UNION has approved an embargo on Russian coal and the closing of the blocs ports to Russian vessels over the Ukraine war.
In addition to the sanctions, the EU also backed a proposal to boost its funding of arms supplies to Ukraine by 500 million, taking it to a total of 1.5 billion.
European Union Commission President Ursula von der Leyen speaks during a press conference with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy today.
Russian and Belarusian road hauliers are now banned from operating in the EU, the French Presidency said in a series of tweets.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
A further 217 individuals were also designated, including oligarchs, propagandists, and members of the parliaments and ministers of the breakaway regions.
An official from the French presidency of the European Council said the moves spearhead a very substantial fifth round of sanctions against Moscow.
The new financial measures were proposed by the European Commission after the bodies of dozens of civilians were found last weekend in Bucha, near Kyiv.
The EU sanctions include a ban on Russian and Belarussian road transport operators from the EU and another 18 entities being added to the sanctions list, including four key Russian banks, representing 23 of market share in the Russian banking sector.
The EU also blacklisted Russian President Vladimir Putins two adult daughters and more than 200 other people as part of its latest sanctions package, according to an official list published late tonight.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Russia will suffer a long descent into economic, financial and technological isolation, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Twitter.
The embargo will come into force at the beginning of August, 120 days after the publication of the new package in the EUs official journal, expected on Friday.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
The EU nations import 45 of their coal from Russia, worth 4 billion a year.
This is the fifth sanctions package approved by the European Union against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
The EU will continue its close cooperation with like-minded partners to coordinate on the toughest sanctions. We stand united with Ukraine.
That package also includes a 10 billion ban on exports to Russia, including high-tech goods, and the freezing of several Russian banks assets.
It is the first time the Europeans have targeted the Russian energy sector, on which they are heavily dependent.
The list of Russian products banned from the EU is also being extended to include certain critical raw materials and equipment worth an estimated 5.5 billion a year to stop the financing of Moscows war effort in Ukraine.
There will be a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg on Monday, where further measures will be discussed.
