Russia agrees to talk to US and UK amid growing tensions over Ukraine
20220122
https://www.thejournal.ie/us-russian-talks-on-ukraine-5661899-Jan2022/
Shoigu has offered to meet in Moscow instead, given the last bilateral defence talks between the countries took place in London.
Western allies are also supplying weaponry and equipment to Ukraine. The UK sent anti-tank missiles earlier this week, while the defence ministers of the Baltic nations issued a statement saying they received US approval to send Stinger air defence missiles and Javelin anti-tank missiles to strengthen Kyivs defences.
The United States and its allies and partners are standing together to expedite security assistance to Ukraine. We are utilizing all available security cooperation tools to help Ukraine bolster its defenses in the face of Russian aggression.
TOP US AND Russian diplomats have agreed to keep talking amid the stand-off over Ukraine, despite a summit in Switzerland producing no movement on the crisis.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken greets Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov before their meeting on Friday in Geneva
Lets face it  the war in Ukraine is ongoing and it is important to support Ukraine in every way we can so that they can resist the aggressor.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met for about 90 minutes in Geneva at what the American diplomat said was a critical moment.
The US and its allies say Russian President Vladimir Putin knows his demands are non-starters, adding that they are open to less dramatic moves.
Blinken added that Russia should remove its troops from the Ukrainian border if it wanted to prove its point.
He said officials considered whether to carry on with the exercise because of the ongoing tensions, and decided to move ahead.
Blinken backed up that stance on Friday, saying the US and its allies are committed to diplomacy but also committed if that proves impossible, and Russia decides to pursue aggression against Ukraine, to a united, swift and severe response.
Kirby said the exercise was not planned anticipating a Russian move on Ukraine and is not designed against any of the kinds of scenarios that might happen with respect to Ukraine.
The US and its allies scrambled to present a united front. Washington and its allies have repeatedly promised consequences such as biting economic sanctions against Russia  though not military action  if it invades.
Late on Friday, the US embassy in Kyiv tweeted photos of a shipment it said had just arrived from the America, with close to 200,000 pounds of lethal aid, including ammunition for the front line defenders of Ukraine.
Moscow wants Nato to promise that Ukraine will never be added as a member, that no alliance weapons will be deployed near Russian borders, and that it should pull back its forces from central and eastern Europe.
We didnt expect any major breakthroughs to happen today, but I believe we are now on a clearer path to understanding each others positions, Blinken said after the meeting.
A senior defence source said: The Defence Secretary is glad that Russia has accepted the invitation to talk with his counterpart.
Meanwhile, the Russian Defence Minister has accepted an invitation to meet with UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace amid tensions over Ukraine, the PA news agency understands.
He said he also wanted to use the opportunity to share directly with Lavrov some concrete ideas to address some of the concerns that you have raised, as well as the deep concerns that many of us have about Russias actions.
An estimated 100,000 Russian troops have been sent to areas near Ukraine, and more are moving into the area for training exercises with neighbouring Belarus.
There are fears that Russia will invade Ukraine after Moscow massed tens of thousands of troops at the border, while the west has ramped up supplies of weapons to Kyiv.
Blinken told Lavrov the US would give Russia written responses to Moscows proposals next week, and suggested the two would likely meet again shortly after that  offering some hope that any invasion would be delayed for at least a few more days.
On Thursday, Russia announced sweeping naval manoeuvres through February, some apparently in the Black Sea.
The US Secretary of State said America and its allies remain resolute in rejecting Russias most important demands, which were reiterated on Friday.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
I cant say whether we are on the right track or not, he told reporters. We will understand that when we receive the US written response to all of our proposals.
The United States and its allies and partners are standing together to expedite security assistance to Ukraine. We are utilizing all available security cooperation tools to help Ukraine bolster its defenses in the face of Russian aggression. Secretary Antony Blinken SecBlinken January 22, 2022
The Secretary of State has been clear that he will explore all avenues to achieve stability and a resolution to the Ukraine crisis. We are in communication with the Russian government.
The Pentagon said the USS Harry S Truman aircraft carrier and its strike group will participate in a Nato maritime exercise in the Mediterranean, which will continue until 4 February  something that had been planned since 2020, said Pentagon press secretary John Kirby.
Despite that, there was no indication the US responses would be any different from the flat-out rejections already expressed by Washington and its allies, clouding future diplomatic efforts.
Blinken said the US would be open to a meeting between Putin and US president Joe Biden, if it would be useful and productive.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Estonian Defence Minister Kalle Laanet said: Today, Ukraine is at the forefront of separating Europe from the military conflict with Russia.
Wallace extended an invitation to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Shoigu, to visit London to discuss mutual security earlier this week.
The two have met once in person in Geneva and have had several virtual conversations on Ukraine that have proven largely inconclusive.
Blinken suggested there was no leeway on Russias demands, saying firmly: There is no trade space there. None.
Lavrov, meanwhile, called the talks constructive and useful but declined to characterise the US pledge.
Blinken said Lavrov repeated Russias insistence that it has no plans to invade Ukraine, but the US and its allies remain unconvinced.
Given the last defence bilateral between our two countries took place in London in 2013, Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu has offered to meet in Moscow instead.
He said: Were looking at what is visible to all, and it is deeds and actions and not words that make all the difference.
