Russian state TV employee fined for antiwar protest on live news show
20220315
https://www.thejournal.ie/russia-editor-state-tv-protest-5711949-Mar2022/
Ovsyannikovas case drew international attention and raised new alarm over press freedom in Russia in the wake of President Vladimir Putins decision to send troops to pro-Western Ukraine.
Marina Ovsyannikova, an editor at Channel One television,barged onto the set of its flagship Vremya Time evening news late Monday, holding a poster reading No War in English.
     .     . pic.twitter.comb1wPyy4BJ1   SobolLubov March 15, 2022
French President Emmanuel Macron offered asylum or other forms of consular protection to the journalist.
Thousands of people posted tributes on social media to Ovsyannikovas extraordinary courage amid a historic crackdown on the opposition in Russia.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Macron, who has maintained a dialogue with Putin despite Moscows military action, said he would bring up her case during his next conversation with the 69-year-old Russian leader.
The incident was widely picked up by international media, while Russian publications blurred out the message on the poster to avoid running afoul of a new media law.
Channel One said an internal investigation was underway. It was a highly unusual event in Russia where state media is strictly controlled.
In a video posted on social media, Ovsyannikova speaking before her action says she is ashamed to have been involved in Kremlin propaganda and describes Moscows military action as a crime.
Ovsyannikovas message in Russian read: Stop the war. Dont believe propaganda. They are lying to you here.
After her protest she was detained and questioned for 14 hours, she told reporters today.
She was released after a judge at Moscows Ostankino district court ordered her to pay a fine of 30,000 rubles 248.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
She could have faced a maximum punishment of 10 days in detention for calling for illegal protests.
Ovsyannikova pleaded not guilty in court, saying: I am still convinced that Russia is committing a crime.
EU Commission external affairs spokesman Peter Stano said she took a brave moral stance and daredto object Kremlins lies and propaganda live on air on a state-controlled TV channel.
One of Ovsyannikovas lawyers, Daniil Berman, told AFP she also risked criminal charges and up to 15 years in jail under new legislation against fake news on the Russian military, introduced after Putin sent troops into Ukraine on 24 February.
Press freedom activists outside Russia accuse state television of painting a severely distorted picture of Moscows military action in a bid to maintain popular support.
          pic.twitter.com3EMbhSdIGU   YaroslavConway March 14, 2022
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
I want to have as quickly as possible all clarity about her personal situation and her ability to continue with her work, Macron said.
I will have the chance at my next talks with President Putin to propose this solution in a very direct and concrete manner, he added.
A RUSSIAN EDITOR who protested against Moscows military action in Ukraine during a prime-time news broadcast on state TV was released with a fine today after an international outcry over her detention.
Ovsyannikova managed to say a few phrases in Russian, including Stop the war!, while news anchor Yekaterina Andreyeva tried to drown her out by speaking louder before the channel switched hastily to footage of a hospital.
The mother of two still risks criminal charges with a penalty of up to 15 years in jail, one of her lawyers said.
This charge was based not specifically on her interruption of the news broadcast, but on a video statement she released explaining the reasons for her protest and urging Russians to take to the streets.
We will launch diplomatic efforts aiming to offer her protection  either at the embassy but also protection through asylum, said Macron.
Her action won praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who said: I am grateful to those Russians who do not stop trying to tell the truth and specifically to the lady who entered the studio of Channel One with a poster against the war.
