Street fighting in Kyiv as Russia attacks Zelensky insists we will not lay down our arms
20220226
https://www.thejournal.ie/kyiv-ukraine-russia-fighting-president-refuses-leave-5694721-Feb2022/
After Ukrainian forces said they had repulsed a Russian attack on their capital, President Volodymyr Zelensky shot a self-shot video vowing to stay and fight on.
Spearheaded by the US and Albania, the Security Council resolution would have deplored Russias aggression against Ukraine.
Unlike Security Council resolutions, General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding, but they can function as statements of world opinion.
The resolutions failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the 193-member UN General Assembly, where there are no vetoes.
We are now prohibiting Russian state media from running ads or monetizing on our platform anywhere in the world, Nathaniel Gleicher, the social media giants security policy head, said on Twitter.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Facebook has also restricted Russian state medias ability to earn money on the social media platform.
A lot of fake information has appeared on the internet saying that I allegedly called on our army to lay down its arms and that evacuation is underway, he said outside his office.
A second Russian military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine who spoke to the Associated Press.
It called for Moscow immediately to pull out its military and stop using force against Ukraine, and to reverse a decision to recognise two separatist areas in eastern Ukraine as independent.
KYIV OFFICIALS ARE warning residents that street fighting is underway against Russian forces as Ukraines president refused to leave the city.
In a chilling statement issued several hours earlier, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said of Russia: This is the night they will storm.
As fighting persisted, Ukraines military reported shooting down an II-76 Russian transport plane carrying paratroopers near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv, an account confirmed by a senior American intelligence official. It was unclear how many were on board, with transport planes able to carry up to 125 paratroopers.
Russian troops continued to storm toward Ukraines capital early today as explosions reverberated through the city and the president urged the country to stand firm against the siege that could determine its future. He refused American help to evacuate, saying: The fight is here.
UN officials reported 25 civilian deaths, mostly from shelling and airstrikes, and said that 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes. They estimate that up to four million could flee if the fighting escalates.
In an Assembly meeting on Wednesday as Moscows invasion loomed, dozens of countries condemned Russia or expressed solidarity with Ukraine.
The Kremlin accepted Kyivs offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraines embattled leader instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
It remains unclear how many people overall have died so far. Ukrainian officials reported at least 137 deaths on their side from the first full day of fighting and claimed hundreds on the Russian one. Russian authorities released no casualty figures.
Biden subsequently signed a memo clearing the way for the US to expedite up to $600 million in emergency military assistance to the Ukrainian government, though it was not immediately clear how quickly the aid would flow.
Hundreds of casualties were reported in the fighting, which included shelling that sliced through a Kyiv apartment building and pummelled bridges and schools. There also were growing signs that Russia may be seeking to overthrow Ukraines government, which US officials have described as Russian President Vladimir Putins ultimate objective.
Wearing olive green military-style clothing, he declared: Our truth is that this is our land, our country, our children and we will protect all of this.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
The veto was expected, but the United States and its supporters argued that the effort would highlight Moscows international isolation.
I am here. We will not lay down any weapons. We will defend our state, because our weapons are our truth, he declared, denouncing as disinformation claims that he had surrendered or fled.
The 11-1 vote  with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining  showed significant but not total opposition to Russias invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbour.
Zelensky tweeted that he and US President Joe Biden spoke by phone and discussed strengthening sanctions, concrete defence assistance and an antiwar coalition.
Zelensky was urged to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the US government but turned down the offer, according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation. The official quoted the president as saying that the fight is here and that he needed anti-tank ammunition but not a ride.
For their part, US defence officials believe the Russian offensive has encountered considerable resistance and is proceeding slower than Moscow had envisioned, though that could change quickly.
The warning issued today advised residents to remain in shelters, to avoid going near windows or on balconies and to take precautions against being hit by debris or bullets.
Russia, meanwhile, has vetoed a UN Security Council resolution telling Moscow to stop attacking Ukraine and withdraw all troops immediately.
