Strikes in Southern Ukraine leave 17 dead after Russia evacuates Snake Island
20220701
https://www.thejournal.ie/war-in-ukraine-5804872-Jul2022/
In peacetime, Ukraine is a major agricultural exporter, but Russias invasion has damaged farmland and seen Ukraines ports seized, razed or blockaded  threatening grain importers in Africa with famine.
The worst case scenario played out and two strategic aircraft came to the Odessa region, he said in a TV interview, adding they had fired very heavy and very powerful missiles.
Three people, including a child, were killed and one wounded in the attack on the recreation centre, they said.
They always downplay their defeats this way, Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
The conflict in Ukraine dominated the Nato summit in Madrid this week, as the alliance officially invited Sweden and Finland to join, and Biden announced new deployments of US troops, ships and planes to Europe.
The early Friday strikes came a day after Russian troops abandoned their positions on Snake Island, off the coast of Odessa.
It was also a strategic target, sitting aside shipping lanes near the port of Odessa. Russia had attempted to install missile and air defence batteries while under fire from drones.
But Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov compared surging diplomatic tensions to the Cold War, telling reporters: As far as an Iron Curtain is concerned, essentially it is already descending The process has begun.
It does not yet guarantee security. It does not yet guarantee that the enemy will not return. But it already considerably limits the actions of the occupiers.
The decision to abandon Snake Island changes the situation in the Black Sea considerably, Zelenskyy said in his daily address yesterday.
Russian missiles continued to rain down elsewhere in Ukraine and a United Nations official said Thursday that 16 million people in Ukraine were in need of humanitarian aid.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson cited Snake Island as he warned the Russian president that any eventual peace deal would be on Ukraines terms.
The nine-storey apartment building was partially destroyed, leaving 14 people dead and 30 wounded, including several children, the emergency services said.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
AT LEAST 17 people were killed and dozens wounded today in missile strikes on Ukraines Odessa region, a day after Russian troops abandoned positions on a strategic island in a major setback to the Kremlins invasion.
Western powers have accused Putin of using the trapped harvest as a weapon to increase pressure on the international community, and Russia has been accused of stealing grain.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
The strikes, in the Bilgorod-Dnistrovsky district, were launched by aircraft that flew in from the Black Sea, said Odessa military administration spokesman Sergiy Bratchuk.
The news came after Nato leaders wrapped up a summit in Madrid, with US President Joe Biden announcing $800 million in new weapons for Ukraine.
Weve seen what Ukraine can do to drive the Russians back. Weve seen what they did around Kyiv and Kharkiv, now on Snake Island, Johnson said.
Evgeny Balitsky, the head of the pro-Moscow administration, said Russias Black Sea ships are ensuring the security of the journey, adding that the port had been de-mined.
There was a glimmer of hope however, when Indonesian President Joko Widodo, who visited Moscow on Thursday after a trip to Kyiv, said he had given Russian President Vladimir Putin a message from their Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Separately, the Russian defence ministry said its forces are holding more than 6,000 Ukrainian prisoners of war who have been captured since the February 24 invasion.
The Russian defence ministry statement described the retreat as a gesture of goodwill meant to demonstrate that Moscow will not interfere with UN efforts to organise protected grain exports from Ukraine.
Hours after the summit ended, missiles were fired at an apartment building and recreation centre in the southern region of Odessa, a strategic flashpoint that is home to Ukraines historic port city of the same name.
The island had become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance in the first days of the war, when the rocky outcrops defenders told a Russian warship to go fck yourself after it called on them to surrender  an incident that spurred a defiant meme.
In the southern city of Mykolaiv, rescuers found the bodies of seven civilians in the rubble of a destroyed building, emergency services said.
The city of Lysychansk in the eastern Donbas region  the current focus of Russias offensive  is also facing sustained bombardment.
The situation in Lysychansk  the last major city the Russians need to take over in the Lugansk region  was extremely difficult with relentless shelling making it impossible to evacuate civilians, regional governor Sergiy Gaiday said.
There is a lot of shelling The Russian army is approaching from different directions, he said in a video posted on Telegram.
We are going to stick with Ukraine, and all of the alliance are going to stick with Ukraine, as long as it takes to make sure they are not defeated by Russia, he said.
Yesterday, a ship carrying 7,000 tonnes of grain sailed from Ukraines occupied port of Berdyansk, said the regional leader appointed by the Russian occupation forces.
