Taoiseach says Ireland supports strongest possible sanctions as he criticises immoral actions of Putin
20220224
https://www.thejournal.ie/taoiseach-russia-ukraine-5692069-Feb2022/
Martin is in Brussels as part of a snap EU summit on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which was called yesterday evening in advance of the invasion.
When asked if the Russian Ambassador to Ireland will be expelled, he said no one EU country will take unilateral steps: We will work in concert and in unity with our European colleaguesno one country will be taking unilateral steps.
I think we have to do everything we possibly can in this situation, to reach out to our Ukrainian friends. We will be there for them.
We will be supporting the strongest possible and most comprehensive sanctions that can be deployed.
American intelligence, and NATO intelligence lets be frank, has been saying for quite some time that this was going to happen. This was denied, emphatically denied by the Ambassador and by representatives of the Russian government, even though they clearly were planning such a comprehensive attack on the Ukrainian people, Martin said.
We will support the imposition of comprehensive and severe sanctions on Russia, sanctions that reflect the grave nature of the assault on the Ukrainian people.
The foreign affairs minister said Russias aggression is an attack on a Europe that we have built together collectively since World War II.
So its really important that we act in concert with our European allies. But let me be very clear when it comes to accepting refugees, when it comes to financial and other sanctions, Ireland is willing to be at the forefront of doing what is right in that regard, regardless of any selfish or economic concerns we may have for ourselves, said Varadkar.
We are also maintaining close contact with Irish citizens in Ukraine, whose safety is paramount, including the two Irish diplomats in our Embassy in Kyiv who are in a safe place with EU colleagues. I pay tribute to their commitment and to the work that they are doing, he said.
Nobody wanted to be in this position, said Martin, who stated that every effort was made to deal with any security issues Russia might have. These issues without question could have been resolved.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Martin said thatAmbassador Yuri Filatov represents a government which has lied to the world and people they have engaged with.
The Taoiseach said he agrees with EU Council President Ursula von der Leyen when she said the target is no longer just Ukraine. One has to take into consideration that the expansionist position of President Putin could be to push further, he added.
Martin said that the Irish Government is maintaining close contact with Irish citizens in Ukraine.
In an interview on RTsMorning Ireland programmeearlier, Coveney said that Ireland will not take a neutral stance on Russias belligerence.
Ireland is a neutral country, were militarily non-aligned, but we are certainly not neutral on an issue like this, when there is blatant aggression happening on the continent of Europe, he said.
He said that there would likely be higher costs for EU countries who are closer to the conflict.
These include sanctions of a financial nature in relation to banking and financial services, aviation and any other matters, he added.
The general price will be one of economic challenges. Energy is an obvious one in terms of the increased price and scarcity of sources of energy, in terms of gas and oil.
Particularly in the financial sector, in energy and transport and in a range of sectors that would weaken the industrial base of Russia and also its capacity to wage war.
Young lives will be lost unnecessarily, he told reporters. This is an unacceptable situation to be witnessing in the 21st century, he said.
Preparations are currently underway to prepare for a potential humanitarian crisis, and Martin said Ireland is drawing up plans to receive potential Ukrainian refugees.
Contingency measures have been taken at European level in respect of some of that, but I think we have to be honest with people. In upholding the values that we cherish there will be a price and there will be a cost.
'Why does one leader decide that lives will be lost...it's immoral.' pic.twitter.comW5Ymg1UaMu Rnn Duffy ronanduffy February 24, 2022
Speaking toRT Radio Onethis afternoon, Martin said that there would be a cost to the sanctions issued by the EU on Ireland, with damage to the economy and an increased price and scarcity of energy also raised.
When asked about excluding Russia from the SWIFT banking system, Martin repeated that Ireland backed the strongest possible sanctions.
As a small country in particular, todays use of brute force in pursuit of a warped perception of national interest is a serious affront. It presents Europe with the most grave security situation it has faced in decades, with repercussions for global security and for the worlds economy, he said.
He also added that a 10 million fund for humanitarian purposes in Ukraine would be created by the Government and that Ireland would stand by to do whatever else is needed to assist Ukraine in their hour of need.
Martin said the protection of human life is extremely important and that Ireland will not be found wanting in offering the humanitarian support the Ukrainian people will need.
We stand with them, he said, adding that visa requirements would be waived for all Ukrainians entering this country. He said this should help Irish families in Ukraine to travel to Ireland with Ukrainian family members.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Martin said that there will be a clear, comprehensive and immediate response to the unjust aggression by Russia against the people of the Ukraine. It is immoral what is going on, he said.
TAOISEACH MICHEL MARTIN has said that Ireland will be supporting the strongest possible sanctions by the EU on Russia, following the invasion of Ukraine.
This is an act of aggression. It is unprecedented in the 21st century, said Varadkar.
Martin said that while there is lots of talk about strategies and geopolitics, fundamentally its peoples lives that are at stake here.
In relation to the Russian ambassador and diplomats, any actions will be taken on a European level.
Martin also confirmed that Ireland would not recognise a government in Ukraine that was installed by Russia.
Speaking during Leaders Questions in the Dil today, Tnaiste Leo Varadkar said: Ireland is militarily neutral, but in this conflict, Ireland is not neutral at all.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
I want to be very clear that the Irish government will fully support any additional sanctions against Russia.
Speaking to reporters in Brussels this evening, Martin said that the EU collectively condemned the outrageous and immoral attack on Ukraine by Russia.
Plans being worked on if that turns out to be the case. War can, as we know, create real pressures in terms of migratory flows. We hope again it doesnt come to that.
The Taoiseach said if it is the case that Putin wants to restore some previous historic order, then we have to make it very clear that thats not acceptable.
Earlier today he said Irelands thoughts must be with the innocent people of Ukraine in their most difficult hour.
Varadkar said: Ireland will not be putting any selfish or economic interests ahead of responses required. We will support whatever sanctions are necessary, including those that would disrupt banking and financial services that are used by Russians it applies to aviation as well.
