The 9 at 9 Direct Provision catering company controversy US accuse Russia of deploying more troops to Ukraine and stormy weather
20220217
https://www.thejournal.ie/morning-rundown-thursday-5685372-Feb2022/
Aramark, an American corporation, operates three Direct Provision centres for the State in Cork, Clare and Westmeath and has commercial interests in the US prison system.
4. NPHET:Public health experts are meeting today to discuss mask wearing, the most appropriate use of testing going forward as well as the rules relating to self-isolation and restricted movements.
9. CANADA:Canadian rescuers have ended a search for survivors from a Spanish fishing trawler that sank off Canadas east coast in bad weather, after pulling three out of 24 crew from the Atlantic ocean.
3. UKRAINE:Russia has added as many as 7,000 troops near the Ukraine border in recent days, contrary to claims by President Vladimir Putin that troops would be pulled back from the region, a senior US administration official has claimed.
5. LIMERICK: The funeral of a boy who died in a head-on collision while driving alone in his mothers car will take place today.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Wiktor Chojecki 12 from Newcastle West, Co Limerick, died when the Nissan Qashqai he was driving collided head-on with a lorry just outside the village of Adare around 2am last Friday.
2. STORM:Severe winds will hit tonight as Storm Eunice sweeps across Ireland. Met ireann is forecasting challenging and disruptive conditions tomorrow due to very strong winds, heavy rain and snow.
The victims were sitting on an iron slab covering the well yesterday when it gave way, senior police officer Akhil Kumar told reporters in Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh state.
8. MISSING PERSON: An appeal has been made to help find a missing teenager from Co Kildare. Chloe Daly 17 went missing from Newbridge, Co. Kildare on Tuesday night.
1. DIRECT PROVISION: In our lead story this morning, Brianna Parkins reports that National Gallery of Ireland staff have expressed deep distress over management awarding catering services to a company which also manages Direct Provision centres.
6. INDIA: Thirteen women and girls died after accidentally falling down a well during marriage celebrations in northern India, police said today.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
7. GERMANY: Germanys leaders have announced plans to end most of the countrys coronavirus restrictions by 20 March, a decision that coincided with moves by neighbouring Austria and Switzerland to drop many of their curbs sooner.
