Three British people to stand trial as mercenaries in Russiabacked court
20220801
https://www.thejournal.ie/mercenaries-trial-ukraine-5830865-Aug2022/
John Harding, Cambridgeshire aid worker Dylan Healy 22 and military volunteer Andrew Hill will be tried in the Moscow-backed Supreme Court of the Donetsk Peoples Republic, according to Russian state news agency Tass.
It comes after a video shown on Russian television in April featured a man speaking with an English accent who appeared to give his name as Andrew Hill from Plymouth.
A spokeswoman said: We condemn the exploitation of prisoners of war and civilians for political purposes and have raised this with Russia.
We are in constant contact with the government of Ukraine on their cases and are fully supportive of Ukraine in its efforts to get them released.
The UK Foreign Office is understood to be actively investigating and is providing support to the mens families.
The Strasbourg-based court indicated to Moscow that it should ensure the death penalty imposed on Aslin 28, originally from Newark in Nottinghamshire, and Pinner 48 from Bedfordshire, was not carried out.
It said the action was in response to UK sanctions issued against Russian ministers, officials and members of influential families linked to the Kremlin following Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine.
The charitys crisis response manager Kristyan Benedict said: In exploiting their capture of Dylan Healy and Andrew Hill like this, Russia and its proxies in the Donetsk Peoples Republic are already adding to a huge catalogue of war crimes theyre committing in this war.
The Donetsk court last month sentenced British men Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner to death in what the Foreign Office considers sham judgements, with the European Court of Human Rights forced to intervene in the case.
THREE BRITISH PEOPLE accused of being mercenaries will stand trial in a Russian proxy court in eastern Ukraine.
Tass also said 60-year-old Harding had fought in Syria on the Kurdish side but had denied killing anyone.
Tass reported all three men were refusing to co-operate with investigators. They will be tried alongside two other men from Croatia and Sweden as foreign citizens accused of mercenarism, a court representative told the agency.
The Russian foreign ministry yesterday issued a list of 39 newly sanctioned individuals  including David Cameron, Keir Starmer and Piers Morgan  it said are no longer allowed to enter the Russian Federation.
Prosecutors allege all five men were members of the Azov battalion and other military units captured in Mariupol.
