Timeline Russias tense standoff with Ukraine
20220221
https://www.thejournal.ie/russia-ukraine-timeline-5689452-Feb2022/
On 24 January, NATO puts troops on standby and sends ships and fighter jets to bolster Europes eastern defences.
On 17 February, shellfire intensifies all along the frontline of the two Russian-backed enclaves in eastern Ukraine.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken accuses Moscow of false provocations to justify further aggression against Ukraine.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
On 20 February, Belarus says joint exercises involving Russia and Belarus forces are being extended.
On 31 January, Moscow accuses the United States of whipping up hysteria after Washington says 30,000 Russian troops will be deployed in Belarus near the Ukrainian border by early February.
The United States says it believes Putin is going to use military force between now and the middle of February.
The Russian military says it has killed five saboteurs who crossed into Russia from Ukraine. Ukraine firmly denies the claims.
On 7 December, US President Joe Biden threatens Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin with strong economic and other measures if he invades Ukraine.
Five days later the US says Russia now has 110,000 troops on Ukraines border with another 40,000 to arrive within a week.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Putin says a 2015 plan agreed with France, Germany and Kyiv will not be able to resolve the conflict.
On 15 February, Moscow says some of its forces are returning to their bases. But NATO sees no sign of a withdrawal and Washington claims Russia is in fact sending reinforcements.
Ten days later Moscow puts forward proposals to limit US and NATO influence on former Soviet states.
Ukraine requests an urgent meeting of the UN Security Council to address the threat of a Russian invasion.
Moscow denies this and three days later accuses Kyiv of a military build-up of its own, demanding legal guarantees that it will never join NATO.
On 28 January, Putin says the West has ignored Russias fundamental concerns on NATOs expansion and has strike weapons systems near Russias borders.
On Friday the leaders of the Donetsk and Lugansk separatist regions say they are evacuating residents to Russia.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
A view of a monument to Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin and a poster reading Russian Donbass in Donetsk, Ukraine.
The next day Moscow begins military exercises involving some 6,000 troops and at least 60 fighter jets in southern Russia near Ukraine and in Moscow-annexed Crimea.
On 19 February, Ukraine says two of its soldiers died in attacks on the frontline with Russian-backed separatists.
On 26 January, Washington refuses to shut the NATO door on Ukraine and the alliance says many of Moscows security demands are unrealistic.
On 17 January, Russian troops begin arriving in ex-Soviet Belarus for military drills, which Moscow says are aimed at thwarting external aggression.
FROM RUSSIAS MASSING of troops along the border in November to what the West fears is an imminent invasion, here is a timeline of months of tensions around Ukraine.
On 28 November, Ukraine says Russia is massing nearly 92,000 troops for an offensive at the end of January or early February.
On 2 February, the United States sends 3,000 troops to fortify NATO forces in eastern Europe.
