Tom Clonan This war will test European values in a manner not seen since the 1940s
20220224
https://www.thejournal.ie/opinion-russia-invasion-ukraine-tom-clonan-5692325-Feb2022/
However, unlike the invasion of Georgia, Ukraine appears determined to resist the Russian invasion. The Russians will enjoy initial spectacular successes and will seize territory  but risk being drawn into a war of attrition with the prospect of repeated Ukrainian counter-offensives. This would place the Russians in a protracted and costly war scenario  ironically, of the type experienced by NATO in Iraq and Afghanistan.
If the Ukrainian military hold their positions and fight in Luhansk and Donetsk  which they have vowed to do  there will be conventional combat in the region with heavy loss of life, of a kind and on a scale not seen in Europe since World War Two.
This morning, with commercial air traffic cleared from Ukrainian airspace, a wider invasion of Ukraine commenced. The first phase of this campaign is the air offensive. In a universal template  used by NATO in the invasion of Afghanistan and by the US and her allies in the invasion of Iraq  the air phase will consist of waves of air strikes and missile strikes throughout Ukraine.
Putin may  for strategic reasons  agree to a temporary cease fire. However, if he is successful in this endeavour, Russia may well accelerate its hybrid operations and extend them to the Baltic States.
It is clear however that Russia has sensed a perceived weakness in the EU and NATO. Putin has called Europe and Americas bluff.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Dr Tom Clonanis a former Captain in the Irish armed forces. He is a security analyst and academic, lecturing in the School of Media in TU Dublin. You can follow him onTwitter.
Putin has demanded that Ukrainian forces to put down their weapons and return to their homes. He has also stated that any interference with Russian operations will result in immediate retaliation.
The choreography for Putins invasion of Ukraine has been quite protracted and very overt. Russian troop concentrations on the border with Ukraine began in late 2021 with no attempt to conceal or mask the fact that the units involved were tank regiments, artillery and highly mobile armoured units  of the type specifically suited to a massive, rapid ground incursion.
Ultimately, at this point, it would appear that Russia intends to create a permanently occupied buffer zone in Eastern Ukraine  from the annexed Crimean Peninsula and north into Luhansk and Donetsk in the Donbass region.
The separatist-held areas now reinforced by Russian tanks and armour will be the forming up point and start-line for the ground invasion. As I write, Russian forces are using heavy artillery to shell Ukrainian border posts and military positions before their troops move forward. As was the case in Chechnya and Georgia, the Russians will hope for a rapid  and brutal  armoured advance supported by infantry configured in Battalion Tactical Groups or BTGs.
Therefore, in the coming weeks and months, there will be huge international pressure for cease-fires  some prompted by humanitarian catastrophes and the inevitable civilian casualties that will be a consequence of this invasion.
This is an indication that a state of war now exists between the two states  with full combat operations and the indiscriminate use of force to follow.
LAST NIGHT RUSSIAN authorities issued a NOTAM or Notice to Airmen closing Ukrainian airspace to commercial air traffic. This was the last moment in the preparation for a full invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops.
On Monday, after signing a Treaty of Friendship with the Peoples Republics of Luhansk and Donetsk, Vladimir Putin ordered the first phase of the invasion of Ukraine. He ordered Russian troops across to border to act as Peacekeepers and to reinforce separatist forces facing the Ukrainian military along the Ukraine, Line of Contact  a front approximately 200km long.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Such an outcome would mirror Russian territorial gains after their invasion of Georgia in 2008. In that case, the Russians mounted a rapid, overwhelming invasion which lasted just ten days or so. They then withdrew to consolidated defensive positions and continue to occupy 20 of Georgias original territory as a buffer zone between Russia and Turkey  one of NATOs largest military partners.
Given the numbers of aircraft and troops that Russia have deployed to Ukraine, it is likely that Putin will seek to smash through Ukraines defensive Line of Contact and push the Ukrainian military west to a line running north-south from Kharkiv to Dneipr.
US intelligence sources have suggested that Putin will not stop at an occupation of Donbass and is intent on regime-change in Ukraine. At this point, it is difficult to estimate the precise limit of exploitation of Putins war aims.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Whilst this air and missile campaign continues  in waves of attacks over the coming days  the ground offensive has begun. The Russians immediate priority will be to locate, engage with and destroy all Ukrainian military positions along the Line of Contact within Luhansk and Donetsk. President Putin has explicitly ordered the concentration of force in this area as a special military operation in Donbass.
The Russians have struck targets from Lviv in the west of Ukraine, to the capital Kyiv and as far east as the port of Mariupol. The targets will include Ukrainian military headquarters, logistics, transport and ammunition depots.
In striking at these targets  often in densely populated urban environments  civilian casualties will be inevitable. There are already reports of civilian deaths in Ukraine.
The challenges and risks of escalation are enormous. Ireland must use its position  as a neutral state  to be the voice of reason and leadership at the UN Security Council.
The Russians will also take the port city of Mariupol and other towns such as Sloviansk, Severodonetsk, Kramatorisk, and Pokrovsk. The Russians will be hoping for a rapid advance  as was the case in Georgia.
Putins strategy is a risky one. For now, Russia has seized the initiative and is shaping events on the ground through a provocative act of war. However, as Russian units manoeuvre westwards through populated areas, there will be major civilian casualties and an acute refugee crisis with hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons fleeing west.
The risks associated with Vladimir Putins actions in Ukraine are grave. For now, all sides to the conflict will do everything in their power to avoid a direct confrontation between NATO and Russian forces  an interaction that would risk triggering a world war.
