Two British aid workers captured by Russian forces in Ukraine
20220429
https://www.thejournal.ie/russia-strikes-kyiv-un-chief-visit-ukraine-5750631-Apr2022/
Russias defence ministry has confirmed it carried out the air strike, the first in the capital in nearly two weeks, which came after Antonio Guterres toured Bucha and other suburbs where Moscow is alleged to have committed war crimes.
The German parliament yesterday voted overwhelmingly in favour of providing Kyiv with heavy weapons, a major shift in policy.
The US leader also blasted Moscow for idle comments on the possible use of nuclear weapons.
In a residential part of Kyiv, AFP correspondents saw one building in flames and black smoke pouring into the air after the Russian strikes.
Presidium Network said it had offered to help Urey and Healy after hearing of their volunteer efforts, but the pair were not affiliated with the non-governmental organisation, which has been active in Ukraine.
A family man with children, Urey is a well-travelled humanitarian who worked for eight years in Afghanistan, according to Presidium.
Zelenskyy said the strikes, which came immediately after his talks with Guterres, were an attempt by Russia to humiliate the UN and everything that the organisation represents.
The bulk  $20 billion  would be weapons and other security assistance, while $8.5 billion will be economic aid.
The Russian campaign has since refocused on seizing the east and south of the country while using long-range missiles against west and central Ukraine.
In an early morning statement on Telegram, defenders of the Azovstal factory there said shelling had struck a field hospital inside the plant, causing it to collapse.
More than 2,000 buildings in the city have been damaged or destroyed by fire since Russia launched its invasion, leaving its firefighters at the breaking point.
Prosecutors said the ten servicemen under investigation are suspected of premeditated murder, cruel treatment and other violations of the laws and customs of war during their occupation of Bucha, northwest of Kyiv.
Two weeks ago there was a big shelling in the city centre and 56 fire trucks went in to extinguish different areas a lot of apartments were bombed, Roman Kachanov, a firefighter who heads the N11 fire station told AFP.
We feel bad, we shouldnt be standing here, Svitlana Gordienko, a nurse forced to relocate to the southern city of Zaporizhzhia, told AFP as she queued for food at a humanitarian hub.
A senior US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the spending package would keep Ukraines government and military going through the start of October.
Ukraine said one person had been killed in a Russian strike that rocked the centre of the capital Kyiv yesterday during a visit by the UN chief.
It said that Healy, born in 2000, is a kitchen manager for a hotel chain in Britain.
Guterres said the UN was doing everything possible to evacuate civilians from the apocalypse in the besieged port city of Mariupol.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Klitschko said there had been two hits in the Shevchenkovsky district, with one hitting the lower floors of a residential building. Three people were taken to hospital, but the extent of their injuries was not immediately clear.
In Kharkiv, local Governor Oleh Synegubov said five civilians were killed yesterday in what he described as near-continuous shelling.
In its economic standoff with the West, Russia on Wednesday cut gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland. Both are now receiving gas from European Union neighbours.
Those cases involve killing civilians, bombing of civilian infrastructure, torture and sexual crimes reported during Russias occupation of various parts of Ukraine, prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova told a German TV channel.
TWO BRITISH MEN working as aid volunteers in Ukraine have been taken captive by Russian forces on suspicion they are spies, a non-profit organisation and the family of one of them said.
It is a war zone, but it is shocking that it happened close to us, Saviano Abreu, spokesman for the UNs humanitarian office who was travelling with Guterres, told AFP, adding the delegation was safe.
The first phase of Russias invasion failed to reach Kyiv or overthrow the government after encountering stiff resistance reinforced with Western weapons.
Guterres, who arrived in Kyiv after talks in Moscow with Russian President Vladimir Putin, called the war evil after visiting Bucha and demanded the Kremlin cooperate with an International Criminal Court investigation into the accusations.
Russia has targeted Western-supplied arms, as the United States and Europe increasingly heed Zelenskyys call for heavier firepower, despite misgivings about being drawn into a conflict with Moscow.
High-precision, long-range air-based weapons of the Russian Aerospace Forces have destroyed the production buildings of the Artyom missile and space enterprise in Kyiv, the ministry said in its daily briefing on the conflict in Ukraine.
And this has been going on day after day and people dont have enough time to rest, he said. Its exhausting, youre just as tired as hell.
Firefighters try to put out a fire following an explosion in Kyiv after Russia bombarded the city with strikes.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Nearly 5.4 million Ukrainians have fled their country since the invasion, according to the United Nations, and more than 12 million others are displaced internally.
They made her husband lie on the floor and asked her how she knew these British spies, he said, insisting that the pair were not spies but humanitarian workers.
Were not attacking Russia. We are helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression, Biden said.
On Thursday, Bulgarias Prime Minister Kiril Petkov urged Europe to be stronger and wean itself off Russian gas.
The pair were said to be operating independently to try to get vulnerable Ukrainians out, and were arrested as they drove to help a woman and her two children in Zaporizhzhia.
In Washington, Biden pushed back against increasingly heated claims by Russian officials that Moscow is fighting the entire West, rather than only Ukraine.
At a joint press conference with Zelenskyy, Guterres admitted the UN Security Council had failed to do everything in its power to prevent and end this war.
The NGO confirmed it was working with Britains foreign ministry, which has been urgently seeking further information on the case.
The cost of this fight is not cheap. But caving to aggression is going to be more costly if we allow it to happen, Biden said.
Urey, born in 1977, is a Type 1 diabetic and needs regular insulin doses, according to his mother Linda Urey, who said his family was extremely worried.
He was out there on his own accord. We want everyones support to bring my son home and pray he is safe, she said.
A Russian military spokesman told reporters that Moscows army had conducted air strikes against 38 military targets, but made no immediate mention of Kyiv or the region around the capital.
US President Joe Biden speaks in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
A Russian official, meanwhile, said yesterday that the ruble will soon be introduced in areas of Ukraine under Moscows control, despite Russia earlier insisting it was not seeking to occupy captured territory.
After the checkpoint arrests, the womans house was stormed by armed Russian soldiers, Presidium co-founder Dominik Byrne said in a statement.
While Biden noted the US was sending 10 anti-tank weapons for every Russian tank, Ukraines air force commander said his countrys anti-aircraft systems were unable to strike bombers flying at altitudes of eight kilometres and higher.
Paul Urey from Warrington and Dylan Healy were captured by Russian soldiers on Monday at a checkpoint south of the city of Zaporizhzhia in southeastern Ukraine, according to Presidium Network, a humanitarian organisation.
Three months into an invasion that failed in its short-term aim of capturing Kyiv, Russia is now intensifying operations in the breakaway eastern Donbas region, as Ukraines Western allies supply it with increasingly heavy armaments.
Rescuers, who are continuing to search and remove rubble from a residential building in the Shevchenkivskyi district where a rocket hit yesterday, have just discovered the remains of a person who was killed, Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said in a statement on social media.
In Washington, President Joe Biden yesterday urged US lawmakers to approve a huge $33 billion aid package and proposed new laws to allow using luxury assets stripped from Russian oligarchs to compensate Ukraine for damage inflicted since Moscow invaded on 24 February.
It said its forces had carried out a range of air strikes yesterday, destroying three power substations at Ukrainian railway hubs and a Tochka-U missile launcher that it said had carried out an attack on the Russian-held city of Kherson.
Among the already wounded servicemen are dead, newly wounded and injured, the statement said without providing specific casualty numbers.
After Moscows retreat from Kyiv, dozens of bodies in civilian clothes were found and Ukrainian prosecutors said they have opened investigations into 10 Russian soldiers for suspected atrocities in Bucha and pinpointed more than 8,000 alleged war crimes cases.
Ukraines ombudsman condemned the move as act of annexation and gross violation of UN Charter articles.
With the war claiming thousands of lives, Kyiv has admitted Russian forces are making gains in the east, capturing a string of villages in the Donbas region.
I heard the sound of two rockets and two explosions. It was a sound similar to a flying plane, and then two explosions with an interval of three to four seconds, Oleksandr Stroganov, 34, told AFP.
