UK defence minister blames dirty tricks after 10minute call with impostor posing as Ukraines PM
20220317
https://www.thejournal.ie/uk-defence-secretary-impostor-ukraine-prime-minister-call-5714416-Mar2022/
AN IMPOSTOR POSING as Ukraines prime minister tricked his way onto a video call with British defence secretary Ben Wallace, who blamed Russian dirty tricks on the hoax.
Wallace has ordered an immediate inquiry to find out how the impostor was able to speak to him, after being put through to a video call which lasted around 10 minutes.
The fact that a hoax caller was able to speak directly to the defence secretary has raised security questions in the UK, particularly given Wallaces suggestion that Russia was behind it.
The video call was set up after an email, purportedly sent from an aide at the Ukrainian embassy, was sent to a government department and then forwarded to the Ministry of Defence.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
The level of sophistication involved in the hoax has convinced Government sources that it was a Russian plot.
Wallace said that that the hoax was a desperate attempt and that no amount of Russian disinformation, distortion and dirty tricks could distract from the situation in Ukraine.
Senior Ministry of Defence sources fear Moscow may attempt to splice together Wallaces comments in an attempt to embarrass him.
He revealed he had been targeted by the hoax call in a Twitter post, saying he became suspicious and terminated the call after several misleading questions.
Responding to the report, home secretary Priti Patel also said she had also been targeted by a call from an impostor earlier this week.
The call was set up and Wallace was put through on Microsoft Teams to the prime minister of Ukraine, posing with the countrys flag behind him.
After initial introductions and thanks for the UKs support, Wallace is understood to have became suspicious as the man started asking questions about British policy and eventually urged the Defence Secretary to shout slogans.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
