UN Security Council defeats Russian resolution on Ukraine crisis
20220324
https://www.thejournal.ie/un-security-council-defeated-russian-resolution-5719559-Mar2022/
The Russian defeat came on the same day the General Assembly started consideration of a resolution drafted by Ukraine and two dozen other countries from all parts of the world and co-sponsored by nearly 100 nations which clearly states that Russias aggression is responsible for the growing humanitarian emergency.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
THE UN SECURITY Council has defeated a Russian resolution that would have acknowledged Ukraines growing humanitarian needs but without mentioning the Russian invasion that caused the crisis.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
Russias UN envoy countered that the emergency special session of the UN General Assembly, which is considering the resolution, is just another political anti-Russian show, set this time in an allegedly humanitarian context.
Russias UN ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia told the assembly that by considering the French-Mexican resolution, it was engaging in another political anti-Russian show, set this time in an allegedly humanitarian context.
Ukrainian Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsy urged all nations that stand against Russias war on his country to vote for a UN resolution on the humanitarian consequences of its aggression, saying this would send a powerful message aimed at helping people caught in the conflict and ending Moscows military action.
The assembly was also to consider a rival South African resolution that makes no mention of Russia and is similar to the defeated Security Council resolution.
If Western nations were really concerned about the humanitarian situation on the ground, he said, they could show it by voting for Russias humanitarian resolution in the Security Council.
Nebenzia asked the assemblys 193 member nations to vote against the Ukrainian-backed measure and support the South African draft resolution that focuses solely on humanitarian issues with no political assessment.
Russia introduced its resolution on 15 March. A day earlier, France and Mexico decided to move their proposed humanitarian resolution blaming the Russian invasion for the humanitarian crisis out of the Security Council, where it faced a Russian veto. There are no vetoes in the 193-member General Assembly.
But in last nights vote, Russia got support only from China, with the 13 other council members abstaining.
US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield vehemently objected when Russia announced that it was calling for the Security Council vote on Wednesday, saying: Russia is the aggressor here, and it is absolutely unconscionable for Russia to think that they can put forward a humanitarian resolution.
To pass, the resolution needed a minimum of nine yes votes in the 15-member council, and no veto by any of the four other members with veto power.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Ukraines and Russias ambassadors were among the first of nearly 70 national representatives scheduled to speak before the assembly votes on the rival resolutions on the humanitarian impact of the war, which will mark its one-month anniversary tomorrow.
