US intelligence finds Russia planning Ukraine invasion
20211203
https://www.thejournal.ie/russia-ukraine-2022-5620261-Dec2021/
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
The new intelligence finding estimates the Russians are planning to use an estimated 175,000 troops and almost half of them are already deployed along various points near Ukraines border, according to an official with US President Joe Bidens administration who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Yesterday, Biden pledged to make it very, very difficult for Russian leader Vladimir Putin to take military action in Ukraine.
It comes as Russia has picked up its demands on Biden to guarantee that Ukraine will not be allowed to join Nato.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
It remains unclear if Putin intends to go through with what would be a risky offensive, they say.
US intelligence officials have seen an increase in Russian propaganda through the use of proxies and media outlets to denigrate Ukraine and Nato ahead of a potential invasion, the White House official said.
US INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS have found Russian planning is under way for a possible military offensive against Ukraine that could begin as soon as early 2022.
Asked about the intelligence finding as he set out for the presidential retreat at Camp David on Friday evening, Biden reiterated his concerns about Russian provocations.
US officials and former diplomats say while he is clearly laying the groundwork for a possible invasion, Ukraines military is better armed and prepared today than in past years and the sanctions threatened by the West would do serious damage to Russias economy.
The official added that the plans call for the movement of 100 battalion tactical groups along with armour, artillery and equipment.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Weve been aware of Russias actions for a long time and my expectation is were going to have a long discussion with Putin, he said.
