US sanctions Russia for beginning invasion of Ukraine
20220222
https://www.thejournal.ie/ukraine-russia-invasion-un-security-council-5689576-Feb2022/
Sanctions are being imposed on two large Russian financial institutions VEB and its military bank.
He said that targets for asset freezes and visa bans included 351 members of the Russian Duma lower house who appealed to President Vladimir Putin to recognise the two regions as independent.
The Russian President had asked the countrys upper house to approve using the army outside its borders to support separatists in Ukraine, deputy defence minister Nikolay Pankov told a session of the chamber.
Earlier today, the Russian parliament voted to ratify Putins agreements with separatist regions, which allow Russia to send troops and set up military bases in Donetsk and Lugansk.
Nato deployed four battalions to Baltic states Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania as well as Poland in 2017 after Moscow annexed Crimea and helped separatists take over parts of eastern Ukraine.
South Korean president Moon Jae-in said Ukraines sovereignty and territory must be respected, while Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida criticised Russia for violating Ukrainian territorial integrity and said it would discuss possible including sanctions, with the international community.
We have the responsibility to work to resolve this conflict, rather than yield to a grim new chapter, which will inflict further misery on Ukraine and its people.
The bloc is looking to target banks financing Russian operations in Ukraines separatist territories and Moscows access to European financial markets.
The announcement followed a wave of sanctions announced by Britain and the European Union, after Putin recognised the self-declared Donetsk and Lugansk rebel republics.
Speaking in the House of Commons, Boris Johnson said: Any assets they hold in the UK will be frozen, the individuals concerned will be banned from travelling here and we will prohibit all UK individuals and entities from having any dealings with them.
Biden announced what he called the first tranche of sanctions, including steps to starve Russia of financing and target financial institutions and its elites.
I know Vladimir Putin very well, and he would have never done during the Trump administration what he is doing now, no way! the twice-impeached former president said.
Byrne Nason said those in the room all need to demonstrate our faith in the value of diplomacy tonight.
As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as well. Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression, including additional sanctions.
Trump said Putins tactics had been smart and argued, without elaborating, that the United States could replicate them on its border with Mexico.
This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed, he said.
The sanctions will also target Russian parliament members who backed recognising breakaway regions as independent and will inflict severe damage on the country, the EUs foreign policy chief said.
The Russian ambassador to the UK was summoned to explain Russias violation of international law and disregard of Ukraines sovereignty, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said.
The United States and its allies rounded on Russia during an emergency Security Council session last night, denouncing Vladimir Putins latest moves a gross violation of international law and pretext for war.
Russia's aggression against Ukraine is illegal and unacceptable. The Union remains united in its support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. A first package of sanctions will be formally tabled today. Ursula von der Leyen vonderleyen February 22, 2022
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
He followed up with a separate statement arguing that the Ukraine crisis could have been averted altogether if it had been properly handled by President Joe Biden, who defeated him in the 2020 election.
The statement today further raises the stakes amid Western fears that Moscow could follow up yesterdays recognition of rebel regions with a full-fledged invasion of Ukraine.
None of us can say how things could evolve, says Scholz. The troops are there and they could take the whole of Ukraine, he says. This is why action must be taken, he adds. Europe and the US will act quickly we have prepared for this for weeks and months he says pic.twitter.comkMGuTP8S2X
The recognition of the separatist republics effectively buries a fragile 2015 peace plan for the conflict and opens the door for direct Russian military involvement.
You dont send peacekeepers in in tanks and attack helicopters. This is unfortunately, Russia, forcing its will militarily on a part of Ukraine, Coveney told RTs Morning Ireland programme.
Theres no question that Russia is the aggressor, so were clear eyed about the challenges were facing, the president said in a nationwide address from the White House.
The UK is looking to impose similar sanctions on five Russian banks and three very high net worth individuals.
Under the agreements, Russia will be able to send troops, set up military bases and jointly defend the territories of the Donetsk Peoples Republic DNR and Lugansk Peoples Republic LNR.
Russia's aggression against Ukraine is illegal and unacceptable. The Union remains united in its support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. A first package of sanctions will be formally tabled today.
Nato member Turkey, which has close relations to both Ukraine and Russia, also criticised Russias decision to recognise the independence of the regions in eastern Ukraine.
It comes after the Government branded Russias recognition of two separatist Ukrainian regions as a blatant violation of Ukraines territorial integrity.
Germany also announced it was halting certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia.
Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney this morning said the EU needed to determine how severe the sanctions package would be, saying theres no way it could ignore what is a blatant breach of international law.
Addressing the council last night, US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield heaped scorn on Putins assertion that the Russian troops would take on a peacekeeping role in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov said Russia has recognised the rebel regions independence in borders that existed when they proclaimed their independence in 2014.
Scholz added that a decision to halt the project was only one concrete step and that further sanctions could follow.
The lower house of the Russian parliament, the Duma, voted unanimously to approve the deals.
None of us can say how things could evolve, says Scholz. The troops are there and they could take the whole of Ukraine, he says. This is why action must be taken, he adds. Europe and the US will act quickly we have prepared for this for weeks and months he says pic.twitter.comkMGuTP8S2X Christina Finn christinafinn8 February 22, 2022
Russias upper house, the Federation Council, gave Putin unanimous approval to deploy peacekeepers to two breakaway Ukrainian regions now recognized by Moscow as independent, and potentially into other parts of Ukraine.
During an appearance ona rightwing radio program, the hosts asked Trump about Putin recognising two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent.
I went in yesterday and there was a television screen, and I said, This is genius, Trump responded.
There are also other sanctions that we can introduce if further measures are taken, but for now, its a matter of doing something very concrete, he told journalists.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
JOE BIDEN TODAY announced tough new sanctions on Russia for beginning an invasion of Ukraine but said there was still time to avoid war, even as Vladimir Putin signaled plans to send troops beyond Russias borders.
Putins order has been widely seen as paving the way for an operation to deploy part of the potential invasion force he has massed on Ukraines borders.
Germans Defence Minister said it is ready to deploy more troops to Lithuania, where Germany leads a Nato battalion.
Nonetheless, there is still time to avert the worst case scenario that will bring untold suffering to millions of people if they move as suggested.
Russia said its recognition of independence for areas in eastern Ukraine extends to territory currently held by Ukrainian forces.
Putins plans remained unclear, but Western officials have been warning for weeks he has been preparing for an all-out invasion of Ukraine, a move that could spark a catastrophic war in Europe.
Negotiations have stalled. The Ukrainian leadership has taken the path of violence and bloodshed, the minister said during an ongoing unscheduled session of the Federation Council called at Putins request.
Meanwhile, Russias ambassador to the UN, Vasily Nebenzya, said Moscow is still open to diplomacy for a diplomatic solution  but warned against what he dubbed Ukrainian aggression.
Earlier today, EU countries unanimously agreed on an initial sanctions package, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told reporters after meeting of top diplomats in Paris.
Allowing a new bloodbath in the Donbass is something we do not intend to do, he added, referring to the region encompassing Donetsk and Lugansk.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
But he left the door open to a final effort at diplomacy to avert a bloody full-scale Russian invasion.
Confirming that the Government will support additional EU sanctions on Russia, Minister Coveney said the claim that the troops deployed in Ukraine are peacekeepers is nonsense.
He calls them peacekeepers. This is nonsense. We know what they really are, Thomas-Greenfield said.
During last nights meeting, Geraldine Byrne Nason, Irelands ambassador to the UN, called Russias actions a flagrant violation of international law, saying the unilateral step had cast into doubt all the diplomatic efforts of past weeks.
Starting tomorrow and continuing in the days ahead we will also impose sanctions on Russias elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well.
Leaders in Asia and elsewhere voiced strong support for Ukraines sovereignty today, along with worries about how a European war could hurt global and local economies and endanger foreign nationals trapped in Ukraine.
Former US president Donald Trump today hailed Russian leader Vladimir Putins aggression against Ukraine as genius but said the crisis would not have happened under the Republican firebrands administration.
Meanwhile, in Russia, Vladimir Putin has received permission from Russian legislators for the use of the countrys army outside its borders.
During a press conference alongside Taoiseach Michel Martin in Berlin this morning, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz announced that he was suspending the Nord Stream 2 project in response to Moscows recognition of the two breakaway regions of Luhansk and Donetsk.
Were implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. That means weve cut off Russias government from Western financing, it can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either, Biden said.
Russia is not planning to send troops to eastern Ukraine for now but will do so in case of a threat, a foreign ministry official said today after the parliament ratified the deals with Ukraines separatist republics.
However, China, a traditional ally of Russia, sounded a cautious note, calling for restraint and a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
Scholz said he had asked to halt the review process by the German regulator for the pipeline.
That sounds technical, but it is the necessary administrative step so there can be no certification of the pipeline and without this certification, Nord Stream 2 cannot begin operating, he said.
The US will continue to send defensive weapons to Ukraine, as well as troops to Baltic countries in Nato.
Putin declares a big portion of the Ukraine  of Ukraine  Putin declares it as independent. Oh, thats wonderful.
Ukrainian border guard officers patrol the Ukrainian-Belarusian state border at a checkpoint in Novi Yarylovychi, Ukraine.
