Very significant risk of Russia invading Ukraine UK warns
20220123
https://www.thejournal.ie/uk-russia-ukraine-5662380-Jan2022/
THERE IS A very significant risk that Russia will mount an invasion of Ukraine, according to Britains Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab.
He has been the subject of international sanctions and an Interpol red notice issued at the request of the Ukrainian government.
The world needs to keep its eye on this and be very clear with President Putin that it would not do this cost-free, that there would be a price.
They include Mykola Azarov who served as prime minister under the pro-Moscow president Viktor Yanukovych who was toppled in a popular uprising in 2014.
The Foreign Office took the unusual step of naming former Ukrainian MP Yevhen Murayev as a potential Kremlin candidate to take over in Kyiv.
Dominic Raab does not rule out sending UK troops to defend Ukraine against a Russian invasionBut the Deputy PM tells Sophie Raworth doing so is "extremely unlikely" and says "Ukraine is not a NATO ally"SundayMorning https:t.coj608QlnEOt pic.twitter.comDTDExZ871U BBC Politics BBCPolitics January 23, 2022
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
It said some of them had been in contact with Russian intelligence officers working on the invasion plan.
In a statement on Saturday, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the Russian plotting showed the lengths to which the Kremlin was prepared go to undermine the government in Kyiv.
Western allies have stepped up warnings that Russia will pay a heavy price if the estimated 100,000 troops massed on the border launch any kind of incursion into Ukraine.
A price in terms of the strenuous defence that we would expect the Ukrainians to put up, but also the economic cost through sanctions, which are of course more effective if the international community speaks as one or at least with a broad consensus.
Russia must de-escalate, end its campaigns of aggression and disinformation, and pursue a path of diplomacy.
Murayev, a media owner, lost his seat in the Ukrainian parliament when his party failed to secure 5 of the vote in elections in 2019.
Azarov fled to Russia where he established what was widely seen as a puppet government-in-exile.
Disinformation circulated by FCDOGovUK is yet another indication that it is the NATO Members led by the Anglo-Saxon nations who are escalating tensions around Ukraine. We urge the Foreign Office to stop spreading nonsense. https:t.coKShxdSpIB4 pic.twitter.com5c30waMx6r
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
He told Skys Trevor Phillips On Sunday that Ukraine would absolutely like to join the European Union and Nato, adding: Thats what we made clear eight years ago, and thats why Russians came, and it didnt change our resolve even an inch.
It comes as Britain accused President Vladimir Putin of plotting to install a pro-Moscow leader as head of the government in Russias neighbouring country.
As the UK and our partners have said repeatedly, any Russian military incursion into Ukraine would be a massive strategic mistake with severe costs.
In addition, the Foreign Office named four other Ukrainian politicians who, it said, maintained links with the Russian intelligence services.
Also in the list is Vladimir Sivkovich, the former deputy head of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council, who was this week made the subject of US sanctions for allegedly working with Russian intelligence.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
He has reportedly spoken out in the past in support of Russias annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia accused the UK Foreign Office of circulating disinformation.
Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraines ambassador to the UK, said a Russian invasion is very likely but also told Times Radio that there is still room for diplomatic resolution.
Prystaiko said Ukraine is prepared to fight but said the country is not well-equipped for a prolonged fight.
Dominic Raab does not rule out sending UK troops to defend Ukraine against a Russian invasionBut the Deputy PM tells Sophie Raworth doing so is "extremely unlikely" and says "Ukraine is not a NATO ally"SundayMorning https:t.coj608QlnEOt pic.twitter.comDTDExZ871U
Disinformation circulated by FCDOGovUK is yet another indication that it is the NATO Members led by the Anglo-Saxon nations who are escalating tensions around Ukraine. We urge the Foreign Office to stop spreading nonsense. https:t.coKShxdSpIB4 pic.twitter.com5c30waMx6r MFA Russia  mfarussia January 23, 2022
Asked if he thought Russia would invade Ukraine, Raab told the BBCs Sunday Morning programme: I think there is a very significant risk of it.
Asked what he thinks the scale of the conflict could be, he said he still hopes this is just threats for now, but added that the country is preparing itself.
The others are Serhiy Arbuzov and Andriy Kluyev who both served as deputy prime minister under Yanukovych.
The information being released today shines a light on the extent of Russian activity designed to subvert Ukraine, and is an insight into Kremlin thinking, she said.
