We cannot imagine what youve gone through Fiveyearold Ukrainian and her mother get Dil applause
20220406
https://www.thejournal.ie/zelenskyy-address-dail-5731422-Apr2022/
Mary Lou McDonald, wearing a white suit jacket, a pin with the IrelandUkraine flags and an Easter lily pin, stood to her feet and called for the expulsion of Russias Ambassador to Ireland Yuriy Filatov.
Independent TD Cathal Berry, a former member of the Defence Forces, told the chamber that the only way for the conflict to end is for the Russian military to be defeated.
It is a rare occasion that members of the Dil and Seanad come together to hear an address, with speakers in the past including John F Kennedy, Nelson Mandela, Tony Blair and Nancy Pelosi.
Ireland must oppose all war mongers whether western or Russian, he said, with his remarks getting applause from some in the Opposition benches.
He also thanked the Irish people for their humanitarian donations and thanked Ireland for caring for Ukrainian people who found shelter on your land.
Two months ago, 5-year-old Anastasiia Semonova was going to school in Donetsk.Today she met the Taoiseach Michel Martin and Ukraine's ambassador Larysa Gerasko after attending a joint Oireachtas sitting addressed by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.MaxwellsOireachtas pic.twitter.comeqjPwOzyuG Gavan Reilly gavreilly April 6, 2022
He asked his colleagues to join with him in welcoming five-year-old Anastasiia to the Dil. The Ukrainian girl, with pigtails tied up in pink ribbons, was seated with her mother Yana.
Noting Russias efforts to claim that evidence of atrocities in Bucha and elsewhere in Ukraine were fabricated, McDonald said: The Russian ambassador wants us to ignore the evidence before our very eyes.
You have travelled over 4,000 kilometres from Kyiv to Dublin, having to leave your home under Russian artillery fire. We cannot imagine what you have gone through.
BLUE AND YELLOW dress attire was dotted through the Dil chamber this morning as TDs and senators took to their seats for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys address to the joint Houses of the Oireachtas.
Another round of applause followed when Senator David Norris cheered Green Party leader Eamon Ryans remarks, which called for stopping the flow of fossil fuels from Russia.
His comments resulted in a loud outburst of applause from a group of Ukrainians sitting in the public gallery.
Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation.
Cathaoirleach of the Seanad, Senator Mark Daly, concluding remarks to both Houses of the Oireachtas following the address by the President of Ukraine seeforyourself SenatorMarkDaly pic.twitter.comQJSJlx73PP
A Ukraine Day menu was also on offer in the Dil canteen, which included borscht soup, shynka baked ham, honey babkas and of course, chicken Kyiv.
To the right of one of the monitors sat the Ukrainian ambassador to IrelandGerasko Larysa, her staff and a number of refugees who were invited to todays events.
Following the speech, Ceann Comhairle Sean OFearghail thanked the president for his words, stating that Ireland is not politically neutral.
Blue and yellow flowers were placed just outside the chamber doors. Ambassadors to Ireland from other nations filled the public gallery. Refugees holding small Ukrainian flags were also seated high above the Dil chamber.
Two months ago, 5-year-old Anastasiia Semonova was going to school in Donetsk.Today she met the Taoiseach Michel Martin and Ukraine's ambassador Larysa Gerasko after attending a joint Oireachtas sitting addressed by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.MaxwellsOireachtas pic.twitter.comeqjPwOzyuG
The atmosphere was highly charged when Zelenskyys face appeared on the screens located on either side of the press gallery above the Ceann Comhairles seat, where members of the media sit.
Taoiseach Michel Martin, wearing a blue and yellow ribbon, responded to Zelenskyys speech by saying: Ireland is resolute in our solidarity and support for Ukraine.
We stand with Ukraine, said the Taoiseach, which prompted a Ukrainian woman in the special seating next to the Ukrainian ambassador to shout out emotionally in support of his words.
We cannot imagine how it must feel to have your future so suddenly become so uncertain, concluded Daly.
Even though you are a neutral country, you have not remained neutral to the disaster and mishaps Russia has brought to Ukraine, he said.
In what appeared to be a plea to leaders, he urged Ireland to convince the EU to roll out more sanctions against Russia.
He also said that refugees will find a safe harbour and friendship in Ireland for as long as you need it.
Zelenskyys face disappeared from the screens as Tnaiste Leo Varadkar took to his feet. The Fine Gael leader hit out against Russia, saying the country had attacked one of its nearest neighbours. He also said this was something that will never be forgiven or forgotten.
For the price of one cup of coffee each week you can make sure we can keep reliable, meaningful news open to everyone regardless of their ability to pay.
The voice of a translator boomed over the speakers as the president directly referenced Irelands response to the invasion.
Others in the chamber, such as People Before Profits Brd Smith and Gino Kenny, as well as Sinn Fins Mary Lou McDonald, wore white for peace.
I am grateful to you. To every citizen in Ireland, thank you for supporting sanctions against Russia.
A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article.
He said he was duty bound to call out this double standard, saying the conflict should not be used to increase Irelands militarism.
Anastasiias dad, like thousands of others, is back in Ukraine in a defence unit in Kyiv, fighting to keep it free and independent for his daughters future, Daly told the chamber.
As proceedings ended this morning, politicians and attendees emptied out of the chamber. Before leaving, many stopped to pay their respects to the refugees that attended today, as well as to the ambassador.
Ministers Heather Humphreys, Helen McEntee, Hildegarde Naughten, Josepha Madigan and TDs and senators such as Niamh Smyth, Mary Fitzpatrick and Fiona OLoughlin were just a few who wore a combination of blue and yellow blazers, skirts and scarves.
Ireland is militarily neutral but not politically or morally neutral in the face of war crimes, Martin continued.
People Before Profits Richard Boyd Barrett said he stood with Ukraine but added that Ireland can have no credibility in its condemnation of Russia when it refuses to do the same with other countries and alliances engaged in war, such as the US, UK and NATO.
He said that there are anti-tank rockets nearing the end of their shelf life in the Curragh camp, and called for these to be sent to Ukraine.
The young child sat quietly, looking on throughout the entire proceedings this morning, seated just behind the Ukrainian ambassador.
Cathaoirleach of the Seanad, Senator Mark Daly, concluding remarks to both Houses of the Oireachtas following the address by the President of Ukraine seeforyourself SenatorMarkDaly pic.twitter.comQJSJlx73PP Houses of the Oireachtas - Tithe an Oireachtais OireachtasNews April 6, 2022
Zelenskyy opened his address by describing Russias actions against Ukraine, saying it is destroying things that are sustaining peoples livelihoods like storage facilities for food, fuel and agricultural equipment, as well as putting mines in fields.
One of more emotional contributions of the day came from Chair of the Seanad, Senator Mark Daly.
We have no quarrel with the people of Russia, he said, and commended those in the country protesting against their Government, words which received a round of applause.
A standing ovation followed with a long applause by most in the Dil. A woman seated near the Ukrainian ambassador in the special guest seating box looked visibly upset and moved.
He said Ireland would not stand idly by during the conflict. Ukrainian refugees can stay as long as they need a home, he said, something that prompted hear hear from the crowd.
