Can Minsk Agreements resolve RussiaUkraine crisis Know its clauses here
20220223
https://www.dnaindia.com/world/report-can-minsk-agreements-resolve-russia-ukraine-crisis-know-its-clauses-here-2935862
Further, Russian President Vladimir Putin said yesterday that the Ukraine peace agreements does not exist anymore, after he recognized the independence of the ex-Soviet country's separatist regions. As per the media reports, Vladimir Putin said, The Minsk agreements do not exist now, we recognised the DNR and LNR.
After the violation of the Minsk Protocol, leaders from Ukraine and Russia, along with other countries, met to resolve the conflict between the nations. Representatives of Russia, Ukraine, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE, and the leaders of two pro-Russian separatist regions signed a 13-point agreement in February 2015.
Putin on Tuesday got the green light from his upper house of parliament to deploy Russian military forces to two separatist-held regions of eastern Ukraine for what lawmakers said would be a "peacekeeping" mission, as per Reuters reports.
The agreements signed by both the countries are called the Minsk agreements, and they were designed to end the war in the Donbas region of Ukraine. The series of agreements began with the Minsk Protocol, which was signed in 2014.
Ukraine and the Russian-backed separatists agreed to a 12-point ceasefire deal in the Belarusian capital in September 2014. Its provisions included prisoner exchanges, deliveries of humanitarian aid, and the withdrawal of heavy weapons, five months into a conflict that had by then killed more than 2,600 people - a toll that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy says has since risen to around 15,000.
To start a dialogue on interim self-government for the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, in accordance with Ukrainian law, and acknowledge their special status by parliamentary resolution.
Minsk Protocol was aimed at stopping the war in the Donbas area of Ukraine but failed to do so. After this, the second agreement, called Minsk II, was signed in 2015. After the signing of the agreements, the fighting in the region stopped momentarily, but the conflict never got fully resolved.
The tensions between Russia and Ukraine are reaching new heights with each passing day, with the US and NATO alleging that Russia, led by President Vladimir Putin, will launch an attack and begin the invasion of Ukraine soon.
Reported By: Edited By: DNA Web Team Source: DNA webdesk Updated: Feb 24, 2022, 02:06 PM IST
The US has further warned Russia not to invade Ukraine, which could potentially lead to a war, and has urged both countries to return to a set of agreements designed to end a separatist war by Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine.
The points of the agreement mentioned immediate ceasefire in the region and the decentralization of power, among other conditions. The agreement was broken soon after it was signed after conditions were violated by both sides.
Intensifying the work of a Trilateral Contact Group comprising representatives of Russia, Ukraine, and the OSCE
