RussiaUkraine War in Pics Tears separations and debris on Day 14
20220309
https://www.dnaindia.com/world/photo-gallery-russia-ukraine-war-in-pics-march-9-putin-zelenskyy-modi-biden-operation-ganga-sumy-2938603
The United Nations said the number of refugees who have fled Ukraine had surged past 2 million, describing the flight as one of the fastest exoduses in modern times.
UN said the number of refugees who have fled Ukraine had surged past 2 million, describing the flight as one of the fastest exoduses in modern times.
A group of Indian nationals on their way to Poltava from Sumy, due to the Ukraine-Russia war, on Tuesday. ANI Photo
"Ceasefire violated! Russian forces are now shelling the humanitarian corridor from Zaporizhzhia to Mariupol," Ukraines foreign ministry spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko wrote on Twitter.
The economic impact of a conflict involving the worlds top oil and gas exporter and two of its biggest grain and metals producers was also intensifying on Tuesday, fuelling concerns it could derail global recovery from the coronavirus pandemic.
A man carries an old woman as people flee from advancing Russian troops as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues in the town of Irpin outside Kyiv. Reuters
A police officer says goodbye to his son as his family flees from advancing Russian troops as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues in the town of Irpin outside Kyiv. Reuters
Russia opened a humanitarian corridor on Tuesday letting Ukrainians flee the eastern city of Sumy, but Kyiv accused Moscow of shelling a similar route intended to allow residents to escape the besieged southern port of Mariupol.
US gasoline pump prices hit a record high, London trade in industrial metal nickel had to be suspended after prices more than doubled in a matter of hours, and Britains Shell said it was halting all purchases of Russian oil, apologising for buying a shipment last week.
"8 trucks  30 buses ready to deliver humanitarian aid to Mariupol and to evac civilians to Zaporizhzhia. Pressure on Russia MUST step up to make it uphold its commitments."
