RussiaUkraine crisis India to provide urgent relief supplies medicines to wartorn Ukraine
20220301
https://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-russia-ukraine-crisis-india-to-provide-urgent-relief-supplies-medicines-to-war-torn-ukraine-2936809
Taking into account the humanitarian requirements in Ukraine, Ambassador of India to United Nations, TS Tirumurti, on Monday local time, said that India has decided to provide urgent relief supplies, including medicines to Ukraine, which is expected to be despatched tomorrow.
"We welcome their commencement of direct talks. We reiterate our conviction that differences can only be bridged through sustained dialogue and diplomacy," he said, adding that "We also underline that all member states have agreed on the principles in UN Charter, international law and on the respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states."
"In such times of conflict, India attaches the highest priority to safety and well-being of civilians, in particular women, children, and elderly. We are of the view that core principles of humanitarian assistance should be fully honoured," he said.
Reported By: Edited By: DNA Web Team Source: ANI Updated: Mar 01, 2022, 02:07 PM IST
Tirumurti further expressed deep concern for the safety and security of thousands of Indian citizens, including students, stranded in Ukraine. "Our evacuation efforts have been adversely impacted by the developments on the ground at the border crossings. Given that the safety of Indian nationals is of paramount importance to my Government, senior Ministers from the Government of India are being deployed as Special Envoys to Ukraine's neighbouring countries," he said.
Tirumurti made these remarks at the UNSC meeting on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine. He said that there is an urgent and pressing humanitarian situation developing in Ukraine.
Tirumurti noted that India remains deeply concerned about the unfolding developments in Ukraine where the situation continues to deteriorate. "Our considered call for an immediate cessation of violence and an end to all hostilities is an urgent imperative," he stated. Tirumurti highlighted that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has advocated this strongly in his recent conversations with the leadership of the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
