Ukraine mobilises troops amid shelling by Russiabacked Separatist Rebels
20220219
https://www.dnaindia.com/world/report-ukraine-mobilises-troops-amid-shelling-by-russia-backed-separatist-rebels-news-alerts-putin-us-joe-biden-2935150
A similar announcement quickly followed from Leonid Pasechnik, a separatist leader in the Luhansk region. Pushilin cited an immediate threat of aggression from Ukrainian forces, accusations that Ukrainian officials vehemently denied earlier.
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops now posted around Ukraine's borders, the long-simmering separatist conflict could provide the spark for a broader attack. Ukraine's military said shelling killed a soldier Saturday in the government-held part of the Donetsk region and that separatist forces were placing artillery in residential areas to try and provoke a response.
A U.S. Defense official said an estimated 40 to 50 of the ground forces deployed in the vicinity of the Ukrainian border have moved into attack positions closer to the border.
Reported By: Edited By: DNA Web Team Source: DNA webdesk Updated: Feb 21, 2022, 04:35 PM IST
Separatist leaders in eastern Ukraine ordered a full military mobilisation Saturday amid a spike of violence in the war-torn region and fears in the West that Russia might use the strife as a pretext for an invasion.
The shift has been underway for about a week, other officials have said, and does not necessarily mean Putin has decided to begin an invasion. The defence official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal U.S. Military assessments.
"I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need," Pushilin said.
The separatists and Ukrainian forces have been fighting for almost eight years. But the violence along the line of contact separating the two sides, including a humanitarian convoy hit by shelling, has risen in recent days. A car bombing Friday in the city of Donetsk also sharpened the sense of alarm.
Biden, who for weeks had said the U.S. Was not sure if Putin was determined to send troops into the neighbouring country, cited American intelligence as the source of his ominous assessment.
Denis Pushilin, the head of the pro-Russia separatist government in Ukraine's Donetsk region, released a statement announcing a full troop mobilisation and urging reservists to show up at military enlistment offices.
On Friday, the rebels began evacuating civilians to Russia with an announcement that appeared to be part of their and Moscow's efforts to paint Ukraine as the aggressor. U.S. President Joe Biden said late Friday he was now convinced that Russian President Vladimir Putin has decided to invade Ukraine and assault the capital, Kyiv.
