Will Google temporarily disable services amid RussiaUkraine conflict
20220228
https://www.dnaindia.com/world/report-will-google-temporarily-disable-services-amid-russia-ukraine-conflict-2936718
Notably, drives can still get Googles live traffic information feature with the turn-by-turn navigation feature.
Moscow has aggravated efforts to control whats coming out in news media and on tech platforms, as Russian missiles bombard various parts of Ukraine.
As per the company, the move to disable Google Maps traffic layer and live information about busy spots in Ukraine has been taken in consideration of the safety of locals. The decision has been taken post consultation with sources including regional authorities.
Many celebrities have come out to support Ukraine. Several big tech firms like Google have also stepped up to take new measures for protecting users security in the region.
Meanwhile, Russia has ordered Alphabet Incs Google to immediately restrict access to information posted as part of Google Ads that it said contained inaccurate information about casualties sustained by Russian forces and Ukrainian civilians.
Amid ongoing tensions between Russia and Ukraine, Alphabet Incs Google has temporarily disabled some Google Map tools in Ukraine. These tools are used to provide live information about traffic conditions and how busy various places are.
Ukraine is currently battling against Russian military forces who invaded the country on Thursday. Thousands of men, women and children have fled to the neighbouring countrys even as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zeleskyy stands firm against Russias special operation.
Reported By: Edited By: DNA Web Team Source: DNA Web Desk Updated: Feb 28, 2022, 04:57 PM IST
Researchers all over the world have been tapping online services and social media sites to garner information about the war.
State communications regulator Roskomnadzor said it had sent a letter to Google demanding that the offending materials be removed and said it would block internet resources that publish such information.
Google Maps, earlier, helped a professor at Californias Middlebury Institute of International Studies to track a traffic jam that was actually Russian movement towards the border.
