Nearly half of Ukraines territory needs to be cleared of mines state news agency reports
20220413
https://www.fox5atlanta.com/news/nearly-half-of-ukraines-territory-needs-to-be-cleared-of-mines-state-news-agency-reports
"According to our preliminary estimates, it is about 300,000 square kilometers, if we all understand, it is almost half of the territory of our country," Oleh Bondar, an SES official, told the news outlet, according to an English translation.
A mine warning sign is pictured in a destroyed park of Borodianka, a city near Kyiv, after the withdrawal of the Russian troops during the invasion of Russia on Ukraine, on April 9, 2022. Photo by Celestino ArceNurPhoto via Getty Images
In recent days, Russian troops have shifted the focus to the eastern Donbas region, where Ukraine said it was investigating a claim that a poisonous substance had been dropped on its troops. It was not clear what the substance might be, but Western officials warned that any use of chemical weapons by Russia would be a serious escalation of the already devastating war.
Russia invaded on Feb. 24, with the goal of taking Kyiv, toppling the government and installing a Moscow-friendly regime, according to Western officials. But in the six weeks since, Russias ground advance stalled, its forces lost potentially thousands of fighters and the military stands accused of killing civilians and other atrocities.
"Compared to the period before the Russian invasion, these figures have increased almost 10 times," Bondar added.
Bondar said that an average of 2,000 to 6,000 explosive devices are being removed and neutralized daily by pyrotechnic units, the news outlet reported.
Earlier this month, Zelenskyy warned his people that retreating Russian forces had created "a complete disaster" outside the capital of Kyiv, leaving mines across "the whole territory."
KYIV, Ukraine - Nearly half of Ukraines territory needs to be cleared of mines amid Russias war on the country, the countrys State Emergency Service SES estimated in a recent report  echoing a previous warning from President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Ukrinform, the state-run information news agency of Ukraine, reported on Monday that about 300,000 square kilometers of the Ukrainian territory need "humanitarian demining." With Russias recent retreat of Ukraines capital as well as other cities, shifting its focus east, the atrocities left behind and lingering dangers have come more into focus.
"They are mining homes, mining equipment, even the bodies of people who were killed," Zelenskyy said in a nightly video address to the nation. "There are a lot of tripwires, a lot of other dangers."
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
On Wednesday, the presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia  all NATO countries that worry they may face a Russian attack in the future if Ukraine falls  visited Ukraine in a show of support and met with Zelenskyy.
Zelenskyy told residents to wait to resume their normal lives until they are assured that the mines had been cleared and the danger of shelling had passed.
Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin this week vowed that Russia's bloody offensive in Ukraine would continue until its goals are fulfilled and insisted the campaign was going as planned  despite a major withdrawal in the face of stiff Ukrainian opposition and significant losses.
