Russias advance threatens key humanitarian aid corridors in Ukraine
20220311
https://qz.com/2140471/how-is-humanitarian-aid-getting-into-ukraine/
The Russian military hasnt respected humanitarian corridors in territory it controls. Usually, these corridors flow in two directions: Refugees escape away from the fighting, while aid workers enter conflict zones to distribute supplies to the people who cant get out. Although Russia has agreed to establish humanitarian corridors, it has drawn international condemnation for later shelling or blockading them.
If Russian troops take control of more Ukrainian cities, humanitarian groups ability to distribute aid in Ukraine will depend on Russias cooperation. The sooner humanitarian corridors are established and respected, the better, says Dave Hartman, who heads humanitarian aid efforts at the logistics company Flexport. If you do establish corridors early and they are respected, it can ensure that we dont wind up getting to critical levels where folks are dealing with just abominable conditions, he said. Once things start to deteriorate, it can get out of hand very quickly.
Billions of dollars worth of humanitarian aid is flowing into Ukraine, as international groups work to get food, water, medicine, shelter, hygiene products, and other necessities to civilians living through the Russian invasion.
To avoid chaos, the UNs logistics arm has rented storage space in key cities and hired a fleet of trucks to deliver goods from all humanitarian organizations. The vast majority of aid flowing into Ukraine now arrives in three Polish cities with suitable airports and ample warehouse space: Warsaw, Lublin, and Rzeszw. It is then trucked across the border to the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, before moving east to distribution hubs in Kyiv, Vinnytsia, and Dnipro.
Moving aid into Ukraine quickly and distributing it in the middle of a war presents a big logistical challenge. The sudden arrival of tons of cargo could overwhelm local airports, warehouses, and trucking capacity, driving up prices and creating bottlenecks similar to those seen at global ports at the peak of the holiday shopping season.
Russian forces are already advancing on one key UN aid hubKyivand they are reportedly planning an attack on another: Dnipro. Taking Dnipro would allow Russia to cut supply lines to Ukrainian troops fighting in the east of the country, forcing them to retreat west or surrender. An attack on Dnipro also threatens to cut the UNs humanitarian supply lines, hindering efforts to get food and medicine to civilians in eastern Ukraine.
So far, those aid corridors remain open. But the advancing Russian army threatens to choke off key supply routes.
