The worlds top liquified natural gas exporter is facing a gas shortage
20220607
https://qz.com/2173486/top-lng-exporter-australia-faces-natural-gas-shortage/
Those factors include a cold snap that has driven up heating demand, outages at coal-fired power plants, and a tight global LNG market as European countries scramble to cut their reliance on Russian gas. That has left Australia in the lurch as spare regasification unitsvessels that store LNG and turn it back to natural gas when neededhave been snapped up by European customers. Natural gas accounts for 22 of Australias primary energy consumption.
Or as research from the Australian Institutes Climate and Energy program puts it, Australia doesnt have a gas supply problem. It has a gas export problem.
Gas analyst Bruce Robertson of the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis argues that eastern states in Australia should have a gas reservation policy like their Western Australia counterparts. As Robertson told the Canberra Times, a domestic gas reservation policy in other states can protect consumers from ridiculous prices.
But policy decisions taken by the Australian government also laid the foundation of what Australian Broadcasting Corporations business editor Ian Verrender calls a gas crisis that has been 15 years in the making.
Prices of power and gas in the land down under have surged amid what the countrys energy minister has called a perfect storm of factors.
In part, this is due to geographic reasons: Major cities including Sydney and Melbourne in the southeast are far away from the countrys main gas fields.
First, he argues, there has been a critical shortage of investment in energy generation. And second, Australia has allowed large global energy companies to export much of the countrys gas.
But those measures leave unaddressed what analysts say is a more fundamental problem: the high proportion of natural gas exports relative to production.
Already, Australias energy market operator has capped wholesale gas prices in southern states. It also for the first time triggered a mechanism to call on more gas supplies for power generators.
The gas shortage means many consumers have to pay more to keep their lights on and their homes heated energy-intensive businesses could find themselves in perilous financial situations, potentially putting jobs at risk. For the newly elected government headed by prime minister Anthony Albanese, the energy crunch also represents its first major test.
Of course, the global energy crisis unleashed by Russias invasion of Ukraine is to blame, too.
Australia is the worlds top exporter of liquified natural gas LNG. Right now, it is also facing a domestic gas crisis.
It might seem counterintuitive that the worlds top LNG exporter would face a gas shortage at home.
Indeed, while the state of Western Australia mandates that gas export development projects must reserve 15 for the domestic market, state governments in the east did not put in place such a requirement, and  gave local and multinational energy firms carte blanche to export as much as theyd like, writes Verrender. The result is that nearly 75 of Australias gas production is exported.
