MVRDV withdraws from Russia projects in solidarity with Ukraine
20220301
https://www.dezeen.com/2022/03/01/mvrdv-halts-russia-projects-ukraine-invasion/
"As a practice, we are affected twofold," said the studio. "Our projects in Ukraine have sadly been put on hold by the atrocities."
We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at emailprotected.
Dutch studioMVRDVhas halted work on all five of its projects in Russia, including its Red7 tower in Moscow, following the country's invasion of Ukraine.
Sent every Tuesday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeens services and breaking news.
"We stand in solidarity with all the people who are defying and protesting against this war, and we strongly condemn the violence."
In response to the invasion, the National Union of Architects of Ukraine called upon the International Union of Architects toexpel the Union of Architects of Russia from the organisation.
"We are thinking about our friends, partners, and clients that are in danger at this moment. We support our colleagues who are worried about their country and their loved ones," it continued.
"Those who do not condemn Russia's actions support them,"said National Union of Architects of UkrainepresidentOleksandr Chyzhevsky in a statement. "We are convinced that the UIA must decide on Russia's membership."
"For this reason, we have immediately stopped our involvement in projects in Russia until further notice."
Along with the Red7 tower pictured top, the studio was working on another two projects in Moscow, an urban masterplan in St Petersburg and the renovation of a large complex in the southern city of Krasnodar.
"As architects and urbanists, we work in many countries to make a difference and we believe wholeheartedly in international dialogue and in peace," said the studio in a statement.
In response to the invasion, numerous architects, designers and institutions have shown solidarity with Ukraine including fashion designer Giorgio Armani, who held his latest catwalk show in silence.
Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news.
"Right after the start of the invasion, we began contacting our Ukrainian friends and partners in support and we try to remain in touch."
Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly. Sent every Thursday and featuring a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeens services and breaking news.
"We have stopped our Russian projects, even though this means we have to stop collaborating with people we have known for years, and who are dedicated to bringing a more collaborative international outlook to Russia," it added.
While its two Ukrainian projects  an urban masterplan and a private home in Kyiv  have been halted directly due to the invasion, it made the decision to withdraw from all five of its current projects in Russia.
News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates.
The Rotterdam-based studio explained that the invasion, which began on 24 February, has impacted its projects in both Ukraine and Russia.
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter.
