Six contemporary interiors by Ukrainian designers that showcase the nations creativity
20220302
https://www.dezeen.com/2022/03/02/six-interiors-contemporary-ukrainian-design-lookbooks/
This is a special edition of our lookbooks series, which provides curated visual inspiration from Dezeen's image archive. For more inspiration, see previous lookbooks showcasing parquet wooden flooring, cavernous interiors and coastal hotel rooms with sea views.
Designed for a Ukrainian developer and building materials company called Kovalska, this office is set inside a Soviet-era factory in Kyiv's industrial district of Obolon.
We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at emailprotected.
These projects from the Dezeen archiveshow how Ukrainian designers mix different cultural eras in contemporary residential and commercial projects.
Located in Kyiv, Ukraine's capital, this Japanese izakaya  a bar that serves drinks and small plates of food  was designed by YODEZEEN to blend the existing architecture of the industrial building with more contemporary features.
Sent every Tuesday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeens services and breaking news.
This is the latest in our series of lookbooks providing curated visual inspiration from Dezeen's image archive. For more inspiration see previous lookbooks showcasingparquet wooden flooring, cavernous interiorsand coastal hotel rooms with sea views.
Instead, the studio focused on contrasting textures such as concrete walls and gold-coloured panelling. Sculptural beige and grey furniture decorates the space, which also features a doorway fitted with rows of exposed bulbs and a glass-topped ball pit.
The studio used weathered wood and copper to add warmth to the space but kept its brick walls and concrete surfaces bare. To create zones within the space, YODEZEEN added oxidised metal panels and metal mesh details.
Ukrainian studio Yakusha Design created the showroom for its own furniture line Faina in Antwerp, Belgium, with a muted colour scheme that was informed by moss and soil.
"The idea was to make everything look untouched," said the studio, "as if we had come, put down furniture and the store started working."
Ukrainian style often combines references to artisanal traditions, such as in the Faina Gallery project, and the Soviet past, such as in the Kovalska office project, where mosaics from the Soviet era were taken as a reference.
The shades, which were chosen to evoke the natural world, are meant to "convey this feeling of grounding serenity in the interior," explained Yakusha founder Victoria Yakusha.
The minimalist interior of this retail space for a wholesale flower supplier was designed on a tight budget but still features arresting details such as polished terrazzo fixtures and mirrored surfaces.
"We are endlessly inspired and love the architecture of the Soviet period, and we really wanted to create a comfortable working space without violating the architectural context," they explained.
As the ongoing Russian invasion forces designers and architects to shut their studios and seek safety, interior designer Katerina Kovalenko selects six interiors that represent contemporary Ukrainian design for this special lookbook.
Rina Lovko Studio created textured walls and floors to give the store a deliberately unfinished look.
Local design studio Balbek Bureau created this salon-cum-cocktail bar to avoid gender stereotypes by staying away from colours and textures normally used in beauty salons.
The designer switched the bedroom and kitchen in the flat to create a large, open-plan living space filled with furniture and accessories in different natural materials. Apart from the sofa and dining chairs, Fradina designed all the furniture herself.
Creative duo Artem Trigubchak and Lera Brumina divided the large space up by using concrete slabs, sand and paving stones, which was also used to create much of the furnishings.
Before the Russian invasion, Ukrainian design was in a confident position, expressing the optimism of a culturally rich country.
Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news.
Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly. Sent every Thursday and featuring a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeens services and breaking news.
News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates.
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter.
Dark colours and natural textures create a cosy atmosphere in this Kyiv apartment, located on the top floor of a five-storey Soviet apartment building and designed by Olga Fradina.
The studio's furniture is showcased throughout the space and comes in matching green and grey hues.
