We deplore the Russian invasion of Ukraine says Norman Foster
20220307
https://www.dezeen.com/2022/03/07/norman-foster-herzog-de-meuron-russian-invasion-ukraine/
"The invasion of Ukraine and the violent actions of Putin and the Russian government are against every value we hold as an international, collaborative practice," said the studio.
The studio, which is the largest in the UK, was engaged in two projects in the country. Its withdrawal follows fellow UK studios David Chipperfield Architects and Zaha Hadid Architects' suspension of work in Russia last week.
Swiss studioHerzog  de Meuron also announced that it would stop working in Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine, which began on 24 February.
The Swiss studio has joined a growing number of architects, designers and cultural institutions in expressingsolidarity with Ukraine.
Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news.
"We stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine as well as the citizens of Russia who reject this violent takeover," said the studio.
News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates.
"As a company and community of over 40 different nationalities, our concern lies with both our Ukrainian and Russian colleagues whom we support through this unprecedented crisis," it continued. "We remain hopeful that peace can be restored to this region as soon as possible."
UK studio Foster  Partners and Swiss studioHerzog  de Meuronare the latest major practices to withdraw from projects in Russia, following the country's invasion of Ukraine.
In response to the invasion, the National Union of Architects of Ukrainecalled upon the International Union of Architects to expel the Union of Architects of Russia from the organisation.
Herzog  de Meuron is working on a number of projects in Russia including two apartment blocks on stilts, designed as part of the redevelopment of an abandoned brewery in Moscow.
We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at emailprotected.
Sent every Tuesday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeens services and breaking news.
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter.
"We deplore the Russian invasion of Ukraine and as a result, we have stopped work on all our projects in Russia," saidFoster  Partners'founder Norman Foster.
Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly. Sent every Thursday and featuring a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeens services and breaking news.
