Kremlin RussiaUS talks inspire no significant optimism
20220111
https://www.dailyherald.com/article/20220111/news/301119960/
'There are still several rounds of talks ahead of us, which will allow us to work out a clearer understanding, a clearer picture of where we stand with the Americans. For now, it's impossible to draw any conclusions, unfortunately," the spokesman added.
After the Russia-U.S. meeting in Geneva on Monday, Moscow and NATO representatives are expected to meet later this week. Russia is also meeting the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, which includes the United States.
The demands, contained in a proposed Russia-U.S. security treaty and a security agreement between Moscow and NATO, were drafted amid soaring tensions over a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine that has stoked fears of a possible invasion. Russia has denied it has plans to attack its neighbor but pressed for legal guarantees that would rule out NATO expansion and weapons deployment there.
The talks aimed at defusing tensions over Ukraine took place in Geneva on Monday and offered no sign of immediate progress. Moscow went in insisting on guarantees to halt NATO's eastward expansion and even roll back the military alliance's deployments in Eastern Europe - demands that Washington had earlier firmly rejected as a nonstarter.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday the manner in which the talks were held - 'open, comprehensive and direct' - 'deserves a positive assessment,' but it's the result that matters. 'So far, let's say, we see no significant reason for optimism,' Peskov told a conference call with reporters.
Last month, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliance's military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. Washington and its allies have refused to provide such pledges, but said they are ready for the talks.
MOSCOW -- The Kremlin said on Tuesday it saw 'no significant reason for optimism' after the highly anticipated Russia-U.S. talks over Ukraine and other security issues.
