Live updates Zelenskyy addresses French parliament
20220323
https://www.dailyherald.com/article/20220323/news/303239963/
BELGRADE, Serbia - Serbia's pro-Russian president is accusing the West of double standards, comparing Moscow's attacks against Ukraine with the NATO bombing of Serbia in 1999.
MOSCOW - The Russian parliament has passed a law expanding military veteran status to troops taking part in the invasion of Ukraine.
Victor Zhora, deputy chair of Ukraine's special communications service, told reporters in an online news conference Wednesday that state-backed Russian hackers were in some cases using phishing campaigns to try to get access to accounting and other systems of European charities helping Ukrainian refugees.
The statement says the operation is meant to support rescuers from Ukraine's Emergency Situations Service 'mobilized day and night to provide relief to victims.'
PARIS - In his latest address to a foreign parliament, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is to speak to French lawmakers on Wednesday.
Serbia voted in favor of a U.N. General Assembly resolution condemning the invasion of Ukraine but is the only European nation that has refused to join international sanctions against the Kremlin.
Wiping tears from her face, Mytkevich added, 'I had to flee because everything was destroyed. There was no gas, no electricity, no water in the city. Our children are dying. My son had to stay in Chernihiv, I could only take my daughter with me. It hurts a lot. Now we have nowhere to go, our whole neighborhood is destroyed. Everything is completely destroyed.'
Stoltenberg says the leaders are likely to agree to send more assistance to Ukraine, including 'equipment to help Ukraine protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats.'
- Security Council  taking up Russian resolution on Ukraine crisis as Assembly hears rival resolutions
Belarusian Foreign Ministry spokesman Anatoly Glaz didn't specify Wednesday how many diplomats would have to leave but said a maximum of five could remain.
Draghi told Parliament on Wednesday that the EU summit with China on April 1 must underline the bloc's expectations that Beijing will be a constructive and authoritative player for peace.
In an update posted Wednesday on social media, Britain's defense ministry said Russian troops in the south are trying to circumvent the city of Mykolaiv as they push west towards Odesa, a key Black Sea port that has so far been spared major attack.
He said that in addition to diplomatic activities, the diplomats will be helping at the border where thousands of Ukrainian refugees arrive every day and report about the situation in Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine - The mayor of Kyiv says Russian forces have killed 264 civilians, including four children, in the Ukraine capital since the war started last month.
MOSCOW - The Russian Central Bank says it is reopening trading on the Moscow stock exchange for the first time since it was closed nearly a month ago.
LVIV, Ukraine - Ukraine's president is urging Japan and other Asian countries to step up sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
After Russia began its last month, Chubais posted a photo of Boris Nemtsov, a leading Russian opposition figure who was shot dead near the Kremlin in 2015. Even without a caption, it was seen as a powerful statement from a Moscow insider.
WASHINGTON - U.S. President Joe Biden has left the White House for a four-day trip to Europe, where he will meet with key allies to discuss Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying that Anatoly Chubais had submitted his resignation.
NATO's 30 allies are worried about Russian rhetoric and fears that Moscow might want to create a pretext to use chemical weapons in Ukraine.
VATICAN CITY - Pope Francis has again prayed for peace in Ukraine and added a personal note to explain his aversion to war: He said his Italian grandfather, a World War I veteran, taught him to hate war in all its forms.
'I call on Asian states and your partners to unite their efforts so that Russia seeks peace and stops the tsunami of its brutal invasion of our state,' Zelenskyy said in the address.
The Western military alliance launched a 78-day air war against Serbia in March 1999 to stop a bloody crackdown by Serbia's armed forces on majority ethnic Albanians in Kosovo who were seeking independence.
Stoltenberg says that 'any use of chemical weapons would totally change the nature of the conflict,' and would have 'far-reaching consequences' for Russia. He declined to elaborate.
A member of a Russian state-backed prison monitoring group visited with Griner last week at the pretrial detention facility outside Moscow where she's being held and said the Phoenix Mercury star was faring well behind bars.
Zelenskyy has been a regular fixture in recent weeks in international lawmaking chambers, having spoken Japan's parliament earlier Wednesday, and previously to the US Congress and the German Parliament, to harness international help.
WARSAW, Poland - Poland's Internal Security Agency says it is expelling 45 Russian intelligence officers using diplomatic status as cover to stay in country.
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said that if the West is so brave and moral, 'why don't you carry out an aggression against Russia ' why don't you militarily protect Ukraine?' he said on state-controlled Pink TV.
Although formally seeking European Union membership, Serbia under Vucic has established close political and military ties with the Kremlin.
He added: 'We must repeat our expectations that Beijing abstains from actions supporting Moscow and participates actively and authoritatively in the peace effort.'
BERLIN - A senior German official says the country's intelligence agencies have joined the hunt for assets belonging to Russian oligarchs who have been slapped with international sanctions.
The NATO bombing is a key argument used by Serbian nationalists to justify and support the current Russian attacks against Ukraine.
LIMA, Peru - A top Ukrainian cyber defense official says a steady stream of Russian cyberattacks continues, much of it intending to disrupt communications, with refugee assistance and other humanitarian organizations being targeted.
Chubais, the architect of Russia's post-Soviet privatization campaign, has served at a variety of top official jobs during the past three decades.
MEDYKA, Poland - A Ukrainian refugee described the horrid conditions in the eastern city of Kharkiv after crossing the border at Medyka, Poland, on Wednesday.
BERLIN - German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has reiterated that his country will not support a no-fly zone over Ukraine or send troops to intervene in the war launched by Russia.
BRUSSELS - The European Commission has announced measures to help European Union countries provide the millions of refugees fleeing Russia's invasion of Ukraine with access education, health care, accommodation and work.
GENEVA - The head of the International Committee of the Red Cross has arrived in Moscow for talks at the Russian foreign and defense ministries on humanitarian issues caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The agency said Wednesday it is asking the Foreign Ministry to urgently expel the Russians, describing them as a danger to Poland's security.
The Swiss government has joined the European Union in imposing sanctions on hundreds of Russian individuals and entities in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Switzerland is not part of the EU.
He did not specify the humanitarian targets by name. The United Nations says more than 3.5 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia attacked on Feb. 24.
The official, who briefed journalists on condition of anonymity, said Wednesday authorities at several levels are tasked with determining which assets can be frozen in Germany.
'The situation in Kharkiv is terrible,' said Natalia Savchenko, 37. 'People are being killed day and night. They are shooting with everything they have. There is almost no one left in Kharkiv. There is no electricity, water. The city is almost empty. They do not supply children with medicine and food. They are just killing people.'
The attorney general's office said in a statement sent to The Associated Press on Wednesday that it's in contact with the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, which monitors possible sanctions violations, to see if any violations of embargo law have been committed and merit investigation.
Though they reached 'no agreement,' according to the French presidency, Macron 'remains convinced of the need to continue his efforts' and he 'stands alongside Ukraine.'
Speaking Wednesday on the eve of a summit of NATO leaders, Stoltenberg said that Russia's war on Ukraine means 'a new normal for our security and NATO has to respond to that new reality.'
A report published Wednesday by Ember, E3G, the Regulatory Assistance Project and Bellona concludes that ramping up solar and wind power, reducing demand and electrification can replace two-thirds of Russian gas imports within three years.
Griner was detained after arriving at a Moscow airport, reportedly in mid-February, after Russian authorities said a search of her luggage revealed vape cartridges that allegedly contained oil derived from cannabis, which could carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison.
Biden's first stop is Brussels, where he'll attend a hastily arranged emergency NATO summit. He will also participate in meetings of the European Union and the Group of Seven, which includes the world's richest democracies.
Peter Maurer, the ICRC president, was expected Wednesday to take up issues such as prisoners of war, the conduct of hostilities and the delivery of aid.
'There are practical steps guided by international humanitarian law that the parties must take to limit the suffering,' Maurer said.
He said the western town of Makariv has also been taken back by Ukranian troops.
Maurer traveled to Ukraine last week. While in Moscow, he was also expected to meet with the head of the Russian Red Cross, which has been helping people who have fled eastern Ukraine into Russia.
Veteran status brings various benefits, such as monthly payments, tax breaks, discounts on utilities and preferential access to medical treatment, among other things.
The Serbian troops were forced to leave the former province which declared independence in 2008, something both Belgrade and Moscow do not recognize.
The battlegroups, which usually number between 1,000-1,500 troops, will be set up in Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. Stoltenberg says they will remain in place 'as long as necessary.'
Francis prayed for the victims of Russia's invasion in Ukraine, including the 'many soldiers who fell on both sides,' during his weekly general audience Wednesday. He urged government leaders to understand that buying and producing weapons is not the solution.
Slovakia's closed the embassy in Kyiv on March 4 due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
'There was nothing, there wasn't even bread,' Fedorovych said. 'Bread was brought in every three days. One day I was standing in line for bread, but then decided to go get some tea. I had just walked away when they dropped the bomb on people in line. Apparently it was a helicopter, we didn't even hear the whistle of the bomb falling. Sixteen people died and 47 were taken by ambulance, some of them without arms and legs. Horrible. There were 100 people in that queue.'
His latest job envisaged contacts with international organizations to pursue the goals of sustainable development - a broad portfolio that allowed him to maintain contacts with top foreign officials and organizations.
The United Nations says more than 3.5 million people - mainly women and children - have fled Ukraine in the four weeks since Russian tanks rolled across the border and Moscow began bombarding towns and cities.
State Department spokesperson Ned Price told CNN on Wednesday that the official found Griner 'to be in good condition.' Price did not identify the official who had been granted consular access to Griner, something the United States had been demanding.
'We endured the fighting, trapped at home for three weeks,' Mytkevich said. 'We hoped the war would pass us by. But then the heavy artillery shifted to our city and bombs began to fall. Two schools in the city center were blown up, there were small children there. It's so difficult. I don't understand why we have such a curse.'
'Given the nature of documents kept by those units, the activity of the suspect posed a threat to both the internal and external security of Poland,' the agency said in a statement.
BRUSSELS - NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says the military organization is setting up new multinational battlegroups in eastern Europe to deter Russia from launching an attack on any of its members.
Scholz said Germany would not support a boycott of Russian oil, coal and gas, but is seeking to wean itself off those imports by seeking out other suppliers and ramping up the use of renewable energy.
Russian state news agency Tass reported last week that a court had extended Griner's pretrial detention to May 19.
As he departed Wednesday, Biden told reporters the possibility that Russia could use chemical weapons in the Ukraine war is a 'real threat.'
Scholz told German lawmakers on Wednesday that 'NATO will not become a party to the war. We are in agreement on this with our European allies and the United States.'
The address, via video link from his office in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, comes one day after French President Emmanuel Macron talked with both Zelenskyy and Russian President Vladimir Putin about the terms of a potential cease-fire.
The agency also said it detained a Polish citizen on suspicion of espionage on behalf of the Russian secret services. The suspect worked in Warsaw's registry office and had access to city archives.
Klitschko spoke to reporters in the capital Kyiv in a central park overlooking the city. Explosions and gunfire could be heard in the background as he spoke.
PARIS - Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked French President Emmanuel Macron for his 'true leadership' over the war during a virtual address from Kyiv to the French parliament Wednesday.
'Our people cannot even adequately bury their murdered relatives, friends and neighbors. They have to be buried right in the yards of destroyed buildings, next to the roads,' Zelenskyy said.
LVIV, Ukraine - The Kyiv city administration says Russian forces shelled the Ukrainian capital overnight and early Wednesday morning, damaging buildings in two districts.
European Commission Vice President Margaritis Schinas said Wednesday the new raft of measures aims to build on a 'Temporary Protection Directive' issued earlier this month and on initiatives happening across Europe to welcome refugees.
Zelenskyy used the address to French MPs via video link to rally further European support for his war-torn country's efforts to stave off Russian aggression. He called on France for assistance with arms, equipment and more planes 'so that liberty does not slip away,' according to a French translation of the 20-minute speech.
PARIS - French authorities say a convoy of rescue vehicles and emergency equipment is to leave Paris on Wednesday to be provided to Ukraine's emergency service.
LONDON - Britain's defense ministry says the war in northern Ukraine is largely 'static,' with Russian forces trying to reorganize before resuming a large-scale assault.
'It is horrible, so horrible,' she said. 'We left, but in the district where we lived, my grandmother stayed, my mum and my husband. Today our district was bombed, Shevchenkivsky district. We are running away.'
The Czech Republic has also said it is preparing to open an embassy in Uzhorod, which has not been targeted by the Russian troops.
LVIV, Ukraine - Russian ally Belarus says it is expelling Ukrainian diplomats and closing a consulate.
There are fears that Russia could use chemical or nuclear weapons as its invasion stalls amid logistical problems and fierce Ukrainian resistance.
It comes in addition to a convoy of 21 new ambulances, which left on Tuesday.
BERLIN - Four environmental think tanks say the European Union can stop its imports of Russian gas by 2025, allowing the bloc to end its dependence in the medium term on a key energy source that's been called into question amid the war in Ukraine.
WASHINGTON - The U.S. State Department says a U.S. Embassy official has visited with WNBA star Brittney Griner, who remains detained near Moscow, to check on her condition.
A statement from the French foreign and interior ministries says 100 firefighters and rescue staff will dispatch the vehicles and equipment to Romania, at the border with Ukraine. They include 11 fire engines, 16 rescue vehicles, and 23 trucks transporting 49 tons of health and emergency equipment.
Though they reached no agreement, according to the French presidency, Macron 'remains convinced of the need to continue his efforts' and he 'stands alongside Ukraine.'
In hard-hit regions in particular where fixed telecoms links have been severed, Zhora said uplinks donated by Elon Musk's Starlink satellite internet service have been providing 'priceless' assistance.
Belarus has allowed Russia to use its territory as a staging area for its forces invading Ukraine.
The speech comes one day after French President Emmanuel Macron talked with both Zelenskyy and Russian President Vladimir Putin about the terms of a potential cease-fire.
In an address by video link to Japan's parliament on Wednesday, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Japan to place a national embargo on trade with Russia. He also asked Japanese companies to pull out of the Russian market.
Glaz said, 'This step is aimed at ending the undiplomatic activities of several staff of the Ukrainian foreign missions.'
Draghi said: 'It's fundamental that the EU is compact in keeping open spaces for dialogue with Beijing so that it contributes in a constructive way to the international mediation effort.'
Trading will resume Thursday but only for 33 stocks of large companies listed on the IMOEX index. There will be a ban on short-selling.
He offered a personal testimony, saying he learned 'hatred and anger toward war' from his grandfather who fought in northern Italy during World War I and conveyed his experiences to his grandson.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia - Slovakia's Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok says his country's diplomats are returning to Ukraine to open an embassy in the western town of Uzhorod.
Chubais' resignation appears to reflect growing divisions among top Russian officials over the military operation in Ukraine.
Zhora said that despite repeated efforts by the Russian military to disrupt Ukrainian communications '" with bombs, missiles and cyberattacks '" very few regions of the country lack connectivity.
The protection system, established in 2001 in response to the fallout from the 1990s Balkan wars but never previously used, streamlines entry procedures for Ukrainians arriving in the EU and outlines entitlements such as employment and housing.
Francis on Friday is expected to preside over a special prayer for peace by consecrating both Ukraine and Russia to the Virgin Mary. The Vatican on Wednesday released translations of the consecration prayer in 30 languages in hopes that the faithful around the world will join him.
Price says the U.S. 'will do everything we can to see that she is treated fairly throughout this ordeal.'
Mayor Vitali Klitschko said Wednesday that battles were being waged in the area of Liutizh, a village 30 kilometers about 20 miles north of Kyiv and that Ukrainian forces have wrested back control of areas to the north-west and the north-east of the city, including most of Irpin.
Kyiv authorities said on Telegram that a shopping mall, some private sector buildings and high-rises came under fire in the districts of Sviatoshynskyi and Shevchenkivskyi.
Russia's lower house of parliament, the State Duma, passed the law on Wednesday, four weeks since the start of the war in Ukraine, with the three required readings taking place at once.
'The devastation caused by the conflict in recent weeks, as well as eight years of conflict in Donbas, has been vast,' Maurer said in a statement, referring to the region of eastern Ukraine held by Russian-backed separatists.
Zelenskyy hrecently addressed the U.S. Congress and the German and Japanese parliaments, among others, to harness international help.
GENEVA - The Swiss attorney general's office says it is collecting evidence from Ukraine refugees on possible international crimes or embargo violations stemming from Russia's war with Ukraine.
He told the Japanese lawmakers that over the past 28 days, 'thousands of people, including 121 children' were killed in Ukraine and about nine million were forced to leave their homes.
'Morality is an important category in politics, but you can't stick to it one day and forget about it the next.'
Still, the German leader said Ukraine could rely on Germany's help, citing the financial and military aid already provided, the harsh sanctions on Russia and the reception of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees.
He said he would say more on the subject directly to the leaders he was meeting with Thursday.
ROME - Italian Premier Mario Draghi says the European Union must engage with China to make sure it is working actively to mediate peace in Ukraine and does not show any support for Moscow's invasion of its neighbor.
- Biden  starts a trip to Europe as Russia's war in Ukraine bogs down, challenges grow
It suggests that the remaining shortfall can be met through existing gas infrastructure, without the need to build new terminals for LNG imports that some countries are now eyeing.
Using often-emotive language, the Ukrainian leader told French lawmakers 'you know who the guilty one is' that 'buries his head in the sand.'
PRZEMYSL, Poland - Ukrainian refugees continued to arrive at the train station in the border city of Przemysl, Poland, on Wednesday.
Zhora said hackers 'financed and basically owned by the Russian federation' were also attacking state and private organizations distributing humanitarian supplies, moving with an alacrity characteristic of a military.
The Swiss Bankers' Association has estimated the assets of Russian clients deposited in Swiss banks total between 150-200 billion Swiss francs about $160-$215 billion.
Elsewhere in Ukraine, U.K. defense officials say 'Russian forces are attempting to envelop Ukrainian forces in the east of the country as they advance from the direction of Kharkiv in the north and Mariupol in the south.'
