Mitt Romney is an absolute freaking moron
20220315
https://www.floppingaces.net/most-wanted/mitt-romney-is-an-absolute-freaking-moron/
And now, to cover for the Biden regime and the globalists getting their teeth kicked on the world-stage, to simply point out its Biden and the Davos jerks who are responsible for this, you are a Putin mouthpiece.
P.S.  Covid was released on purpose by the globalist via China to start their Great Reset.
This is not a revelation. Its a Putin propaganda point, rolled out to rationalize Putins war.
This is not a revelation. Its a Putin propaganda point, rolled out to rationalize Putins effin war against Ukraine.
The U.S. has dismissed accusations of working on bio weapons in Ukraine, but has said it has been working with Ukraine since 2005 to research deadly pathogens as part of thePentagons Biological Threat Reduction Program BTRP.
Theres a point of diminishing returns on the the Kulak-level scapegoating and making up new labels.
Dont install dictators, then complain about career dictators do what theyve been threatening for decades.
In a Monday morning tweet, Gabbard responded to aSunday remark from Republican Senator Mitt Romney, whocalled her statementscalling for all U.S.-funded labs to be shut down as treasonous lies that could cost lives.
I find Leftists just dont care. This isnt about facts to them, its about emotion.
Biological research facilities are being conflated with bio-weapon development projects. This is pretty much insane. Biological research facilities are medical research facilities. If you wonder why they exist, consider the COVID pandemic, and consider how many other emerging diseases could pose global threats.
She did not conflate the two. Wuhan is also a biolab. The leak of the CCP virus did everything a bioweapon would do.
So says Mother Jones, one of the most disreputable publishers in the U.S.  No one, not even Russia, would give Mother Jones the time of day.  But that is where Comrade Goose Stepper gets his information.  No wonder he sounds like an idiot 247.
CHILD ABUSE: Mitt Romney Is Only Republican to Vote with Democrats to Force Toddlers to Wear Masks
You might want to use something more potent than Brian Stelter and Eric Ciaramella to take Trump down. As long as he breaths, Im pretty sure his personal mission to hold the deep state and dictators to account.
Unearthed documents show that the US was involved in funding Bio Labs in Ukraine as early as 2005, records show
Here are the undeniable facts. There are 25 to 30 U.S.-funded biolabs in Ukraine. According to the U.S. government, these biolabs are conducting research on dangerous pathogens. Ukraine is in an active war zone with widespread bombing, artillery and shelling, and these facilities, even in the best of circumstances, could easily be compromised and release these deadly pathogens.
Someone please explain to me why Comrade Greggie would lie about what Gabbard said.Surely the Comrades moral code, which he touts frequently, wouldnt lie about a thing like that.  Maybe he got the wrong information from one of his ever so reliable news sources.  Yeah, that must be it.
Tulsi is just another American whos had the scales fall from her eyes and she sees the totalitarian Democrat Party for what it is.
Two Years Ago Today Joe Biden Promised to End the US Oil Industry  Joe Kept That Promise and Today Gas Is $4.32 a Gallon
Leaked Kremlin Memo to Russian Media: It Is Essential to Feature Tucker CarlsonThe Russian government has pressed outlets to highlight the Fox hosts Putin-helping broadcasts.
Always nice to bait you into showing us the kind of low-brow, low-thinking fascist we know you are.
Idiot Biden has 98 media support, the liberal media supporting his lies about Putin causing the inflation that has driving prices up since January, 2021 and not calling him out for his lies about Afghanistan, the border, energy production, crime, and buying American while Trump had 94 negative media coverage, promoting the Russian collusion lie, the quid pro quo lie, emoluments lie, tax evasion lie, fine people lie, causing COVID deaths lie, inject Lysol lie and thousands of minor lies in between. The media has YET to honestly cover the evidence of corruption on Hunters laptops or Hunters money laundering with his paintings. If idiot Biden had thorough and fair coverage, he would be a 5 approval.
Trump did literally everything any sane American wants in the world right now.and for that, all the bad guysthe Chinese, the Davos gang, the Zuckerbergs, the banksall of them colluded to oust Trumpand had to do so, illegally.
So, Senator Romney, you have a choice: out of pride, continue to deny the truth or admit you are wrong, apologize, and resign, Gabbard said, in concluding the thread. Aloha. And remember that without the truth, we can be neither safe nor free.
But hey, perhaps Comrade Goose Stepper could ask Barack Obama, Jr. about the biolabs in Ukraine.  He was in on the ground floor of them being built.
Why do Democrats want you to hate Putin? Has Putin shipped every middle class job in your town to Russia? Did he manufacture a worldwide pandemic that wrecked your business? Is he teaching your kids to embrace racial discrimination? Is he making fentanyl? Does he eat dogs?
Gabbard knows this how? Its conspiracy theory bullshit, serving the cause of a tyrant who has invaded and is destroying a neighboring democratic nation.  Does the GOP  want her?  Theyre more than welcomed to her.
Either these leftists dont listen or they are constantly on the lookout for some excuse to feign outrage.  Im not that fond of Gabbard, but Mitt and his leftist buddies had to make up what she and Carlson said in order to be able to pretend to be outraged.  Maybe Mitt took his cues from the pigs on The View, because they called for Gabbard and Carlson to be thrown in prison for their own misinterpretation and misrepresentation of their remarks.
Maybe this clip which has both Tucker and Tulsi will help clear things up. From the horses mouth as it were.
You dont have functional ears or a brain or you would understand Gabbard didnt say anything that hadnt already been promote by the US government.
Its provable fact. The only people who would say otherwise are the slime that serve these unelected overlords who have now caused the invasion of Ukraine.
Listen, and figure it out for yourself. Corrosive lie upon corrosive lie. His FOX News clips are frequently featured in Russian media. Hes part of the Putin fifth column, and a very effective on.
You are right on the verge of catching on. Gabbard never claimed they were weapons labs.  She called them what they were and expressed concern that the Russians might hit one with artillery or bombs. Would that be a logical concern in your mind?
If its not a revelation, then its a fact.  If its a fact, how is it propaganda?
Here, in Utah, many Mormons look at Mitt as one step lower than their 12.
Your Trump derangement has literally killed thousands in Ukraineand for what? A divided nation and new civil war.
I am with Tulsi on this one. romney is a turncoat. The only reason he sits in the senate is because he got President Trumps endorsement. That will not happen again.
If CNN started saying Trump isnt so bad, hes actually good all of those people would agree within a week. They dont have a mind of their own.
When the Senate goes full GOP and Congress most likely flips, Biden will be removed. Quickly.
EXCLUSIVE: Deleted Web Pages Show Obama Led an Effort To Build a Ukraine-Based BioLab Handling Especially Dangerous Pathogens. thenationalpulse.com
If you wont take an experimental vaccine that they killed hundreds of thousands over to suppress drugs that work so they could use the emergency usage authorization, youre and anti-vaxxer and youre the one killing people.
So lets talk about biolabs, shall we?  Are they to prevent the use of bio weapons against other nations and are headed up by responsible scientists who are only concerned with with that or are they mad scientists like Anthony Fauci who funded the Wuhan lab on gain-of-function process which unleashed a pandemic on the entire world?
So, I think you need reminding that Xi and Putin dont deal in facts. They deal in things they can claim umbrage over, distorting or outright lying to justify their actions.
Trump, and Trumps polices, are complete vindicated by the puppet that is drool on our nations WH, and place he will NEVER belong.
Former congresswoman and Democratic presidential candidate Tulsi Gabbard has responded to criticism after being accused of lending credibility to Russian accusations that the U.S. funded biological weapons laboratories in Ukraine. In fact, Gabbard cited evidence that the U.S. funds bio labs in Ukraine, not biological weapons labs.
If you dont believe everything that is retracted on page 3, proved to be a lie about Trump, you are a White Supremacist.
Its war. A war of free Americans and free people everywhere against installed and evil dictators from Biden to Trudeau to Xi to Putin.
Now, what was it again that Comrade Greggie claims Tulsi Gabbard said?  Oh, here it is:
Not really.  It is difficult to understand why you call Trump a liar while you enthusiastically support and defend the BIGGEST liar we have ever seen in the office.
In a series of posts, Gabbard said that Romney should provide proof that there are no U.S. funded biolabs in Ukraine. She also said that if he cant do so, he should apologize and resign from theSenate.
Biolabs are not biological weapon development facilities. Conflating the two is the lie. The lie rationalizes Putins psychotic episode of military aggression. Mitt Romney understands that.
World War ESCALATION Being Aggressively Pushed by Biden and NATO Because Tyrants Need a Food Scarcity Crisis to Reach Global Depopulation Milestones
Trump has the receipts. He was the President we voted for, and the President the world needs.
Nuland didnt actually say what Glen Greenwalds post claims she said. Having functional ears connected to a functional brain I know that, because I listened to what she said.
Gabbard did not accuse the U.S. of funding bio weapons labs in Ukraine in theFox Newsinterview that drew criticism. She said that if there were such labs they would violate the Biological Weapons Convention.
Yep. Tucker Carlson has essentially become another Putin mouthpiece. FOX News has become as schizophrenic as the GOP itself. Romney and Cheney are the fading voices of traditional GOP conservativism and sanity.
And your evidence of this fact is what? Or do you not need any, to believe what Putin is saying? Because Tulsi is simply repeating what Putin is saying. That, at least,  is a fact.
Joe Bidens current approval rating has at last dipped as low as Donald Trumps 4-year average.
Its far more important for those on the Left to do what Colbert says than to live outside the herd.
No wonder he hasnt had the male fortitude to respond to 3rd party queries, or to apologize to her.
Mitt is a scumbag. Tusli was up in his grille with her response. Mitt must be primaried in 2024
Claimsthat the United States is funding Ukrainian laboratories developing biological and chemical weaponshave been connected toRussian propaganda outlets. The unsubstantiated allegations are often repeated by Russian government officials.
The 80s called, Greg. They want you to know youre the batshit crazy fundamentalist strawman that you think youre fighting against.
there are 25 US-funded biolabs in Ukraine which if breached would release  spread deadly pathogens to USworld
On Tuesday,China demanded answers from the United Statesover Russian revelations that the US has thirty military bioweapon labs in Ukraine. US officials have repeatedlydenied the allegations, calling fake news and Russia misinformation.
