So How Do We Restore America 4 of 4
20220609
https://www.floppingaces.net/2022/06/08/so-how-do-we-restore-america-4-of-4/
Welcome back for the final installment in this series! To get any newcomers caught up, in Part 1 I thanked God for 2020. While that first part was mainly a personal story, it was needed to set the stage to show where my head was when, in Part 2, I asked America Has Fallen  How Did This Happen?This led us to Part 3 where I dispelled any false notions anyone on either side had of an easily won civil war if the US were to split with If We Want to Restore America We Have to Get Real.Now in our final section Im going to offer some solutions. This is not going to be one of those broad, sweeping essays on how we restore our country. This will differ from most posts on this subject, which generally run along the lines of ,To win our country back we need to reclaim education, solidify the candidates we run, etc and other high level ideas. Theyre usually well written, so what Im not doing that here is try to rewrite that, as that story has already been told be people a lot smarter than me. Here is a good example of one. Or heres another good post that is mostly high level with a few basic tactics at the end.
Agreed! Its crucial to never waste energyt engaging stupid. Better to ask questions and let them tear apart their own logic, or lack thereof.
Get off of Gmail before the day that they decide to lock the accounts of Normals everywhere  migrate to Protonmail instead.
Either the the smaller-than-you-think part of the population that actually buys into Leftist ideology needs to be browbeat into behaving like adults, arrested for the crimes they commit, or they need to expelled through the process of a peaceful divorce.
Also, try to remain calm and civil if possible. Some people just need to be smacked down. This is a discipline I learned from dealing with bosses at work making a calm, respectful point while they were ranting and raving REALLY infuriates them!  It also exudes confidence. Of course, in some venues like Facebook, going off on a profanity laced rant will get you a trip to the Zuckerburg Correctional Institute For The Liberal-Think Impaired well, unless you are a liberal, so it is a necessary characteristic to maintain. Of course, making a calm, rational response requires having your facts straight.  Let the idiots come from their emotional fortress fight them with facts.
by Brother Bob  Jun 8, 2022  Culture of Corruption, Deception and Lies, Economy, Liberal Idiots, MSM Bias, Politics, War On Terror  6 comments
OK, I know that Islam and Western cultrue are not exactly compatible, but dont be closed minded about temporary alliances against common enemies
Dont acknowledge their craziness  call that man destroying the womens swim teams William Thomas.
And suddenly, those prepper skills you picked up during quarantine no longer seem so crazy.
Be a swamp fox. Here is where you can have some fun, using The Radical Lefts own tactics against them.
I believe its best to merely stand back and what them implode on themselves. When the supposedly election-deciding white karen demographic starts getting their kids raped in the school bathrooms, suddenly forgiving student loans or they want to force you to have a pregnancy you already decided to have when you had sex isnt going outweigh the real consequences of letting this Leftist regime go unchecked.
On a similar vein, here is where one twitter user exposed the top fluffers for Governor Fredo Kevorkian for what he did in New York during the lockdowns. And a similar post on apologists for Stacy Abrams. Here is how USA Today stealth edited for her.
Of course, facts rarely move them, but I believe that someone might overhear such conversations and be moved a bit. I hope, anyway.
Push back on porn on the shelves of your kids school. I agree until the point of action. Candace Owens had some great advice on twitter  instead of going to the school or librarians, get law enforcement involved. Chances are there are laws on the books in your locality about distributing harmful material to kids.
And heres how to get away from a few of the other Tech Bigs, such as Facebook, Instagram, etc.
The Virginia Project  Granted, the election was most likely won by Terry MacAuliffe making the mistake of being publicly honest how much disdain Democrats have for parents of school kids. That said, victory for us Normals probably would not have happened without a disciplined campaign supported by dedicated foot soldiers.
And to take this a lot further, here is a list of woke companies to avoid. Dont get depressed if you cant avoid all of them. Pick and choose your targets, and if youre short on options, migrate from the worst companies to just the bad ones.
This might have been included in one of your points, but something I like to do is ask the simple questions where the answer is supposedly obvious. People make their comments assuming they are fact because thats what they heard but have nothing to back it up.  I like to ask, Like what? or Really?  How?  Often, thats the last I see of that person, sometimes the stock response of, If I have to tell you, you cant understand is delivered. Thats the tell. I love to box people in their own corner.
Expose organizations that try to go stealth woke, such as what happened with The Salvation Army.
Want to get away from Leftist controlled financial companies? Try a company that puts Excellence over politics
This section is not so much something that Joe or Jane Citizen might be able to lead, but is more for bigger ideas where we can offer our support and assistance.
Dont treat the press like any kind of honest actors. This has advice for both politicians as well as citizens.
The actions these fools are taking are outright treason, nevermind the rigged election and J6 False-Flag.
The last link gives how you do it. Last summer I went into why you should. I also wrote a separate post on how to support your college aged kids or grandkids.
Ohios AG sued Google to regulate it as a public utility. On that note, unleash the trial lawyers!
The America we knew and loved is gone. While we can not bring it back, we can decide what its going to be. We will, because letting the other side make that choice would be cultural suicide. What follows is not so much as an essay, but steps and links on how you can find simple actions you can take and start making a difference. Every story linked here will have some specific advice, so take what you will of this. Loosely organized, here are categories ready for you to find your spot:
What this post will be instead is advice on something you can personally do. And its simple. Do you know what that thing is? Go out and do one thing. Seriously, thats all. And dont just like and share this post which of course, everyone should be doing!, get out and do something physically that you arent doing now. Once youve got that one thing down or established in your routine, find something else. If that sounds dopey and overly simplistic, think about it. If every one of us Normals took action, even something relatively small, think of the impact it would have. I personally tried to get involved with election monitoring last fall here in Virginia, but I had bitten off more than I could chew, between dealing with some residual of the events I mentioned in Part 1 and a few other things I had volunteered for. Luckily others picked up my slack, and I still managed to spend some time doing mentoring for students in my old high school and college. I know that what I did is not much, but if advice on avoiding my many career mistakes helps keep them from screwing up and wallowing in self pity, theyre a lot less succeptable to Leftism, right? I know its not much, but given where I was t the time it was a start. And Im building on it.
And annyoing the a-holes by keeping calm as they lose it is a skill I was able to hone from those awful years I spent in call centers
Brother Bob is no longer on Facebook although you can see his archives there, and is back on Twitter again, but is ramping up on Minds and Gab, as well as Parler and GETTR, and has his biggest presence on MeWe.
I think thats the best tact, at this point. Let them turn on themselves, and just assert you values and beliefs kindly, and where it counts.
Schumer should be in prison for threatening the SC, and Maxine Waters should be in prison for threatening the Chauvin jury.
They have set up their own shadow government, and the true believers of the Left are not longer American citizens. Theyve forfeited that right by embracing Marxist ideologies and accepting an unelected Biden puppet regime.
Push back on any attempts to start a Satanic club. Just be careful how you do it.
Dont be afraid to not be completely welcoming to your new blue state refugee neighbors
How to win  Its a 48 minute video on how to get involved in local politics, and here is the background on The Precinct Project. Anyone can do this. And this notion of us Normals doing grassroots organization terrifies The Radical Left.
8 lessons from Ron DeSantis may be more useful for leaders, but Rons actions show traits we should look for in any elected officials we support
Indianas AG sues Black Lives Matter. To which I ask, why has every state and city victimized by these domestic terrorist not done the same?
And thats all folks! These four posts might have been the heaviest subject matter Ive written on in my decade of blogging. Thanks to all whove read, and special thanks to everyone who joined the conversation in the comments!
A favorite of mine was watching OReilly when Gingrich was on there and OReilly made a rhetorical remark like You cant believe Holder was committing illegal acts or something like that and Gingrich dryly responded, Why?  OReilly was taken aback of COURSE why? Why wouldnt he be? Why believe someone is being honest just because they are the leading law enforcement agent in the nation?
Lay siege to the institutions. Disney is the case study for this post, and toward the end it gets into action items.
There are a lot of feminists who are tired of being seen as nothing more than abortion vessels, bathroom rape victims, and cannon fodder for men in school sports. Reach out to them
We can get behind any politicians still bitterly clinging to the defund the police movement.
And if, heaven forbid, Part 3 comes to pass, here is some urban warfare advice offered to those defending Kiev from the Russians.
Zuckerburg Correctional Institute For The Liberal-Think Impaired well, unless you are a liberal, so it is a necessary characteristic to maintain. Of course, making a calm, rational response requires having your facts straight.  Let the idiots come from their emotional fortress fight them with facts.
Now there is a corporate cliche from the 90s that I dont miss! But that doesnt mean it didnt have some value. For example
