Putin confirms Russian military operation in Ukraine
20220224
https://www.keighleynews.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19948210.putin-confirms-russian-military-operation-ukraine/
In a televised address early on Thursday morning, Mr Putin said the action comes in response to threats coming from Ukraine.
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace. But if we come under attack that threatens our freedom and lives of our people we will fight back, he said, as he rejected Moscows claim Ukraine is a threat to Russia.
A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister will chair a Cobra committee meeting at 7.30am to discuss the response to the horrific attacks.
He said the Russian military operation aims to ensure a demilitarisation of Ukraine, adding that all Ukrainian servicemen who lay down arms will be able to safely leave the zone of combat.
President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
On Wednesday night, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made an emotional televised address in Russian following the approval of a 30-day state-of-emergency order handed the government sweeping powers in the interest of national security.
He accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russias demand to prevent Ukraine from joining Nato and offer Moscow security guarantees.
In a statement on Twitter, Mr Johnson said he had spoken with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to discuss next steps.
I am appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine and I have spoken to President Zelenskyy to discuss next steps, he said.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The announcement came just after airspace over all of Ukraine was shut down to civilian air traffic, and at the same time as an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council was taking place.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction with his attack on Ukraine and that the UK and its allies would respond decisively.
I am appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine and I have spoken to President Zelenskyy to discuss next steps.
Mr Putin also warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to consequences they have never seen.
He added that Russia does not have a goal to occupy Ukraine, but said the responsibility for bloodshed lies with the Ukrainian regime.
