Hundreds of bodies found in Mariupol basement Ukrainian authorities say
20220524
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-05-24/hundreds-of-bodies-found-in-mariupol-basement-as-war-rages-in-eastern-ukraine
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, meanwhile, told a meeting of a Russia-led security alliance of former Soviet states that Moscow is deliberately slowing down its offensive to allow residents of encircled cities to evacuate - even though forces have repeatedly hit civilian targets.
"Indeed, there has not been such a war on the European continent for 77 years," Mr Zelenskyy told Ukrainians on Monday.
"Many of them have small kids, and they spend their money on the kids, so they need some support with food," she said.
Russian forces have intensified efforts to encircle and capture Sievierodonetsk and neighbouring cities, the only part of the Donbas' Luhansk region that remains under Ukrainian government control, British military authorities said on Tuesday.
Galina Kolembed, the aid distribution centre coordinator, told AP that more and more people are returning to the city after Russian forces withdrew to focus on the Donbas.
The UK defence ministry said that Russian forces have achieved "some localised successes" despite solid Ukrainian resistance.
But stiff Ukrainian resistance has bogged down Moscow's troops, with the help of Western weapons.
The bodies were decomposing, and a stench permeated the neighbourhood, said Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to the mayor.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused the Russians of waging "total war," seeking to inflict as much death and destruction as possible on his country.
A ministry spokesperson added:  "If the Donbas front line moves further west, this will extend Russian lines of communication and likely see its forces face further logistic resupply difficulties."
On Tuesday, two top Russian officials acknowledged that Moscow's advance had been slower than expected - though they promised the offensive would achieve its goals.
Strikes have hit a maternity hospital and a theatre where civilians were sheltering in the time Russia has been targeting the city.
Secretary of Russia's Security Council Nikolai Patrushev said that the Russian government "is not chasing deadlines."
Want a quick and expert briefing on the biggest news stories? Listen to our latest podcasts to find out What You Need To Know
Stremousov has previously said the region would ask the Kremlin to make it part of Russia.
An estimated 100,000 people remain in the city out of a pre-war population of 450,000 dwindled by people fleeing many of whom are now trapped without food, water, heat or electricity.
Workers digging through the rubble of an apartment building in Mariupol have found 200 bodies in the basement, according to Ukrainian authorities.
The Kremlin is now focused on the eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas - where Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces for eight years.
Meanwhile, Kirill Stremousov, a Russian-installed official in Ukraine's Kherson region, said the pro-Kremlin administration will ask Moscow to establish a military base there.
The war had already claimed 14,000 lives before Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine on February 24 - and even after re-focusing their troops on taking Donbas, Moscow's troops have struggled to gain ground.
Kolembed said the centre provides food to more than 1,000 people every day - a figure that continues to grow.
Mayoral staff confirmed grim reminders of the horrors inflicted on the region are still coming to light in the ruined city.
The invasion began with expectations that Russia might overtake the country in a blitz lasting only days or a few weeks.
Ukrainian authorities have said at least 21,000 people have been killed  and accused Russia of trying to cover up the extent of the horrors by bringing in mobile cremation equipment.
As Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city, recovers from weeks of relentless bombardment, residents tailed back to receive rations of flour, pasta, and sugar this week.
A siege which finally ended last week after around 2,500 Ukrainian fighters abandoned a steel plant where they had made their last stand. Russian forces already held the rest of the city.
