Just be here with me Son recalls final moments with dad shot dead by Russian troops
20220423
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-04-22/be-here-with-me-son-recalls-final-moment-with-dad-shot-dead-by-russian-troops
Vadym then scrambles to get out of the car as he screams out for his father, who is seen lying on the floor with his arms splayed out, moving occasionally.
A Ukrainian man who hid in a ditch with his fatally wounded father for hours after Russian troops opened fire on them has emotionally told of their final moments together.
ITV News Correspondent Peter Smith,field producer Maxim Olshin, camera operator and editor Andy Rex report on the story behind a graphic, viral video documenting what could be one of the first alleged war crimes by Russian troops
The father and son hid for around three hours in a ditch as Oleg bled to death.
"He was still alive. He was alive. I was telling him 'we have to do something. We have to get you out of here or you will die'," said Vadym.
The video, filmed by Vadym, shows bullets hitting the car, before smoke swells around the windscreen to the sound of their pet dogs whimpering in the back as they are struck.
Vadym watched helplessly as his dad, Oleg, 48, died in front of him after being shot by Russians outside the town of Ivankiv - a day after the Kremlin's invasion.
He believes his father could have been saved if they had been able to get out of the ditch to safety, but the Russians kept firing.
Vadym said he could identify "V" markings on the side of the Russian vehicles, which are consistent with Putins troops who attacked Ivankiv from the north.
Vadym, who asked not to share his surname for fear of Russian repercussions, took ITV News back to the exact location of the shooting.
Graphic footage captures the moment Russians opened fire on Vadym and Oleg's car, documenting one of the first allegations of war crimes by Vladimir Putin's troops.
"The car was there and I dragged him into the ditch so the bullets wouldnt hit us," Vadym said as he pointed to where their vehicle was struck.
