Nato allies to prepare next steps after horrific rocket strikes in Kyiv
20220225
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-02-25/nato-allies-to-prepare-next-steps-after-horrific-rocket-strikes-in-kyiv
She wrote on Twitter: First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70 of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.
However, the UKs Ministry of Defence MoD said it is unlikely Russia achieved its planned objectives for the first day of its military action in Ukraine, crediting fierce resistance from the Ukrainian forces.
Was Russia convinced by yesterdays sanctions? We hear in our sky and see on our earth that this was not enough.
US officials believe the action is an attempt by Mr Putin to dismantle Ukraines government and replace it with his own regime.
Russian forces launched a full-scale invasion in the early hours of Thursday, thought to be Moscows most aggressive action since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
A package of further EU sanctions was announced by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen early on Friday following a special meeting of the EU Council.
The MoD also said it is highly likely Russian forces have captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
The UN Security Council will on Friday vote on a resolution that would condemn Russias military aggression against Ukraine in the strongest terms, and demand an immediate halt to Russias invasion and the withdrawal of all Russian troops.
He said: This morning we are defending our state alone. Like yesterday, the worlds most powerful forces are watching from afar.
The Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, said just before 4am on Friday that horrific rocket strikes hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the citys 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.
In the US, Mr Biden also announced extra sanctions to target Russian banks, oligarchs and high-tech sectors, with more troops deployed to Germany to bolster Nato.
Among the new UK sanctions introduced were measures to hit five further oligarchs, including the Russian presidents former son-in-law, and to target more than 100 businesses and individuals.
From his post in Kyiv, Europe Editor James Mates gives a round-up of a day that will go down in history
Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.
Listen to ITV News What You Need To Know for the latest expert analysis on Ukraine
He said: Tomorrow, Nato will convene a summit  well be there  to bring together the leaders of 30 allied nations and close partners to affirm our solidarity and to map out the next steps we will take to further strengthen all aspects of our Nato alliance.
In an open letter to The Times, charities including Amnesty International and the Refugee Council called on the Government to echo the humanitarian effort seen following the fall of Yugoslavia in the 1990s.
He said: Theyre killing people and turning peaceful cities into military targets. Its foul and will never be forgiven.
Fresh strikes have hit Kyiv amid warnings Russian forces are closing in on the capital as Nato allies prepare to determine the Wests next steps against the Kremlin.
Mr Johnson said he was sanctioning all the major manufacturers that support Putins war machine, will ban Aeroflot from touching down planes in the UK and will freeze the assets of all major Russian banks, including immediately against VTB.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the government had information that subversive groups were encroaching on the city, as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kyiv could well be under siege.
In a video address he said Russias claim it was only attacking military targets as false and civilian sites also had been struck.
Meanwhile, a host of UK charities have urged the government to open its borders to the thousands of refugees fleeing Ukraine in the wake of Russias incursion.
Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.
Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Sever all ties. Kick Russia out of everywhere, he said.
He announced earlier in the day the largest and most severe package of sanctions Russia has ever faced to punish Mr Putin, whom he labelled a blood-stained aggressor.
She said: We warned repeatedly alongside our allies that any further invasion would incur massive consequences with severe costs.
In response, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss called Russias assault on the capital barbaric and callous.
It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned Day 1 military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russias advance.
Leaders of the 30 Nato allied nations are meeting on Friday, US President Joe Biden confirmed, as they come under pressure to go even further than sanctions already announced.
However, Mr Zelensky said in an address early on Friday sanctions alone were not doing enough to deter Russia.
The government should now respond with a well-resourced initiative working with councils across the country, to welcome Ukrainians who need sanctuary.
We have been working in lockstep to show Moscow that we mean what we say. Our unprecedented package of economic sanctions will leave no part of the Putin regime unscathed.
Writing in The Daily Telegraph, Ms Truss said the UK is proud to lead by example in terms of its sanctions against Russia.
Third: we ban the sale of aircrafts and equipment to Russian airlines. Fourth, we are limiting Russias access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.
Putin is the aggressor, Mr Biden said. Putin chose this war, and now he and his country will bear the consequences.
Mr Zelensky said all border guards on the Zmiinyi island in the Odesa region were killed on Thursday, while Ukraine also lost control of the Chernobyl nuclear site.
They wrote: A generation ago, the UK saved the lives of thousands of families from the Balkans through an evacuation and resettlement programme.
Mr Johnson told his Cabinet on Thursday night that the UK could be proud of its role in supporting Ukraine.
The MoD said in a statement just after 1am: The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russias advance towards Chernihiv. Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.
By the end of the day, the Ukrainian government said 137 civilians and military personnel had been killed.
