President Joe Biden pledges 1 billion in arms to Ukraine
20220809
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-08-08/president-joe-biden-pledges-1-billion-in-arms-to-ukraine
Arms the UK has donated to Kyiv since the outbreak of war include anti-tank missiles, long-range multiple launch rocket systems, and artillery systems including 155mm self propelled guns.
The US and some other North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO countries feared providing aircrafts could draw them into more direct involvement with Ukraine's war against Russia, and have so far opted against their inclusion.
President Joe Biden's administration has pledged another $1 billion 828 million in military aid to Ukraine to help its forces fight Vladimir Putin's invasion.
The new arms shipment would further strengthen Ukraine as it mounts the counter-offensive, which analysts say for the first time could allow Kyiv toshape the course of the rest of the war.
That latest commitment brought the UK's total military and broader regional activity funding to 2.3 billion.
The programme is thought to have the potential to train up to 10,000 soldiers every 120 days.
Last month the Government announced it would supply "scores of artillery guns, hundreds of drones and hundreds more anti-tank weapons to Ukraine in the coming weeks".
He said the Russian troops have managed to gain incremental ground in eastern Ukraine, although not in recent weeks.
The US and its allies still are evaluating whether to supply aircraft to Ukraine, according to Mr Kahl.
It plans to distribute $1bn in rockets, ammunition and other material to Ukraine from US Defence Department stockpiles.
Ukraine aims to push Russian troops back out of Kherson and other southern territories near the Dnipro River.
The latest announcement brings the total US security assistance committed to Ukraine by the Biden administration to more than $9 billion 7.4 billion.
He declined to say how many of the precision guided missile systems for the HIMARS were included in Monday's announcement, but said the US has provided multiple hundreds of them in recent weeks.
He added: These are not systems that we assess you need in the hundreds to have the type of effects needed.
Russian forces have made gradual headway in the region, while launching missile and rocket attacks to curtail the movements of Ukrainian fighters elsewhere.
But that has come at extraordinary cost to the Russian military because of how well the Ukrainian military has performed and all the assistance that the Ukrainian military has gotten," he added.
Military commanders and other US officials have said the HIMARS and artillery systems have been crucial in Ukraines fight to block Russia from taking more ground.
The new US aid includes additional rockets for theHigh Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARSas well as thousands of artillery rounds, mortar systems, Javelins and other ammunition and equipment.
At every stage of this conflict, we have been focused on getting the Ukrainians what they need, depending on the evolving conditions on the battlefield, Colin Kahl, undersecretary of defence for policy, said.
The US leader's office said on Monday that the Biden administration was shipping its biggest direct delivery of weapons to Ukraine yet, as Kyiv prepares for a potentially decisive counter-offensive in the south against Russia.
While the US has already provided 16 HIMARS to Ukraine, Mr Kahl said the new package does not include additional ones.
In recent days, Russia has beenmoving troops and equipment in the direction of the southern port citiesto stave off the Ukrainian counter-offensive.
For the last four months of the war, Russia has concentrated on capturing the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, where pro-Moscow separatists have controlled some territory as self-proclaimed republics for eight years.
These are precision-guided systems for very particular types of targets and the Ukrainians are using them as such.
"And I think now, conditions in the east have essentially stabilized and the focus is really shifting to the south.
He said it's not inconceivable that western aircraft down the road could be part of the mix".
Mr Kahl estimated that Russian forces have sustained up to 80,000 deaths and injuries in the fighting, though he did not break down the figure with an estimate of forces killed.
Want a quick and expert briefing on the biggest news stories? Listen to our latest podcasts to find out What You Need To Know...
During the early parts of the war Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy launched near daily calls for warplanes, calling them essential to protecting Ukraine's skies.
In June, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the UK would be launching a major training operation for Ukrainian forces.
To date, the UK has been one of the largest suppliers of military support to Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on February 24.
