Putin plans full control of southern Ukraine and Donbas top Russian general reveals
20220422
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-04-22/putin-plans-full-control-of-southern-ukraine-top-russian-general-reveals
Meanwhile, Russias top diplomat said on Friday that talks to end the fighting in Ukraine have ground to a halt, because Moscow hasnt received any response from Kyiv to its most recent set of proposals.
Those who have managed to escape the city - that has suffered some of the heaviest bombardment during the war - desperately tried to help get their loved ones out.
Secretary-General of the U.N., Antnio Guterres, will travel to Moscow next week to have a "working meeting and lunch" with President Putin and Lavrov.
An official said Russian forces are continuing to bomb a massive steel mill where the last standing Ukrainian fighters in the city are holed up, along with an estimated 1,000 civilians.
An image released by the UK's Ministry of Defence showed large swathes of eastern and southern Ukraine have already been taken over by Russia.
"And he's very close to securing a land bridge in Mariupol now. The situation is, I'm afraid, unpredictable at this stage. We just got to be realistic about that."
But the Kyiv regime does not allow them to take this opportunity, Putin claimed, according to the Kremlin.
In the besieged southern port city of Mariupol, its mayor, Vadym Boychenko, told ITV News that a new mass grave had been discovered in the last 24 hours in the east of the city containing "thousands" of civilians.
UN says it has seen a "horror story of violations perpetrated against civilians" in Ukraine
President Putin on Thursday had called off an order for Russian forces to storm the Azovstal giant steel plant and ordered them instead to block it so that not even a fly comes through to effectively starve them out.
A woman who had hoped to be reunited with her mother, cried as she played her voice on loudspeaker: "I'm 78 years old. I cannot walk anymore and I want my daughter to come back to me."
The latest developments came as Russia abandoned its plans to take control of Kyiv and began a new offensive on the east and south of Ukraine earlier this week after facing a strong resistance around the capital.
Evidence of potential war crimes in Ukraine given to Met Police's War Crimes Team "some of the worst ever seen"
It read: "Dad I am waiting especially for you. We are waiting for you. Let the lord save you."
He said "the only option" Putin now has is "to continue to try to use his appalling grinding approach, led by artillery, trying to grind the Ukrainians down".
Lavrov also claimed that recent statements by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his advisors suggest they dont need these talks at all, they have put up with their destiny.
Rustam Minnekaev said the plan is to establish a land border with Crimea, a region previously controlled by Ukraine which Russia annexed in 2014, according to Russian news agency Interfax.
The U.N. mission has received more than 300 allegations of killings of civilians in previously occupied towns in the Kyiv, Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Sumy regions.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told a press briefing: Right now, they talks have ground to a halt, because another proposal we passed on to Ukrainian negotiators about five days ago, which was drawn up with their comments taken into account, remains without a response.
A father who had arrived expecting to greet his 10-year-old son, showed a text from him.
Moscow claims Russia-Ukraine peace talks have "ground to a halt" because Kyiv hasn't replied to latest proposals
Russian forces bomb giant steel plant in Mariupol - the city's last stronghold where Ukrainian fighters and 1,000 civilians are holed up, claim Ukrainian officials
Dozens of families of relatives trapped in the besieged southern port city of Mariupol put their loved ones on loudspeaker so the world could hear what they had to say, reports ITV News Global Security Editor Rohit Kachroo
Michelle Bachelet, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, said international humanitarian law appears to have been not only ignore, but seemingly tossed aside, by Russia in Ukraine.The Geneva-based human rights office said in a statement Friday that Russian armed forces have indiscriminately shelled and bombed populated areas, killing civilians and wrecking hospitals, schools and other civilian infrastructure - actions that may amount to war crimes.
Dozens of families were left fraught after an evacuation convoy they had been expecting their relatives on never showed up.
They held up their phones to ITV News journalists and put their telephone conversations with trapped loved ones on loud speaker so the world would hear what they have to say.
Russia's Central Military District says control of southern Ukraine will provide an opportunity for the Russian army to gain access to Transnistria, a breakaway state internationally recognised as part of Moldova.
Ms Bachelet, added that the actual numbers are going to be much higher as the horrors inflicted in these areas of intense fighting such as Mariupol come to light.
The U.N. human rights chief said the body's work in Ukraine has detailed a horror story of violations perpetrated against civilians.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, noting the "success of President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people in resisting Russian forces in Kyiv", said he planned to reopen the British embassy there.
His comments came after fresh satellite imagery appeared to show a mass grave site containing more than 200 new graves on the north-western edge of Manhush, about 12 miles west of Mariupol, according to Maxar Technologies.
Vladimir Putin is planning to take "full control" of southern Ukraine and the eastern Donbas region, a top Russian general has revealed, as Moscow claims peace talks with Kyiv have "ground to a halt".
So far, its mission in Ukraine has verified 5,264 civilian casualties, including 2,345 deaths, since the war began on February 24. It said 92.3 of those were recorded in Ukrainian government-controlled territory.
The Russian leader claimed on Friday that Russia gave Ukrainian forces inside the steel plant the option to surrender, with guarantees to keep them alive with "decent treatment and medical care".
The Azovstal plant is the last stronghold of Ukrainian forces in Mariupol, which the Russians has blocked for nearly two weeks and declared victory over this week.
However, Vladimir Medinsky, Putins aide and Russias lead negotiator at the talks with Ukraine, confirmed reports that he held several lengthy conversations Friday with the head of the Ukrainian delegation. He didnt offer any further details.
Listen to the ITV News What You Need To Know podcast - with the latest on the partygate probe
UK reopens British embassy in Kyiv due to "success of Zelenskyy" and Ukrainians' resistance in the capital
But in less encouraging news, Mr Johnson admitted to reporters in India that the war in Ukraine could continue until the end of next year, according to his intelligence officials.
"They started to dig them at the beginning of April . More and more of them are appearing and we believe that in those mass grave they will be hiding their war crimes," he said.
