The Ukrainians sheltering for months in hospital with no power to escape Russian shelling
20220526
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-05-23/the-ukrainians-sheltering-in-a-hospital-with-no-power-to-escape-daily-shelling
The morning we visit, the remaining staff are unloading a generator amid the sound of yet more artillery fire.
"She is old enough to remember when the Germans occupied us," says her daughter, Olena. "But she thinks the Russians are worse."
One day, he knows, there will be reckoning with the Russians. One side will have to move from their trenches and defensive positions.
For three months, Ludmilla and her friends have sheltered in the gloomy basement of the local hospital.
"We will stay for as long as it takes," says her friend Vera, whose home was one of many destroyed in the bombardment.
Want a quick and expert briefing on the biggest news stories? Listen to our latest podcasts to find out What You Need To Know
John Ray reports from a hospital basement-turned-shelter in southern Ukraine, with additional reporting by cameraman Sean Swan and Foreign Affairs Producer Natalie Wright
He takes a break from his patrol to tell that in peace time he was a priest - now answering a different kind of calling.
"If we have people injured, theres not much we can do for them apart from send them to a hospital in Zaporizhzhia." The nearest big city, three hours drive away.
In the meantime, the artillery duel is unrelenting. And traumatising for the remaining civilian population.
Another loud crash sends us rushing to another basement where in the pitch black, Kateryna, 90, is living out her twilight years.
Their enemy is just two miles away. And almost every day they announce their presence with round after round of artillery fire.
The National Defence unit is made up of factory workers, welders, and a retired police officer.
Just ask the people of Huliaipole an unremarkable little town whose great misfortunes is to be marooned on the front line.
The defence of Huliaipole and the villages around it depends on up men like Olesander.
Zhena survived a mortar attack in Huliaipoles market but only because a neighbour pushed her to the ground.
"To liberate us from what? To free us from our families, our homes, our lives?"
"The Russians have plenty of ammunition. They prepared for this war. We have not enough. Especially armoured vehicles. We did not prepare."
Along the long southern axis of the war in Ukraine neither side has moved much in three months.
