Three months into war morale on Ukraines frontline begins to wane
20220611
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-06-10/three-months-into-war-morale-on-ukraines-frontline-begins-to-wane
Three months into the war in Ukraine, those serving in the military are struggling to keep their morale up and are gloomy about their immediate prospects.
The Ukrainian government has said it is losing around 100 soldiers a day in the conflict, although some suggest the number could be double that.
An envoy for the Luhansk Peoples Republic, a self-proclaimed separatist territory, reported on Friday that some Ukrainian troops were trapped inside a chemical plant on the citys outskirts.
All escape routes have been cut off, Rodion Miroshnik, Moscow ambassador for the unrecognised republic, wrote on social media.
Sievierodonetsk is in the last pocket of Luhansk province that has not yet been claimed by Russia or Moscow-backed separatists.Luhansk governor Serhiy Haidai said Ukrainian forces retain control of the industrial zone on the edge of the city and some other sections amid the painstaking block-by-block fighting.
Fighting in the Donbas has ground on for more than two months and has developed into a slog between the two sides.
He would not speak about the horrors of what he had seen during his time battling Russia,  but said it had changed him forever and he was now afraid of working with children.
"I am feeling sadness, I think we are going to win but we need more weapons, more material, more fighters, they have 10 times more than we do and we are paying with our blood."
Speaking to soldiers on the front line against Russia, ITV News Correspondent Dan Rivers met with young men who had given everything to fight for their country but felt like they were against an enemy who outnumbered them in every sense.
They are being told that no conditions will be accepted. Only the laying down of arms and surrender, he said.
After initially failing in its original goal of conquering huge areas of the country including Kyiv, Russia has refocused its efforts on taking the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine.
The country hopes to have a million men under arms in the coming months but the costs it will have on the entire generation are impossible to calculate.
A provincial governor said on Friday that Russian and Ukrainian forces battled for every house and every street in Sievierodonetsk, a city that recently has been under steady attack.
