Ukrainians who died in Kremenchuk collateral damage Russian ambassador to UK
20220629
https://www.itv.com/news/2022-06-29/ukrainians-who-died-in-kremenchuk-collateral-damage-russian-ambassador-to-uk
And that was the case because the attack was launched against a factory on the territory of which a large amount of weapons, that has come from the United States and Europe, and that was the aim of the attack.
He claimed there was no crowd in the shopping centre, but acknowledged some people probably died in the area.
Boris Johnson and fellow G7 leaders condemned Moscows actions in Ukraine and the attack in Kremenchuk as the summit in Germany drew to a close.
He added: Yes, I am very much worried about where it will end. But most of all, I am worried about those appeals to continue the conflict sending more and more weapons which are of higher and higher quality, like international weapons, like modern rockets weapons.
The strike came as Russia stepped up its barrage of fire across Ukraine, including in the capital Kyiv.
It is increasing the depths of conflict. It is escalation and it is very bad for Ukraine itself.
Want a quick and expert briefing on the biggest news stories? Listen to our latest podcasts to find out What You Need To Know
Russias ambassador to the UK has described the Ukrainians who died in Moscows missile attack on a packed shopping centre as collateral damage.
He told Channel 4 News: As was stated by the Russian Ministry of Defence, we were targeting only military infrastructure.
Mr Kelin also blamed the supply of weapons from Western nations to Kyiv for escalating the war.
Unfortunately, a detonation happened and the fire has spread on the nearby shopping mall, but this shopping mall has been empty and it doesnt work since March of this year.
Ambassador Andrei Kelin echoed Russian authorities claim that the shopping centre was not the target.
The strike, which killed 18 people in the central city of Kremenchuk on Monday, caused shock around the world and was denounced by Ukrainian leaders as a war crime and terrorist attack.
