Live updates  Ukraine reports Russian military regrouping
20220405
https://spectrumlocalnews.com/tx/san-antonio/ap-top-news/2022/04/05/live-updates--ukraine-reports-russian-military-regrouping
BERLIN  The prime minister of Moldova says the poor eastern European nation needs major international support to cope with the influx of people fleeing neighboring Ukraine.
The officers have two weeks to leave Denmark. Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said they pose a risk to our national security that we cannot ignore.
MADRID -- A senior Spanish official says it is very hard for the European Union to take measures against Russias natural gas sector because some of the blocs countries are dependent on it for their energy supply and the EUs strength lies in its unity.
The ministry said the ship was flying the flag of the Dominican Republic and posted a picture of a cargo vessel. It didnt specify how many people were on board or the nationalities of the crew members.
GENEVA  An international Red Cross team has shelved for Tuesday hopes of entering the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol after being held overnight by police in a town about 20 kilometers 12 miles to the west.
BERLIN  Germanys president is admitting mistakes in policy toward Russia in his previous job as foreign minister.
VIENNA -- Chancellor Karl Nehammers office says the Austrian leader plans to travel to Ukraine soon.
Gavrilita said Moldova, with a population of 2.5 million, has tried to provide refugees with decent conditions thanks to an unprecedented mobilization by the public and private sectors.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Denmarks Foreign Ministry says the country is expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russias Embassy in Copenhagen.
According to Vereshchuks post, residents of Mariupol and Berdyansk will be able to leave to Zaporizhzhia on their own transport. Corridors will also be open from the city of Tokmak in the Zaporizhzhia region and cities of Severodonetsk, Lysychansk, Popasna and Hirske in the Luhansk region.
Jason Straziuso, an ICRC spokesman, said the team was not planning on trying to enter Mariupol today. Our teams humanitarian efforts today are focused on helping the evacuation efforts in nearby areas.
The International Organization for Migration, in its first such full assessment in three weeks, reported Tuesday that more than 7.1 million had been displaced within Ukraine as of April 1. That comes on top of the figure of more than 4 million who have fled abroad, reported by the U.N. refugee agency.
Ukrainian and Western officials say Russia is refocusing its offensive on the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine.
In an intelligence update posted online, the U.K. says many of the Russian units are likely to require significant re-equipping and refurbishment before being available to redeploy for operations in eastern Ukraine.
Foreign Minister Ann Lindeannouncement on Tuesday came after Denmark and Italy said they were expelling 15 and 30 Russians, respectively. On Monday, France and Germany announced that they wer kicking out dozens of Russians with diplomatic status.
Last month, Swedens domestic intelligence agency, SAPO, said that every third Russian diplomat in Sweden is an intelligence officer.
IOM said more than 2.9 million others are actively considering "leaving their place of habitual residence due to war.
The move came after France and Germany on Monday announced the expulsion of dozens of Russians with diplomatic status.
LVIV, Ukraine  Seven humanitarian corridors will be open on Tuesday, including from the besieged port city of Mariupol and the Russian-controlled Berdyansk, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on the messaging app Telegram.
The report says multiple shocks are adding to troubles for people and for businesses and that governments whose finances have been stretched by the pandemic have less capacity to help.
The ICRC said in a statement that the teams focus now is on the evacuation operation, and the incident yesterday shows how volatile and complex the operation to facilitate safe passage around Mariupol has been for our team.
Natalia Gavrilita told a donor conference in Berlin on Tuesday that Moldova is hosting about 100,000 refugees from Ukraine, about a quarter of those who have entered since late February.
The ministry said the Russian ambassador was informed of the decision on Tuesday. It said Denmark strongly condemned Russias brutality against Ukrainian civilians in Bucha and stressed that deliberate attacks on civilians are a war crime.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of eastern Ukraines Luhansk region has urged residents to stay inside, shut windows and doors and prepare wet face masks after a Russian strike hit a tank containing nitric acid.
She said Spain should invest in industrial-scale solar power facilities to improve the EUs energy self-sufficiency.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine says a civilian ship is sinking in the port of the besieged city of Mariupol after Russian forces fired on it.
Bruno Le Maire, whose country currently holds the EU presidency, spoke ahead of a meeting of finance ministers Tuesday where possible new measures were to be discussed.
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.
The report released Tuesday forecasts slower growth and rising poverty in the Asia-Pacific region this year. Growth for the region is estimated at 5, down from the original forecast of 5.4. It anticipates that China, the regions largest economy, will expand at a 5 pace.
It was not immediately clear from Vereshchuks statement whether Russia has agreed to halt the fighting along the announced corridors. Some of the Ukrainian efforts to evacuate civilians via humanitarian corridors had previously failed as fighting along them continued even despite agreements with Russia.
Tuesdays announcement followed expulsions by several other European countries. Germany said Monday that it was expelling 40 Russians with diplomatic status and France kicked out 35.
Sticking to that project was a mistake that cost Germany a lot of credit and credibility in eastern Europe, he said. Chancellor Olaf Scholz suspended the pipeline in the week Russia invaded Ukraine.
Vereshchuk said that, after negotiations, the Red Cross representatives were released at night and sent to Zaporizhzhia.
Teresa Ribera, Spains minister for ecological transition, said Tuesday it is very difficult to explain to European public opinion and Ukrainian society that we are still importing Russian energy that finances this war in Ukraine.
GENEVA  The U.N. migration agency now estimates that more than 11 million people have fled their homes in Ukraine since Russias invasion.
Le Maire noted that French President Emmanuel Macron has made clear he is open to extending sanctions to coal and oil. He added: We will see what the position of the other member states will be, but I think there is a possibility to have unity on the 27 member states on these new sanctions.
But she said coping with this influx is one of the biggest challenges any Moldovan government has faced over the last three decades.
Vereshchuk said in the same post that the Russian troops dont allow anyone to enter Mariupol, and that the Russians blocked the representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross in the settlement of Manhush just west of Mariupol.
The goal is to establish full control over the territory of Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the update posted on the General Staffs Facebook page says.
Serhiy Haidai said on the messaging app Telegram Tuesday that the incident occurred near the city of Rubizhne, which the Ukrainian military says the Russians have been trying to take over. He didnt specify what area the warning applies to.
She said that in addition to financial aid, Moldova also needs help building electricity interconnectors to Romania. She asked the European Union to open its market to agricultural imports from her country as it pivots away from Russia.
The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said in a statement Tuesday that the ship was struck during shelling from the sea by Russia, causing a fire in the engine room. The crew was rescued, including one injured crew member, it added.
Her spokesman, Eric Mamer, said Tuesday that her trip will come to ahead of a special pledging meeting in Warsaw over the weekend. It is the second such high-level trip by EU officials. European Parliament President Roberta Metsola went to Ukraine last week.
France plans to expel 35. The French Foreign Ministry cited national security reasons for the expulsions, saying the Russian diplomats were conducting activities contrary to our security interests. It gave no details.
The International Committee of the Red Cross, which has been trying to get a small team into Mariupol since Friday as part of efforts to escort beleaguered civilians out and aid in, said the team held by police in Manhush was released overnight. It did not identify the nationality of the police involved, but Manhush is under Russian control.
Steinmeier told ZDF television Tuesday that we failed on many points, including efforts to encourage Russia toward democracy and respecting human rights.
BRUSSELS  Frances finance minister said there is total determination among all 27 European Union member countries to reinforce sanctions against Russia after evidence of the deliberate killing of Ukrainian civilians emerged.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Sweden's foreign minister says the Scandinavian country is expelling three Russian diplomats.
EU sanctions imposed on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24 have hit many sectors of the countrys economy but the bloc so far has stayed away from sanctions that would sap its supply of Russian energy.
President Frank-Walter Steinmeier served twice as ex-Chancellor Angela Merkels foreign minister, most recently from 2013 to 2017, and before that as ex-Chancellor Gerhard Schroeders chief of staff. In that time, Germany pursued dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin and cultivated close energy ties.
She said the energy imports create obvious moral tension, adding that accusations of Russian war crimes in Bucha in recent days increased the pressure on the EU to act.
Britains Ministry of Defense says Ukrainian forces have retaken key terrain after forcing Russian units to retreat north of Kyiv and around the northern city of Chernihiv. The ministry says low-level fighting is likely to continue in some parts of the newly recaptured regions, but diminish significantly over this week as the remainder of Russian forces withdraw.
In the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the Russian military are focusing their efforts on taking control of Popasna and Rubizhne cities, as well as establishing full control over Mariupol, the General Staff said. Other towns and settlements in the two regions are subject to continued shelling.
BANGKOK  A report by the World Bank says disruptions to supplies of commodities, financial strains and higher prices are among the shocks from the war in Ukraine that will slow economies in Asia in coming months.
Austrian public broadcaster ORF reported Tuesday that the chancellery said Nehammer intends to visit and meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the coming days.
BRUSSELS  Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Unions executive Commission, will travel to Kyiv this week to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Russian forces have been bombarding Mariupol for weeks as they try to tighten control over Ukraines southeastern coastline.
Haidai warned that nitric acid is dangerous if inhaled, swallowed and in contact with skin and mucous membranes. The Russian military has not commented on the claim, and it could not be verified independently.
The president conceded that there were different assessments of Russia among European countries. He added: It is true that we should have taken the warnings of our eastern European partners more seriously, particularly regarding the time after 2014 and the building of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
Germanys interior minister said authorities attribute those who are being kicked out to Russian intelligence services. And Denmark said on Tuesday that it is expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russias Embassy in Copenhagen.
The tally marked an increase from IOMs tally in mid-March of more than 9.7 million displaced internally in Ukraine or driven abroad.
Earlier Tuesday, the European Unions executive Commission said that its president, Ursula von der Leyen, will travel to Kyiv this week.
LONDON  British defense officials say Ukrainian forces have taken back more territory as Russian troops continue to retreat in Ukraines north.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukraines General Staff reports Tuesday morning that Russia is regrouping its troops and preparing for an offensive in Donbas.
