Quebec Green Party leader faces backlash after calling Russias demands reasonable
20220306
https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/quebec-green-party-leader-faces-backlash-after-calling-russia-s-demands-reasonable-1.5807325
If we want peace, we need to negotiate and both sides need to compromise. That is the position I am advocating for. We will not achieve peace if escalation continues.
It should not be a thought crime to read Russian media in order to better understand the opposing point of view, he said.
The Quebec Green Party won 1.68 per cent of votes in the 2018 provincial election.
The Green Party of Canada distanced itself from Tyrrells statements, saying the federal Green Party is distinct from the Quebec party and said Tyrrells remarks are not reflective of the federal partys views.
Tyrrell said that regardless of the informations origins, the contents of the article were factual.
Alex Tyrrell holds no official position with the Green Party of Canada and does not speak for GPC, interim party leader Amita Kuttner tweeted. His views on the war in Ukraine are abhorrent. Russia is the aggressor.
When asked about this statement, Tyrrell said pacifism is a core value of the party and referenced Kuttners own opposition to sending weapons to Ukraine.
In a statement to CTV News, Tyrrell referred to the Azov battalion, a nationalist, far-right voluntary military unit that was incorporated into the Ukrane National Guard in 2014.
Tyrrells tweets were met with swift criticism, with Member of the National Assembly Benoit Charette suggesting he apologize to Ukrainian and Jewish communities for his statements.
I therefore call on the Canadian, American and NATO governments to stop sending arms to Ukraine and to support serious negotiations with Russia now to allow for an immediate deescalation and to save lives.
I therefore call on the Canadian, American and NATO governments to stop sending arms to Ukraine and to support serious negotiations with Russia now to allow for an immediate deescalation and to save lives, he wrote on Twitter Friday afternoon.
The link in question was an article covering a temporary ceasefire that would allow citizens to evacuate cities under attack. That ceasefire failed shortly after it was declared.
Alex Tyrrell said Russian President Vladimir Putins demands for the denuclearization, demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine are reasonable, calling on Western governments to stop sending weapons to the country and opt for negotiations instead.
Tyrrell was further criticized after he wrote a Tweet linking a website which Twitter flagged as being Russia state-affiliated."
The CanadianGreens strongly condemn comments about the war in Ukraine made by the leader of the Green Party of Quebec.
Tyrrell took to Twitter again Saturday morning, stressing that he was speaking out for peace to avoid further violence in Ukraine.
To be clear I condemn the Russian invasion and violence on both sides of this conflict. I am a pacifist who is against war, he wrote, adding that if we want peace, we need to negotiate and both sides need to compromise.
Good news! Lets hope that peace talks progress during this period and that this war can be brought to an end. https:t.coTeMVIcsPDS
Katchanovski told The Canadian Press that Zelensky and his government are not Nazis or neo-Nazis.
Il nous arrive tous de l'chapper. L, vous l'avez chapp solidement... La seule chose  faire dans les circonstances est de le reconnatre et de vous excuser, notamment auprs des Ukrainiens et des Juifs d'ici et d'ailleurs.
Quebecs Green Party leader posted a series of controversial tweets Friday and Saturday calling on Western countries and the Ukrainian government to accept certain Russian demands related to the ongoing conflict with Ukraine.
The only thing to do in the circumstances is to recognize it and apologize, especially to Ukrainians and Jews here and elsewhere, he wrote.
Political scientists like Ivan Katchanovskipoint out that Ukraine has a Jewish president, Volodymyr Zelensky, who won the election with over 70 per cent of the vote.
He has no official position in the Green Party of Canada and does not speak for us or represent us in any way.
