Dont rush divestment of Floridas shares in Russian companies  Editorial
20220515
https://www.palmbeachpost.com/story/opinion/2022/05/15/dont-rush-divest-floridas-pension-plan-its-russian-shares/9719999002/
Shame also is a valuable weapon, allowing no harbor to an autocrat who fancies himself a world leader but who finds himself with fewer and fewerfriends or admirers anywhere in the world. And shameis what divestment wields. It's a symbolic forcebut an effective one anda cause that can further unitethe community of man against aggression.
It's tempting to say Florida should join the rush to divest from Russian companies to protest the Ukraine invasion.
However, by divesting too quickly, the state would shootitself in the foot financially,enrichthose it wants to punish and do little to force Russia's military to stand down.
More:Heading for NATO borders: Russia already has phases 2 and 3 planned after Ukraine  Commentary
So, while a handful of states have shed shares, others, such as New York and Michigan,have announced divestment plans to be implemented at a prudent pace. That sends the appropriate moral message while allowingstateinvestment managers to strategize an effectiveapproach.
The move to rid the state retirement plan of its Russian shares would fit within the broader international effort to punish Russia for its aggression,deprive it of money to prolong itsunprovokedwarand isolate it in shame from the community of nations outraged by Vladimir Putin's bloodlust.
Gov. Ron DeSantis has been slow to act, weakly suggesting that the Legislature draft a bill that would let the state divest holdings in countries that "are hostile to American interests," as the Tampa Bay Times reported.
DeSantis, along with Chief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis and Attorney General Ashley Moody, isa trusteeof the State Board of Administration, whichmanages the retirement system. The Governor has shown time and time again that when he wants something, he hardly needs his obeisantLegislature to make a decision for him. So, whatever his political calculus is, clearly he is distancing himself from this issue.
And if Florida is to be a leader among American states, it should neither hide from this issue nor leap into it without thinking, just for a headline. Itshould balance moral imperatives with financial sense, helpthe world and protectFlorida retirees.
Florida's retirement system is valued at $200 billion. Of that investment portfolio, the Russian holdings,in such companies as energy giant Rosneft and major lender Sberbank,represent a tiny share. These holdings, worth$300 millionas of Jan. 31,have dropped significantly in value since then, as international sanctions took hold, non-Russian companies pulled out or shrunk operations and calls for divestment rang out around the world.
Squeezing Russia economically is the right move, one that has a practical chance of pressuring Putin to consider the war'scostwithout jolting him into even more-extreme military moves that threaten world peace.
However, financial experts advise against an immediate sell-off now, as that would put even more downward pressure on the shares' value and cost Florida even more than it has lost to date by failing to act quickly.
When circumstances call ona state to participatein foreign policy, the state'sleadersshould forge a united, bipartisan front to do so and not dull the spearhead with internecine squabbling.
At the same time,those who hammer him for not divesting all the state's Russian holdings immediately are playing a gracelessdomestic game. They'replaying off the horror in Ukraine to score local political points whilesupporting a foolish financial approach, to boot.
What's more, past divestment efforts have shownthat those who will snap up these shares at rock-bottom prices in this case, oligarchs, most likely  stand to profit wildly at the end of the day, when normal market conditions return and share prices rise.
