Russian forces storm Mariupol steel plant Pentagon says Russian gains uneven  slow in eastern Ukraine May 3 recap
20220510
https://www.palmbeachpost.com/story/news/politics/2022/05/03/ukraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/9625242002/
Meanwhile, the Russian military says its artillery has hit over 400 Ukrainian targets during the last day, including Ukrainian artillery positions, troop strongholds and fuel depots. Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov saida U.S.-supplied artillery radar, four air defense radars and six ammunition depots were among the targets destroyed with precision-guided weapons over the last day. Konashenkovs claims couldnt be independently verified.
The assault came as a convoy carrying civilians evacuated from the Azovstal steelworks plant by U.N. and International Red Cross officials arrived in the Ukraine-controlled city of Zaporizhzhia, 140 miles west of Mariupol. The U.N. said 127 people were evacuated from the plant and nearby areasTuesday.
Speaking Tuesday at the annualConference of the Americas Luncheon in Washington, D.C.,U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Russia's war in Ukraine has worsened problems in the Western Hemisphere after the coronavirus pandemic inflictedmassive economic harm.
He said he was trying to understand why Russia had invaded Ukraine. Maybe this barking of NATO at Russias door had prompted it, he was quoted as saying, An anger that I dont know if it was provoked, but maybe facilitated.
Osnat Lubrani said during a virtual press conference that the people who chose to stay were "horrified" at the state of their city and wanted to search for loved ones.
Israel's outrage over inflammatory comments by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is fallingon deaf ears in Moscow. Israel's Foreign Affairs Ministry on Monday demanded an apology and summoned the Russian ambassador for a "clarification meeting" after Lavrov pressed his claim that his troops were going to de-Nazify Ukraine, which is led bya Jewish president. Lavrov also said Hitler "had Jewish origins" and that "wise Jewish people say the biggest anti-Semites are the Jews themselves."
Well do everything thats possible to repel the assault, but were calling for urgent measures to evacuate the civilians that remain inside the plant and to bring them safely, Palamar said
Russia has drawn global scorn for relentless bombing of Ukraine's cities. Mass graves with hundreds of bodies have been found in areas overtaken, then abandoned by Russian forces.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM:Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone
According to the U.N.'s humanitarian aid chief in Ukraine, 30 people who were taken out of the steel mill opted not to leave Mariupol, the Ukrainian port city under siege by Russian forces.
Svyatoslav Kalyna Palamar,deputy commander of the Azov Regiment holed up in the plant, said Russian forces were storming the facility with armored vehicles, tanks and even boats. The plant includes a maze of underground tunnels and bunkers, and thousands of troops and residents have been trapped in and around the plant for weeks.
"Thanks to the combined efforts, we managed to save Mariupol residents from this hell," Mayor Vadym Boichenko said on the city council's Telegram channel.
At least six railway stations were hit in the country's central and western regions, delaying at least 14 trains, according to Olexsandr Kamyshin, the head of Ukraine's railways.
"We have done everything to help these people to basically leave the place where they were to leave hell, Pascal Hundt, who heads the Ukraine office of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said. But we would have hoped that much more people would be able to join the convoy and to get out of hell.
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Tuesday, May 3.Follow here for the latest updates and news from Wednesday, May 4, as Russia's invasion continues.
"I believe he is going to move from his quote-unquote special operation to 'This is now war against the Nazis andI need more people. I need more Russian cannon fodder,'" Wallace told LBC radio in London.
Pope Francis says he was told two weeks ago by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbn that the war would be over by May 9, although the Kremlin acknowledged this week that won't happen. The pope, in an interview released Tuesday by the ItalianCorriere della Sera newspaper, also said that in March he offered to travel to Moscow to meet with President Vladimir Putin but had received no response.
The Russians knew exactly where to aim the workers just finished their shift and were waiting for a bus at a bus stop to take them home, Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote in a Telegram post. Another cynical crime by Russians on our land.
These are people that have lived their lives and worked in Mariupol and so it was difficult for them to just leave without knowing what the fate of their loved ones is," she said.
The United States says it will put a spotlight on the impact of the war in Ukraine and other conflicts on the diminishing availability of food and rising prices at two U.N. events later this month.
As the U.S. and its allies rush more cannons, tanks and ammunition to Ukraine, Russias already diminished militaryis still looking for victoriesto justify the huge cost ofPresident Vladimir Putinsinvasion.
Russian forces on Tuesday struck Ukrainian infrastructure and military targets in cities around the country.
Zoltn Kovcs, Hungary's secretary of state for international communication and relations, tweeted: "Responding to fake news: On April 3, Hungarians decided that HU will not ship weapons to Ukraine. While we understand that UKR does not welcome our decision, spreading fake news and coming up with lies will not change our position."
Russian President Vladimir Putin could be poised to formally declare war on Ukraine within days, abandoning his "special military operation" terminology in a bid to mobilize more troops and equipment, some experts say.
The Russian Foreign Ministry responded Tuesday with a statement saying "we have paid attention to foreign minister Yair Lapids anti-historical remarks, which largely explain the current governments decision to support the neo-Nazi regime in Kyiv.
Russia did not invite foreign leaders to Moscow for Victory Day celebrations, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. A parade in Red Square will feature 11,000 military personnel and over 200 pieces of equipment, the Kremlin said. A determination on traditional paradesnear the Ukraine border has not been made, officials said.
"Itwould allow them to surge conscripts in a way theyre not able to do now, in a way that would be tantamount to revealing to the world that their war effort is failing, that they are floundering in their military campaign and military objectives," he said.
WHY IS MAY 9 IMPORTANT?Russia's Victory Day could mark key deadline in its invasion of Ukraine
After a convoy helped 127 evacuate from the Azovstal steel plant and surrounding areas on Tuesday, officials are worried about the many civilians who are still there.
Israeli Foreign Affairs Minister Yair Lapid described Lavrovs remark as racist and "both an unforgivable and outrageous statement as well as a terrible historical error."
Slovakia and Hungary say they won't support sanctions against Russian energy that the European Union is preparing over the war in Ukraine. Leaders say they are too reliant on Russiaand have no immediate alternatives.
Putin is hoping to grab those gains in eastern Ukraine and parts of the Black Sea coastline. If successful, he could claim hes met an initial objective of securing the Donbas, an area that has been contested by Ukrainians and Russian-backed separatists since 2014.
Putin "stressed that despite Kievs inconsistency and unpreparedness for serious work Russia remained open to a dialogue," the Kremlin said. The readout also said Putin complained thatEU countries ignore war crimes committed by Ukrainian forces. Putin suggested the West might "contribute to putting these crimes to an end" but applying pressure to Ukraine leaders and halting the flow of arms to the country.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a phone conversation with French leader Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday that Russia remains open to a dialogue with Ukraine, the Kremlins press service said.
Russian forces on Tuesday began storming the sprawling steel plant serving as the last holdout for Ukrainian fighters in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials said.
Since the war began, Hungary has drawn Ukraine's ire by refusing to provide arms and balking at a boycott of Russian energy.
There are also still civilians inside the plant. Lubrani said some may have been too afraid to leave with the convoy on Tuesday, while others could have had difficulty doing so because of their age or disability.
U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said at a briefing Mondaythat it would be a "great irony" if Moscow used the occasion of Victory Day to declare war.
Hungary dismissed as "fake news" claims by Ukraine that Hungarian officials knew of Russia's invasion in advance and that Hungary hoped to obtain land from Ukraine. Ukraine and Hungary sharea small border and the two nations have clashed politically over the rights of ethnic-Hungarians in western-most Ukraine.
Also, Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said Russian strikes damaged three power substations, knocking out electricity in parts of the city. At least 10 were killed and 15 wounded Tuesday when Russian troops shelled a chemical plant in Avdiivka, the Donetsk regional governor said.
Russia's progress in eastern Ukraine remains "uneven" despite the Kremlin's decision to move assets away from Kyiv to focus on the Donbas region, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told CNN on Tuesday. "It has been impeded, it has been slow," Kirby said. "Ukraines are fighting back stiffly, bravely, skillfully."
President Joe Biden on Tuesday toured a Lockheed Martin facility in Troy, Alabama, that manufactures Javelin missiles. "These weapons, touched by your hands, are in the hands of Ukrainian heroes making a significant difference, Biden told the factorys workers.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said this week that there were no plans to complete the invasion, which began Feb. 24, by Russia's annual "Victory Day" holiday next Monday. British Defense Minister Ben Wallace said he believesPutin, unable to claim victory on the day that commemorates the Nazi surrender to the Russians in 1945, could well formally declare war instead.
