Watching Russias invasion of Ukraine shakes my own understanding of American power
20220301
https://www.palmbeachpost.com/story/opinion/2022/03/01/russia-invasion-ukraine-shakes-america/6972782001/
The Russian military killing Ukrainians, firing on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities. That sentence doesnt even make sense.
'I need ammunition, not a ride':Zelenskyy is the hero his country needs as Russia invades
Its heartbreaking to watch these attacks play out in real time on social media and know that the United States, still the most powerful nation in the world, nurtured Ukraine on this democratic path and could intervene to stop the bloodshed. Intellectually, I understand why we can't. I understand the risks that American military involvement would create Russia after all is a nuclear power, too.
I focus on the faces of Ukrainians huddled in their winter coats and sleeping bags in the citys ornate metro stations, children nestled into their parents' arms. I zero in on the buildings, trying to placethem in my head.
Even so, the Ukrainians never relented in their bid for democracy and partnership with other democratic neighbors. Russia, also, never gave up its efforts to scuttle a free, thriving and pro-Western Ukraine.
My Ukrainian colleagues became good friends. They were patient with my often stumbling Russian and my endless questions. Even the camo-wearing, gun-toting guard who responded to our office alarm every time I accidentally tripped it when working too early, or too late, was kind.
Opinions in your inbox: Get a digest of our takes on current events every day
Yushchenko had already paid a high price, poisoned by a dioxin that many believe was delivered at the behest of the Kremlin in the hopes of sidelining the popular politician.
Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians filled the streets for weeks in 2004 in protest over the stolenelection, creating a kind of protest village. There were medics, police, teachers, even entertainers.
Russias unprovoked invasion of Ukraine has unsettled me in a way that even the life-changing COVID-19 pandemic hadnt.
And while I understand why as Americans we donthave any appetite for another foreign entanglement after Iraq and Afghanistan, I cant help but feel like were letting the Ukrainians down.
'If we need to we will die here':Life in Ukraine as Russian forces assault Kyiv, Kharkiv
I lived in the Ukrainian capital from 2004 to 2006  two of the best years of my journalism career and two very happy years of my life. I ran The Associated Press' Kyiv bureau, having arrivedthere from my previous AP reporting job in Moscow.
Weekends, I explored Kyiv. In winters, I tried not to slip on the invisible ice patches and dodged falling icicles. I warmed myself with mugs of glintvein, a mulled wine, bought off street vendors. I frequented a fast-food varenykydumpling spot with more regularity than I should admit.
It never felt like home. I was an American with no Slavic blood in me. But after two years in the Russian capital, which I loved but always kept me on edge, Kyiv felt more chill.
The United States didnt have any troops on the ground. Neither did Russia. But both the Russians and the Americans loomed large. I spent hours sitting in the U.S. Embassy for background briefings on the shuttle diplomacy happening.
And,yes, I know Ukraine still has our support, and the sanctions will likely prove damning to the Russian economy and hurt Putins circle and could, in the best case scenario, end his gripon power.
Mara Bellaby is executive editor at Florida Today. She previously worked for The Associated Press, reporting from Kyiv, Ukraine, Moscow and London. She can be reached at mbellabyfloridatoday.com
So watching the scenes unfolding in Ukraine now because of Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion leavesme numb.
When I texted with a Ukrainian friend on the first night of the invasion, she told me she was with her family in Kyiv. They were staying.
I dont want to underestimate the tension and fear. Rumorsthat tanks were going to be called in andguns turned against the demonstratorsran constant. I was scared to sleep through the night, scared I'd miss the start of an attack.
I stuffed a scarf in my purse so I could drop in to the many Orthodox churches for a moment of prayer and peace. I became fascinated by the rather sordid biography of St. Volodymyr, the former pagan whose baptism into Christianity earned him a spot considered an equal to the apostles. I readMikhailBulgakov. And I happily spent hours spitballing about Ukrainian politicians after work ended.
I do, too. If she can feel hope, as Putin's militaryattacks her hometown, I can summon hope, too. I just wish that was good enough to make a difference.
I completely understand the Ukrainians'befuddlement over whats happening.How can this be?Two nations that share so much history and culture. Its hard to know a Russian or an Ukrainian who doesnt have a relative and friend living in the other country.
The Kremlin under Putin has crossed a line that introduces more instability into a world already rocked by two years of a pandemic. And, personally, it shakes my own understanding of American power.
As with many things, the Orange Revolution didnt lead to nirvana: It ended in squabbles and corruption within the new Ukrainian government and disappointment among the people.
I also was a witness to Ukraines first big attempt after the end of the Soviet Union to pull itself away from the darkness now engulfing Russia. I covered the 2004 Orange Revolution, that magical mushrooming protest that turned central Kyiv into a giant tent camp. The Orange Revolution so-called because orange was the oppositions campaign color arose in response to a truly stolen election. The election had been called for the pro-Russian candidate Viktor Yanukovych the Russian stooge played an infamous roleagain in 2014, triggering Ukraines Revolution of Dignity. I fear his return a third time but everyone knew the pro-Western Viktor Yushchenko had won.
And, yet, maybe I should have seen it coming. I can rattle off a list of people I personally interviewed who clashed with Putin and are now dead shot, poisoned, jailed or exiled.
