What Comes After Russias Attack on a Ukrainian Nuclear Power Station
20220310
https://carnegieendowment.org/2022/03/17/what-comes-after-russia-s-attack-on-ukrainian-nuclear-power-station-pub-86667
Since the attack, Ukrainian operating personnel have been working under great pressure, and nuclear safety at the plant has been challenged or degraded in critical areas. The effectiveness of plant personnel may be reduced, and clear lines of authority and communication involving operators, management, and regulators have been weakened. The reliability of the electric power supply system has been reduced, and Russian troops may inhibit effective response by plant personnel should an emergency arise.
One critical line of defense at a nuclear power plant is the outer structure surrounding the reactor and its fuel. Most reactors are outfitted with concrete-steel containments designed to withstand extreme impacts, such as a collision with fighter jet aircraft aimed directly at the reactor, or attacks by targeted explosive charges. But not all reactors are equal. A few older units, including two at Rivne in Ukraine, were built without concrete-steel containments. Measures to improve the robustness of confinement equipment for such reactors are limited.
For all extreme external eventsarmed attacks as well as severe stormsthe ultimate initiators of a dire nuclear safety crisis may be the same: a station blackout, loss of off-site power, andor loss of emergency cooling capacity. Between 2011 and 2021, Ukraine designed and implemented 80 percent of a comprehensive upgrading program for all fifteen nuclear power plants, encompassing critical areas such as black-out conditions, emergency power and coolant supplies, and qualification of plant equipment for extreme conditions.
At Zaporizhzhia, Russian troops fired ammunition, including grenades and perhaps artillery shells, at the station, which is Europes biggest. Ukrainian national guard forces, tasked to defend the six power reactors, returned fire. An auxiliary building was set ablaze, invaders prevented access by firefighters, and attacks may have damaged a transformer at one of the reactors. Russian troops ignored pleas from the plant operators to withdraw, forced their way into reactor buildings, and took command of the staff.
Ukraine took steps to defend its nuclear plants against threats from sabotage, cyberattacks, and terrorism, but the Zaporizhzhia station was not prepared to withstand an onslaught from an invading foreign army. Likewise, despite efforts in Ukraine to systematically incorporate emergency preparedness and accident management principles, if operators are intimidated, stressed, deterred from taking sound actions, or replaced by outside personnel unfamiliar with an installation whose safety systems have been modified, including with Western technology and equipment, advance preparation may not suffice.
The most effective direct response to perceived greater nuclear security threats will be at the technical expert level. Governments and industry will again review the preparedness status of nuclear installations in light of new information about what transpires in Ukraine. They may reconsider decisions and plans to extend the lifetimes of older plants with greater vulnerabilities including concerning containment integrity, and they may more deeply investigate how personnel should respond in real time to de-escalate risks should armed forces overwhelm a nuclear power plant site.
In nuclear safety parlance, an armed attack on a power reactor is an extreme external event, a category that also includes tornadoes, earthquakes, and airplane crashes. A turning point was the 2011 destruction of three reactors at Japans Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant after a tsunami. Experts recognized that had Japans government and industry taken specific precautionary measures before the tsunami occurred, the reactors demise could have been prevented. Since then, governments and industry have improved the protection of nuclear installations against extreme natural events. The Ukrainian government and industry systematically investigated all of Ukraines nuclear power plants to find weaknesses, with the intention to stiffen plants defenses in part through modern upgrades of the plants original engineering systems.
Governments and industry will doubtless investigate and assess nuclear safety and nuclear security risk in light of events at Zaporizhzhia and other nuclear installations in Ukraine, including by revisiting the significance of actions carried out before the invasion to defend against an array of external threats. But how they respond to the first-ever military incursion against an operating nuclear power plant will depend above all on how Ukraines nuclear power stations weather the invasion of Russian forces.
Barring a catastrophe at any of Ukraines fifteen nuclear power plants, the events of the past few weeks wont likely prompt most other states to reconsider or abandon existing and planned nuclear power investments. Will Russias attack now rekindle safety fears in Europe and blunt the prospect of more nuclear power to mitigate global warming? Probably not. Russias behavior will likely mean instead that Europe will welcome fission reactors as a counter to dependence upon imported Russian fossil fuels. Countries currently building nuclear plants with Russian cooperationTurkey and Finland, for examplemight reconsider these long-term commitments, partly because Russia may not be able to finance them but also for national security reasons. On balance, it is more likely that European governments will respond to greater concern for their nuclear plants not by shutting them down or canceling plans for new ones but by stiffening their overall national defense against a Russian invasion of their territory.
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA has urged that safety at Ukraines nuclear power plants be maintained in seven specific areasa message that might serve as the basis for future multilateral negotiation to address threats of war to nuclear power plants. The IAEA has made recurring efforts to discourage attacks against nuclear installations, and protocols of the Geneva Convention outlaw military incursions against nuclear power stations nevertheless, Iraq, Israel, and the U.S. have attacked adversaries non-power nuclear assets, and last week Russian forces shelled a nuclear research installation in Kharkiv. Governments may respond to events in Ukraine by reinforcing their nuclear facilities defense against adversaries aggression, but Russias invasion will not raise their expectations that future belligerents will act with restraint.
Prior to these events, governments and the nuclear power industryincluding in Ukrainehad intervened to improve the chances that what is unfolding at Zaporizhzhia will not result in a nuclear disaster. They took actions on both essential fronts: nuclear security and nuclear safety.
Last week, Russian occupiers brought in personnel from Rosatom, Russias state-controlled nuclear power company, to consult with Ukrainian operators. Ukrainian regulators contested Russian claims that Rosatom had taken control of the stations management. A senior nuclear security official told Carnegie that the Russians threatened to dismiss Ukrainian personnel unless they declared their loyalty, and land mines were planted on the site. Two of the four main power lines linking the station to Ukraines power grid have been damaged one line must be functional to assure supply of power to the plant.
The Russian assault on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station in Ukraine two weeks ago unleashed a destabilizing cocktail of events that, in the worst case, could still lead to a severe nuclear accident. And as Russias violence continues and spreads, it may threaten Ukraines other nine nuclear power plants, including older units in western Ukraine that may be less protected against some extreme hazards.
Partly in response to growing awareness of terrorist threats over the past two decades, more attention has been paid to potential hostile incursions. Encouraged by the United States government, which held a series of nuclear security summits beginning in 2010, Ukraine identified and addressed weaknesses in nuclear stations physical protection and security. Ukraine reported significant progress, especially after Russia occupied Crimea and interfered in eastern Ukraine beginning in 2014.
