Boris Johnson says Vladimir Putin has launched unwinnable war to serve his own ego
20220509
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/boris-johnson-says-vladimir-putin-26914244
The Prime Minister used an interview to slam the Russian President as Moscow stages a military parade on the country's annual Victory Day.
Stressing that Russian generals involved in the Ukraine campaign should face war crime trials, Wallace said that they and Putin were mirroring the fascism and tyranny of 77 years ago and their invasion of Ukraine dishonoured the countrys military past.
Tens of thousands of Ukraine civilians are also reported to have been killed, with Russians resorting to indiscriminate shelling and air strikes given the failure of ground forces to seize territory, particularly at the start of the military campaign. Thousands of Ukrainian soldiers have also been killed.
The UKs most recent estimate is that around 15,000 Russian troops have been killed in the invasion which started on February 24, with three or four times as many believed to have been wounded or incapacitated.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
As Russia celebrated its annual Victory Day with a military parade in Moscow, Johnson said: This is Putins unwinnable war. Russians are right to commemorate their heroic role in the defeat of Nazism.
Vladimir Putin is condemning young Russians and Ukrainians to their deaths to avoid humiliation in an unwinnable war, Boris Johnson has said.
The Prime Minister said the Russian President was fighting in Ukraine solely for his own vanity and said the invasion was an ego-driven mistake which now had no clear strategic objective.
The event was scaled back because so much of Russias military hardware and troops are in action in Ukraine but Putin still used it to show off long-range nuclear missiles, tanks and ground-launched ballistic missiles.
Highlighting what he now sees as a key flaw in Putins attacks, he added: At this stage there is simply no clear strategic objective."
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia is mirroring the fascism and tyranny of 70 years ago in a speech on the invasion of Ukraine.
"But Putins brutal attack on Ukraine shames Russia. His unwinnable war is being fought solely for his own vanity.
Johnson continued: He is now expending senselessly the lives of young Russians as well as innocent Ukrainians to avoid humiliation. I have always said Putin must fail and Putin will fail because this is an ego-driven mistake.
Despite speculation that President Putin might use the Moscow parade to declare a military escalation in the conflict, there was no major announcement.
He said. He Putin must come to terms with how he has lost in the long run, and hes absolutely lost. Russia is not what it was.
