Boris Johnson accuses Russia of false flag operation in Ukraine as images of shelldamaged school appear
20220217
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/boris-johnson-accuses-russia-false-26258653
Separatist authorities in the Luhansk region claimed there had been an increase in Ukrainian shelling along the tense line of contact, describing it as a large-scale provocation.
Johnson spoke after an exchange of artillery fire between Russian -backed separatists and Ukrainian government troops in east Ukraine, with claims that rebel shells hit a nursery school.
We fear very much that that is the kind of thing we will see more of over the next few days.
Truss warned that Russian President Vladimir Putin could mount a false flag operation to justify an invasion.
He said: Today, as Im sure youve already picked up, a kindergarten was shelled in what we are taking to be  well, we know  was a false flag operation designed to discredit the Ukrainians, designed to create a pretext, a spurious provocation for Russian action.
The Prime Minister said the situation in Ukraine continued to be 'very grim' as Foreign Secretary says there is still room for diplomacy
She said: Reports of alleged abnormal military activity by Ukraine in Donbas are a blatant attempt by the Russian government to fabricate pretexts for invasion."
Speaking about the latest developments in Ukraine on a visit to RAF Waddington in Lincolnshire, the Prime Minister said: I wish I could give everybody better news about this, but I have to tell you that the picture is continuing to be very grim."
What we are doing is making that we do everything to strengthen the package of sanctions that will follow immediately should there be a Russian invasion.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has arrived in Ukraine, where she is expected to deliver a speech later.
The Prime Minister added: We fear very much that that is a thing we will see more of over the next few days.
Truss said she was very concerned about the situation and accused the Kremlin of trying to create a pretext for an invasion.
Boris Johnson has said a reported attack on a kindergarten in Ukraine was a false flag operation designed to discredit the Ukrainians.
