Boris Johnson pledges to toughen up sanctions as Putin sends forces into Ukraine
20220224
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/boris-johnson-pledges-toughen-up-26316065
Boris Johnson has promised the toughen up the UK sanctions on Russia after a dawn attack by Putin's forced on Ukraine.
Earlier the Prime Minister said the Russian president has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction. He is expected to announce further sanctions in the Commons this afternoon.
There can be no space for equivocation when faced with the evil that Putin has unleashed. His actions pose a grave threat to the international order on which we all depend.
The Prime Minister chaired a Cobra crisis meeting and is due to make a televised address to the nation after Russian forces pounded key installations in Ukraine.
Johnson this morning chaired an emergency Cobra meeting to discuss what support the UK can offer the people of Ukraine and will later attend a meeting of G7 leaders.
Labour leader Keir Starmer said Putins attack posed a grave threat to international stability and said the western democracies are now involved in a battle with a dictatorship.
He told the BBC: The sanctions package that will be put in response to this is already actually having an effect. And those sanctions will be laid today and over forthcoming days to really prevent Russia from funding this invasion.
The Prime Minister is due to address the nation on the Ukraine crisis and to update parliament at 5pm on the details of a new sanctions package against Vladimir Putin.
The Prime Minister has promised to respond decisively to the Russian onslaught after his initial package of sanctions was criticised by senior Tories and opposition figures.
Starmer added: All those who believe in the triumph of democracy over dictatorship, good over evil, freedom over the jackboot of tyranny must now support the Ukrainian people. They have been cast onto the front line of a war, simply for existing.
There will be dark days ahead. But Putin will learn the same lesson as Europes tyrants of the last century: that the resolve of the world is harder than he imagines and the desire for liberty burns stronger than ever. The light will prevail.
The meeting of the Cobra committee followed a call between Johnson and Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky during the night as Russia launched its assault.
He said: Vladimir Putins attack on Ukraine is unprovoked and unjustifiable. His actions will have horrendous and tragic consequences that will echo throughout the world and throughout history.
