British journalist in intensive care after suffering serious injuries in Ukraine
20220314
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/british-journalist-intensive-care-ukraine-26467633
Benjamin Hall, a foreign affairs correspondent at Fox News, was not in a military facility at the time of the incident.
She posted on Facebook : "This man was not at a military facility, where according to Russian officials, they are constantly targeting.
It was reported on Sunday that Mr Renaud, an acclaimed US filmmaker, was killed after Russian forces opened fire on his vehicle near the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
It comes a day after American journalist Brent Renaud died after reportedly being shot by Russian forces.
"We have a minimal level of details right now, but Ben is hospitalised and our teams on the ground are working to gather additional information as the situation quickly unfolds."
"May Brent's life  sacrifice inspire the world to stand up in the fight for the forces of light against forces of darkness."
Host Kayleigh McEnany posted on Twitter : "Please say a prayer for BenjaminHallFNC, our brilliant and brave FoxNews reporter, who was injured in Ukraine.."
He wrote: "I extend my heartfelt condolences to the family of Brent Renaud who lost his life while documenting the ruthlessness and evil inflicted upon Ukrainian people by Russia.
"This is a stark reminder for all journalists who are putting their lives on the line every day to deliver the news from a war zone."
Earlier today Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky paid tribute to award-winning video journalist Brent Renaud, who died yesterday.
Fox News said: "The safety of our entire team of journalists in Ukraine and the surrounding region is our top priority and of the utmost importance.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
Ukraine's prosecutor general, Irina Venediktova, said that a British journalist was in "intensive care under the supervision of doctors".
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter     here     .
The network said: "Earlier today our correspondent Benjamin Hall was injured while newsgathering outside of Kyiv in Ukraine.
Correspondent Garret Tenney wrote: "My heart breaks for BenjaminHallFNC, his wife, and their three young kids.
The Mirror reports that Benjamin Hall, a foreign affairs correspondent at Fox News, was not in a military facility - thought to be the main targets of Russian shelling - when he suffered "serious injuries".
A "brilliant and brave" British journalist is in intensive care after being injured while reporting in Ukraine, a top official has said.
In a statement, Fox News confirmed that father-of-three Mr Hall had been injured, but did not comment on the severity.
