Fears Putin may use chemical weapons in Ukraine as Russian invasion falters
20220309
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/fears-putin-use-chemical-weapons-26427838
Western sources have warned that Russia may be involved in a 'false flag' operation to give themselves cover to use unconventional weapons after claiming to uncover a US-led facility in Ukraine.
Speaking in the Commons, Ben Wallace said: I think that is, Im afraid, the 60 million dollar question and I think we have to all be mature about how we work that out through analysis, through talking to people who understand it, there is no easy answer.
Vladimir Putin may be preparing the ground for using chemical and biological warfare in Ukraine after his invasion faltered.
How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror? Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity.
UK Defence Secretary said Putin is contained in a cage of his own making as he warned the risk of Russian aggression against other countries is unclear.
He added: In response to a Ukrainian request, the Government has taken the decision to explore the donation of Starstreak high-velocity manned portable anti-air missiles.
A western official warned it was now a serious concern that the Russian president may resort to non-conventional weapons such as chemical devices given the failures so far of his military campaign in Ukraine.
Wallace told MPs that the UK has delivered 3,615 anti-tank weapons and will shortly be supplying a small consignment of Javelin anti-tank missiles.
A Russian government spokeswoman demanded on Wednesday that the United States explain why it was supporting what Moscow described as a military biological programme in Ukraine.
He said : Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital. People, children are under the wreckage, Atrocity!
The claim was denied outright by the US but raised fears of a false flag operation to give the Kremlin itself cover for possibly using such weapons.
Nato has so far ruled out imposing a no-fly zone over Ukraine as Zelenskyy has requested, amid warnings it would lead to a direct war between the West and Russia
The worries are based on the fact that chemical weapons were used by the Assad regime, backed by Russia, during the Syrian civil war, some possible false flag operations to justify use of these devices and other factors.
As Ive mentioned before, for example, what weve seen in Syria, partly because weve seen a bit of setting the scene for that in the false flag claims that are coming out, and other indications as well.
The claim came as Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russia of hitting a maternity hospital in Mariupol.
One official said: I think weve got good reason to be concerned about possible use of non-conventional weapons, partly because of what weve seen has happened in other theatres.
