Kremlin website down and Russian TV hacked by Anonymous in Ukraine support
20220226
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/kremlin-website-down-russian-tv-26338733
All of the Russia's government webpages are also down including the official website of the Kremlin - the office of Russian President Vladimir Putin - kremlin.ru, following reports of cyberattacks on various other state media websites.
"We have been patently waiting for you to respond to our most recent request, but we find ourselves growing impatient of your foot dragging.
The electronic voice goes on: "From the depths of your closet, no skeleton will be left unturned.
The message, read out in English, with Russian subtitles reads: "Greetings Russian President Vladimir Putin.
As reported by The Mirror, they call on him to resign and restore the rights of the Ukrainian people.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
Messages threatening to place bombs at Moscow's train stations and airports have also been received by the authorities and checks are being made, the RIA news agency has reported.
In a chilling video message posted online by the hacker collective called Anonymous, a member of the masked group speaks directly to Putin.
"We took down the websites of the federal anti-monopoly service, Kremlin, Russia Today and many other Russian government associated websites.
It also said that the Russian embassy in London was in touch with British police after receiving phone threats related to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which Moscow had described as a "special military operation."
In a chilling video message posted online by the hacker collective, a member of the masked group speaks directly to Putin in English.
Russian TV channels appear to have been hacked to broadcast Ukrainian songs, according to reports.
"We are now asking for you to restore the rights of the Ukrainian people and resign as an elected official."
"Unfortunately it seems you have made the option to ignore our presence and therefore we have decided to dedicate and operation specifically for you.
Get the latest Scottish crime and courts news sent straight to your inbox with our daily Criminal Record newsletter
