Putin has no way back but to fire nuclear weapons Kremlin reporter says
20220504
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/putin-no-way-back-fire-26870725
Alexander Sladkov, a works as a "propagandist" for the Kremlin, has urged the Russian leader to detonate an atomic bomb and cause a crater the size of several regions.
Major-General Kyrylo Budanov has said that the Russian leader has effectively signed his death warrant by ordering his troops into Ukraine.
Alexander Sladkov, who works as a "propagandist" for the Kremlin, has urged the Russian leader to detonate an atomic bomb and cause a crater the size of several regions.
The President claims he wants to "liberate" Ukraine from the "Neo-Nazis" through his "special military operation", however this argument for war has been globally condemned, the Mirror reports.
Speaking to his 730,000 followers, Sladkov said time may be approaching for the last resort, as some 40 countries are supplying Ukraine with weapons that are being used against Russian invaders.
Sladkov warned: Everything is possible, and this is what the Americans teach us. And we are learning.
It comes hours after Ukraine's top military spy chief said the invasion will only come to an end with the death of Vladimir Putin.
Thinking about it, I remember just how easily the US used nuclear weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and how easily they nearly deployed them at Dien Bien Phu in 1954.
We have a solution for Ukraine. There are several, yet we are getting reminded about the last resort - nuclear weapons.
The Europeans and Americans cant quite get it that one must not harass a neighbouring country with such a giant nuclear potential.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
If no one is going to hear us, and 40 countries keep helping the Ukrainian neo-Nazis, we will have no way back.
Boldly predicting a Ukrainian victory at the same time as a warning that mass mobilisation in Russia was near, Major-General Budanov issued this veiled threat on Monday evening.
Vladimir Putin will soon have "no way back" but to fire nuclear weapons on Ukraine, a Russian war reporter claims.
"A crater the size of several regions will be a clear example of how serious is Russias appeal to NATO to get back to peace and harmony. But where will Ukraine go?
Exactly where it's heading right now, with the only difference that itll be fast, and cheaper for Russia.
He is a war criminal for the whole world. This is his end, he drove himself into a dead end. Don't worry, Ukraine will win."
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
So us, Russians, will have to demonstratively do it in Ukraine to remove the issue with further confrontation with those known 40 countries.
Leaving him a way to retreat is one of the strategies, but it is almost unrealistic, he told The New Voice of Ukraine when asked if Putin would survive the war.
He posted: "There is more and more talk about nuclear weapons, and Russia has much to say about it.
