Rangers legend Alexei Mikhailichenko signs up to defend Ukraine against Russian troops
20220305
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/rangers-legend-signs-up-defend-26391559
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has banned adult males aged between 18 and 60 from leaving as he tries to scramble together a defence force.
The Scots and the Ukrainians have one thing in common and thats their will to fight for their freedom.
But that has left Mikhailichenko with a heartbreaking decision whether to send 17-year-old Matthew away. Alexei Jnr said: My dad and I cannot leave as were aged between 18 and 60. But at this stage I dont think we want to leave either.
Those messages mean so much, said Miko, who is now president of the Ukrainian FA.
Its a difficult call. Were constantly going back and forth asking, What do we do? But at this time were staying together.
Rangers legend Alexei Mikhailichenko will fight to oust the Russian army from his native Ukraine.
The Ukraine international has been inundated with messages of goodwill including from his old Rangers captain Richard Gough.
Last week the Daily Record revealed how Mikhailichenko was holed up in his city flat with wife Inna, sons Alexei and Matthew plus other relatives.
We can still see rockets hitting an area about 30km from where we are now  but thats a lot closer to our home in the city.
I love Rangers very much. I played for the club for so many years and fell in love with the club and people of Glasgow.
Were also a family, so its like either all of us go or none of us. Thats the decision thats been made at this time.
We do keep going back and forward on whether to leave because of Matthew. Hes 17 and wed like to get him to safety. But he also wants to stay with us.
Right now were about 20km away from the centre of Kyiv in our country house.
Speaking to the Daily Record, Alexei Jnr, 38, said: My dad and I have signed up for the territorial defence forces. This is the civilian unit of the defence force and if needed, yes were ready to defend our country.
Normally we all live right in the centre of the city, near to the Verkhovna Rada Ukraines parliament. But thats a really dangerous place right now so weve moved to our country house.
The former Ibrox hero and son Alexei junior have pledged their services to the resistance.
The shop shelves are empty and there are queues for food. All the classics of war.
Were holding on. The situation is our troops are fighting well but they are bombing us a lot.
Theres a lot of civilians getting hurt. They are using rockets and hitting residential houses and childrens hospitals. Its horrible.
Right now things are OK but there is army everywhere and barricades blocking a lot of the roads. We cant go out at certain times because martial law has been implemented. We just have to pray that we can find a way to survive.
Mikhailichenko Snr, 58, has no military training but both he and his elder son will do everything to stop the invaders march on their home city of Kyiv.
Were relatively safe for now  well as safe as we can be. But it is a constant worry about what is going to happen.
We had great preparation during the Maidan Revolution, when Ukrainian society came together to help each other in 2014.
My dad and I are willing to help. We dont have military experience but well help any way we can by monitoring the area, driving the soldiers or getting food to them.
