Russia is planning to stage public executions in Ukraine to shatter morale
20220306
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russia-is-planning-stage-public-26398209
The then-Soviet city of Leningrad, now called St Petersburg, saw a protracted Nazi siege during World War 2, resulting in 1.5million people killed over two years.
The world has to talk with Putin because there are no other ways to stop this war.
Putin praised his military as heroes and said all was going to plan despite reports suggesting intel showed he planned to take Kyiv within 48 hours.
Journalist Kitty Donaldson, who broke the story, tweeted: The agency is also planning violent crowd control and repressive detention of protest organisers in order to break Ukrainian morale.
The battle came as Putin claimed Ukraine is using civilians and foreigners as human shields - while his forces bomb densely-populated areas, according to Mirror Online.
Leaked documents reportedly show Russias plans to begin public executions in Ukrainian cities, which have been captured, in a bid to break morale.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
Russia is preparing to carry out public executions in conquered Ukrainian cities in an effort to break morale, it has been claimed.
Zelensky replied: It is not about I want to talk with Putin, I think I have to talk with Putin.
Ferocious fighting has been taking place for much of the weekend around the Zaporizhzhia plant in southeastern Ukraine.
The city of Kherson has been taken by Russian troops but elsewhere the invaders have met with fierce Ukraine resistance.
The nations Federal Security Service is believed to have planned the sadistic strategy, which also includes shattering any protesters, according to an anonymous European intelligence official, reports Bloomberg.
Dramatic maps show how invading troops have closed in, after shelling left citizens without water and in a blackout after the power was cut.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
Do you have a message for him now that Ukrainian cities are under attack? This city is under attack.
The outrageous claim followed a day of continued attacks on cities including the capital Kyiv and Kharkiv, which have suffered intense damage.
A convoy is on its way here. Is there a way to prevent this war from escalating even further, now?
He was asked by a journalist during a press conference in Kyiv today: You have just mentioned you want to talk with Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Putin has so far not been willing to meet with you.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told reporters he must speak to Putin to stop the war.
Vladimir Putins invasion has seen Russian military open fire in a town located next to Europes largest nuclear power plant after entering it with tanks, a Ukrainian official confirmed.
The port city of Mariupol is being catastrophically bombed round the clock and is in danger of becoming like Leningrad, according to officials.
