Russian threat from Vladimir Putin means UK must be prepared to fight and win to stop war in Europe
20220628
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/russian-threat-vladimir-putin-means-27345174
He said: We dont know how the war in Ukraine will end but in most scenarios Russia will be an even greater threat to European security after Ukraine than it was before.
British troops must be prepared to fight and win to stop the spread of war in Europe, the new head of the army has warned.
General Sir Patrick Sanders, chief of the general staff, said Russia is likely to emerge from the war in Ukraine as an even greater threat to European security amid calls for a big increase in UK defence spending.
He compared the current situation to the run up to the Second World War, arguing Britain is facing another 1937 moment and must be ready to act rapidly to ensure it is not drawn into a full-scale conflict by failing to contain Russian expansionism.
Wallace has written to the Prime Minister calling for the defence budget to be lifted from two per cent to 2.5 per cent of GDP by 2028.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace is expected to call for a bigger budget after the head of the armed forces warned the UK must re-arm to face a new Russian threat.
Speaking to a Royal United Services Institute RUSI conference in London, Sir Patrick said it was dangerous to assume that Ukraine was a limited conflict.
Defence secretary Ben Wallace is expected to us a speech at the conference on Tuesday to issue a fresh call for increased defence spending in the years ahead to counter the growing Russian threat.
The move comes as Boris Johnson prepares to join other Nato leaders in Madrid for a summit at which they are expected to agree the biggest overhaul of the Western military alliance since the end of the Cold War.
The Russian invasion has reminded us of that time-honoured maxim that if you want to avert conflict you had better be prepared to fight.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg Nato has announced plans to massively increase the number of its forces at high readiness from 40,000 to over 300,000 troops along the alliances eastern flank.
