Russia threatens to launch attacks on UK territories over weapons to Ukraine
20220427
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russia-threat-attack-uk-ukraine-26811611
After all, this directly leads to deaths and bloodshed on Ukrainian territory. As far as I understand, Britain is one of those countries.
Foreign Ministry spokesperson of Putins regime, Maria Zakharova revealed strikes could be authorised against NATO member countries military targets.
It comes after Putins voice on Russian state TV threatened to wipe Britain off the map with President Vladimir Putins new big beast hypersonic 208-ton 15,880mph Satan-2 intercontinental ballistic missile.
Russia, Lavrov said, was doing a lot to uphold the principle of striving to prevent nuclear war at all costs.
Russia has given a chilling new warning to the UK over continued weapon supplies to Ukraine.
Get the latest Scottish crime and courts news sent straight to your inbox with our daily Criminal Record newsletter
Moscow calls its actions a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists - a claim that has been widely and consistently refuted by the Ukraine and its allies.
The United States has practically ceased all contacts simply because we were obliged to defend Russians in Ukraine, Lavrov said, repeating the rationale for Moscows invasion of its southern neighbour.
The chilling threat comes after Russia also warned NATO weapons were a legitimate target in Ukraine - and that British diplomats in Kyiv could be targeted, according to Mirror Online.
In a wide-ranging interview broadcast on state television, Lavrov also said that the core of any agreement to end the conflict in Ukraine would depend largely on the military situation on the ground.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said nuclear action was a real danger, adding the risk of World War 3 was now considerable.
But he said Western supplies of sophisticated weapons, including Javelin anti-tank missiles, armoured vehicles and advanced drones were provocative measures calculated to prolong the conflict rather than bring it to an end.
The Vladimir Putin loyalist had been asked about the importance of avoiding World War Three and whether the current situation was comparable to the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, a low point in U.S-Soviet relations.
Everyone is reciting incantations that in no case can we allow World War Three, said the the hardline foreign minister added on Bolshaya Igra Big Game programme on state-run Channel 1 television.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
Maria Zakharova said: Do we understand correctly that for the sake of disrupting the logistics of military supplies, Russia can strike military targets on the territory of those Nato countries that supply arms to the Kyiv regime?
This is our key position on which we base everything. The risks now are considerable, Lavrov said.
As it turned out, one Sarmat means minus one Great Britain, said pro-Putin TV anchor Vladimir Solovyov, threatening the UK in a crude remark to viewers.
These weapons will be a legitimate target for Russias military acting within the context of the special operation, Lavrov said.
Maria Zakharova, Kremlin Foreign Ministry spokesperson revealed strikes could be authorised against Nato member countries military targets as supplies to Ukraine forces continue.
The first regiment to deploy the new unstoppable missile will be in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia and they are to go into use this year.
The threat was because the British had got totally boorish, the popular host - known as Putins voice - said, seemingly referring to the UKs ongoing support for Ukraine.
Russias two-month-old invasion of Ukraine, the biggest attack on a European state since 1945, has left thousands dead or injured, reduced towns and cities to rubble and forced over 5 million people to flee abroad.
Storage facilities in western Ukraine have been targeted more than once by Russian forces. How can it be otherwise? he added. Nato, in essence, is engaged in a war with Russia through a proxy and is arming that proxy. War means war.
