Russian assault on welldefended Kyiv would be costly business western officials declare
20220317
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/russian-assault-well-defended-kyiv-26494040
Russian forces may not be able to take Kyiv in a full-frontal assault, western officials now think.
A western official said: An ill-judged frontal assault on a city as well prepared as Kyiv, with determined and committed defenders would be a very costly business. There comes a stage where even Russia counts the cost of casualties.
Western officials said that is not an implausible estimate as they reported Russian gains are very incremental, very slow.
An official said: These strike aircraft which rely on low altitude are finding themselves vulnerable to Ukraine counter-measures so are exercising considerable caution.
The latest western analysis is that Russian forces have taken substantial casualties with up to 7,000 soldiers killed in the three week war.
The assessment from western officials is that Russia has also failed to gain air superiority.
"There is stiff fighting no doubt small gains are being made but Ukraine resistance is fierce and mobile and the success of the tactics Ukraine is using, including attacks on supply lines, have been remarkably effective.
With Vladimir Putins forces bogged down 20km outside the capital western defence analysts are beginning to doubt if the Ukrainian capital can be fully encircled and assaulted.
However the officials said if Russia is prepared to compromise in negotiations is a very big question which they cannot answer.
The gains are gains but whatever progress is being made is very slow when you compare the force both sides can take to this fight.
According to western officials there is evidence that Putin is now drawing reserves from periphery of Russia to rotate new troops into the battle.
The plan was to take Kyiv quickly and we are now in day 21. It took two months to take Grozny. It would be a very major undertaking and the costs would be high. I do not know if Russian military planners see it as that.
