Russian troops demoralised seeing so many corpses beg to go home in leaked calls
20220307
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russian-troops-demoralised-seeing-so-26410613
In one intercepted conversation shared by Mr Herashchenko, a Russian soldier reportedly moans: "We have no aviation, no fing support, we are like cannon fodder."
Soldiers said the war in the country could last "months" in the intercepted calls, despite Vladimir Putin saying it would be over in two weeks.
Defence experts usually calculate invading commanders usually need an advantage in numbers of around three to one to attack a defending force.
"We're running out of diesel fuel, ammunition level is low too. I don't know what the f we're going to do," he added.
Troops were said to be raiding a nearby supermarket for supplies, with another infantryman saying his battalion did not have any food left.
Another Russian fighter said he was being paid 40 a day - a relatively high wage in Russia - but said no-one cared about the money anymore.
In the intercepted calls, soldiers said the war in Ukraine could last 'months', despite Vladimir Putin saying it would be over in two weeks.
It comes after a string of videos released by Ukraine showed captured Russian troops complaining about being "deceived" by Putin.
Russian forces have lost 1,000 troops a-day to a ferocious defence from Ukrainian troops and defiant citizen warriors, according to official Ukrainian numbers.
The Mirror reports that Ukrainian politician and advisor at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Anton Herashchenko, shared translations of the phone calls online.
A third soldier called his wife, it is claimed, and told her: " Russia itself attacked Ukraine, why I don't understand. We're definitely here until May, that's for certain."
It is estimated that Russia began the invasion with around 230,000 troops, in Belarus to the north, on the eastern flank and offshore in the Black Sea.
The loss of 11,000 soldiers, sailors and airmen by day 11 of the invasion has been a massive blow to Moscow, which is now calling up reserves.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
According to the Sun, he added that he would "do anything to come back home... resign from the army, I don't give a f".
In another leaked recording, a Russian infantryman complained that his battalion was facing "massacres" and said his comrades were "shaking", "afraid" and refusing to fight.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
He echoed other soldiers' wishes to quit the army and said his comrades were "sleeping in the street".
The soldier revealed that his comrades were looking forward to the end of the war as fighting "for no reason" had "fed everyone up".
In house to house combat in inner cities, which is what Moscow is attempting, this calculation can be as many as four to one needed.
And by adopting a full-on assault offensive on towns and cities that are well defended by a well-motivated force the Russian troops are now mired in urban combat.
Russian troops demoralised at the sight of "so many corpses" have begged to go home in leaked calls from the frontline in Ukraine.
That is only a few thousand more than Ukraine s entire armed forces, it is believed, but the defenders were better-trained.
