Ruth Davidson insists Douglas Ross put in terrible position by Partygate
20220413
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/ruth-davidson-insists-douglas-ross-26706102
But despite her position on the Prime Minister, Davidson said she did not see a conflict in campaigning for Tory councillors to be elected on May 5, adding: I believe that councils with more Tories in them do better.
I think Douglas was pretty, pretty gutsy to come out early to say that this wasnt on.
When asked if she was disappointed in the stance of Mr Ross, the former leader said: Ive got no issue with Douglas.
And they feel that the Prime Minister and the culture in Number 10 makes a mockery of their sacrifice.
The thing that really gets me, is how many people I know or have met, or have spoken to me, or I represented when I was still an MSP when Covid was going on, who didnt see loved ones, who stuck by the rules, who saw folk that they loved die or be ill or be alone, and who will never forgive themselves, she said.
Scottish Tory leader Douglas Ross has been put in a terrible position by partygate, former leader Ruth Davidson has said.
Previously a vocal critic of Boris Johnson, the Scottish leader said a change in Number 10 would destabilise the UK as it looked to respond to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
I think Douglas has been put in a terrible position. Probably the hardest position that any Scottish leader ever has been, and as somebody who was the leader for eight years, I know what its like to have been dumped in it by colleagues down south.
But Davidson, who was given a seat in the House of Lords by Johnson, has been outspoken in her calls for him to leave.
Davidson said: For me, to have a Prime Minister thats broken the law, laws that he sets, to have presided over a culture in Number 10 where laws were repeatedly broken, and who told both the Parliament and the public that no laws were broken when they were, for me, that is a resignation offence."
The former leader also grew visibly emotional when she spoke about people who had been impacted by Covid-19 regulations.
Ross has been criticised for saying the Prime Minister should not stand down as a result of being fined over a Downing Street gathering at the height of the pandemic.
The former Scottish Tory leader said she has "no issue" with Ross - despite the pair disagreeing over the Prime Minister's future.
Davidson went on to say that Johnsons continuation in the job meant the office of Prime Minister was being traduced.
She told journalists as she joined the Scottish Tory campaign trail for the council elections that she felt he should step down following the fine.
