Ukrainian troops cheer as they use British missile to shoot down Russian drone
20220411
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/ukrainian-troops-cheer-use-british-26689432
She said: "On arrival in Kyiv, the PM and President Zelensky met for an hour - this was a meeting just with the two of them. They then went on a 30-minute walk together to Independence Square.
Boris Johnson, who held face-to-face talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv at the weekend, said: "Putin has steeled our resolve, sharpened our focus and forced Europe to begin to rearm to guarantee our shared security.
Outspoken hardliner Kadyrov, 45, claims to be personally involved in the war especially with Chechen forces around decimated Mariupol.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov today said military operations will not be paused during peace talks.
Vladimir Putin should threaten to use nuclear weapons if the West puts mercenary fighters into Ukraine, one of his closest henchmen has demanded.
Troops celebrated after the device was taken down by the laser-guided Starstreak missile provided by the UK.
Warlord Ramzan Kadyrov - leader of Chechnya and a lieutenant-general in the Russian national guard - also called on Putin not to abandon his aim of seizing Kyiv despite the current pullback.
"Alongside our allies, this military support will bolster Ukraines efforts to ensure Russia s barbaric invasion fails."
Russian officials say discussions with Ukraine are not progressing as rapidly as they would like, and have accused the West of trying to derail negotiations by raising war crimes allegations against Russian troops.
Ukrainian soldiers cheered with joy as they shot down a Russian drone with a missile made in Britain.
In a new video, the Chechen head, so powerful he criticises some of Putins most trusted inner circle, said: What would I do?
So they do not mock us. NATO, the West, are at war with us. This isn't a joke."
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
I would declare: If any mercenary comes to Ukraine we would go up to a strike with nuclear tactical weapons at certain points
Putin's forces have been accused of a litany of atrocities including murder, torture, rape and targeting civilians.
As reported in the Mirror, the UK announced it was sending 100million worth of weapons to Ukraine, with anti-tank systems and air defence equipment set to be delivered.
It is believed to have happened on Saturday, with Ukrainian military bosses saying the drone was downed by the 95th Air Assault Brigade.
In the footage, troops are shown watching the device fall from the sky, with one of them shouting: "There's contact, we destroyed that s."
Lavrov said: "After we became convinced that the Ukrainians were not planning to reciprocate, a decision was made that during the next rounds of talks, there would be no pause in military action so long as a final agreement is not reached."
Footage was today posted by soldier Yuriy Kochevenko as he thanked Britain for providing the weapon that wiped out Russia's drone.
Today a Number 10 spokeswoman said the Prime Minister had spent around five hours in the Ukrainian capital after a carefully-planned operation to bring him in secretly.
"You'll have seen some of the footage - he met with Ukrainians and passed the memorials that have been put up to victims of the war."
