Vladimir Putin vanishes midsentence live on TV while delivering speech at prowar rally
20220318
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/vladimir-putin-vanishes-mid-sentence-26503882
He promised the thousands at the rally all the Kremlin's aims would be achieved by the country's actions.
Celebrating the eight-year anniversary of the annexation of Crimea he said: "We are united by the same destiny.
The Kremlin claimed a technical glitch was behind the interrupted transmission of Putin's speech to the packed Moscow stadium.
Cited by RIA news agency, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said a server glitch had caused the interruption.
The country's state television suddenly cut away from Putin hailing what Russia calls its special operation in Ukraine and the bravery of its soldiers, to instead show patriotic songs being played at the event.
"This is how the people thought and that's what they were guided by when they had the referendum in Sevastopol.
"They want to share their historical destiny with their motherland Russia - let us congratulate them on this occasion, it is their occasion. Congratulations."
It was an occasion which appeared to be very patriotic with pro-Russian feedback about the anniversary of the annexing of Crimea.
"We know what we need to do, how to do it and at what cost. And we will absolutely accomplish all of our plans," he said.
Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on February 24 in an effort to degrade its southern neighbours military capabilities and root out people it called dangerous nationalists.
Those fighting in the "special military operation" he said had brought unity to the country.
The Russian President was reciting the reasons for Russia's illegal conflict in Ukraine when suddenly the feed, being broadcast live on Russian state TV, cut out.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
Ukrainian forces have mounted stiff resistance and the West has imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia in an effort to force it to withdraw its forces.
The crowd waved flags and celebrated by chanting "Russia, Russia" as he made his speech.
The stadium stage carried slogans "for a world without Nazism" and "for our president", using the "Z" - markings which have become a horribly familiar sight on armoured vehicles in Ukraine.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
The Russian President was promoting his illegal conflict in Ukraine when the broadcast cut away from him to shots of the audience.
The leader spoke for around five minutes on Friday as the Russian military continued to shell Ukranian cities.
The footage showed that Putin had his own mass stage so that no-one could get near to him, with the leader thought to be concerned about catching Covid-19.
But, as he appeared to be still talking in an address to the vast crowd, the broadcast suddenly cut to other images ands the leader was nowhere to be seen.
It later aired the full speech, which ended a few seconds after the cutaway, with Putin leaving the stage as thousands of spectators waved Russian flags at the 80,000-capacity Luzhniki stadium.
Putin had been praising his forces, who he said continue to "heroically fight" in Ukraine, The Mirror writes.
"Shoulder to shoulder, they help each other, support each other and when needed they shield each other from bullets with their bodies like brothers. Such unity we have not had for a long time," he said.
