Vladimir Putins four possible options as Ukraine continues to resist Russia attacks
20220301
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/vladimir-putins-four-possible-options-26355906
Dr Matthew Harries senior research fellow at the defence think-tank Rusi told iNews : Any use of a nuclear weapon by Putin would be ruinous for him.
The research professor of joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational JIIM security studies at the US Army War Colleges Strategic Studies Institute, told Al Jazeera : I think the evidence points to continued Russian overmatch of Ukraine in terms of both capabilities and capacity.
Putin knew when he invaded Ukraine that Russia's military dwarfs that of his former Soviet colleagues.
"US officials have reported that somewhere between 50 and 70 per cent of available Russian forces have been committed so far, meaning there is still lots of nearby Russian military power left to commit.
Stanford University expert Kathryn Stoner told Politico Russia could " weather the already stiff sanctions" due to its strong independent back bone.
The Russian army have been met with brutal resistance as losses have been experienced of both sides of the battle, reports The Mirror.
And so with that in mind, Putin appears to have aimed at a swift defeat of Ukraine while riding out any western sanctions.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, meanwhile, has said this evening he has signed a request to join the European Union, urging members to fast track the country on board.
She said: "The Kremlin has built up a war chest of $700 billion in foreign reserves, among the most of any country in the world, has a low debt to GDP ratio about 30 percent last year vs. 116 percent for the U.S., for example and is banking on its good macroeconomic policy in the last decade to stand up, at least for a time, despite what the West may yet throw at them."
But in that regard it may be fairly well-placed to ride them out, according to one expert.
Nevertheless, it still remains widely accepted that it's a case of if rather when the Ukrainian capital falls to the Moscow onslaught.
While Ukraine's resistance appears stronger than first anticipated, evidence points towards the Kremlin troops continuing to overmatch their opponents, according to expert Professor John R. Deni.
If he gives up, without making any grounds in Ukraine, it will be a humiliating defeat.
The Russia President hoped to take over Ukraine within 48 hours and is said to be "humiliated" as he has failed so far.
Ukraine's allies also increased weapons transfers in support, with Finland agreeing to ship 2,500 assault rifles and 1,500 anti-tank weapons.
While European dependence on Russian oil and gas means countries like Germany would think twice about imposing harsh sanctions.
He said there is a risk, however, of such threats being misjudged leading to "escalation through brinkmanship".
He also knew NATO wouldn't send in troops to help, due to a fear of escalating a world war and because Ukraine is not a member state.
"It could be Russia is planning a brutal escalation in Ukraine and this is a keep out warning to the West. Or designed to show that Putin will not allow himself to be removed from office."
In a worrying sign, Russia's defence ministry said its nuclear missile forces and Northern and Pacific fleets had been placed on enhanced combat duty.
Russia would have to continue dealing with the sanctions placed on it, without its prize, too.
The risks of nuclear escalation from Russias invasion are real and should be taken seriously. This has been known from the outset and is a primary reason why the West is not intervening directly with military force," he added.
The content and exact position they are in, thus far, has not been made public but discussions did last for several hours, and included two breaks, according to reports.
Prof Deni added: "In terms of the operations, there are some anomalies that do not make sense to me, including the inability of Russian forces to successfully and conclusively establish air dominance over Ukraine, the inability of Russian forces to retain control and exploit the capture of the Antonov International Airport outside Kyiv, and the evident difficulty Russian forces are experiencing in term of coordination."
Things are not quite going to plan for Vladimir Putin and Russia as the war in Ukraine continues for a second week.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter   here   .
Russias Defence Minister, Sergei Shoigu, said that the West had taken unfriendly actions towards Moscow.
The two sides met on the Belarusian border today for the first round of peace talks.
It comes as Russia faces deepening isolation and economic turmoil as Western nations, united in condemnation of its assault, attempt to cripple it with an array of sanctions.
Putin warned last week on announcing the special military operations, before things quickly moved into full-scale invasion, that there would be unthinkable consequences for any nation standing in his way.
Putin has ordered Russia's nuclear deterrent forces raise their alert status to the highest level.
He also added Western sanctions were illegitimate and so Russia had put its nukes on a special regime of duty - though it's clear exactly what that means.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
Leaders of the two sides met on the Belarusian border in a bid to begin "peace talks" while opposing forces clashed in the fifth day of conflict.
Russian delegation head, Vladimir Medinsky, said the two sides had agreed to keep the negotiations going.
If figures coming out of Ukraine can be believed, he has already lost thousands of military personnel, and has failed to take any major cities or even comfortably fortify the areas that have fallen to him.
It would appear Putin's endgame would be to either install a puppet government, with the country under his control, or potentially leave Zelensky in charge but with his powers largely stripped and Moscow absorbs Ukraine under something of a neo-Soviet regime.
The Russian President's goal was to conquer his country's neighbour within 48 hours, but brave Ukrainians have stood their ground.
He will likely be ostracised almost entirely by the West and his regime could be forced to collapse.
It is the first time nuclear weapons have been readied since the Yom Kippur war in 1973 - though such devastating weapons have not actually been deployed since 1945.
History has shown the idea of holding onto power and control in a defeated nation can prove far more difficult than actually successfully invading it.
The Ukrainians have shown in their brave refusal to back down that installing a puppet government and trying to have his way, will not be an easy task should he win.
Putin is understood to be "humiliated" as his troops continued to launch air strikes in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Zhytomir.
Putin has said his aim is to "demilitarise" and "denazify" his neighbours, suggesting he wants to neutralise them as a threat and take revenge for a largely misplaced wrongdoing.
Dr Harries said if the Russian leader interprets certain types of Western assistance to Ukraine's war effort as constituting "direct military intervention" this could trigger deliberate deployment of nuclear weaponry.
