Vladimir Putin ready for mass mobilisation of troops for Ukraine as Russian funeral bills rise
20220621
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/vladimir-putin-ready-mass-mobilisation-27293201
Western officials said there is more chatter about Vladimir Putins health and more speculation about who will replace him in Russia.
The 2024 presidential election is certainly looking more interesting than it perhaps was six months ago, the officials said.
In a briefing to journalists, western officials indicated that indicated ordinary Russians are beginning to see the human cost of the invasion and that mass mobilisation of civilians into the army is about to happen.
An official said: We dont know the full extent of Russian losses, our current estimate is about 20,000 dead but we have seen reports of huge increases in spending on funerals in Russia since February.
Moscow is concerned about mobilisation as it would be an admission of failure in what was intended to be a quick, clean operation in Ukraine and has turned into a slow and grinding conflict, officials said.
While there will be political consequences for the way Putin is damaging Russias standing in the world and its economy, they are not likely to happen this year or in a way that helps Ukraine, the officials said.
However, there does not appear to be an immediate threat to the Russian presidents position from the elite or the general population, they said, even as an estimated 20,000 Russian troops have been killed in the Ukraine war.
Officials added that the economic and human cost of the conflict was apparent to ordinary Russians and would grow as winter set in.
Spending on funerals in Russia has increased by 17 per cent since the invasion of Ukraine, according to western officials in an update of Vladimir Putins advances in a grinding, slow conflict with mounting costs.
Western officials have briefed that the 'grinding' conflict in Ukraine is having a human cost that is apparent to ordinary Russians.
Because the Kremlin also fears that country-wide mobilisation could stoke unrest in cities, it is attempting to increase the pool of fighters by doing very significant recruitment in poor areas and raising the age limit for serving, officials said.
