Vladimir Putin puts Russias nuclear deterrent on high alert as tensions mount over Ukraine invasion
20220227
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/vladimir-putin-puts-russias-nuclear-26341555
Putin previously warned anyone who might be tempted to meddle in the ongoing events: whoever tries to stand in our way or create threats for our country  people should know Russias response will be immediate and lead you to consequences you have never encountered in your history".
The Russian President, who has turned Russia into a pariah state, made the comments in a meeting with officials
This could well be the beginning of the end for Putin. I fear that he is prepared to use the most unsavoury means in this war, she told Sky Newss Trevor Phillips on Sunday programme.
Her warning came after the Commons Defence Committee chairman Tobias Ellwood said that in the worst-case scenario Putin could deploy low yield tactical nuclear weapons if his forces failed to make a breakthrough.
I urge the Russians not to escalate this conflict but we do need to be prepared for Russia to seek to use even worse weapons. I think it would be hugely devastating. We need to avoid this at all costs.
Days into his countrys widely-condemned invasion of Ukraine, Putin said the deterrent would be put into a special regime of combat duty.
Russias nuclear deterrent has been put on high alert by President Vladimir Putin as tensions rise with the West.
Russia has been attacking Ukraine for days - in spite of demands by the international community to stop.
He claimed NATO, which he has accused of trying to encircle Russia, of making aggressive statements about Ukraine.
With the Russian advance on the capital, Kyiv, apparently bogged down in the face of fierce Ukrainian resistance, Truss said the survival of Mr Putins regime could now be at stake if his invasion plan failed.
It came as Britain said Vladimir Putin may be prepared to use the most unsavoury means to secure victory in Ukraine amid warnings he could unleash Moscows arsenal of battlefield nuclear weapons.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said any use of nuclear or chemical weapons would represent an extremely serious escalation of the conflict which could see Russian leaders brought before the International Criminal Court.
Asked about Russias arsenal of chemical and tactical nuclear weapons, she said: I fear this conflict could be very, very bloody.
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading NATO members made aggressive statements regarding our country," Putin said in televised comments.
Reports have suggested his invasion is not proceeding as planned and he escalated the tensions at a meeting with his top officials.
