Vladimir Putin launches Satan2 missile in chilling warning to those who threaten Russia
20220420
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/vladimir-putin-launches-satan-2-26757358
It has no analogues in the world and wont have for a long time to come.
He believed no country on the planet is capable of stopping the newly-tested weapon, which experts calculate is capable of firing more than 10 nuclear warheads at a time.
Professor Malcolm Chalmers from the Royal United Services Institute RUSI previously told Reuters Sarmat was unlikely to make a big difference to Russias ICBM force due to its already considerable destructive potential.
However he said a single missile armed with 10 warheads could target areas as large as Texas or France, potentially killing millions of people.
This should not be ruled out, but would at a minimum require hundreds of warheads, not a single missile.
It has the capability to use trajectories and unpredictable routes which substantially impede their destruction even by advanced missile defence systems
Foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said yesterday: At this stage, we are considering the option of conventional weapons only.
Get the latest Scottish crime and courts news sent straight to your inbox with our daily Criminal Record newsletter
The missile was seen emerging amid huge rocket flames and smoke from an underground silo in a video released by Moscow.
The Russian president said: The new complex has the highest tactical and technical characteristics and is capable of overcoming all modern means of anti-missile defence.
Russian media revealed the launch of the Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile - known as Satan-2 - has already hit targets.
Putin, who is being investigated for war crimes committed by his forces in Ukraine, reportedly claimed the missile would strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces.
The missile has been under development for years and so its test-launch is not a surprise for the West, but it comes at a moment of extreme geopolitical tension due to Russias war in Ukraine.
The Kremlin war-mongering president bragged that the new Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile would give anyone thinking of threatening Moscow food for thought.
This truly unique weapon will strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces, reliably ensure Russias security from external threats and provide food for thought for those who, in the heat of frenzied aggressive rhetoric, try to threaten our country.
Russia has denied it plans to deploy nuclear weapons at this stage in its invasion of Ukraine.
Commenting on the destructive power of the weapon, Prof Chalmers said: Claims that a large nuclear attack would kill every living being in the world are sometimes made as a result of wider climate-changing consequences, such as a nuclear winter.
It is said to be able to fly 6,000 miles and be capable of targeting an area the size of France, potentially killing millions, according to Mirror Online.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.
He was seen in a video conference with defence minister Sergei Shoigu - who had been rumoured to be sidelined.
The 15,880 mph weapon can deliver a MIRV warhead that weighs up to 10 tonnes to any point in the world flying over both the North and South Poles, say the Russians.
Russias ministry of defence says the weapon was launched at the Plesetsk cosmodrome in the northwest of the country, and successfully hit targets in the far east.
This launch is the first in the program of state tests. After the completion of the testing programme, the Sarmat missile system will be put into service of the Strategic Missile Forces,
Putin was shown on state TV being told by the military that the missile had been launched from Plesetsk and hit targets in the Kamchatka peninsula.
A military announcement said: Today at 15:12 Moscow time, a successful launch of a stationary intercontinental ballistic missile Sarmat was conducted from the silo at the Plesetsk state test facility in the Arkhangelsk region.
Vladimir Putin has delivered a chilling warning claiming Russia has successfully launched an enormous intercontinental ballistic missile known as Satan-2.
Tom Parker funeral - Wife Kelsey holds back tears as The Wanted carry coffin into church
Shoigu told the President: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief - preparations for the first flight test of the Sarmat missile system completed at the first state test cosmodrome in Arkhangelsk region.
