Warning over Ukraine charity scams issued  what to watch out for and how to protect your money
20220311
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/warning-over-ukraine-charity-scams-26445553
"This may include unsolicited contact requesting monetary donations, andor personal and banking information, which seeks to play on the emotions of people that want to help.
These include donation scams, where attempts are made to lure people in with fake elaborate stories alongside requests for money.
Alternatively, scams can be reported to specialist advisers through Consumeradvice.scot, or by calling 0808 164 6000 Monday to Friday, 9am-5pm.
It also said people should not be caught out by energy scams relating to recent price increases, which may see fraudsters offering reduced energy prices or short-term special deals to enter fixed-rate tariffs because of the current situation.
Other types of potential scams may be those using "deepfake" technology, which involves editing and manipulating video footage to spread false information on social media or on YouTube by making it appear the message is coming from an official source.
You can pop your email address into the sign up box above, hit Subscribe and we'll do the rest.
Colin Mathieson, spokesperson for Advice Direct Scotland, said: "Scammers often use political and world events to take advantage of people and their good nature, and the current tragedy in Ukraine will be no different.
Advice Direct Scotland, the national consumer advice service, has issued a warning about how to detect the scams.
Advice Direct Scotland said scammers may also use this opportunity to set up 'spoof' websites that look like those of official registered charities and fundraising sites like GoFundMe.
Regarding charity scams, a spokesperson for GoFundMe said: "GoFundMe has a team of Trust and Safety experts responsible for monitoring the platform around the clock. The team interacts with campaign organisers directly, vetting and verifying the intended use of funds.
Advice Direct Scotland said people should avoid clicking on links in emails or text messages, and avoid pressing any buttons requested by unsolicited callers on the phone, and refrain from transferring money to people they do not know.
If someone has been scammed out of a large sum of money, they should contact Police Scotland on the non-emergency number 101 or dial 999 if they feel threatened or at immediate risk.
The charity also said that anyone who has had money taken from their account, or who has provided personal financial information to a suspected scammer, should contact their bank.
"This is underpinned by our GoFundMe guarantee. In the rare case that misuse occurs on the platform, anyone who has donated is protected, and can be fully refunded, with the GoFundMe Guarantee."
Did you know you can keep up to date with the latest news by signing up to our daily newsletter?
"Our Trust  Safety team reviews each fundraiser to ensure it's compliant with international laws before a fundraiser can start collecting donations.
And Advice Direct Scotland said the situation in Ukraine could trigger a rise in romance scams, which work off the emotional connection that scammers build with their targets.
"We saw various scams perpetrated against Scottish consumers throughout the Covid pandemic through channels like social media, email, text messages, phone calls and even on the doorstep.
"We would advise people who want to help to consider donating to organisations that are already providing support in Ukraine, such as the DEC appeal, the British Red Cross or another registered charity.
Scottish consumers can report suspected scams and suspicious activity using the Quick Reporting Tool at Scamwatch.scot.
Scots have been warned about Ukraine donation scams attempting to exploit people trying to help the crisis.
"It is important to remain vigilant and report scams and suspicious activity to the correct authorities."
The charity encouraged people to fact-check for false information, and not to take videos and social media posts at face value.
Scots have been advised to be cautious if they receive a request from someone claiming to be stuck in Ukraine or who says they need help with repatriation or travel costs.
It also warned people to be wary of anyone requesting financial assistance for the burial of a loved one, or from people claiming to be "defending freedom".
The displacement has been deemed the fastest-growing refugee crisis since WWII by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
It warned people that if opportunities sound unrealistic or too good to be true, then they probably are.
"And with the situation escalating in Ukraine - along with increased news coverage on the evacuation and humanitarian efforts - it is highly likely scammers will take advantage of this situation too.
Advice Direct Scotland said investment scams are also a potential risk, as fraudsters may claim to offer opportunities that have only become available due to the current situation.
We also send coronavirus updates at 5pm on weekdays, and a round up of the week's must-read stories on Sunday afternoons.
Scammers are seeking to prey on people trying to offer support during the Russia-Ukraine war in a number of ways.
Financial and banking scams could also see people being asked to assist in 'moving money out of' Ukraine - but could result in them being charged or even becoming implicated in money-laundering activities.
It said anyone who is unsure about a fundraising page, or the charitable efforts of an individual, should consider donating to organisations already providing support in Ukraine like the British Red Cross, the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC appeal, or another registered charity.
