What is a nofly zone as Ukraine asks NATO to close skies amid Russia conflict
20220228
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/what-no-fly-zone-ukraine-26402775
Last week, Jens Stoltenberg, the Nato Secretary General, rejected the idea of a no-fly zone, saying there were no intentions of moving into Ukraine, neither on the ground or in the airspace.
Those rejecting the rules say they are doing so in a bid to avoid the risk of starting World War Three - which could turn nuclear.
NATO does not want to impose a no-fly zone as it would be that NATO forces would need to shoot down Russian aircraft if they breached the rules.
In some circumstances, the planes risk being shot down if they continue to breach the no-fly rules.
This is because NATO jets would be forced to directly attack Russian planes if no fly zone rules were set and then broken.
For example, a no-fly zone was placed over Windsor Castle this yea in order to permanently limit how close aircraft can get.
However, the requests have been rejected by NATO with Prime Minister Boris Johnson explaining that such intervention would result in a much wider conflict.
To ensure the NFZ rules are adhered to, fighter jets often patrol the zone in search for any planes trying to enter.
No fly zones may also be imposed during major events such as the Olympics or over certain buildings.
The no-fly zone also carries out surveillance in a bid to prevent attacks being launched on civilians or military targets.
If identified, rogue aircrafts may be forced to land or escorted away form the zone.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter   here   .
NFZ has near 100 per cent chance of leading to direct USRussia armed conflict, which is a political decision, one I dont see happening.
Ukraine is asking NATO to "close the skies" in a bid to end Russia's air attacks.
The Ukrainian President said: "If the West does this, Ukraine will defeat the aggressor with much less blood."
If a no-fly zone was imposed over Ukraine, it would mean that NATO forces would engage directly with any Russian planes spotted in Ukrainian airspace.
Tyson Wetzel Sr, a senior US Air Force fellow at the Atlantic Council, tweeted: We dont have aircraft in place to establish an effective NFZ. NFZ is not a panacea, wont stop cruise and ballistic missile attacks on Kyiv.
He added: We have a responsibility to make sure that this doesnt spiral out of control, that this escalates even further into concern for full-fledged war in Europe involving Nato allies.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
Prime Minister Boris Johnson as well as his US counterparts have rejected the idea of imposing a NFZ over Ukraine.
Ukraine are urging Western allies to consider "closing the skies" above parts of Ukraine as conflict with Russia intensifies.
This involvement would mean that all 30 NATO member states - including the UK - would enter war with Russia.
It is usually applied for security reasons - for example in war zones to stop aggressor flying military aircraft flying over land.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged Western allies to consider imposing a "no fly zone" NFZ over parts of Ukraine as Russia forces continue to invade the country.
So unless the administration andor Nato is willing to direct armed conflict with Russia I think we need to focus on rapidly increasing security assistance to Ukraine, specifically Stinger shoulder-fired air defence missiles and Javelin anti-tank missiles.
