Whisky giants suspend sales to Russia after Putin regimes invasion of Ukraine
20220308
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/whisky-giants-suspend-sales-russia-26418151
Our decision to suspend sales in Russia was made independently of and before the Scottish government's letter, at a Group level.
A growing number of food and drink firms have ceased exports to Russia after the invasion
According to the Scotch Whisky Association, the industry trade body, exports to Russia and Ukraine are worth 28m and 3.3m respectively.
SNP Finance Secretary Kate Forbes last week urged businesses in Scotland to withdraw from trading with Russia over its illegal actions.
A Diageo spokesperson: "We have already paused the export of our products to Ukraine and Russia while we focus on supporting our employees and the humanitarian relief effort."
Our utmost priority is the safety of our colleagues and their families. This has been our focus from the very beginning. We closed our offices in Ukraine very early and suspended our sales a few days ago in Russia.
A spokesperson for the SWA said: Our thoughts are with all those affected and displaced by the conflict. The welfare of industry employees working in Ukraine and Russia is paramount. We continue to closely monitor the situation and pass on any relevant government guidance on exports to our members.
Edrington, Chivas Brothers and Diageo have halted shipments as calls grow for UK companies to sever ties with Russia due to the actions of Putin s regime.
Whisky giants have suspended sales of their products to Russia in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine.
Russia is a key market for the SWA members and fully extricating themselves from a country where they employ staff is believed to be challenging.
We are making an immediate donation to UNHCR in order to support their work in delivering essential humanitarian help to people in need. We have also offered our employees to collect their individual donations and the Group will double the amount collected in favour of UNHCR.
A spokesperson said: Edrington suspended all shipments to Russia following the invasion of Ukraine. Our thoughts are with all those displaced and suffering as a result of this crisis. Through our charitable giving fund, we are committed to supporting our employees worldwide in their efforts to help international humanitarian charities.
In an open letter to the business community, she said the Scottish Government would use all available powers not to support trade and investment activity with Russia.
