Why is there a shortage of cooking oil and how many bottles can you buy
20220427
https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/shortage-cooking-oil-how-many-26809893
If you're wondering why there is a shortage and how much you can buy, then we have all the information you need.
The organisation added that its members are "working with suppliers to ramp up production of alternative cooking oils, to minimise the impact on consumers".
This shortage of sunflower oil then led to increased demand for alternative cooking oils, such as olive oil or rapeseed oil, which has had a knock-on affect on availability.
Sainsbury's, Asda, Lidl and Aldi have not yet brought about any restrictions on the amount you can buy.
According to the British Retail Consortium's BRC Tom Holder, the new rules are only temporary and have been brought in to make sure there is availability for everyone.
Both countries are major producers of sunflower oil, which is also used a key ingredient in many other products.
The situation has also put pressure on food manufacturers, as increased prices have led them to paying more for whatever sunflower and rapeseed oil products they can buy. Other substitutes - such as palm oil - have also seen increased prices.
Sunflower oil has been the latest product that has been affected due to the ongoing conflict.
In response to the shortage, many supermarkets have had to introduce a temporary limit on the amount of bottles you can purchase to make sure there is enough for everyone.
Many shoppers across the country will be noticing new rules on the amount of bottles of cooking oil you can purchase in supermarkets.
To keep up with the demand for alternatives, many UK supermarkets have began ration the amount customers can purchase when they are in-store.
Tesco has since put out a statement saying that they have "good availability" of all oils currently in-stock, but have brought about the restriction to make sure that all customers can get what they need.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has halted the shipments of sunflower oil products as well as leaving uncertainty over how much crop of both sunflower and rapeseed will be planted.
Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond. Sign up to our daily newsletterhere.
Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter
The main reason for the shortage is due to the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine which has led to a disruption in the supply chain.
He added: "These are all unintended consequences of the war in Ukraine that is affecting supermarkets."
Major stores across the country - including Tesco, Morrisons and Waitrose - have been forced to ration the product due to a shortage caused by the Russia and Ukraine conflict.
Morrisons and Waitrose started rationing cooking oil back in April 13. Since then, quite a few other UK supermarkets have implemented the same rule.
Iceland boss Mr Walker explained: "If you look at commodity prices, sunflower oil has gone up 1,000 in terms of the commodity cost in the market, palm oil up 400 and then there is things like wheat, 50, fertiliser, 350.
These are the current limits on the products you can buy from some supermarkets cooking oil range.
