Ukraine crisis How you can help UNICEF Project HOPE and GlobalGiving
20220226
https://www.fox9.com/news/ukraine-crisis-safe-ways-to-help
The organization, begun in 1919, says that 85 of every dollar donated "goes straight to its mission."
Well known for its humanitarian efforts across the globe, UNICEF is asking for donations to help provide necessities to children and families in eastern Ukraine.
The organization is raising funds to expand the services theyve been providing for people impacted by the latest conflict.
The group's main goal, it says, "is selfless charity work in the public interest or for certain categories of citizens."
Global Giving  a BBB-accredited charity  created the Ukraine Crisis Relief fund, with a goal of raising $3 million in disaster response funding.
Matthew 25: Ministries "is an international humanitarian aid and disaster relief organization helping the poorest of the poor and disaster victims locally, regionally, nationally and internationally regardless of race, creed or political persuasion," according to its website.
It notes that "emergency teams from this group in Europe are sending medical supplies and standing by to provide health screening and care for refugees."
It is a Better Business Bureau-accredited charity it reports that 87 of its resources support its programs.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
The organization says is "actively shipping essential medicines and medical supplies to affected areas in Ukraine."
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has continued to intensify, with new explosions being heard in the capital of Kyiv in the last few moments. Officials fear the city could fall within days as the casualty count continues to rise.
Defense press secretary John Kirby said the U.S. military will provide additional lethal aid for Ukraine, but is working out logistics.
The Red Cross is working around the clock to provide critical aid, medical and mental health support to those fleeing and seeking safety in neighboring countries.
All donations support humanitarian assistance in impacted communities in Ukraine and surrounding regions where Ukrainian refugees have fled  "including food, shelter, clean water, access to education, health and psychosocial support," the organization says.
FOX Corporation has already donated $1 million to the American Red Cross to support their mission to provide aid and resources including water, medical supplies, housing support and more to the most vulnerable  both within Ukraine and for those who have been forced to leave their homes. FOX is also matching employees donations up to $1,000 per person.
After Russian forces pressed on with a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, many Americans are wondering how they can help the Ukrainian people in their time of suffering.
These charities have earned high ratings for their financial efficiency and for clarity and transparency about their operations.
The organization is accepting both monetary and product donations to send to the people of Ukraine.
The global nonprofit has been delivering primary health care and mental health services in eastern Ukraine since 2014, according to its website.
In an "emergency note" posted on its website, the organization says it is "gravely concerned for children in Ukraine, Afghanistan and around the world who might be caught in the middle of armed conflict, forced to flee their homes and exposed to injury, hunger and sub-zero temperatures."
It has delivered funds to community-led organizations that are "best-suited to provide relief and long-term recovery."
The organization reports that "children in Eastern Ukraine have grown up in conflict for the past eight years, enduring violence, shelling and displacement. Without urgent de-escalation, the crisis will spiral out of control, with devastating consequences for families."
The following nonprofits are "engaged in relief and recovery efforts in Ukraine and the surrounding region," according to Charity Navigator.
It is the first and largest global crowdfunding community connecting vetted nonprofits, donors and companies, it says, in countries around the globe.
While any decision to give should be carefully considered, the groups below earned three or more stars from Charity Navigator.
Charity Navigator has put together a list of some of the top-rated nonprofits that are aiding in relief and recovery efforts in Ukraine.
Ukrainian refugees and a child seen at a train station in Przemysl, Poland on Feb. 24, 2022.  Maciej LuczniewskiNurPhoto via Getty Images
The group notes that Russia's assault on Ukraine "will force hundreds of thousands of people to flee their homes. Access to basic needs, health care and more are now in jeopardy."
You can join FOX in supporting the Red Cross relief efforts by making a donation at redcross.orgfoxforward.
Charity Navigator helps charitable givers make "intelligent giving decisions" by providing objective ratings and analysis of the financial health and accountability of America's largest charities.
