CAP strategic plan amendments should be considered  MEP
20220315
https://www.agriland.ie/farming-news/cap-strategic-plan-amendments-should-be-considered-mep/
Certainly what we were asking for was that there will be flexibilities within CAP, but equally possible amendments to the strategic plans to take account of the current circumstances should be considered, Markey outlined.
The first thing on peoples minds is the humanitarian situation our hearts go out to the people of Ukraine. Beyond that, there is the broader food security issue thats quite alarming really, Markey said.
The MEP pushed for an emergency response from the EU, including examining duties charged on fertiliser products and exploring alternative supplies.
The MEP said that the Directorate General for Agriculture and Rural Development DG AGRI recognised the need for a response to the concerns, which could include earlier Basic Payment Scheme BPS payments.
Measures and incentives for additional crop production that would be very much focused around farmers with the capability and the expertise to grow grain were also discussed.
However, Markey noted that this would require the support of the wider European Commission, which he said is probably a challenge.
Colm Markey met with the European Commissioner for Agriculture Janusz Wojciechowski today Tuesday, March 15 to discuss the emerging food security crisis as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
During his meeting with Commissioner Wojciechowski, the Ireland Midlands-North West MEP also discussed ongoing issues with fertiliser, grain, fuel prices and the pig sector.
An Irish MEP has said that amendments to the Common Agricultural Policy CAP strategic plans should be considered in light of the war in Ukraine.
The MEP said that smaller measures could be introduced by the EU around lime application and growing cover crops.
The MEP told Agriland that he understands the EU Commission will be communicating with member states in relation to their draft CAP strategic plans at the end of March.
Meeting with ColmMarkey to discuss a number of important agricultural issues from both an Irish and European perspective, including  CAP Strategic Plan recently published. pic.twitter.comMjAtnpe1H8 Janusz Wojciechowski jwojc March 15, 2022
