Ciaran Fitzgerald When does the EU start to reassess attitude to food
20220520
https://www.agriland.ie/farming-news/ciaran-fitzgerald-when-does-the-eu-start-to-reassess-attitude-to-food/
There is additional complexity relating to how this might fit withdecarbonisation of the EU economy in response to climate challenges.
Clearly and publicly there is ongoing discussion on the need for EU countriesto wean themselves off Russian gas and oil and to secure alternative energy supplies.
The ethos of the current disposition of DG Agri, as per Agriculture Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski, seems to be that moving all farming to a fullyorganic platform is a silver bullet.
In addition to the human misery inflicted on Ukraine by the Russian invasion, the war has led to a huge debate aroundthe fundamentals of EUenergy supply and the need for an immediate revamp ofoverall EU energy policy.
Indeed while there are significant input cost challenges across the agricultural sector in 2022, as set out in the chart from the Central Statistics Office CSO above, the increased prices inthe beef and dairy output prices in theagricultural output price chartbelow, will make a huge contribution to the value of Irish agricultural outputacross the Irish economy in 2022.
While hindsight is a great producer of insights after the fact, the Ukrainewar, following the Covid-19 pandemic, Brexit and the recessionfrom 2008 to 2012, in addition to the globalclimatechallenge, points to the need for multifaceted responses to multifaceted challenges.
More important even than addressing more blatantly fossil fuel-based and scientifically more impactfulchallenges such as coal mining.
In that context, the silence from EU quarters around where the EU Green Dealand EU agri-food policy in general now sits, is quite deafening.
Indeed there is rarely a statement from the commission on climate action that doesnt highlight the need to reduce consumption of meat and dairy products, as if this were again some kind of silver bullet.
These key drivers include the 2020 review of the EU response to World Trade Organisation WTO pressures dating back to the mid 1990s, to continue to decouple payments from production and to eliminate any and all export subsidies, despite the fact that there has not been a successful multilateral trade deal since Uruguay in 1994 and thestalling of the Doha round in 2008,
The great economist JM Keynessaid: When the facts change, I change my mind, what do you do?
As agriculture moves into the 2020s, there would have been concern in recent years thatthe key drivers ofCommon Agricultural Policy CAP reform, created a definitive shift towards bilateralism in trade deals.
Not only is it unwise given the realities of the hyper volatility we now live in and the challenges that this brings regarding access to international food supplychains, constraining Irish agriculture was, and is, hugely detrimental to the real Irish economy.
We need a change of mindset at EU leveL regarding to the new realities of agri-food production and pricing, a good first start to an updated EU debate would be an update here at home.
And while also very publicly, this debate is prioritising the accelerating of alternative renewable energy production, there is complete acceptance of the need for fossil fuel-based energy sources in the short to medium-term.
I believe that such an approach, starting at home, would recognise that while Irish agriculture has committed to deliver its fair share of the Irish economys decarbonisation commitments, the constraining of Irish livestock production, as a core value, doesnt make sense.
Moreover the speed with which each crisis has followed the last, means that policy plans and platformsrequire both depth and flexibility and can in truth have a very short shelf life.
Quite frankly we need a current debate at EU and Irish national level on future food policy based on well grounded pragmatism and economic and scientific realities.
It used to be said that EU policy was the original super tanker equivalent  very slow to change direction or pace it now seems to be calmed and drifting.
Indeed the narrative behind the EU Green deal and its focus on constraining EU output has elements of ahangover ofearly 2000s view that EU agriculture is a sunset industryand future food production should migrate to developing countries like Brazil.
This indifference to the dynamic realityof supply shocks and the basic scientific realities of climate challenges, has been very much compounded in an Irish economy contextbythe onslaught of the environmental lobby in Irelandthat pushes the constraining of Irish food production in its current form, asakey climate policy imperative.
While Phil Hogan was EU Trade Commissioner, the economic contribution of the agri-food sector was regularly dialled up.
This dismissiveness of agriculture as a modern economy factor has now morphed into regular commentary from the commission that constraining agricultural output,and in particular livestock sector output, is a more importantaction in reducing EU emissions.
