Putin has a way out
20220208
https://www.bradfordera.com/opinion/putin-has-a-way-out/article_5fb22e77-8dd3-5ac8-a986-f999383e292c.html
If Zelenskyy decides that future NATO membership  and the question of Russian occupation of Ukraine are two things to put on the table, I think we may move toward a solution, he said last week on NBCs Meet the Press.
Two weeks ago, Putin was demanding quick acceptance of his demands, and U.S. officials were warning that an invasion appeared imminent. Last week, the Russian leader abruptly shifted his tone and said there was still time to find a diplomatic solution.
The problem is that in 2008, at the urging of then-President George W. Bush, NATO promised Ukraine membership some day. Biden and other leaders from the alliance have refused to revoke that promise because that would effectively concede Putin a veto over NATO decisions.
The effect was the opposite of what Putin wanted. NATO immediately bolstered its forces in the east, including the former Soviet republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Biden dispatched 3,000 U.S. troops to Poland, Romania and Germany. Britain sent troops to Estonia Canada to Latvia France and Italy to Romania.
We have no intention of putting TLAM there, he said. Wed be giving away something we dont want.
Diplomats are scrambling to devise what they call offramps  arrangements both sides can live with that would make it easier for Putin to change course.
That would be one way to solve the problem, if Putin wants an exit, said Steven Pifer, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather.
In effect, he demanded that NATO agree to shrink itself, undo two decades of expansion and dismantle much of Europes current security architecture.
As a practical matter, Ukraine isnt going to be offered NATO membership any time soon. The alliance admits a new country only if all members  currently 30  agree, and in this case, they dont.
It isnt clear what changed. But one factor may be that potential offramps have come into view.
The solution, Lute said, is straightforward: missile inspection agreements on both sides of the border.
Please help local businesses by taking an online survey to help us navigate through these unprecedented times. None of the responses will be shared or used for any other purpose except to better serve our community.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
One solution, former diplomats suggest, would be for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to voluntarily postpone Ukraines membership bid.
Perhaps his new enthusiasm for diplomacy last week meant Putin isnt bent on war after all.
The cleanest solution would be for Zelenskyy to delay Ukraines application  to say, for example, that it wont happen while hes president, Douglas Lute, a former NATO ambassador to Ukraine, told me last week. He could say, We still intend to join NATO some day its just not in the cards now. But Putin will have to offer him something in return.
When Russias Vladimir Putin massed 100,000 troops on Ukraines borders, the United States and its European allies responded with a hastily assembled assortment of carrots and sticks to deter him from an invasion.
Which offramps might Putin consider? That depends on a more basic question: What does Putin really want?
Putin has united the West behind U.S. leadership, Ed Luce wrote in Londons Financial Times last week. It has been years since that sentence could be written with a straight face.
But Putin has asked much more from the West than merely blocking Ukraines application for NATO membership. In a sweeping list of demands in December, he said he wanted commitments that NATO would withdraw its troops and military hardware from the 14 countries that joined the alliance after 1997  meaning all of Eastern Europe. He also asked that the United States remove its remaining nuclear weapons from the continent.
Another of Putins concerns should also be easy to negotiate. The Russian president has long complained about U.S.-made Aegis missile launchers in Eastern Europe. The United States says the missile bases are purely defensive Putin charges that they could put TLAM cruise missiles, a sophisticated offensive weapon, within minutes of Moscow.
Would you like to receive notice about our circulation promotions and contests? Sign Up Today!
The sticks included military aid to Ukraine, troop deployments to Poland and other countries bordering Russia and surprisingly credible warnings that military action would trigger crippling economic sanctions.
In any case, the problem isnt a shortage of available offramps. The exits are there. Its up to Putin to use them.
$1,000 is being awarded. Everyone completing the survey will be able to enter a contest to Win as our way of saying, "Thank You" for your time.
Putin insists that Ukraine, once part of Moscows empire, cannot be allowed to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which he views as an anti-Russian alliance.
All of which, paradoxically, could make negotiating easier, not harder. Now Russia faces more NATO troops near its borders. If Putin is willing to enter negotiations to limit troops on both sides, the U.S. and its allies are too.
One other player could solve this problem: Putin. Nothing would stop the Russian president from eliciting private promises from individual NATO leaders that they will not allow Ukraine to join the alliance. France, Germany and Hungary have all opposed Ukrainian membership in the past.
That could be politically unpopular for Zelenskyy. Thanks partly to Putins threats, Ukrainians increasingly support NATO membership one recent poll found almost 60 in favor.
The likelihood that Ukraine is going to join NATO in the near term is not very likely, President Joe Biden said last month. So there is room to work if Putin wants to do that.
Or else he merely needs more time to move military units into place. Or hes decided to wait until Feb. 20, the end of the Winter Olympics, to avoid offending Chinas Xi Jinping. Or hes simply decided to negotiate to find out what price he can command for standing down.
Would you like to receive our lifestyle headlines about food and wine, Bradford area living, local history and more?Sign Up Today!
