Swindon man in shock as Ukrainian hometown under attack
20220224
https://www.swindonadvertiser.co.uk/news/19948834.swindon-man-shock-ukrainian-hometown-attack/
Even though Russian is my first language, it does not mean that I want to be Russian, he said.
Kharkiv is the second-largest city in Ukraine and is located in the north-eastern part of the country, close to the Russian border.
A Swindonman is in distress as family and friends are in the midst of the Ukraine attack.
"One of my friends, his partner and two preschool children heard bombs in the outskirts of the city where he lives and quickly ran to the cellar to take shelter.
Vadym Gurevych, 43, spent Wednesday night refreshing the UK, Ukrainian and Russian news sites, watching as his hometown of Kharkiv was bombed by the Russian army last night.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
There is propaganda on both sides of the story, which makes it hard to know the truth of what is happening.
Besides refreshing a variety of different news sites throughout the night, Gyrevych has also been calling and texting with friends and family to see how they are doing.
Last night was no different as he struggled to find out exactly what is going on.
Gyrevych said it was clear that an attack was going to happen after listening to Putins speech.
"This is just something you read about in the history books, not something you imagine to actually happen."
He still has family members and friends living there, whereas his mother-in-law lives in the capital of Kyiv.
Its been a long time coming, but also something I never thought would actually happen.
Having lived in the UK for 17 years, spending most of that time in Swindon, he considers England to be his home  but that Ukraine is still a place close to his heart.
He said they can still hear canons or rockets now, hours after the first one.
Gyrevych said he hasn't been able to sleep the past few nights as he's been too scared that Russia will attack.
He explained the situation as Ukraine being at war with very bad people who he later described as fascists who want to eliminate all Ukrainians.
Growing up in eastern Ukraine, Gyrevych grew up speaking Russian instead of Ukrainian and did not learn Ukrainian until he was in his 20s.
