Photos As world marks Earth Day trash still big problem
20220422
https://ravallirepublic.com/news/national/photos-as-world-marks-earth-day-trash-still-big-problem/collection_03be9f59-a60b-5770-a53f-a43b09a54bc1.html
Syachfa Nasution, 12, top, and Adrian Cannavaro, 13, collect plastic trash during a river clean up at polluted Babura River in medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia, Nov. 20, 2021. AP PhotoBinsar Bakkara
Here are some of the notable people celebrating birthdays today, includingJames Worthy,Barbara Babcock,Chelsea Clinton,Johnny Van Zant,Li
A city worker picks trash from a street flooded by the waters of the Negro River in downtown Manaus, Brazil, May 20, 2021. AP PhotoEdmar Barros
Two young girls stand outside their house on a garbage strewn street, in Kabul, Afghanistan, Feb. 8, 2022. AP PhotoHussein Malla
A Kashmiri boatman employed by the Lakes and Waterways Development Authority removes garbage from the Dal Lake in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Sept. 14, 2021. Dal Lake appears pristine in the area where hundreds of exquisitely decorated houseboats bob on its surface for rent by tourists and honeymooners. But farther from shore, the lake is a mixture of mossy swamps, thick weeds, trash-strewn patches and floating gardens made from rafts of reeds. AP PhotoMukhtar Khan
A donkey lies dead amid trash floating in the Katari River which flows into Titicaca Lake, in Chojasivi, Bolivia, Friday, Nov. 5, 2021. According to Juan Carlos Lopez, who is responsible for the Environment and Water in the nearby municipality of Pucarani, said the water pollutes crops and kills livestock. AP PhotoJuan Karita
A woman selling greens waits for customers in the Croix des Bosalles market in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Sept. 22, 2021. The floor of the market is thick with decomposing trash and, in some places, small fires of burning trash. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
A volunteer collects garbage from the banks of the Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon marking World Environment Day, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Saturday, June 5, 2021. AP PhotoBruna Prado
A man who scavenges recyclable materials for a living, center, walks past Marabou storks feeding on a mountain of garage amidst smoke from burning trash at Dandora, the largest garbage dump in the capital Nairobi, Kenya, Sept. 7, 2021. AP PhotoBrian Inganga
Just two sites  one a long, scenic parkway in the East and the other a recreational area in a populous West Coast metro  accounted for aroun
Samuael Hernandez, 15, helps his father Antonio Hernandez gut their flooded home in the aftermath of Hurricane Ida in LaPlace, La., Sept. 9, 2021. AP PhotoGerald Herbert
Kitten Kay Sera is officially the pinkest person in the world, scientists have found a hidden corridor in the Great Pyramid of Giza, and more 
This specimen was misidentified for nearly a decade and was found on the side of a Walmart, a photographer captured an incredible timelapse of
A Hawksbill sea turtle, that was found on a nearby beach, is displayed after an autopsy was performed along with trash mostly plastic materials, top, and food items, left, removed from the turtle's stomach, at the Al Hefaiyah Conservation Center lab, in the city of Kalba, on the east coast of the United Arab Emirates, Tuesday, Feb. 1, 2022. A staggering 75 of all dead green turtles and 57 of all loggerhead turtles in Sharjah had eaten marine debris, including plastic bags, bottle caps, rope and fishing nets, a new study published in the Marine Pollution Bulletin. The study seeks to document the damage and danger of the throwaway plastic that has surged in use around the world and in the UAE, along with other marine debris. AP PhotoKamran Jebreili
Birds fly around as an earthmover sorts garbage at the Ghazipur garbage dump in New Delhi, India, Monday, March 28, 2022.AP PhotoManish Swarup
California continues to brace for even more extreme weather after days of unusual conditions, take a glimpse at the untouched land between Nor
A swan stands between dumped plastic bottles and waste at the Danube river in Belgrade, Serbia, Monday, April 18, 2022. AP PhotoDarko Vojinovic
As people worldwide mark Earth Day, these vivid images of garbage are a reminder of how much waste the planet still bears.
Volunteers clean a beach from trash that was washed up by a storm in Marseille, southern France, Oct. 6, 2021. AP PhotoDaniel Cole
Wild elephants scavenge for food at an open landfill in Pallakkadu village in Ampara district, about 210 kilometers 130 miles east of the capital Colombo, Sri Lanka, Jan. 6, 2022. Conservationists and veterinarians are warning that plastic waste in the open landfill in eastern Sri Lanka is killing elephants in the region, after two more were found dead over the weekend. Around 20 elephants have died over the last eight years after consuming plastic trash in the dump. Examinations of the dead animals showed they had swallowed large amounts of nondegradable plastic that is found in the garbage dump, wildlife veterinarian Nihal Pushpakumara said. AP PhotoAchala Pussalla
Two Afghan children stand amid piles of garbage next to their home, in Kabul, Afghanistan, April 18, 2022. AP PhotoEbrahim Noroozi
California, beleaguered by earlier storms, gets hit again with fresh snow. Check out some wintry scenes from the Golden State.
Volunteers help to clean up the trash that litters the beach to mark the World Cleanup Day in Bargny, Senegal, Sept. 18, 2021. AP PhotoLeo Correa
