Community centre overwhelmed by response to Ukraine aid donations appeal
20220228
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/national/19957850.community-centre-overwhelmed-response-ukraine-aid-donations-appeal/
Club manager Krzysztof Gonder told the PA news agency: It is sad that it is needed but I am not complaining because I believe I am working for a good cause.
I am Polish. I know from my grandfather and from my parents how bad war is.
Mr Gonder said: We are looking for people who are willing to take items to Poland or to pay for transportation. We have received a few telephone calls today.
A Facebook message and assistance from a Polish radio station had helped to get the call for assistance out.
The club will be the pick-up point for much-needed quality items and not just things that people want to get rid of  including pillows, blankets, duvets, sanitary items, sanitary wipes, toys and first aid kits  to be sent to the PolishUkraine border.
After the items have been collected, sorted, labelled and boxed, they are being moved to a warehouse in Croydon, south London, before being loaded on to trucks that will take them to the front line.
Mr Gonder, who said there was not a single minute of a second thought about the decision to shut down the building, added: Yesterday, I emailed people and businesses who normally rent rooms from us to say the club is not available this week. They responded we absolutely understand that.
It will help. I am very confident about that. We have people who are helping in Poland and we know what is needed, and what war is like.
From Monday morning, donated clothes were no longer being called for as the team had been flooded with boxes of items and the clubs on-the-ground contacts in Poland had said other donations were becoming more pressing.
A Polish community centre has been overwhelmed with donations from well-wishers who want to help Ukrainians forced to flee their homes after the Russian invasion.
The club is working with shops, charities and volunteers in its role as a grassroots humanitarian aid organisation.
He expects the clubs offer of help will be open for as long as it takes, although in future it may be on a smaller scale.
The original plan was that Magda Harvey, of the Polish White Eagle Club, would pay for maybe a couple of lorries to get the items abroad but the surge in donations means that nearer 20 or 30 lorries are needed, and that is overwhelming.
Approximately three truckloads had been sent to the warehouse by Monday morning, a day after the donation drive began operation, when queues stretched to the nearby tube station a five-minute walk away, according to Mr Gonder.
On Monday at least 30 volunteers were sorting out and loading up towering piles of donations which have flooded in to the Polish White Eagle Club in Balham, south London.
He added: We may not use the main hall from next week but who knows? We have rooms upstairs as well which are full with bags. We will just keep on going for as long as it is needed.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
On Monday volunteers were organising the donations inside the centre while outside in the car park, other members of the team were directing traffic as cars pulled to drop off loads alongside locals arriving with big shopping bags stuffed with items.
The club is currently shut for all social and commercial business, such as parties and events, with every spare inch of the building and its car park given over to the charity drive.
It is not just Polish people here in Britain who are helping. It is people from all different communities and countries, and from the neighbourhood.
I would help anybody who needs help in war. Ukraine is our neighbour country. So many Ukrainians live in Poland so we feel they are part of the Polish population. They are one of ours and, therefore, we feel we need to help them.
Opening times for donations a day earlier were from 10am to 5pm but this was extended into the evening, with volunteers getting home in the early hours.
