Eastbourne theatre cancels performance of Russian State Opera amid Ukraine war
20220304
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/19968527.eastbourne-theatre-cancels-performance-russian-state-opera-amid-ukraine-war/
However, it is imperative that we share our support and solidarity towards the people of Ukraine during this difficult time.
Russian State Opera is a brand name established by a UK company Amande Concerts, who are in no way affiliated with the Russian State.
In light of the escalating situation in Ukraine, the Congress Theatre will no longer be presenting the Russian State Opera productions of Carmen and Aida, which were scheduled for March 15 and 16, the spokesman said.
Meanwhile, The Crown and Anchor Inn in Brighton has banned all Russian made products in an act of support for Ukraine.
A THEATRE has cancelled the performance of a Russian opera amid the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
A donation point was also be set up at the Palace Pier for people to give much-needed items, including period products, first aid, bandages, powder milk for babies and non-perishable food.
On Thursday night, dozens of people gathered on Brighton seafront to protest the invasion of Ukraine.
Those with tickets to see the productions of Carmen and Aida, scheduled for March 15 and 16, will receive a full refund.
Organisers from the group Brighton Together with Ukraine asked people to bring banners, flags and candles, which were lit and left on the seafront in a show of solidarity.
The Russian State Opera was due to perform two shows at the Congress Theatre in Eastbourne.
A spokeswoman for Eastbourne Theatres announced the cancellations, despite the Russian State Opera being a brand name established by a UK company Amande Concerts, who are in no way affiliated with the Russian State.
All tickets holders will automatically receive a full refund  there is no need to contact the venue.
We appreciate that the production company and artists involved in these productions are in no way responsible for the actions of the Russian government and this decision was not easy to make.
The yellow and blue colours of the Ukrainian flag are also being beamed onto the outside of the building at night.
