Heather Mills The day I met Vladimir Putin
20220528
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/20168065.heather-mills-day-met-vladimir-putin/
Having previously got support from then US President Bill Clinton and Princess Diana, the businesswoman and activist met with Putin and had a tour of the Kremlin.
As far as the Ukraine and Russia situation is concerned, both sides are as bad as each other.
We were travelling around the world touring, I said, lets do a concert in Russia and try and get a meeting with Putin, so I could see if he will ratify, she said.
Were only helping Ukraine as a government because we want the pipe lines, we want access to all the ingredients as there is massive shortage of wheat and gluten at the moment, she said.
Discussing the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, the 54-year-old said, both sides are as bad as each other.
Having had a lot of Russian and Ukrainian friends, there are two sides to the story, she said.
Also, they are selling weapons no matter how much they say they are handing them over.
In all honesty, my experience was that everything that I asked for happened. And everything that was said was done.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
In an interview on The Argus Podcast, Heather said she was attempting to convince governments to stop mass producing and stockpiling land mines amid conflict in Yugoslavia.
The full episode of The Argus Podcast featuring Heather Mills is available now on Spotify and Apple Podcasts.
Heather, who now runs vegan food company VBites, said the UK and US governments are only interested in helping countries that they can get something out of.
All wars are a complete waste of time, money, lives, everything. Nobody gains anything, expect potentially some governments.
HEATHER Mills has revealed how she convinced Vladimir Putin to stop making weapons and shared her views on the war in Ukraine.
The former Brighton and Hove resident met the Russian leader in 2003 while on tour with her then husband Paul McCartney.
Let me make it clear, Im completely against war. Never, ever do they work. But a lot of Ukrainian people have terrible medical care, tiny wages and want to be part of Russia. And they should be allowed to be part of Russia.
What we needed was China, America and Russia  they were the big manufacturers and distributers of land mines. And setting up a concert meant we got to meet, she said.
And certainly, we are not innocent as a government. Or any governments involved. There is always an agenda.
To have a war is absolutely insane because it creates devastation. But the Ukrainians are not innocent, and neither are the Russians.
