HM sales slow after closures in Russia
20220331
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/20034398.h-m-sales-slow-closures-russia/
However, it represented a significant reduction in growth after the company posted an 18 jump in net sales to 49.16 billion Swedish krona 4 billion for the three months to February 28.
Despite this we saw a recovery of sales in physical stores compared with last year, while online sales continued to perform well.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Shares in the Sweden-listed business dropped to a two-year low on Thursday as investor sentiment waned on the update.
HM also revealed it swung to an operating profit of 458 million Swedish krona 37.5 million for the quarter to February as it was boosted by a rise in full-price sales.
This shows the value of having both physical and digital channels which strengthen and complement each other.
Other than effects associated with the paused sales in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, the groups other plans remain in place, she added.
It highlighted that it was still nonetheless impacted by the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus during the period and was impacted by extensive restrictions in some countries.
The company paused all sales in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, affecting 185 stores, earlier this month and also stopped online sales in Russia.
Helena Helmersson, chief executive of the group, said it is deeply concerned about the war in Ukraine.
It told shareholders that sales from March 1 to March 28 increased by 6 against the same period last year.
Our flexibility is good, which enables us to act quickly as circumstances change in the world around us.
HM has reported a sudden slowdown in sales after it halted operations in Russia due to the invasion of Ukraine.
Russia is HMs sixth biggest market, representing 4 of sales, and the halt to operations in the region comes amid a continued boycott in China, previously one of its biggest markets, after it raised concerns over cotton sourced from the Xinjiang region.
Ms Helmersson added: In addition to the general consequences of the pandemic such as disruptions and delays in the supply chain, some of our major markets were impacted by a new wave of the pandemic in the first quarter.
