Hove pub sells Ukrainian vodka shots with proceeds helping with war against Russia
20220314
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/19990436.hove-pub-sells-ukrainian-vodka-shots-proceeds-helping-war-russia/
Her mum and family have made the decision to stay in Kyiv and our hearts and thoughts go out to them.
The Southern Belle in Hove is selling a shot titled FCUK Putin in an act of solidarity with Ukraine
The Crown and Anchor Inn in Preston Road will no longer serve Russian made products and produce.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
A PUB is selling Ukrainian vodka shots with the proceeds donated to help with the war against Russia.
Earlier this month, a pub in Brighton announced they were to ban all Russian made products in an act of support for Ukraine.
Nemiroff is an international alcohol brand from Ukraine and one of the world's largest producers of alcohol.
The Southern Belle in Hove is selling a shot titled FCUK Putin in an act of solidarity with a member of staff with family in Kyiv.
In a post on social media, the Waterloo Street venue announced that a large order of Nemiroff had arrived.
The statement said: Our Ukrainian vodka has arrived! Half the profits from the vodka and all proceeds from our FCUK Putin shots will go to Stand For Ukraine Brighton and Hove, which is the charity of choice from our beautiful team member Tetiana.
Whilst this is no reflection on the Russian people, unfortunately their government has decided to invade a fellow country for their own personal gain and the killing of innocent citizens has made us decide to fully remove all Russian made produce.
In a statement released on social media, the pub said the killing of innocent citizens in Ukraine left them wanting to help in any way they could.
The statement said: The Crown and Anchor Inn has decided that in light of the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine that we will no longer sell any Russian made products.
The yellow and blue colours of the Ukrainian flag are also being beamed onto the outside of the building at night.
