Vladimir Putin praises Russian troops as assault on Ukraines cities continues
20220318
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/national/20004026.vladimir-putin-praises-russian-troops-assault-ukraines-cities-continues/
Ukraines emergency services said a mother, father and three of their children, including three-year-old twins, were killed when a Chernihiv hostel was shelled. Civilians were hiding in basements and shelters across the embattled city of 280,000.
Ludmyla Denisova, the Ukrainain parliaments human rights commissioner, said on Friday that 130 people had survived the theatre bombing.
Multiple blasts hit in quick succession around 6am, shaking nearby buildings, witnesses said. The missiles were launched from the Black Sea, but the Ukrainian air forces western command said it had shot down two of six missiles in the volley. A bus repair facility was also damaged, Lvivs mayor, Andriy Sadovyi, said.
She said many of the daily attacks battering Ukrainian cities are reportedly indiscriminate and involve the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area. DiCarlo said the devastation in Mariupol and Kharkiv raises grave fears about the fate of millions of residents of Kyiv and other cities facing intensifying attacks.
The fighting has led more than three million people to flee Ukraine, the UN estimates. The death toll remains unknown, though Ukraine has said thousands of civilians have died.
Ukraine said it had shot down two of six missiles in the volley, which came from the Black Sea.
The event included patriotic songs, including a performance of Made in the USSR, with the opening line, Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
The World Health Organisation said it has verified 43 attacks on hospitals and health facilities, with 12 people killed and 34 injured.
The rally came as Russian troops continued to pound the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and launched a barrage of missiles against an aircraft repair installation at an airport on the outskirts of the western city of Lviv, close to the Polish border. One person was reported wounded.
In the wake of the invasion, the Kremlin has cracked down harder on dissent and the flow of information, arresting thousands of anti-war protesters, banning sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and instituting tough prison sentences for what is deemed to be false reporting on the war, which Moscow refers to as a special military operation.
Working more in silence than on television, radio or on Facebook, Zelensky said. I consider it the right way.
In a statement about the call, the Kremlin said Putin told the German chancellor that Ukraine had unrealistic proposals and was dragging out negotiations. The Kremlin also said it was evacuating civilians, and accused Ukraine of committing war crimes by shelling cities in the east.
Lviv lies not far from the Polish border and well behind the front lines, but it and the surrounding area have not been spared Russias attacks. In the worst, nearly three dozen people were killed last weekend in a strike on a training facility near the city.
Both Ukraine and Russia this week reported some progress in negotiations. Zelensky said he would not reveal Ukraines negotiating tactics.
Putin spoke by phone on Friday with German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, who urged the Russian president to agree to an immediate cease-fire and called for an improvement to the humanitarian situation, a spokesman for Scholz said.
In a joint statement, the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven leading economies accused Russian president Vladimir Putin of conducting an unprovoked and shameful war, and called on Russia to comply with the International Court of Justices order to stop its attack and withdraw its forces.
Video feeds of the event showed a loudly cheering, flag-waving crowd that broke into chants of Russia!
In city after city around Ukraine, hospitals, schools and buildings where people sought safety have been attacked. Rescue workers were still searching for survivors in the ruins of a theatre that served as a shelter when it was blasted by a Russian airstrike on Wednesday in the besieged southern city of Mariupol.
Lvivs population has swelled by some 200,000 as people from elsewhere in Ukraine have sought shelter there.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Instead, he said, Ukraine had much stronger defences than expected, and Russia didnt know what we had for defence or how we prepared to meet the blow.
In Kharkiv, a massive fire raged through a local market after shelling on Thursday. One firefighter was killed and another injured when new shelling hit as emergency workers fought the blaze, emergency services said.
We hope and we think that some people who stayed in the shelter under the theatre could survive, Petro Andrushchenko, an official with the mayors office, told the Associated Press on Thursday. He said the building had a relatively modern, basement bomb shelter designed to withstand airstrikes. Other officials said earlier that some people had gotten out.
Two others were killed when strikes hit residential and administrative buildings in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, according to the regional governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.
The United Nations political chief, undersecretary-general, Rosemary DiCarlo, also called for an investigation into civilian casualties, reminding the UN Security Council that international humanitarian law bans direct attacks on civilians.
Seeking to portray the war as just, Putin paraphrased the Bible to say of Russias troops: There is no greater love than giving up ones soul for ones friends. And he continued to insist his actions were necessary to prevent genocide, a claim flatly denied by leaders around the globe.
As of now, we know that 130 people have been evacuated, but according to our data, there are still more than 1,300 people in these basements, in this bomb shelter, Denisova told Ukrainian television. We pray that they will all be alive, but so far there is no information about them.
Russian President Vladimir Putin appeared at a huge, flag-waving rally at a Moscow stadium and praised his countrys troops in biblical terms on Friday as they pressed their lethal attacks on Ukrainian cities with shelling and missiles.
The OVD-Info rights group that monitors political arrests reported that at least seven independent journalists had been detained ahead of or while covering the anniversary events in Moscow and St. Petersburg.
Satellite photos showed the strike destroyed a repair hangar and appeared to damage two other buildings. A row of fighter jets appeared intact, but an apparent impact crater sat in front of them.
At Lviv, black smoke billowed for hours after the explosions, which hit a facility for repairing military aircraft near the citys international airport, only four miles from the centre. One person was wounded, the regional governor, Maksym Kozytsky, said.
Hundreds of civilians were said to have taken shelter in a grand, columned theatre in the citys centre when it was hit on Wednesday by a Russian airstrike. On Friday, their fate was still uncertain, with conflicting reports on whether anyone had emerged from the rubble. Communications are disrupted across the city and movement is difficult because of shelling and fighting.
Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, said early on Friday he was thankful to President Joe Biden for additional military aid, but he would not get into specifics about the new package, saying he did not want Russia to know what to expect.
Shoulder to shoulder, they help and support each other, Putin said of Moscows forces in a rare public appearance since the invasion three weeks ago that made Russia an outcast among nations and triggered anti-war protests at home. We have not had unity like this for a long time, he added to cheers from the crowd.
Early morning barrages also hit a residential building in the Podil neighborhood of Kyiv, killing at least one person, according to emergency services, who said 98 people were evacuated from the building. Kyiv mayor, Vitali Klitschko, said 19 were wounded in the shelling.
In Chernihiv, at least 53 people were brought to morgues over 24 hours, killed amid heavy Russian air attacks and ground fire, the local governor, Viacheslav Chaus, told Ukrainian TV on Thursday.
Video and photos provided by the Ukrainian military showed the at least three-story building had been reduced to a roofless shell, with some exterior walls collapsed. Satellite imagery on Monday from Maxar Technologies showed huge white letters on the pavement outside the theatre spelling out CHILDREN in Russian  DETI  to alert warplanes to the vulnerable people hiding inside.
Russia has demanded that Nato pledge never to admit Ukraine to the alliance or station forces there.
While details of Thursdays talks were unknown, an official in Zelenskys office told the AP that on Wednesday, the main subject discussed was whether Russian troops would remain in separatist regions in eastern Ukraine after the war and where the borders would be.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive talks, said Ukraine was insisting on the inclusion of one or more Western nuclear powers in the negotiations and on legally binding security guarantees for Ukraine.
The early morning barrage of missiles on Lvivs edge was the closest strike yet to the centre of the city, which has become a crossroads for people fleeing from other parts of Ukraine and for others entering to deliver aid or fight.
Standing on stage in a white turtleneck and a blue down jacket, Putin spoke for about five minutes. Some people, including presenters at the event, wore T-shirts or jackets with a Z  a symbol seen on Russian tanks and other military vehicles in Ukraine and embraced by supporters of the war.
He said when the invasion began on February 24, Russia expected to find Ukraine much as it did in 2014, when Russia seized Crimea without a fight and backed separatists as they took control of the eastern Donbas region.
US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said on Thursday that American officials were evaluating potential war crimes and that if the intentional targeting of civilians by Russia is confirmed, there will be massive consequences.
His quoting of the Bible and a Russian admiral of the 18th century reflected his increasing focus in recent years on history and religion as binding forces in Russias post-Soviet society.
Several Telegram channels critical of the Kremlin reported that students and employees of state institutions in a number of regions were ordered by their superiors to attend rallies and concerts marking the Crimea anniversary. Those reports could not be independently verified.
Moscow police said more than 200,000 people were in and around the Luzhniki stadium for the celebration marking the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of the Crimean peninsula, seized from Ukraine.
