Who is Clive Myrie Journalist and Sussex graduate reporting live from Ukraine
20220306
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/19970745.clive-myrie-journalist-sussex-graduate-reporting-live-ukraine/
He has been reporting on the Russian invasion from the capital Kyiv, often alongside the corporations chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet.
BBC broadcaster Clive Myrie has been widely praised for his bravery reporting live from Ukraine on the Russian invasion.
Clive Myrie, right, and Lyse Doucet wearing flak jackets during a broadcast from Kiev in Ukraine
So thats what we did and it meant we could continue telling the story, getting that across to our viewers so that they understand what is going on.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Clive, who studied Law at the University of Sussex, has been commended by the Culture Secretary Nadine Dorris, along with other reporters, for risking their lives to bring us unbiased and accurate news from a live warzone.
World At One presenter Sarah Montague said: Watching CliveMyrieBBC makes me feel very proud that I work at the BBC. He is a class act.
Speaking in the Commons, she said: At this point Id just like to offer my heartfelt thanks and admiration to all of those journalists working for the BBC, the ITV and other news outlets who are risking their lives to bring us unbiased and accurate news from a live warzone.
The 57-year-old has taken shelter underground after the building he was reporting from in Ukraine was shaken by nearby missile fire.
Myrie has reported on the ground from locations across the world including Tokyo, Paris, Vietnam, Los Angeles, and Iraq during the 2003 war.
Last week, Myrie and his colleague Doucet swiftly put on flak jackets after they were interrupted by an air raid siren during a live broadcast from a rooftop opposite St Michaels Cathedral.
He said: Youve got to be aware that you are in the middle of a warzone, a live warzone, and anything could happen.
Clive has also attracted praise from fellow journalists including former BBC and GB News newsreader Simon McCoy, who replied: You are doing an amazing job. Look after yourselves.
None of us are stupid enough to stay out there reporting while bullets are raining down, that would be madness and frankly no story is worth that, but the advice was we could still keep broadcasting as long as we took the minimal protection of putting on safety gear.
