Worthing MP slams unjustified invasion of Ukraine
20220224
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/19948924.worthing-mp-slams-unjustified-invasion-ukraine/
CONSERVATIVE MP Tim Loughton has denounced Russia's invasion of Ukraine as an "unjustified and unjustifable act of aggression".
Prime Minister Boris Johnson is due to give a statement later this morning on the invasion, having described Russia's invasion as a "catastrophe for our continent".
RAC fuel spokesman Smon Williams said: "This would cause untold financial difficulties for many people who depend on their cars for getting to work and running their lives as it would sky rocket the cost of a full tank to 85."
"This vile act of aggression must be met with the strongest of sanctions - which we should have applied already - and by finally ending the role of Russian money in the UK," she said.
Mr Loughton's words echo those of Green MP for Brighton Pavilion Caroline Lucas who described the news as "devastating".
He said: "Russia's invasion of a free, democratic, freedom loving European country is an illegal, unprovoked completely unjustified and unjustifiable act of aggression from an international bully who has no time for the rule of law.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The MP for Worthing East and Shoreham described Russia as an "international bully who has no time for the rule of law".
Russia's invasion of a free, democratic, freedom loving European country is an illegal, unprovoked completely unjustified and unjustifiable act of aggression from an international bully who has no time for the rule of law. We must always stand up to bullies. We stand with Ukraine
Such devastating news this morning - my thoughts  prayers are with the people of Ukraine on this darkest of days. This vile act of aggression must be met with the strongest of sanctions - which we should have applied already - and by finally ending role of Russian money in UK
Motorist groups have warned that petrol prices could soon spike above 1.50 per litre as a knock on effect of the invasion.
