Zelensky addresses protesters across Europe
20220304
https://www.theargus.co.uk/news/19971391.zelensky-addresses-protesters-across-europe/
Ukraine regulator tells IAEA there has been no change reported in radiation levels at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant site.
Video from the port city showed the assault lighting up the darkening sky above deserted streets and medical teams treating civilians, including a 16-year-old boy who could not be saved.
A Zelensky adviser also said a third round of talks will be held early next week.
In the frenzied initial aftermath when the risk of a radiation release was not clear, the attack caused worldwide concern  and evoked memories of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, at Ukraines Chernobyl.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called on European nations to support his countrys fight against the invading Russian military.
He claimed a Ukrainian sabotage group had occupied the training building at the plant, fired on a Russian patrol and set fire to the building as they left.
Dont turn a blind eye on this, he said. Come out and support Ukraine as much as you can, he said though a translator.
It was the second time since the invasion began just over a week ago that concerns about a nuclear accident or a release of radiation materialized, following a battle at Chernobyl.
Ukraines defence minister said Friday that the flagship of its navy has been scuttled at the shipyard where it was undergoing repairs in order to keep it from being seized by Russian forces.
In the centre of the capital, Kyiv, frequent shelling could still be heard Friday, although more distant than in recent days, with loud thudding every 10 minutes resonating over the rooftops.
Ukrainian officials have said Russian troops took control of the overall site, but the plants staff were continuing to ensure its operations.
Nuclear officials from Sweden to China said no radiation spikes had been reported, as did Mr Grossi.
Ukraines state emergency agency issued mass text messages on Friday with advice on what to do in case of an explosion: Lie on the ground and cover your head with your hands use available shelter do not rush to leave the shelter help the wounded do not enter damaged buildings.
In recent days, authorities have issued weapons to civilians and taught them how to make Molotov cocktails.
It is hard to imagine a more difficult decision for a courageous soldier and crew, Mr Reznikov said.
Another strategic port, Mariupol on the Azov Sea, was partially under siege, and Ukrainian forces are pushing back efforts to surround the city, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich said.
The plant fire came as the Russian military advanced on a strategic city on the Dnieper River near where the facility is located, and gained ground in their bid to cut the country off from the sea.
The child was playing football when he was wounded in the shelling, according to his father, who cradled the boys head on the trolley and cried.
Oleksii Reznikov said on Facebook that the commander of the frigate Hetman Sahaidachny decided to flood the ship.
There had been conflicting reports earlier over which part of the Zaporizhzhia facility had been affected in the attack, with an official saying at one point that shells fell directly on the facility and set fire to a reactor not in operation as well as a training building.
With the invasion in its second week, another round of talks between Russia and Ukraine yielded a tentative agreement to set up safe corridors to evacuate citizens and deliver humanitarian aid to the country, overturned by a war that has sent more than one million fleeing over the border and countless others sheltering underground.
The International Atomic Energy Agencys director-general, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said on Friday the building hit by a Russian projectile at the Zaporizhzhia plant was not part of the reactor but instead a training centre at the plant.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson called for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to raise the issue of Russias attack on the plant.
That move would deal a severe blow to Ukraines economy and could worsen an already dire humanitarian situation.
A handful of cities are without heat and at least one is struggling to get food and water.
Mr Grossi said only one reactor of six at Zaporizhzhia is currently operating, at about 60 capacity, and that two people at the site were injured in the fire.
And if we win, and Im sure well win, this will be the victory of the whole democratic world, this will be the victory of our freedom, this will be the victory of light over darkness, of freedom over slavery. And if we win we will become as blossoming as Europe. And Europe will be flourishing more than ever, he said.
The Russians announced the capture of the southern city of Kherson, a vital Black Sea port of 280,000, and local Ukrainian officials confirmed the takeover of the government headquarters there, making it the first major city to fall since the invasion began just over a week ago.
As the Russian and Ukrainian negotiators met in Belarus on Thursday, Mr Putin warned in a call with French President Emmanuel Macron that Ukraine must quickly accept the Kremlins demand for its demilitarisation and declare itself neutral, renouncing its bid to join Nato.
The two sides said they tentatively agreed to allow cease-fires in areas designated safe corridors, and that they would seek to work out the necessary details quickly.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ukraines state nuclear plant operator Enerhoatom said three Ukrainian soldiers were killed and two wounded.
Mr Zelensky appeared on video as he addressed thousands of people protesting against the war in several European cities  naming among them Paris, Prague, Lyon, Frankfurt and others.
The attack on the nuclear facility led to phone calls between the Ukrainian president and US President Joe Biden and other world leaders.
Russian President Vladimir Putins forces have brought their superior firepower to bear over the past few days, launching hundreds of missiles and artillery attacks on cities and other sites around the country and making significant gains in the south.
The humanitarian situation is tense, he told reporters, adding that Ukrainian authorities are in talks with Russian representatives and international organisations to set up humanitarian corridor to evacuate residents and supply food.
Battles in the area have knocked out the citys electricity, heat and water systems, as well as most phone service, officials said.
I welcome the establishment by the UN Human Rights Council of the International Commission of Inquiry to investigate facts of Russian war crimes against Ukraine. Evidence will be documented and used in international courts. Russian war criminals will be held accountable.
The Pentagon set up a direct communication link to Russias ministry of defence earlier this week to avoid the possibility of a miscalculation sparking conflict between Moscow and Washington.
He asked the big crowds not to be silent about what is going on in his country.
The real threat to Ukrainian lives continues to be the violent invasion and bombing of their country, the American Nuclear Society said in a statement.
A Russian airstrike destroyed a power plant in Okhtyrka, leaving the northeastern city without heat or electricity, the head of the region said on Telegram.
But Russias seizure of the Crimean Peninsula in 2014 gives it a logistical advantage now in the countrys south, with shorter supply lines that smoothed the offensive there, said a senior US defence official.
The West has heaped sanctions on Russia, and most of the world lined up to demand Russia withdraw its troops in a vote in the UN General Assembly this week.
Ukrainian leaders called on the people to defend their homeland by cutting down trees, erecting barricades in the cities and attacking enemy columns from the rear.
Overall, the outnumbered, outgunned Ukrainians have put up stiff resistance, staving off the swift victory that Russia appeared to have expected.
In the latest show of international opposition to the invasion, the UNs top human rights body voted 32-2 on a resolution that would among other things set up a panel of experts to monitor human rights in Ukraine.
We are trying to figure out how to get people out of the city urgently because in a day the apartment buildings will turn into a cold stone trap without water, light or electricity, Dmytro Zhyvytskyy said.
Earlier, it was revealed that no radiation was released from a Russian attack at Europes biggest nuclear power plant in Ukraine.
In an emotional speech in the middle of the night, Mr Zelensky said he feared an explosion that would be the end for everyone. The end for Europe. The evacuation of Europe.
