17 dead in southern Ukraine strikes after Russia quits Snake Island
20220701
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/07/17-dead-in-southern-ukraine-strikes-after-russia-quits-snake-island/
Three people, including a child, were killed and one wounded in the attack on the recreation centre, they said.
The decision to abandon Snake Island changes the situation in the Black Sea considerably, Zelensky said in his daily address Thursday.
Evgeny Balitsky, the head of the pro-Moscow administration, said Russias Black Sea ships are ensuring the security of the journey, adding that the port had been de-mined.
The strikes, in Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi, were launched by aircraft that flew in from the Black Sea, said Odessa military administration spokesman Sergiy Bratchuk.
Residents of Lysychansk barely leave their basements and homes, he wrote on Telegram, adding fires had broken out in houses and shopping malls.
Earlier this week, there was global outrage when a Russian strike destroyed a shopping centre in Kremenchuk, central Ukraine, killing at least 18 civilians. Putin has denied Moscows forces were responsible.
Fridays attacks came a day after Russian troops abandoned their positions on Snake Island, off the coast of Odessa.
Early Friday, missiles were fired at an apartment building and recreation centre about 80 kilometres 50 miles south of the Black Sea port of Odessa, which has become a strategic flashpoint in the conflict.
A man walks past a crater after a Russian rocket struck an industrial zone of Kharkiv on June 30, 2022  AFP  SERGEY BOBOK
The nine-storey apartment building was partially destroyed, leaving 14 people dead and 30 wounded, the emergency services said.
A man passes by a poster reading Ukrainian Resistance in central Kyiv, on June 30, 2022 amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine  AFP  Miguel MEDINA
The news came after NATO leaders wrapped up a summit in Madrid, with US President Joe Biden announcing $800 million in new weapons for Ukraine.
Russian forces have retreated from Snake Island, a Ukrainian outcrop in the Black Sea, but continue to bombard mainland targets  AFP  SERGEY BOBOK
It was also a strategic target, sitting aside shipping lanes near the port of Odessa. Russia had attempted to install missile and air defence batteries while under fire from drones.
It does not yet guarantee security. It does not yet guarantee that the enemy will not return. But it already considerably limits the actions of the occupiers.
Capturing the city would allow the Russians to push deeper in the Donbas, which has become the focus of their offensive since failing to capture Kyiv after their February invasion.
The worst case scenario played out and two strategic aircraft came to the Odessa region, he said in a TV interview, adding they had fired very heavy and very powerful missiles. Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
In peacetime, Ukraine is a major agricultural exporter, but Russias invasion has damaged farmland and seen Ukraines ports seized, razed or blockaded  sparking concerns about food shortages, particularly in poor countries.
Sergiy Gaiday  governor of the Lugansk region, which includes Lysychansk  said the city continued to face heavy shelling.
Zelensky meanwhile announced Ukraine had begun exporting electricity to the EU, via Romania, as fears grow of an energy crisis in Europe due to reduced Russian gas deliveries.
The Russian defence ministry statement described the retreat as a gesture of goodwill meant to demonstrate that Moscow will not interfere with UN efforts to organise protected grain exports from Ukraine.
It came after Widodo visited both Moscow and Kyiv. Neither side has revealed what was in the note.
We are going to stick with Ukraine, and all of the alliance are going to stick with Ukraine, as long as it takes to make sure they are not defeated by Russia, he said.
Western powers have accused Putin of using the trapped harvest as a weapon to increase pressure on the international community, and Russia has been accused of stealing grain. Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The island had become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance in the first days of the war, when the rocky outcrops defenders told a Russian warship to go fck yourself after it called on them to surrender  an incident that spurred a defiant meme.
The conflict in Ukraine dominated the NATO summit in Madrid this week, as the alliance officially invited Sweden and Finland to join, and Biden announced new deployments of US troops, ships and planes to Europe.
There was a glimmer of hope however, when Indonesian President Joko Widodo said he had given Russian President Vladimir Putin a message from their Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelensky.
Russian missiles continued to rain down elsewhere in Ukraine, with the city of Lysychansk in the eastern Donbas region coming under sustained bombardment.
On Friday, the president of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen told Ukraines parliament that membership was within reach but urged them to press forward with anti-corruption reforms.
On Thursday, a ship carrying 7,000 tonnes of grain sailed from Ukraines occupied port of Berdyansk, said the regional leader appointed by the Russian occupation forces.
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, Jun 30  At least 17 people were killed and dozens wounded Friday in missile strikes on Ukraines Odessa region, a day after Russian troops abandoned positions on a strategic island in a major setback to the Kremlins invasion.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov compared surging diplomatic tensions to the Cold War, telling reporters: As far as an Iron Curtain is concerned, essentially it is already descending The process has begun.
Ukraine was recently granted candidate status by the European Union as it pushes to join the bloc, although membership is likely still years away. Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Ukraine has gathered the wrecked remains of Russian guns and armour as an exhibit on the streets of Kyiv  AFP  Sergei SUPINSKY
