Attacks across Ukraine as dozens die in Russian invasion
20220225
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/02/attacks-across-ukraine-as-dozens-die-in-russian-invasion/
Elsewhere, Russian ground forces moved into Ukraine from the north, south and east, forcing many Ukrainians to flee their homes as the sound of bombing reverberated.
Biden once again said additional US forces were not heading to eastern Europe to fight in Ukraine, but would defend every inch of NATO territory.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The United States moved to impose sanctions on Russian elites and banks, but stressed that US forces would not head to eastern Europe to fight in Ukraine, but would instead defend every inch of NATO territory.
The fighting spooked global financial markets, with stocks plunging and oil prices soaring past $100.
The two leaders agreed to promote what Zelenskyy called 'Grain From Ukraine Initiative' in telephonic talks on Thursday.
Russia has long demanded that Ukraine be forbidden from ever joining NATO and that US troops pull out from Eastern Europe.
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
Adelina Deli, a popular African-Ukrainian choreographer, is among a crop of influential Ukrainians who are calling on Africans to take a strong stand against...
Olena Kurilo was among 20 people wounded by flying shards of glass following a blast in the eastern Ukrainian town of Chuguiv.
NATO said it had activated defence plans for allied countries but alliance chief Jens Stoltenberg said there was no plan to send NATO forces into Ukraine.
He earlier said the G7 group of wealthy nations had agreed to impose devastating economic sanctions.
Across Ukraine, at least 137 heroes were killed after the first day of fighting, President Volodymyr Zelensky said, calling up conscripts and reservists nationwide to fight in a general mobilisation.
Anyone who can is fleeing, said Krisztian Szavla, one of the first refugees who arrived in Hungary Thursday from Ukraines western Transcarpathia region.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Western intelligence has said that Russia is seeking to mass overwhelming force around the Ukrainian capital and that Moscow has established complete air superiority over Ukraine.
In the Baltics, Lithuania declared a national emergency and Latvia banned three Russian TV channels that were broadcasting in the country, saying they posed a threat to national security. The two along with the Czech Republic, also stopped issuing visas to Russians.
AFP saw military equipment, including rocket launchers, howitzers and fuel tanks, mounted on trains  AFP  STRINGER
IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva said the unrest carried significant economic risk for the world, but Putin insisted he did not seek to undermine the global economic system.
The Kremlin earlier said the leaders of the two separatist territories had asked Moscow for military help against Kyiv after Putin recognised their independence on Monday.
The first Ukraine refugees have begun to trickle into Hungary and Romania while the UN said 100,000 had been displaced by the fighting.
In the Ukrainian village of Starognativka near the frontline where separatists have faced off against Kyivs forces, official Vladimir Vesyelkin said missiles had rained down since the morning and power was out.
Weeks of diplomacy failed to deter Putin, who massed over 150,000 troops on Ukraines borders in what the West said was Europes biggest military build-up since World War II.
Zelensky said there was now a new iron curtain between Russia and the rest of the world, like in the Cold War, adding in a later speech that his nation had been left alone.
US President Joe Biden announced export controls against Russia to cut off more than half of the countrys high-tech imports, alongside sanctions on Russian elites he called corrupt billionaires, and banks.
Some 20 people were wounded by flying shards of glass following a blast in the eastern Ukrainian town of Chuguiv  AFP  Aris Messinis
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
Ukraine said Russian forces had seized the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, an area still heavily contaminated with radioactive material after a devastating 1986 accident, prompting the IAEA nuclear watchdog to call for restraint.
The helicopters came in and then the battles started. They were firing machine guns, grenade launchers, resident Sergiy Storozhuk said.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Never, under any conditions will I submit to Putin. It is better to die, the 52-year-old teacher said, her face covered in bandages.
Zelensky called the attack on Chernobyl a declaration of war on all of Europe while 18 people were killed at a military base near the Black Sea port of Odessa in the deadliest single strike reported by Kyiv.
Ukrainian forces said they had killed around 50 Russian occupiers while repulsing an attack on a town on the frontline with Moscow-backed rebels, which could not immediately be confirmed by AFP.
The Ukrainian capital declared an overnight curfew but said underground stations would remain open throughout to serve as bomb shelters.
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
Russian missiles and shelling rained down on Ukrainian cities Thursday after President Vladimir Putin unleashed a full-scale ground invasion and air assault, forcing civilians to shelter on metro systems, with 100,000 people displaced.
Siversk Ukraine AFP, Jan 9  Huddled in an underground shelter in war-battered east Ukraine, Oleksander and Lyudmila Murenets spend more time together these...
In a televised address, Putin justified the assault as a defence of the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk republics in eastern Ukraine.
Witnesses told AFP that Russian paratroopers wrested control of the strategic Gostomel airfield, on the northwestern outskirts of Kyiv, after swooping in with helicopters and jets from the direction of Belarus.
Moscows defence ministry said its forces had successfully completed their objectives for the day, earlier claiming to have destroyed over 70 Ukrainian military targets, including 11 airfields.
A conflict between the separatists and government forces has dragged on since 2014, killing more than 14,000 people on both sides.
Ukraine also said a military plane with 14 people on board crashed south of Kyiv and that officials were determining how many people died, while a transport plane crashed in Russia killing the crew.
Demonstrators took to the streets of European capitals to condemn Russia but a small anti-war protest in Moscow was quickly shut down by police. Monitors said over 1,700 people were detained at protests across the country.
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
The EU moved to impose massive sanctions on Russias energy and finance sectors, while French President Emmanuel Macron called Putin to demand immediate halt to the offensive.
Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb 25  Invading Russian forces pressed deep into Ukraine as deadly battles reached the outskirts of Kyiv and the West responded with punishing sanctions.
They are trying to wipe the village off the face of the earth, he said.
