Battle underway for airbase on Kyiv outskirts
20220224
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/02/battle-underway-for-airbase-on-kyiv-outskirts/
Lyudmila Klimova, a 58-year-old who lives nearby, said: The base is smoking over there, it was bombed, our houses are nearby. We dont know where to run, my parents are here, my sister.
Earlier AFP reporters had seen helicopters flying low over the city from the north and Ukraines commander-in-chief of the armed forces, Valeriy Zaluzhny, had confirmed: Fighting is underway for Gostomel airfield.
Nairobi, Kenya, Mar 22  Kenyans including students can now travel to Russia after the country lifted the earlier restrictions it had imposed on...
Alexander Kovtonenko, a 30-year-old civilian also living nearby, said that two fighter jets had fired missiles at Ukrainian ground units as the assault got underway.
Russian airborne troops seized control of the Gostomel airfield, but Ukraines leader President Volodymyr Zelensky vowed that they would be encircled and crushed.
NAIROBI, Kenya Mar 18  Kenyans should brace for higher matatu fares following the hike in fuel prices by the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory...
Paris, Mar 10  With the Ukraine crisis looming over the coming French presidential election, voters appear increasingly willing to stick with Emmanuel Macron...
Sloviansk Ukraine AFP, Jul 1  President Vladimir Putin on Monday ordered Russian troops to press their offensive deeper into the Donbas region of...
Gostomel Ukraine AFP, Feb 24  Russian and Ukrainian forces were on Thursday battling for an airbase on the northern outskirts of Kyiv after dozens of attack helicopters swooped south from Belarus towards the capital.
The Kherson regional government said 13 civilians had been killed, including two children, and nine Ukrainian soldiers have died during the fighting in the area.
Nairobi, Kenya, Mar 16- The Russian Embassy in Kenya has dismissed reports that the countrys invasion of Ukraine is to blame for the high...
The Gostomel airfield, which is alongside the Antonov airport, is immediately on the northern edge of Kiev, and the fighting there is the closest that Russian forces had got to the Ukrainian capital on the first day of their invasion.
Paris AFP, Mar 2  On the seventh day of fighting in Ukraine Wednesday, Russia claims control of the southern port city of Kherson,...
Then there was shooting, it lasted three hours, he told AFP. Then three more jets flew in and they started shooting again.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The main Russian advance on the first day of the operation also came from the occupied region of Crimea, from where armoured columns pressed quickly towards the southern city of Kherson.
Athens AFP, Apr 10  For more than two years, Greeces conservative government has prided itself on enforcing a tough but fair policy towards...
Russian troops are there, a friend of mine lives there, and the Russians have already approached his mother with a machine gun.
Ukrainian forces fanned out around the airfield in an attempt to retake it  AFP  Daniel LEAL
Smoke was rising from the scene and social media images appeared to show an assault by helicopter-borne troops. CNN showed footage of Russian troops at the airport and a reporter said he had spoken to them.
Speaking to Capital in the Morning on Monday, Amb. Maksimychev pointed out that the sanctions are preventing Russia from selling food products to African...
The enemy paratroopers in Gostomel have been blocked, and troops have received an order to destroy them, Zelensky said, in a video address.
Earlier, Ukrainian border guards had confirmed that Russian ground forces equipped with tanks had also crossed south over the Belarus-Ukraine border into the Kyiv administrative region, headed towards the capital.
