Biden sees chance for Ukraine diplomacy keeps pressure on Moscow
20220215
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/02/german-chancellor-to-meet-putin-as-ukraines-fate-in-the-balance/
Biden said that despite Russian claims earlier in the day, Washington and its allies had yet to verify the withdrawal of any of the 150,000 troops he says Moscow has now mustered along Ukraines border.
Washington AFP, Feb 15  US President Joe Biden vowed Tuesday to push for a diplomatic resolution of the Ukraine crisis, but warned that a Russian invasion remained very much a possibility and that retaliatory sanctions were primed and ready.
There is one fact: Ukraines joining NATO is not the order of the day, Scholz said.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Scholz called the Russian announcement a good sign, but Washington said it wanted proof of a de-escalation, after warning over the weekend that Russian troops were poised to invade Ukraine as soon as this week.
Both resumed service later Tuesday, but the military sites remained inaccessible hours after the initial reports of the attack emerged.
In answer to Putins concerns that Ukraine would try to join NATO, and that the alliance would place more strategic weapons on Russias borders, Biden said the United States had put forward concrete ideas to establish a security environment in Europe.
Kyiv remained tense after a series of cyberattacks shut down the websites of the countrys defense ministry and armed forces as well as two state banks.
Earlier, Moscows defense ministry announced some soldiers and hardware were leaving the border region to return to their bases at the end of planned exercises.
Biden, who spoke directly with Putin on Saturday, said there were real ways to address both sides security concerns.
After a meeting Tuesday with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in Moscow, President Vladimir Putin said Russia of course did not want war, and was willing to look for solutions with the West.
However, he added on Ukraine: We will not sacrifice basic principles though. Nations have a right to sovereignty and territorial integrity.
For weeks, defense experts have predicted that a Russian invasion would be preceded by a cyber offensive.
We are ready with diplomacy, he said. And we are ready to respond decisively to a Russian attack on Ukraine, which is still very much a possibility, Biden said, warning of powerful sanctions.
The affected sites included the Oschadbank state savings bank and Privat  two of the countrys largest financial institutions.
Russian President Vladimir Putin L and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz are seen ahead of their meeting over Ukraine security at the Kremlin, in Moscow, on February 15, 2022  SputnikAFP  Mikhail Klimentyev
The two regions, Donetsk and Lugansk, have large Russian-speaking, pro-Moscow populations that have been locked in a deadly fight with Kyiv since 2014, with the conflict claiming some 14,000 lives.
US President Joe Biden said diplomacy should be given every chance to succeed in the Russia-Ukraine crisis  AFP  Brendan Smialowski
In a separate move likely to anger Kyiv, Russian lawmakers voted Tuesday to urge Putin to recognize two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as sovereign and independent states.
He noted that Russia is not being threatened by the United States, NATO or Ukraine.
After meeting Putin, he told German reporters that Ukraine is not about to join the NATO alliance.
We are ready to work further together. We are ready to go down the negotiations track, Putin told a joint press conference with Scholz, confirming a partial pullback of troops.
Everyone has to take a step back and realize that we cannot have a military conflict over a question that is not on the agenda, he said, saying that such a situation would be absurd.
Declaring them independent republics would effectively end the Minsk agreements peace plan for the ongoing war, and potentially open the door to bringing in Russian troops.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Analysts indicate that they remain very much in a threatening position, Biden said in an address on the crisis.
The Russian defence ministry released images of tanks departing by train after concluding military exercises  Russian Defence MinistryAFP  Handout
In a call with Russia Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken demanded proof of verifiable, credible, meaningful de-escalation. Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
To the citizens of Russia: you are not our enemy. And I do not believe you want a bloody, destructive war against Ukraine, he said.
