Cautious Macron holds advantage in French election
20220209
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/02/cautious-macron-holds-advantage-in-french-election/
Paris AFP, Jun 19  French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday held talks with opposition leaders on ending the deadlock sparked by his failure...
Paris AFP, Apr 24  Young, pro-European and unfailingly ambitious, Emmanuel Macron is the first French president to serve a second term in 20...
Far-right candidates Marine Le Pen and Eric Zemmour have spent more time trading barbs with each other than firing them at Macron, while the lefts chances are stymied by no fewer than five major left-wing candidates ranging from communists to the greens.
Even as Macron plays the statesman with trips to Moscow and Kyiv, his camp has not been inactive, with a campaign website already set up and the president receiving the 500 endorsements from elected figures needed by any candidate.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Paris AFP, Feb 9  A relatively flat campaign in which opponents have failed to score points is playing into the hands of French President Emmanuel Macron as he bids for a second term, even if much can still change ahead of the April elections.
The requirement to have 500 endorsements from elected officials such as MPs or local councillors is proving a real headache for some of the more upstart candidates, especially Zemmour. Only Macron has surmounted this barrier so far.
While Macron appears to be leaving it late with his formal declaration, the strategy is nothing unusual.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Paris AFP, Apr 24  French far-right leader Marine Le Pen hailed her score in presidential elections on Sunday as a brilliant victory, despite...
A cautious Macron, saying he is preoccupied with the Covid pandemic and averting war between Russia and Ukraine, has kept his powder dry by refraining from officially declaring himself a candidate ahead of the first round of voting on April 10.
Paris AFP, Apr 2  French President Emmanuel Macron called on tens of thousands of cheering but increasingly nervous supporters to help him win...
Paris AFP, Dec 15  French President Emmanuel Macron is yet to declare he will run for a second term in next years election,...
This survey confirms that there is still a great deal of uncertainty, Emmanuel Riviere, director of international studies at Kantar, told AFP.
Top of the agenda in the talks will be food supply issues, with African nations fearing shortages especially of grain due to Russia's invasion...
The latest poll published Monday, by Ifop-Fiducial, showed Macron on 25 percent - remarkably stable for a president who won 24 percent in the first round of 2017 - and Pecresse slipping to 15.5 percent.
Today we see that there is greater fluidity in the electorate because fewer and fewer people feel close to a political party, he said.
Recent polls suggest that support for conservative candidate Valerie Pecresse is beginning to wane  AFP  SEBASTIEN BOZON
Analysts warn he would be wise to steer clear of complacency as there remains an element of uncertainty, with polls showing many voters yet to make up their mind and the numbers of those not casting ballots also not clear.
For the time being - whether we are talking about if people vote and who they vote for - we are on shifting sands and we need to have the final distilled offer made clear for people to decide, said Anne Jadot, a lecturer in political science at the University of Lorraine.
In 1965, Charles de Gaulle declared only a month before the polls, a tactic repeated successfully in 1988 by Francois Mitterrand.
Victory would see him become the first French leader to be re-elected since Jacques Chirac in 2002, after the presidencies of Nicolas Sarkozy and Francois Hollande ended as single-term disappointments.
President Macron is very stable, he neither goes up nor down in his voting intentions. I therefore think that he has every interest in being the master of the timetable and in not having an agenda imposed on him by the other candidates, Estrada said.
After rising to power five years ago as his countrys youngest-ever president, Macron, who is still only 44, knows that winning a second term is crucial to his ambitions of reforming France and Europe  as well as securing a place in French history.
The eight candidates who have already declared their bid to take the French presidency from Emmanuel Macron  AFP
This has prompted speculation that some could fall by the wayside by the time Frances Constitutional Council announces the final list of candidates on March 7, after a March 4 deadline to present the endorsements.
The candidate who could potentially cause Macron the most trouble in the second round, the conservative Paris region chief Valerie Pecresse, has lost momentum since her nomination and started to slip in the polls.
Gaspard Estrada, a political scientist at Sciences Po University and a specialist in political campaigning, said Macron was seeking to keep his opponents at a distance with his late declaration.
The elimination of a significant candidate due to insufficient endorsements would reshuffle the cards, Jadot told AFP.
Paris AFP, Feb 16  President Emmanuel Macron welcomed African leaders for dinner in Paris Wednesday ahead of an expected announcement that France is...
Versailles France AFP, Mar 10  EU leaders doused Ukraines hopes Thursday of quickly gaining European Union membership, as they met to urgently address...
For the moment, we do not see in the polls a trend that endangers the president, he told AFP.
All these balances can still be upset but, at this stage, a vote for Emmanuel Macron is taking on the appearance of a default choice, said the Le Monde daily.
A survey by Kantar Public and Epoka published Friday showed that 20 percent of the electorate were likely to vote but had not made up their minds, while 19 percent indicated they would abstain.
This has so far done Macron no harm, with opinion polls showing him rock solid in the first round, coming out on top at around 25 percent, and then beating any rival in the run-off two weeks later.
It also projected that Macron would easily win a run-off, whether it was against Pecresse or Le Pen.
