Deadly blasts rattle Kyiv talks with Russia to resume
20220315
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/deadly-blasts-rattle-kyiv-talks-with-russia-to-resume/
She was still waiting for emergency workers to lower her son-in-law and grandson to the ground.
During the night the enemy attacked the Dnipro airport. Two strikes. The runway was destroyed. The terminal is damaged. Massive destruction, region governor Valentin Reznichenko said.
He added, however, that the defence ministry does not rule out the possibility of putting large cities under its full control.
Military experts believe Russias military now needs time to regroup and resupply its troops, paving the way for a possible pause or slowdown in fighting.
The airport in the eastern city of Dnipro also came under heavy bombardment overnight, as the leaders of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia travelled to the besieged capital Kyiv in a sign of EU support for Ukraine.
They have already begun to understand that they will not achieve anything by war, Zelensky said.
Ukraines capital has been transformed into a war zone, with apartment blocks badly damaged from Russian bombardments and half of the citys 3.5 million people now gone.
Across Ukraine, Russias invasion has continued to take a bloody toll, destroying cities and ensuring that many lives will never be the same again.
At 4:20 everything was very thunderous, crackling. I got up, my daughter ran to me with a question: Are you alive?, Lyubov Gura, 73, told AFP minutes after rescuers let her and her daughter out of her 11th-floor apartment.
Meanwhile, Ukraines allies have piled pressure on Putins regime with unprecedented economic sanctions, and the Kremlin faces domestic pressure despite widespread censorship of the war.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered his forces to hold back on any immediate assault on large cities according to Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov Monday, who cited civilian losses as the reason for stalling an attack.
Four large blasts were heard from the centre of the capital early Tuesday, sending columns of smoke high into the sky.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Reports say Moscow has turned to Beijing for military and economic help  prompting what one US official said were several hours of very candid talks between high-ranking US and Chinese officials.
In an unprecedented show of solidarity with the embattled president, the Polish, Czech and Slovenian prime ministers boarded a train for Kyiv to meet Zelensky on Tuesday.
Nearly three weeks into Russias invasion of its pro-Western neighbour, the human toll of the deadly conflict was increasingly laid bare, with more than three million forced to flee to neighbouring countries.
I wish Russia the same grief I feel now, she said, tears rolling down her cheeks as she clung to her grandsons elbow for support.
The UN says nearly 1.4 million children have now fled Ukraine since the conflict began  nearly one per second  AFP  Louisa GOULIAMAKI
The head of Russias national guard Viktor Zolotov has reportedly admitted the operation was not going as fast as we would like but said victory would come step-by-step.
The Kyiv mayor said after the bombings it was a difficult and dangerous moment  AFP  Aris Messinis
They say that he is too severely burned, that I wont recognise him, sobbed Lidiya Tikhovska, 83, staring at the spot where a paramedic said the remains of her son Vitaliy lay following a missile strike in Kyiv.
On Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said his nation does not want to be impacted by Western sanctions on Russia, as US pressure grows on Beijing to withdraw support from Moscow.
Four large blasts were heard from the centre of Kyiv early Tuesday  AFP  Genya SAVILOV
Russias military progress has been slow and costly, with Moscow apparently underestimating the strength of Ukrainian resistance.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Ukrainian negotiators say they want peace, an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops.
China is not a party to the crisis, still less wants to be affected by the sanctions, Wang said.
The citys Mayor Vitali Klitschko said Tuesday a 35-hour curfew would come into effect from 8:00 pm Tuesday after overnight attacks in the capital.
Overnight shelling also caused massive damage at the airport in the eastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro, regional authorities said Tuesday.
This is why I ask all Kyivites to get prepared to stay at home for two days, or if the sirens go off, in the shelters.
The city is surrounded to the north and east, and authorities have set up checkpoints, while residents are stockpiling food and medicine.
As dawn broke the damage became clear, with one strike hitting a large 16-storey housing block.
There, a fire raged and smoke billowed from the charred husk of the building, as emergency services and stunned locals navigated an obstacle course of glass, metal and other debris littering the road.
The United Nations said Tuesday that nearly 1.4 million children have fled Ukraine since the conflict began on February 24  nearly one child per second.
During Russias most-watched evening news broadcast on Monday, a dissenting employee entered the studio holding up a poster saying Stop the war. Dont believe the propaganda.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The two sides are still far apart in the negotiations, with Moscow demanding Ukraine turn away from the West and recognise Moscow-backed breakaway regions.
Kyiv AFP, Mar 15  A series of powerful explosions rocked residential districts of Kyiv early Tuesday killing two people, just hours before talks between Ukraine and Russia were set to resume.
In such crucial times for the world, it is our duty to be in the place where history is being made, Polands Mateusz Morawiecki said in a Facebook post.
Hours earlier, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky issued a new video address sounding a note of cautious optimism about ongoing peace talks.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
An opposition protest monitor said the woman, an editor at the tightly controlled state broadcaster Channel One, was detained following the episode.
The district was once a place to get coffee and enjoy life. Not anymore, Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko said.
A correspondent for Fox News  Britains Benjamin Hall  was injured and hospitalised while reporting on the city outskirts, the network said, a day after a US journalist was shot dead in Irpin, a frontline Kyiv suburb.
