EU readies for end of Russia gas warns wont pay in rubles
20220503
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/05/eu-readies-for-end-of-russia-gas-warns-wont-pay-in-rubles/
Simson said that following the full procedure as set out by Russia constitutes a breach of sanctions imposed by the European Union.
During the meeting, European officials were forced to deal with media reports that Italy wants to continue to pay in rubles until there is a legal alternative.
The two leaders agreed to promote what Zelenskyy called 'Grain From Ukraine Initiative' in telephonic talks on Thursday.
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
She added that Russias actions showed they are not reliable suppliers and that means that all the member states have to have plans in place for full disruption.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The Czech minister of industry and trade, Jozef Sikela, said he had asked for a clear explanation of how to proceed.
Adelina Deli, a popular African-Ukrainian choreographer, is among a crop of influential Ukrainians who are calling on Africans to take a strong stand against...
Brussels AFP, May 2  The European Union warned member states Monday to prepare for a possible complete breakdown in gas supplies from Russia, insisting it would not cede to Moscows demand that imports be paid for in rubles.
The sixth package of anti-Russian measures will also target the countrys largest bank, Sberbank, which will be excluded from the global banking communications system SWIFT, diplomats said.
Polands environment minister, Anna Moskwa, urged fellow EU states not to heed Russias demand to pay for gas supplies in rubles as Brussels looks to counter Moscows energy threats  AFP  JOHN THYS
Kadri said she had spoken to Italian minister Roberto Cingolani, who did not attend the meeting, and that the report was misleading  but she promised to provide him and all EU capitals with clearer guidance on resisting Putins ultimatum.
Germanys minister for economic affairs and climate Robert Habeck said Berlin would follow EU policy but also suggested the dual Gazprombank accounts plan could be a face-saving solution for Putin.
On Tuesday, the EU will propose a phased-out ban on imports of Russian oil  but not gas.
What has happened today is that the European Commission and the presidency have confirmed that paying in rubles is unacceptable, that it is a breach of sanctions and a breach of European solidarity, Polands environment minister Anna Moskwa said.
Kadri and some ministers seemed to say that this would still constitute a sanctions breach. But other member states demanded further clarification from the European Commissions experts.
But energy and environment ministers meeting in Brussels on Monday addressed the larger and potentially more complicated issue of Russias natural gas, upon which several countries  including EU top economy Germany  depend for much of their power generation.
After the talks, the French chair of the meeting, ecological transition minister Barbara Pompili, and the European commissioner for energy, Kadri Simson, said the 27 member states were united with Poland and Bulgaria and would stockpile gas to be prepare for a breakdown.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
Moscow has demanded clients from unfriendly countries  including EU member states  pay for gas in rubles, a way to sidestep Western financial sanctions against its central bank. It has cut off Bulgaria and Poland after their firms refused to comply.
The European Commission will on Tuesday propose to member states a new package of sanctions to punish President Vladimir Putins Kremlin for its invasion of Ukraine, including an embargo on Russian oil, officials said.
Many countries, including the Baltic states, Denmark, the Netherlands and Finland, have today reaffirmed solidarity and that they will certainly not pay in rubles, she said.
On Monday, the EUs top diplomat, Josep Borrell, said the new sanctions package would result in more Russian banks that will leave SWIFT during a visit to Panama.
The commission will propose a tapered ban over six to eight months, to give time to diversify supply. One senior official said there could be opt-outs for the most dependent countries, like Hungary.
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
This would entail a firm opening two accounts in Russian state energy giant Gazproms bank. Payments would be deposited in one account in euros or dollars, then be passed through the sanctioned Russian central bank, before arriving in the second account in rubles.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Siversk Ukraine AFP, Jan 9  Huddled in an underground shelter in war-battered east Ukraine, Oleksander and Lyudmila Murenets spend more time together these...
I mean, paying with one currency is one thing, but if that involves another countrys central bank, then it becomes part of a different part of the package, and that is going to be a bit tricky.
But several countries are to renew supply contracts at the end of May, and reports suggest some could seek to work around the sanctions by following the method put forward by Moscow.
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
She said that, to her knowledge, no European company was preparing to follow Putins decree and change its payment methods.
But Swedens Khashayar Farmanbar, minister for energy and digital development, said: I think the clarification is still ongoing  it is a complex process.
