High cost of living not exclusive to Kenya Russia Ukraine war to blame Kanze Dena
20220315
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/high-cost-of-living-not-exclusive-to-kenya-russia-ukraine-war-to-blame-kanze-dena/
NAIROBI, Kenya Jul 7  Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna has defended President Uhuru Kenyatta over the high cost of living currently being witnessed in...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Feb 21  Comedian Eric Omondi has been arrested while leading a group of half naked youths protesting over the countrys high...
Nairobi, Kenya, Sept 4-President-Elect William Ruto has now said that his Government will work with the county government administration over the next 1-2 months...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Jul 4  Agano Party Presidential candidate David Mwaure has proposed a 50 percent reduction in Pay as You Earn PAYE to...
NAIROBI, Kenya July 5  President Uhuru Kenyatta has appointed nine members who will serve in the panel of Eminent Persons for the County...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 1-State House spokesperson Kanze Dena on Tuesday said that its not only Kenya that is experiencing high cost of living, saying its being experienced worldwide.
On Monday, Kenya reviewed its fuel prices up by Sh5 in what is likely to further push up the countrys cost of living.
In an unprecedented departure from a tradition set by previous holders of the office who restrained from publicly participating in electoral campaigns including of...
It is the first increase since November 2021, in what sources said is linked to the crisis between Ukraine and Russia.
Under the hashtag, Lower Food Prices, the netizens decried the increase in prices of basic food commodities such as sifted maize flour, bread, vegetables and fruits.
Ochieng who serves under ICT and Youth Affairs' Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, a sworn adversary of Ruto alongside Cabinet colleagues Fred Matiangi Interior and...
Kenyas top referral hospital, the Kenyatta National Hospital, has revealed that in the recent past they have been receiving numerous inquiries from desperate Kenyans...
Last month Kenyans took to social media to protest the rising cost of food and groceries.
Dena said the high cost had been occasioned by various factors among them the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war.
Under the new prices, Super Petrol and Diesel will retail at Sh134.72 and Sh115.60 per litre respectively. Kerosene will remain unchanged at Sh103.54.
The rising cost of living is not exclusive to Kenya it is a global phenomenon fueled by numerous external factors, among them the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war which has led to a rise in the global price of petroleum, which is a key factor of production, she stated.
