India calls on EU to fight against terrorism resolve Ukraine conflict
20220619
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/06/india-calls-on-eu-to-fight-against-terrorism-resolve-ukraine-conflict/
He highlighted the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the Ukraine conflict and stressed the need to strengthen the partnership and linkages between the UN and regional organisations.
The deputy envoy also said that India and the EU share a common interest in ensuring security prosperity and sustainable development in the multipolar world.
India has advocated the need for reformed multilateralism. We have been consistent in calling for meaningful and comprehensive reform of the global multilateral architecture including the UN Security Council. EU has an important role to play in tackling global challenges with the UN and the core of multilateral efforts.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
We need to strengthen the partnership and enhance linkages between the UN and regional organisations in line with Chapter 8 of the UN Charter. We need to pursue greater international cooperation and solidarity to overcome our common challenges, Ravindra added.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
Indias deputy envoy to United Nations, R Ravindra said, The EU has an important role to play in our continued fight against terrorism and other new and emerging challenges. India is the chair of the counter-terrorism committee and 1988 sanctions committee. In this capacity, India would like the EU to step up its support to make our fight against terrorism a collective fight and one fought with zero tolerance, without any double-speak.
He said that India supports all diplomatic efforts including the resumption of talks between Ukraine and the Russian Federation to end the conflict which has impacted the whole world.
India and the US have moved ahead to jointly develop air launched unmanned aerial vehicles that will be used for surveillance missions, with first...
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
The world continues to be confronted with peace and security challenges that have been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ukraine crisis, and its consequent food and energy security challenges. This is disproportionally impacting the global south.
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
India, Brazil and the United States, as leading biofuel producers and consumers, will work together during the next few months towards the development of...
Munich: German Chancellor Oalf Scholz quoted External Affairs Minister S Jaishankars viral European mindset remark during the Munich Security Conference. Jaishankar, during the 17th...
India on Friday local time called on the EU to collectively fight against terrorism and emphasised the need to resolve the Ukraine conflict in order to resolve the peace and security challenges at the United Nations Security Council UNSC.
The conflict is having a destabilising effect with broader regional and global implications. The increasing oil prices and shortage of food grains and fertilizer are having a disproportionate impact on the global south. The EU should play a leading role in alleviating the adverse impact of the Ukraine crisis in day to day life of people living in vulnerable countries.
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
