Kenya condemns racist sentiments in Ukraine
20220301
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/kenya-condemns-racist-sentiments-in-ukraine/
Speaking during the 11th UN General Assembly emergency session over the Ukraine situation on Tuesday, Amb Kimani said several states in Africa and the Caribbean have received complaints from their citizens that they have been treated in a racist and undignified manner at some border points.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 2  The Kenya Meteorological Service has warned of a delayed onset of the March to May long rains season. The...
He at the same time urged countries neighboring Ukraine to double their efforts in cracking down on officials or units that may be reflecting attitudes and behaviours that are unacceptable.
We wholeheartedly condemn such racism against Africans and people of African descent. We reject racism at all times and in all places for its inhumanity, at the very same time as we denounce the illegal and inhuman nature of the war in Ukraine, he stated.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 2  The Chinese Embassy in Kenya is now calling on the government to intervene and protect Chinese enterprises and Chinese...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 1  Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua on Wednesday met Nairobi traders and assured them of the governments readiness to get rid...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 1  Kenyas PermanentRepresentativeto the United Nations Ambassador Martin Kimani has condemned reports that racism has characterized the ongoing humanitarian response in the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
Nairobi, Kenya, Mar 2  A section of the members of the public on Wednesday staged demonstrations at the Milimani Law Courts protesting the...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 1  Former Communications Authority CA Director General Francis Wangusi is dead. Wangusi died in the hospital while undergoing treatment following...
Kimani said it is disturbing to have racism characterize the expression of solidarity in parts of Europe, accusing some prominent figures of expressing their solidarity in shockingly racialist terms through media channels.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 1  President William Ruto has terminated the appointment of Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission IEBC Commissioner Irene Masit after the...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 2  Transgender Activist Le Toya Johnson says the backlash that the Supreme Court judgment has received from the clergy and...
There are credible reports of African students being made to stand in the back of the queue when getting on trains and buses for safety, Kimani said.
Nairobi, Kenya, Mar 2  President William Ruto has clarified that there are no plans to privatize public universities in the country anytime soon....
