Kremlin accuses Kyiv of shelling nuclear plant
20220808
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/08/kremlin-accuses-kyiv-of-shelling-nuclear-plant/
The head of its Moscow-installed administration Yevgeny Balitsky said on social media Monday he had signed a decree on the issue of organising a referendum on the reunification of the Zaporizhzhia region with the Russian Federation.
While Kyiv welcomed the news, officials also said there was a delay in the first delivery to leave Ukrainian ports because the buyer had refused delivery, citing a five-month delay in shipment.
Ukrainian forces in turn said they had bombed a strategic bridge over the Dnipro river overnight in the Russian-held city of Kherson in the south.
A Ukrainian court meanwhile jailed a Russian tank crewman for 10 years for firing on a multi-storied apartment block in the northern city of Chernigiv early on in the invasion, according to authorities in Kyiv.
The World Bank said it was mobilising another $4.5 billion in US-provided financial support to help Kyiv pay for services and pensions, key to easing the invasions economic impacts.
Kyiv said Moscow was responsible and called for the area to be demilitarised, adding that two employees had been wounded in recent attacks.
The Pentagon announced military aid for Ukraine worth $1 billion including additional precision ammunition for the Himars system that has helped Kyivs forces attack Russian troops far behind the front lines.
Security officials also said they arrested Russian agents who were planning to assassinate the defence minister and the military intelligence chief.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
There was progress on one rare area of compromise between Russian and Ukraine Monday, after the first cargo ship that left a Ukrainian port reached its final destination under a recent deal brokered by Ankara and the UN docked in Turkey.
Their presence and initially giving control to them and then to the Ukrainian side would have solved this problem.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
There should be a peacekeeping mission including experts from the IAEA and other security organisations, he added.
More than five months of fighting has taken a heavy toll on Russian forces, with up to 80,000 of Moscows troops killed or wounded and 3-4,000 armoured vehicles lost, a senior Pentagon official said Monday.
Each side has blamed the other for the escalation in fighting around the nuclear facility in Zaporizhzhia in southeastern Ukraine, which was captured by Russian forces soon after their late February invasion.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky also raised the spectre of a catastrophe in his nightly address Monday, invoking the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster.
What needs to be done is to remove occupying forces from the station and to create a de-militarised zone on the territory of the station, said Petro Kotin, president of Ukraines nuclear energy company, Energoatom.
On Monday, her lawyer did not rule out the possibility of her facing another criminal probe.
Ovsyannikova shot to prominence in March for interrupting a live broadcast to denounce Russias military intervention in Ukraine.
The world should not forget about Chernobyl and should remember that the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant is the biggest in Europe, Zelensky said.
Russian forces have been accused of repeatedly striking civilian infrastructure across Ukraine, claims Moscow denies  AFP  STR
As Russian forces continued shelling across the sprawling eastern frontline, one woman was killed and four more were injured in the Kharkiv region in the northeast, Kyiv said.
The authorities in Moscow pursued their crackdown on opposition to the war, handing down a new fine to journalist Marina Ovsyannikova.
But the United Nations said Monday that more than 17 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance due to the Ukraine conflict, and increased an appeal for funds to respond to the crisis from $2.25 billion to $4.3 billion.
Ukraines Prime Minister Denys Shmygal meanwhile accused Russia of nuclear terrorism, urging the world to unite now to prevent a catastrophe.
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, Aug 8  The Kremlin accused Ukrainian forces Monday of firing on Europes largest nuclear power plant in occupied Ukraine and warned the alleged attacks could have catastrophic consequences.
Kotin said Russia had deployed some 500 Russian troops and 50 pieces of hardware including tanks at Zaporizhzhia, echoing earlier claims from Kyiv that Moscow was using the site for military cover.
Fighting continued meanwhile along battle lines stretching across eastern Ukraine, and Russia continued its crackdown on dissent at home.
Ukraine said the plant should be cleared of Russian forces and called for the establishment of an international security and energy team to oversee the site.
Recent fighting at the plant has prompted the UNs nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, to warn of the very real risk of a nuclear disaster.
The Kremlin has captured swathes of Ukrainian territory since February, introducing Russian currency and announcing plans to formally annex the areas by holding votes, including in the Zaporizhzhia region.
The plans follow a similar move by Moscow in 2014 after it annexed the Crimean peninsula, a highly controversial vote that has not been recognised by most Western countries.
