Online media fuelling divisions global tensions report
20220503
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/05/online-media-fuelling-divisions-global-tensions-report/
Novaya Gazeta has suspended publication for the duration of Moscows military intervention to avoid being shut down.
The Fox News-isation of Western media also posed a fatal danger for democracies because it undermines the basis of civil harmony and tolerant public debate, he added.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Nordic countries Norway, Denmark and Sweden again topped the index, while the Netherlands fell from sixth to 28th after top crime reporter, Peter R. de Vries, was gunned down on an Amsterdam street last July.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Media polarisation was feeding and reinforcing internal social divisions in democratic societies such as the United States 42nd, it said.
Such polarisation is becoming more extreme, worldwide, RSFs director of operations and campaigns Rebecca Vincent told a news conference in London.
Based on the previous calendar year, this does not reflect Russias massive media crackdown since President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine.
She pointed to the deaths of journalists in the Netherlands and Greece as well as the case of Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder who risks extradition and trial in the US for the publication of secret files.
The NGO, launched in 1985 and which has published the yearly index since 2002, has become a thorn in the side of autocratic and despotic regimes around the world.
Evgeniya Dillendorf, a correspondent for the independent Novaya Gazeta newspaper, said the main reason for lack of media diversity in Russia is not pressure but lack of independent business which would finance it, and the lack of independent judicial system that would defend it.
This years listing used five new indicators to define press freedom  political context, legal framework, economic context, sociocultural context, and security  to reflect its complexity.
RSF commended Moldova 40th and Bulgaria 91st this year due to government changes and the hope it has brought for improvement in the situation for journalists.
The lowest ranked were North Korea 180th, Eritrea 179th and Iran 178th, with Myanmar 176th and China 175th close behind.
World map showing the different states of press freedom by countries and territories, compiled by Reporters Without Borders  AFP  Cla PCULIER
London AFP, May 2  Unregulated online content has spread disinformation and propaganda that have amplified political divisions, fanned international tensions and even contributed to Russias invasion of Ukraine, a media watchdog said Tuesday.
That trend was even starker in illiberal democracies such as Poland 66th, a European Union country where RSF noted suppression of independent media.
Hong Kongs position plummeted dozens of places to 148th, reflecting Beijings efforts to use its legislative arsenal to confine its population and cut it off from the rest of the world, RSF said.
The situation is very bad in a record 28 countries, according to this years ranking of 180 countries and regions.
Democratic societies, it said, are increasingly fractured by social media spreading disinformation and media pursuing a Fox News model, referring to the controversial US right-wing television network.
Hong Kong has jailed dozens of democracy activists and shut down at least two Hong Kong publications  AFP  Anthony WALLACE
Autocratic regimes meanwhile tightly control information within their societies, using their leveraged position to wage propaganda wars against democracies and fuel divisions within them.
Novaya Gazetas Evgeniya Dillendorf said Russias lack of media diversity was down to financial backers and the judicial system  AFP  JUSTIN TALLIS
It is the biggest downfall of the year, but it is fully deserved due to the consistent attacks on freedom of the press and the slow disappearance of the rule of law in Hong Kong, Cedric Alviani, head of RSFs Taiwan-based East Asia bureau, told AFP.
The Free Press Unlimited group called the fall in the Netherlands alarming news and unprecedented, as the country had always been in the top 10 since 2002.
The report showed how Russia, where state-run media overwhelmingly dominates and independent outlets are largely stifled, waged a propaganda war before its invasion of Ukraine.
The creation of media weaponry in authoritarian countries eliminates their citizens right to information but is also linked to the rise in international tension, which can lead to the worst kind of wars, RSF Secretary-General Christophe Deloire said.
Reporters Without Borders, widely known by its French acronym RSF, presented its findings in the 2022 edition of its annual World Press Freedom Index.
