Our real Victory Day Ukrainians shun Soviet WWII anniversary
20220509
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/05/our-real-victory-day-ukrainians-shun-soviet-wwii-anniversary/
But this year, his pride has turned to indignation and anger, with the anniversary blackened by Russias full-scale invasion of his country.
But this year, to shore up Western support and distance the country from Soviet-era rituals, Ukraine is drawing parallels between the horrors brought on Europe by the Nazis and Russias invasion.
As well as Moscows support for pro-Russian separatists, these historic moments saw Kyiv embark on its ongoing project of de-Sovietisation, tearing down monuments and symbols from its Soviet past.
The pollster, Rating, described the shift as a key change in historical memory, within society, noting that one in four respondents said the event was a relic of the past.
His father was a soldier in the Moscows Red Army, fought in Europe during World War II and was held captive in a Nazi prisoner of war camp.
The two leaders agreed to promote what Zelenskyy called 'Grain From Ukraine Initiative' in telephonic talks on Thursday.
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
Adelina Deli, a popular African-Ukrainian choreographer, is among a crop of influential Ukrainians who are calling on Africans to take a strong stand against...
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has compared Nazi Germanys war in Europe with Russias invasion of Ukraine  AFP  Aleksey Filippov
The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory summarised the trend in blunter terms, proposing a new slogan for remembrance day.
Kyiv, May 9  The solemn rhetoric and formal gatherings in Ukraine marking the Soviet Unions victory over Nazi Germany on May 9 every year always had deep personal resonance for 62-year-old Volodymyr Kostiuk.
Since Russian President Vladimir Putin came to power, the holiday has taken on increasingly militaristic overtones, with a bombastic military parade through Moscows Red Square in showing off its latest military hardware.
We were fighting together against the Nazis. It was our joint victory. Today the Russians are killing and torturing us. This shared history no longer means anything, Kostiuk told AFP, after fleeing from his home as Russian troops poured into Ukraine.
But this year commemorative events marking victory of the Nazis have been cancelled with barrages of Russian fire rocking frontline towns.
The ousting of a Kremlin-friendly president and Russias annexation of the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 saw the gap widen.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Russias invasion has only quickened this trend. Recent polls show just over 30 percent of Ukrainians see Victory Day as important, down from 80 percent in previous years.
Meanwhile on the streets of Kyiv, Ukrainians had a different win on their minds.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
He compared bombings of European cities in World War II to Russian shelling on Ukraine this year and said Russia, like Nazi Germany, was attempting to give this evil a sacred purpose.
We defeated the Nazis  we will defeat the russhisty, it put forward, using a play on words in Ukrainian that combines the words Russian and fascist.
Ukraine began distancing itself from Victory Days Soviet traditions more than a decade ago, first by dropping Moscows preferred title of The Great Patriotic War opting instead for World War II in official discourse and history books.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
The Soviet Unions victory over Nazi Germany has traditionally been a holiday of national pride in the countries of the former Soviet Union, which with up to 27 million people killed, suffered the highest toll of any nation in World War II.
Its cities were attacked in the first hours of the Nazi invasion it spent several years under occupation was the scene of such atrocities as the Babyn Yar massacre of Jews outside Kyiv saw more than two million of its citizens sent as slave labour to Germany and is believed to have lost eight million civilians and soldiers in all.
Even before Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, the country was cooling to the Kremlins approach to commemoration.
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
Decades after World War II, darkness has returned to Ukraine. Evil has returned  in a different uniform, under different slogans, but for the same purpose, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an address on May 8.
Leonid Kotlarevsky, a soldier told AFP near a huge World War II monument in Kyiv that May 9 was a celebration for our grandfathers who fought against fascism.
Rodion, a 51-year-old pensioner nearby said no one will be celebrating May 9 now, after Russias invasion.
Siversk Ukraine AFP, Jan 9  Huddled in an underground shelter in war-battered east Ukraine, Oleksander and Lyudmila Murenets spend more time together these...
With attitudes in Ukraine changing, some politicians in Kyiv are calling for Soviet-era May events to be halted entirely  AFP  Aleksey Filippov
And since 2015, remembrance events are held not only on May 9 as in Soviet times, but also on May 8 dubbed Day of Memory and Reconciliation, mirroring European traditions.
We will have our own Victory Day, when Ukraine and the whole global community will win against Russia. And thats going to be our real Victory Day.
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
It also banned displays of the black-and-orange Saint George ribbon, which has been omnipresent at Victory Day celebrations in Russia as a symbol of Moscows military prowess since its annexation of Crimea in 2014.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
After the separatist conflict broke out in the east, Ukraine adopted the poppy used by some Western countries as its symbol of remembrance.
