Russias war on Ukraine Day six situation on the ground
20220301
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/russias-war-on-ukraine-day-six-situation-on-the-ground/
Ukraine says Russian strike targets Kyiv main TV tower and knocks out some state broadcasts.
The two leaders agreed to promote what Zelenskyy called 'Grain From Ukraine Initiative' in telephonic talks on Thursday.
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
Adelina Deli, a popular African-Ukrainian choreographer, is among a crop of influential Ukrainians who are calling on Africans to take a strong stand against...
Ukraine says has taken out hundreds of Russian pieces of weaponry, including 29 aircraft, 29 helicopters and 198 tanks.
Russian troops and pro-Moscow rebels link up in a key region in eastern Ukraine, Moscow says.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
One million people are displaced within Ukraine, and more than 677,000 have fled abroad, UN says.
Paris AFP, Mar 1  On the sixth day of fighting in Ukraine Tuesday, Russia is striking cities and building up its forces near the capital Kyiv, vowing not to stop until set goals are achieved.
A Russian missile attack on a government building in Kharkiv kills 10 or more and wounds 20, Ukraine says.
Eight more die in a subsequent air strike on a Kharkiv residential building, Ukraine says.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
Ukraine says Russia firing rockets into residential areas after failing to take Kharkiv and Chernihiv.
Russian forces made little progress in past 24 hours and dont control Ukraines airspace, British intelligence says.
Siversk Ukraine AFP, Jan 9  Huddled in an underground shelter in war-battered east Ukraine, Oleksander and Lyudmila Murenets spend more time together these...
Here is a summary of the situation on the ground, based on statements from the warring sides, Western defence and intelligence sources and international organisations.
Satellite images show 65-kilometre 40-mile column of Russian trucks, armoured vehicles and artillery north of Kyiv.
Russia says fired long-range high-precision weapons from the sea, hitting two unspecified airfields and three air defence radars.
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
Maps of Ukraine comparing areas under Russian control as of February 24 to February 28 at 2000 GMT  AFP  Cla PCULIER
