Russias war in Ukraine Latest developments
20220312
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/russias-war-in-ukraine-latest-developments-8/
Presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak says Kiev is already effectively under siege as the army and volunteers prepare to defend the city, street by street.
A senior official publishes a video showing soldiers escorting a man from a building, his head apparently covered in a black bag. Zelensky asks France and Germany to help secure his release.
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, Mar 30  Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine:  Buses en route to Mariupol  Ukraines...
The Premier League board disqualifies Roman Abramovich as a director of Chelsea Football Club after the Russian billionaire was placed under Western sanctions.
Russian troops shot at a group of women and children evacuees leaving a village near Kyiv, killing seven, one of them a child, Ukraines military intelligence service says.
More than two and a half million people have fled the senseless war in Ukraine, the UN says  more than half to Poland.
Kyiv AFP, Mar 11  Here are the latest developments in Russias war in Ukraine:  Russia encircling Kyiv  The capital Kyiv risks...
The head of Russian space agency Roscosmos warns that Western sanctions could cause the International Space Station to crash.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The mayor says more than 1,500 civilians have been killed. Corpses are lying uncollected in the streets.
The leaders of France and Germany urge Russian President Vladimir Putin in a call to end the more than week-long siege of the port of Mariupol. Residents have been trapped without running water and power for 11 days and there are reports of people starving.
In a media briefing, Zelensky says the approach being taken by Moscow is in contrast to earlier talks at which Moscow only issued ultimatums and that he is happy to have a signal from Russia after President Vladimir Putin said he saw some positive shifts in their dialogue.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The clergy of the Russian Orthodox Church in the Dutch city of Amsterdam, announce they are splitting from the Moscow church because of threats to them over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian lawmakers say Russian soldiers have abducted the mayor of the southern city of Melitopol, Ivan Fedorov.
US President Joe Biden authorises $200 million in additional military equipment for Ukraine. Washington has already authorised $350 million of military equipment  the largest such package in US history.
US President Joe Biden again rules out any direct intervention by the United States to halt Russias invasion of Ukraine, warning that such conflict pitting the NATO alliance against the Kremlin is World War III.
A cancer treatment hospital and an eye clinic suffer damage in bombardments of the city of Mykolaiv, near the strategic Black Sea port of Odessa, a few days after a maternity hospital in Mariupol was shelled.
Russian forces advance ever closer to the capital from the north, west and northeast. Russian strikes also destroy an airport in the town of Vasylkiv, south of the city.
Ukraine claims a mosque where about 80 civilians, including some Turkish nationals, were sheltering in Mariupol was shelled but a person staying there denies the report, saying the bomb fell 700 metres away.
A woman cries as she is evacuated from Irpin, just north of Kyiv, as Russian tanks press closer  AFP  Aris Messinis
Western countries reject Russian claims that the United States and Ukraine researched using bats to conduct biological warfare. Britains ambassador to the UN says the claims are utter nonsense.
Russian engineers arrive to measure radiation at a Ukrainian nuclear plant, the seizure of which has sparked international alarm, officials say.
Around 1,300 Ukrainian troops have been killed since the start of the invasion, President Volodymyr Zelensky says, the first time he has given a toll for Ukraines forces. Russia said on March 2 it had lost 498 soldiers, but Zelensky says it is closer to 12,000.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Kyiv AFP, Mar 12  Here are the latest developments in Russias war in Ukraine:
Dmitry Rogozin says the sanctions are affecting supplies to the Russian part of the station, which corrects the stations orbit.
