Russian gas exports drop 27 percent in JanuaryMay
20220601
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2022/06/russian-gas-exports-drop-27-percent-in-january-may/
NAIROBI, Kenya, Jun17  Kenyas tea leaves manufacturer Kericho Gold, has been awarded the Superbrands Seal by Superbrands East Africa for their quality variety...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 22  Airtel Kenya is offering free internet access for students in order to enable continued learning at home in the...
EU countries have scrambled to reduce their dependency on Russian energy but are divided about imposing a natural gas embargo as several member states are heavily reliant on Moscows energy supplies.
It is without a doubt that the COVID-19 pandemic has caught the whole world by surprise. Although its full impact is yet to be...
Gazprom added that gas deliveries to China via the Power of Siberia pipeline were increasing, but it did not provide any figures.
Moscow,Russia, June 1 Russias Gazprom said Wednesday its gas exports to countries outside of the former Soviet Union dropped by more than a quarter year-on-year between January and May after losing several European clients.
Since Russian President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine on February 24, Moscow has demanded that clients from unfriendly countries  including EU member states  pay for their gas in rubles.
Exports to countries outside the region totalled 61 billion cubic metres, a 27.6 percent fall from the same period last year, the energy giant said in a statement.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 24  Businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi is set to own half of Centum Investment Company PLC, following a go-ahead...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 12  The countrys super wealthy individuals are increasing their holding of bonds, gold and cash, a new report by Knight...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Apr 13  As the local telecommunications industry gears up to roll out 5G networks in the country, the Communications Authority of...
So far Poland, Bulgaria, Finland and the Netherlands have had their natural gas deliveries suspended over refusing to pay in rubles.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 9  Businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi has urged members of the public to exercise extreme caution when making any...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 18  Commercial Banks have been ordered to provide relief to borrowers on their personal loans, with loans eligible from March...
The new requirement is seen as a measure to sidestep Western financial sanctions against Russias central bank imposed over Moscows offensive in Ukraine.
