Russians lose Netflix in latest pullout over Ukraine
20220530
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2022/05/russians-lose-netflix-in-latest-pullout-over-ukraine/
Netflix is the worlds leading streaming platform, with 221.8 million subscribers at the end of 2021, but was a minor player in Russia.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Jun17  Kenyas tea leaves manufacturer Kericho Gold, has been awarded the Superbrands Seal by Superbrands East Africa for their quality variety...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 22  Airtel Kenya is offering free internet access for students in order to enable continued learning at home in the...
It is without a doubt that the COVID-19 pandemic has caught the whole world by surprise. Although its full impact is yet to be...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 18  Commercial Banks have been ordered to provide relief to borrowers on their personal loans, with loans eligible from March...
Netflix is among a host of foreign companies that have announced the suspension of operations or outright withdrawal from Russia since the launch of Moscows campaign in Ukraine on February 24.
The company said in an April letter to shareholders that it had lost 700,000 paid subscribers as a result of its withdrawal from Russia, blaming the pullout for its first global drop in subscribers in a decade.
The US-based platform announced in early March that it was withdrawing from Russia after Moscow sent thousands of troops into pro-Western Ukraine.
This is the fulfilment of the withdrawal from the Russian market announced in March, a Netflix spokesperson told AFP on Monday.
The Netflix site and apps were no longer available from Friday and a Netflix spokesperson confirmed that subscribers no longer had access.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 24  Businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi is set to own half of Centum Investment Company PLC, following a go-ahead...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 12  The countrys super wealthy individuals are increasing their holding of bonds, gold and cash, a new report by Knight...
The spokesperson said the company had waited until the end of the current billing cycle before cutting off customers.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Apr 13  As the local telecommunications industry gears up to roll out 5G networks in the country, the Communications Authority of...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 9  Businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi has urged members of the public to exercise extreme caution when making any...
Moscow,Russia May 30-Russian subscribers have lost access to streaming giant Netflix in the latest pullout of a Western company over the conflict in Ukraine.
