Russian strikes hit Kyiv as G7 meets
20220626
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/06/explosions-rock-kyiv-as-russians-fully-occupy-severodonetsk/
Biden said NATO and the G7 were defying Russian President Vladimir Putins wish for the West to splinter, vowing unity in support of Ukraine.
It was the third time since the invasion that this northwest neighbourhood had been hit. The nearby weapons factory produces air-to-air and anti-tank rockets among others.
A Russian missile had hit the Artyom factorys workshops which had already been targeted in April, it insisted. The residential building was damaged by a Ukrainian air defence missile, it said.
Edward Shkuta, who lives next door, said there had been four missiles since 6:30 am 0330 GMT.
Kyiv, Jun 2  Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine:  Street fighting in Severodonetsk  Ukrainian forces pledge to...
In Saint Petersburg on Saturday, Putin said Russia would deliver Iskander-M missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads to Belarus in the coming months.
Its capture would give Russia control of the entire Lugansk region in the Donbas, Ukraines industrial heartland.
Putin has referred to nuclear weapons several times since the invasion, in what the West has seen as a warning for it not to intervene.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz added that the club of industrialised nations needed to share responsibility to deal with the fallout from the war.
Allies including US President Joe Biden  who condemned the Kyiv attack as barbarism  will take stock of their support for Ukraine and for sanctions imposed on Moscow.
A building was directly hit on the top floors and I saw wounded people coming out.
An AFP team said there was a fire on the top three floors of the building and its stairwell was completely destroyed.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
But Johnson also cautioned Macron  who unlike the British leader has maintained a dialogue with Putin  that any attempt to settle the conflict now will only cause enduring instability.
One man died and four people, including the dead victims seven-year-old daughter, were taken to hospital following the early morning strikes, said city mayor Vitali Klitschko and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Klitschko said the attack was a Russian missile strike intended to intimidate Ukrainians ahead of the NATO summit.
He posted on Twitter a photo of an injured child being carried on a stretcher, who he said was sleeping peacefully in Kyiv until a Russian cruise missile blasted her home.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
In recent months, the fighting in Ukraine has focused on the eastern Donbas region, which has been partially under the control of pro-Moscow separatists since 2014.
Afterwards, residents gathered at the bottom of the building, many of them in tears. One woman was still wearing a bathrobe.
In recent months, the fighting in Ukraine has focused on the eastern Donbas region  AFP  SERGEY BOBOK
Zelensky renewed calls for more weapons and air defence systems to be delivered to Ukraine  AFP  Genya SAVILOV
But Russias defence ministry condemned as fake reports that it had targeted a residential building.
Zelensky will address the G7 and the NATO summit, the week after the European Union showed its support by granting Kyiv candidate status.
Russian forces sought to encircle Kyiv in the first few weeks after the February 24 invasion, but Sundays attack was the first strike on the capital since early June.
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, Jun 14  The leaders of France, Germany and Italy visited Kyiv on Thursday in a show of European support for...
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, Jun 25  Russian strikes hit a residential building in Kyiv on Sunday in the first attack on the capital in almost three weeks, Ukraine said, calling for increased support from G7 leaders meeting in Germany.
The Russians made a strategic breakthrough Saturday when they took the industrial hub of Severodonetsk, the scene of weeks of fierce battles that have left it largely destroyed.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said the attack was a Russian missile strike intended to intimidate Ukrainians  AFP  Sergei SUPINSKY
He also offered to upgrade Belarus warplanes to make them capable of carrying nuclear weapons.
Russia denied it had hit a civilian target. Earlier, it announced strikes against three military centres in northern and western Ukraine, including one near the border with NATO and EU member Poland.
Ukraine said it had come under massive bombardment Saturday morning from neighbouring Belarus which, although a Russian ally, is not officially involved in the conflict.
Partners should proceed more quickly if they are really our partners and not just observers any restriction is in reality an invitation to Russia to strike again and again, he said in his nightly message to the Ukrainian people.
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, Jun 6  Ukrainian forces may have to retreat from the eastern city of Severodonetsk which is being shelled by Russian...
The G7 talks opened on Sunday with the announcement of a ban on imports of Russian gold, but Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called for more.
The G7 summit must respond with more sanctions on Russia and more heavy arms for Ukraine. Russias sick imperialism must be defeated, he said.
Zelensky renewed calls for more weapons and air defence systems to be delivered to Ukraine and for fresh sanctions against Russia by G7 nations.
The high-profile attacks come as a week of Western diplomacy kicked off with the G7 summit in Germany, which will be followed by a meeting of NATO leaders in Spain.
At talks on the sidelines of the G7, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron said they saw an opportunity to turn the tide in Ukraine, a Downing Street spokesman said.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
I woke up at the first explosion, went to the balcony and saw missiles falling and heard a huge explosion  everything vibrated, 38-year-old Yuri told AFP, declining to give his surname.
Zelensky warned Belarus not to get dragged into the war by Russia and become slaves and cannon fodder in his address on Sunday evening.
Pro-Moscow separatists said Russian troops and their allies had entered neighbouring Lysychansk where Ukrainian forces retreated, which faces Severodonetsk on high ground across the Donets river.
