Russia lauds India for being nonpartisan in the Ukraine crisis
20220227
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/02/russia-lauds-india-for-being-non-partisan-in-the-ukraine-crisis/
They alleged that the guards were letting only Russian, Polish and Ukrainian citizens through the border and demanding bribes of $200 from each Indian student.
India and the US have moved ahead to jointly develop air launched unmanned aerial vehicles that will be used for surveillance missions, with first...
India, Brazil and the United States, as leading biofuel producers and consumers, will work together during the next few months towards the development of...
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
Highly appreciateIndias independent and balanced position at the voting in the UNSC, the Russian embassy inIndiatweeted on Saturday, hailing the countries special and privileged strategic partnership.
We have asked every country that has a relationship and certainly those countries that have leverage to use that leverage in a constructive way.
On Saturday, a batch of about 200 Indian students who made it to countries neighbouring Ukraine arrived on the first of several special flights.
The diplomatic frenzy comes asIndiaembarks on an air evacuation exercise for some 15,000 of its nationals, most of them students, stranded in Ukraine.
Despite being a member of the Quad grouping with Australia, Japan and the United States,Indiahas neither explicitly condemned Moscows actions, nor called them an invasion so far.
Indiaand Russia have a relationship, including in the defence and security sector, that we dont have, US State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters.
Indias careful, avoid angering Putin at all costs response despite Russias blatant aggression vs Ukraine highlights that it remains unprepared to step up to major power responsibilities or be a dependable partner, foreign relations expert Richard Haass tweeted.
Indias foreign secretary on Sunday admitted the situation at the checkpoint to Poland was difficult and said the students were now being advised to take other appropriate exit points to Hungary, Romania and Slovakia.
NEW DELHI, India Feb 27  Russia has praised Indias independent and balanced position after Delhi abstained from a UN Security Council vote that deplored Moscows aggression against Ukraine.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
On Saturday, Washington urged Delhi to use its influence with Russia to protect the rules-based international order.
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
Since the assault, Indian Prime Minister NarendraModihas spoken with both Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Russias Vladimir Putin, expressing concern over the violence.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
But hundreds of other students stuck on the border with Poland spent Saturday night without food, shelter and water as Ukrainian border guards were not allowing them through checkpoints, a report in the Times ofIndianewspaper said.
Munich: German Chancellor Oalf Scholz quoted External Affairs Minister S Jaishankars viral European mindset remark during the Munich Security Conference. Jaishankar, during the 17th...
New Delhi and Moscow were close throughout the Cold War, a relationship that endures to this day, and Russia continues to beIndias biggest arms supplier.
India, along with China and the UAE, did not vote on the resolution Friday, a move in line with the fine balance Delhi has sought to strike between partnerships with Moscow and Western allies.
