Shaken by Ukraine war Germany to buy dozens of US stealth jets
20220314
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/germany-to-buy-dozens-of-us-fighter-jets-in-spending-spree/
There can only be one answer to Putins aggression, and that is unity in NATO and credible deterrence, Lieutenant General Ingo Gerhartz, commander of the German Air Force, told reporters.
Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht called the purchase agreement a good step forwards for Germanys Bundeswehr armed forces.
The additional Eurofighter jets Germany plans to purchase, made by a consortium that includes Airbus, would be used for other operations, including electronic warfare like jamming enemy air defence systems.
The spending boost marks a major reversal for Europes top economy, upending its policy of keeping a low military profile in part out of guilt over World War II.
But the Bundeswehr has to replace its 40-year-old, 93-strong Tornado fleet in the short term because it has become obsolete, Scholz added.
Berlin intends to buy 35 F-35 jets made by Lockheed Martin to replace Germanys decades-old Tornado fleet, as well as purchasing an additional 15 Eurofighter jets.
Scholz sought to allay fears that the project might become unnecessary, saying in Februarys speech that the joint European project was an absolute priority.
But Finland ordered 64 F-35A jets in December, in a deal worth 8.4 billion euros.
While cheaper than F-35s, the F-18 would have had to have been recertified to be able to transport the atomic warheads hosted by Germany.
Known as the Future Combat Air System FCAS, that plane is slated to replace French-made Rafale jets and German and Spanish Eurofighter planes from 2040.
The F-35 builds a bridge to FCAS. The Luftwaffe will learn to fly these fifth generation jets and that will help the FCAS project.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
The F-35 purchase however raised questions about the future of a common European fighter jet that is being developed with Spain and France.
Germanys planned jet deal is bad news for US aviation giant Boeing, whose F-18 fighters were considered the frontrunner to succeed the Tornados.
In a landmark speech late last month, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz pledged to invest an extra 100 billion euros $112 billion to bring the nations chronically underfunded Bundeswehr into the modern age.
Germany plans to buy up to 35 F-35 fighter jets made by US firm Lockheed Martin as well as 15 Eurofighter jets  AFPFile  JACK GUEZ
Scholzs centre-left SPD and their coalition partners the Greens have historically been critical of Germany hosting US nuclear bombs, but those voices have faded into the background as the Ukraine war rages.
After years of criticism that the country wasnt shouldering enough of the financial burden in the NATO military alliance, Scholz vowed to spend more than two percent of Germanys gross domestic product annually on defence, surpassing NATOs own two-percent target.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Lawmaker Johannes Arlt from Scholzs Social Democratic Party SPD, said the F-35 deal was good news for FCAS in a roundabout way.
Berlin AFP, Mar 14  Germany on Monday unveiled plans to buy dozens of US-made F-35 fighter jets, as part of a multi-billion-euro push to modernise its armed forces in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Lockheeds fifth-generation F-35 stealth jets are considered the most modern combat aircraft in the world, and their unique shape and coating make them harder to detect by enemy radar.
The shift was prompted by Russias invasion of Ukraine on February 24, which shook Germanys sense of security and shone a harsh spotlight on the state of its armed forces.
Germanys Tornados are the only Luftwaffe planes certified to carry US nuclear bombs stationed in Germany that are a key part of NATO deterrence.
