Ukrainian envoy to Kenya says Russia to blame for increased food prices
20220324
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/ukrainian-envoy-to-kenya-says-russia-to-blame-for-increased-food-prices/
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
Under the hashtag, Lower Food Prices, the netizens decried the increase in prices of basic food commodities such as sifted maize flour, bread, vegetables and fruits.
The ambassador however noted that Ukraine is committedto ensuring that they get a good harvest in the coming season so as to minimize thenegative effects, despitethe ongoing conflict.
At the same time, Kenyans took to social media to protest the rising cost of food and groceries.
VIENNA, Austria Jan 3  Underlining that differences must be settled through talks, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said today that Prime Minister Narenrda...
Under the new prices, Super Petrol and Diesel will retail at Sh134.72 and Sh115.60 per litre respectively. Kerosene will remain unchanged at Sh103.54.
It is the first increase since November 2021, in what sources said is linked to the crisis between Ukraine and Russia.
I would like to assure Kenyans that we are doing everythingpossible to start the sowing campaign on time, and we are doing what we can to get a good crop. We will not allow people from other countries to face these negative implications, he stated.
Speaking to Capital in the morning on Thursday, Ambassador Andrii Pravednyk noted that Ukraine, whichisa main contributor of grain basket to most countriesincluding Kenya, and their workers are unable to work due to the conflict, leading to increased food prices.
Moscow AFP, Dec 25  Moscow said Monday it had foiled a new Ukrainian drone attack on a strategic bomber military base hundreds of...
He said they will ensure they have at least the same crop they had in 2021, so as to avert the situation.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
Moscows decision to ban oil exports to potential Western buyers supporting a price cap will likely boost Indian imports of Russian crude, industry executives...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 24  Ukrainian Ambassador to Kenya Andrii Pravednyk says Russia is to blame for the increased food prices in the country, saying the conflict has negatively affected crop production.
We provide food security to a number of countries around the world, in Africa including Kenya and definitely there will be negative implications since the ongoing hostilities will not allow Ukrainian agricultural workers to work as during peacefultimes but its Russia to blame because they startedthe full invasion, he stated.
Last month Kenya reviewed its fuel prices up by Sh5 in what is likely to further push up the countrys cost of living.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
UKRAINIAN President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in a phone call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday sought Indias help in the implementation of a peace...
