Ukraine Embassy in Kenya calls for funds aid in support of war with Russia
20220401
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/04/ukraine-embassy-in-kenya-calls-for-funds-aid-in-support-of-war-with-russia/
NAIROBI, Kenya Apr 1  Kenyans wishing to support Ukraine following the invasion by Russia can now send their donations through M-Pesa pay bill number 3002400.
Kramatorsk, May 26  The darting eyes of the sullen boy sitting all alone on a slab of a destroyed Ukrainian apartment tower moved...
The Russian envoy to Kenya said that the sanctions had dealt a big blow to the financial system that made it possible for the two countries to trade.
Kyiv, Jun 2  Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine:  Street fighting in Severodonetsk  Ukrainian forces pledge to...
Sloviansk Ukraine AFP, Jun 21  The city is ready to defend itself, insists Vadym Lyakh, mayor of Sloviansk in eastern Ukraine which could...
Kyiv, May 24  Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine:  Offensive stepped up  Russian forces are stepping up...
Ukrainian Ambassador to Kenya Andrii Pravednyk has blamed Russia for the increased food prices in the country, saying the conflict has negatively affected crop production.
Following the invasion of Ukraine by President Vladmir Putin, the European Union, the UK, US and allies resolved to ban a number of Russian banks from the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication Swift, an international payment system which allows transaction of money across the globe.
Dear friends, Following the many requests that we've received, the Embassy of Ukraine in Kenya has additionally opened an M-PESA account for charitable donations in support of Ukraine.We very much appreciate your solidarity with people in our fight against Russias invasion. pic.twitter.combErQD43lQV Ukraine in Kenya  UKRinKEN March 31, 2022
Colombo, Jun 12  Crisis-hit Sri Lanka announced weekly fuel quotas for motorists on Sunday, as an acute shortage worsened and longer queues formed...
Amb. Maksimychev pointed out that the sanctions are preventing Russia from selling food products to African countries including Kenya.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Washington AFP, May 10  US lawmakers voted Tuesday to send a $40 billion aid package to Ukraine as Washington warned that Russia was...
The Russian Ambassador to Kenya, Dmitry Maksimychev, has however, since denied reports that Ruassias invasion of Ukraine is to blame for rising food prices in Africa blaming sanction imposed by western nations for the rise in commodity prices.
The Ukrainian embassy in Kenya announced the initiative to support the countrys war against Russia and save the lives of the affected people in a post on Twitter.
There is a new tune in the information bubble that is being played that because of Russia, Africa will starve. I frankly cannot understand the logic because yes, we are a very big producer of food, grain, oil, vegetable oil, sunflower oil, all types of grain, meat, and poultry and so on. We are willing to sell this produce because we are big exporters, Maksimychev said when he spoke to Capital in Morning show
He added that the system was affecting both countries pointing out that the system recently shut down making it impossible for the two countries to make payments for products.
When he spoke to Capital in the morning on Thursday, the Ambassador noted that Ukraine, whichisa main contributor of grain basket to most countriesincluding Kenya, has seen their workers are unable to work due to the conflict, leading to increased food prices.
Washington AFP, Jul 22  The United States on Friday signed off on another $270 million in military aid to Ukraine including four new...
The embassy said the initiative was prompted by the many requests it had received from Kenyans keen on donating to the cause.
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees more than 3.9 million people have fled Ukraine since Russians invasion on February 24.
We provide food security to a number of countries around the world, in Africa including Kenya and definitely there will be negative implications since the ongoing hostilities will not allow Ukrainian agricultural workers to work as during peacefultimes but its Russia to blame because they startedthe full invasion, he stated.
Davos, May 26  Ukraines foreign minister, lawmakers and mayors made long journeys by car, train and plane to the Swiss Alps to convince...
