UN watchdog concerned over Ukraine nuclear power plant
20220301
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2022/03/un-watchdog-concerned-over-ukraine-nuclear-power-plant/
NAIROBI, Kenya, Jun17  Kenyas tea leaves manufacturer Kericho Gold, has been awarded the Superbrands Seal by Superbrands East Africa for their quality variety...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 22  Airtel Kenya is offering free internet access for students in order to enable continued learning at home in the...
The six reactors there were safe for the moment and Russian troops had not tried to enter the facility, a statement said.
It is without a doubt that the COVID-19 pandemic has caught the whole world by surprise. Although its full impact is yet to be...
But Grossi said he was following developments in Ukraine very closely and with grave concern.
An accident involving the nuclear facilities in Ukraine could have severe consequences for public health and the environment.
Vienna,Austria March 1-The UN atomic energy watchdogs chief on Monday expressed grave concern that invading Russian troops were operating close to the largest nuclear power station in Ukraine.
It is also the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, the 1986 Chernobyl fire. Russian troops captured the site on Thursday.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 24  Businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi is set to own half of Centum Investment Company PLC, following a go-ahead...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 12  The countrys super wealthy individuals are increasing their holding of bonds, gold and cash, a new report by Knight...
Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said he had received reports that the soldiers were close to the Zaporizhzhia station in eastern Ukraine.
Ukraine has four nuclear power stations currently in operation providing about half the countrys electricity.
He added: It is extremely important that the nuclear power plants are not put at risk in any way.
On Sunday, the agency said Ukraines nuclear authorities had reported that missiles had hit a radioactive waste disposal facility in Kyiv, although there was no damage to the building and no radioactive leak.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Apr 13  As the local telecommunications industry gears up to roll out 5G networks in the country, the Communications Authority of...
A meeting of the IAEAs governors is scheduled for Wednesday at its Vienna headquarters to discuss the risks that the conflict poses to Ukraines nuclear facilities.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 9  Businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi has urged members of the public to exercise extreme caution when making any...
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 18  Commercial Banks have been ordered to provide relief to borrowers on their personal loans, with loans eligible from March...
