War has destroyed 100 bn in Ukraine assets so far official
20220310
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/03/war-has-destroyed-100-bn-in-ukraine-assets-so-far-official/
Kyiv AFP, Mar 11  Here are the latest developments in Russias war in Ukraine:  Russia encircling Kyiv  The capital Kyiv risks...
Ustenko repeated his call for European and other governments to cut off Moscows access to blood money by boycotting Russian oil and natural gas.
The official praised the US for halting imports of Russian oil and said he hoped Washington would also help create a recovery fund for Ukraine.
The International Monetary Fund on Wednesday approved $1.4 billion in fast-disbursing aid for Ukraine, and the World Bank this week released nearly $500 million of what is expected to be a $3 billion financing package.
Geneva AFP, Mar 11  Some 2.5 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded two weeks ago, and around two million more have...
But Ustenko said, what we need most of all is more weapons and ammunition. This is critically important.
Washington AFP, Mar 10  Caught on the back foot by the Talibans lightning takeover of Kabul last August, US intelligence services have earned...
Horenka Ukraine AFP, Mar 10  A young Ukrainian mother was recovering after giving birth to twins in one of Kyivs top maternity hospitals...
Currently around 50 percent of our businesses are not operating, and those which are still operating are not operating at 100 percent, said Oleg Ustenko, chief economic advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Beirut AFP, Mar 10  Besieging cities, shelling civilian infrastructure and arranging safe corridors: the tactics used by Russia in its war on Ukraine...
Medyka Poland AFP, Mar 9  For Simon Massey, a British freelance event coordinator, helping to manage the inflow of refugees from war-torn Ukraine...
Kyiv also could use the approximately $300 billion in Russian central bank reserves frozen as a result of Western sanctions, as well as funds seized from oligarchs who are allies of President Vladimir Putin.
Stockholm AFP, Mar 10  Swedens government announced plans Thursday for a major boost in military spending to two percent of GDP as soon...
Washington AFP, Mar 10  The Russian invasion has so far destroyed about $100 billion in roads, bridges and businesses in Ukraine, dealing a huge hit to its economy, a Kyiv government official said Thursday.
Europeans are still paying to this monster in order to kill our people, innocent people, he said.
Lviv Ukraine AFP, Mar 9  My sunshine, my little one, we are going to win, sobs a woman, stroking the wooden coffin. She...
The situation in terms of economic growth, is going to be really very depressing, even if the war immediately stops, he said in a virtual speech to the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
While European nations rely on Russian energy for heat, I can assure you its much, much, much colder in the underground of Ukraine where the people are hidden.
