War in Ukraine Latest developments
20220530
https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2022/05/war-in-ukraine-latest-developments-52/
BFM says he was killed by shrapnel from the bombing of a humanitarian bus on which he was travelling with evacuees and that a French colleague of his was wounded.
Gazprom has already cut off gas to Finland, Poland and Bulgaria over their refusal to pay for gas in rubles, which Moscow is pushing as a way to sidestep Western sanctions on its central bank.
The two leaders agreed to promote what Zelenskyy called 'Grain From Ukraine Initiative' in telephonic talks on Thursday.
Pravednyk clarified that Ukraine continues to receive support from countries around the world, and that the backing of the international community has been crucial...
Adelina Deli, a popular African-Ukrainian choreographer, is among a crop of influential Ukrainians who are calling on Africans to take a strong stand against...
GasTerra says Russian gas giant Gazprom had informed the company it would turn off the tap on May 31.
EU leaders back a ban on most Russian oil imports, after a compromise deal with Hungary that will exempt deliveries arriving by pipeline.
Danish energy company Orsted warns Russia could cut gas supplies to Denmark after it also refused to pay in rubles.
Russian forces advance closer to the centre of the eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk, which has been under bombardment for weeks in the battle for Ukraines industrial heartland.
Severodonetsk is the easternmost city still in Ukrainian hands. Capturing it would give Russia de-facto control over Lugansk, one of two eastern regions that make up the coveted Donbas.
EU leaders also agree to ban Russias biggest lender, Sberbank, from the SWIFT financial messaging system.
We are not going to send to Ukraine rocket systems that can strike into Russia, Biden, who has announced billions of dollars in military aid for Ukraine, tells reporters in Washington.
SWIFTs messaging system allows banks to communicate rapidly and securely about transactions, and cutting the bank off makes it difficult to receive or make international payments.
This week, US President Joe Biden made a surprise visit to Ukraine where he held a meeting with president VolodymyrZelenskyy. This visit clearly demonstrates...
US President Joe Biden says he will not send Ukraine rocket systems that could hit targets well inside Russian territory, despite urgent requests from Kyiv for long-range weapons.
Kyiv Ukraine AFP, May 30  Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine:
Nairobi, Kenya, Feb 24  Kenya is set to receive donation of 25000 metric tonnes of wheat from Ukraine within the next month, a...
The Russians are advancing into the middle of Severodonetsk. The fighting continues. The situation is very difficult, Lugansk governor Sergiy Gaiday says on Telegram.
Siversk Ukraine AFP, Jan 9  Huddled in an underground shelter in war-battered east Ukraine, Oleksander and Lyudmila Murenets spend more time together these...
The situation in Donbas remains extremely difficult. The Russian army is trying to gather overwhelming forces in certain areas to put more and more pressure on our defenders. There, in Donbas, the maximum combat power of the Russian army is now gathered, Zelensky says in his nightly address.Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
A 32-year-old French television journalist is killed while covering the evacuation of civilians near Severodonetsk for news channel BFM.
EU chief Ursula von der Leyen R says the ban will cut about 90 percent of oil imports from Russia to the European Union  AFP  JOHN THYS
Kyiv has asked the United States for rocket launchers with a range of up to 300 kilometres 187 miles.
Speaking on the eve to mark a year since Russia's invasion condemned by the global community, Amb Andri Pravednyk told Capital News on Thursday...
Zelensky hailed the surprise visit as a key sign of support nearly one year after Russia invaded.
This will effectively cut around 90 percent of oil imports from Russia to the EU by the end of the year, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen tweeted after agreement on the sixth package of sanctions against Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine.
Dutch energy firm GasTerra says it will be cut off from Russian gas for refusing to pay in rubles, a key demand of the Kremlin since the invasion began.
Frederic Leclerc-Imhoff is the eighth journalist killed while covering the war, according to a count by the Reporters without Borders NGO and AFP.
Ukraines Donbas is in an extremely difficult situation, President Volodymyr Zelensky says as Russian forces advance in the eastern region that has been under relentless bombardment.
