Corkbased plumber returns home to fight for Ukraine
20220228
https://www.irishexaminer.com/news/munster/arid-40817862.html
"Im from Kyiv, my family are there, my father, mother, brother, and all of them are pushed to take the weapons to protect themselves, their lives," he said.
His message to those who can support Ukraines defence against Russia is a simple one: Help us with weapons.
"We don't want a war, Ukrainians love peace and democracy but the Russians are trying to destroy our country every day they are attacking us, killing us.
I cry every day, I ring them and ask them are they okay, all our thoughts are about Ukraine now.
The men were travelling with donations of essential supplies like batteries, sleeping bags, helmets, flak jackets and money, all donated from Irish people and the Ukrainian community in Ireland.
Andrej Mitigan, a civil engineer who lives in Limerick with his wife and young daughter, said he was also prepared to go back to Ukraine and fight.
Becoming emotional, Mr Mitigan said: My daughter is two years old, and yesterday she said to me, Father, lets draw a rocket, and I cried.
Polands Border Guard said some 22,000 people have crossed into Ukraine since Thursday when Russia invaded the country. More are arriving every hour.
I support our president because Russias rockets are not only killing our soldiers, they are hitting our houses, and even our kindergartens have been attacked they are killing civilians not only soldiers.
Andrej, his wife, Alisa, and their two-year-old daughter, Mia, settled in Limerick in 2020, when he began working for a local construction company.
Pavlo Serdiuk, who lives in Cork, and Andrej Mitigan, who lives in Limerick. Pictures: RT David Raleigh
Ms Mitigan's parents live close to the shellshocked capital city Kyiv and are fully supportive the orders of Ukraine president Mr Zelenskyy.
"I'm not going to lie, I am scared. The closer you get the more scared you are, but it is what it is," he said.
Mr Serdiuk was among a group of Ukrainian men interviewed by RT, as they packed and readied themselves to depart Ireland and return to their country.
Pavlo Serdiuk, an apprentice plumber working with Trevor Hill Plumbing, said he would return to Ukraine to do his duty.
Mr Mitigan said his family in Ukraine have already seen the worst of the war, they see how people die, and they hear rockets.
Of course, I am worried for them, I don't know if I will see them in the future, I don't know if I will see them alive again, they don't know what will happen, said Ms Mitigan.
Speaking from Kyiv over the weekend, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on foreign volunteers to come and fight in Ukraines defence.
Mr Mitigan said economic sanctions imposed on Russia are not enough, but he believes Ukraine can defend itself without the need for allied troops in the country  but only as long as Western powers continue to supply Ukraine with military support.
The group flew to Krakw in Poland on Sunday night. Their plan was to then drive across the border into Ukraine and join the civilian resistance to the invading Russian army.
Among those ready to go home and fight are a Cork-based plumber and a Limerick-based civil engineer.
As thousands of people flee the Russian invasion, many Ukrainian nationals living in Ireland are returning home to defend their country.
Mr Mitigan, 35, said his parents and brother informed him they have already taken up arms, and are sleeping in basements to try to avoid Russian missile strikes.
I want to protect them, and if the situation worsens Im going to go back to Ukraine to protect them.Im a civil engineer, Im not a soldier, but I will go back and fight.
