For Ukraine this is the most important year ever for Eurovision
20220504
https://www.irishexaminer.com/lifestyle/artsandculture/arid-40865270.html
This is unprecedented territory for a contest that has previously had an extremely uneasy relationship with inter-European politics. For years, Eurovisions organisers, the European Broadcasting Union EBU, have maintained that it is an intrinsically anti-political spectacle  and have repeatedly stepped in to stifle the expression of opinions that challenge such a claim.
Ukraine representatives and members of Kalush Orchestra attend the red carpet of the Eurovision party "Eurovision PreParty" at Sala La Riviera on April 16, 2022 in Madrid, Spain
"So I would like to urge everyone to support Ukraine, to find the time to think about what they can do to help Ukraine in this situation. If everyone in the whole world does what they can, then we can end this war much sooner  and prevent it happening again in another country.
Another big question lies around what the distribution of votes might look like this year. In a continent thats being swept by a new spirit of collaboration, might we see a shakeup of the entrenched system of douze points allocation? Could there be an end to the Scandi, Balkan and ex-Soviet voting blocs?
For Psiuk and the rest of his six-man crew, this years song contest represents a unique opportunity. In the midst of an unprecedented threat to European security, he also sees an unprecedented desire for the continent to bond together.
Most of all we would like to have victory at the main frontline. But at this moment, any victory is meaningful and important.
With the benefit of hindsight, its notable that these were often protest songs about Russian hostility towards its neighbours. The EBU banned the 2009 Georgia entry, 'We Dont Wanna Put In'  for its less than subtle dig at Russias then prime minister, following the Russo-Georgian war. It had anti-booing technology installed to prevent the worldwide audience hearing the crowds protests against Russias 2015 entrant, following the Crimean invasion.
Its a lovely reminder of the competitions importance, but one thats not surprising. After all, in the middle of a country torn apart by war, the feeling that theyre backed by their neighbours might be the most important thing they could possibly dream of. Well, almost.
Just in case you were wondering, after watching the performances, whether the continents borders were tumbling, outrageously partisan national voting usually confirms that the spirit of intercontinental togetherness is a mirage. Greece and Cyprus give one another douze points, the Scandinavian countries vote for each other, and poor old Eurosceptic Britain has spent most of the last decade in the bottom three places.
We want to avoid any kind of politicisation, and that is why we would first of all discuss it with the team before doing anything," he says.
The groundswell of support around the act has seen the Ukrainian government grant them a special permit to travel to Italy, despite initial fears theyd have to perform via video link from a secure bunker, as a result of laws preventing young men from leaving the country. Kalush are now the overwhelming favourite to win this years competition  with the majority of the continent looking set to use their vote to make a statement about Russias aggression.
Our song has managed to unite so many Ukrainians and I hope that it will unite Europeans  and maybe the whole world.
Nonetheless, even if Ukraine were to win, Psiuks not sure that the rules around overtly political statements would ever allow him to actually say these words.
I really believe that unity is important at the moment, he explains via Zoom from the hotel room hes staying in during a pre-contest promotional tour of Israel.
If they had been allowed to enter Eurovision this year, it would have symbolised the support of Russias actions, says Oleh Psiuk, frontman of this years Ukrainian entry, folk-tinged hip-hop crew, Kalush Orchestra.
When you wake up every morning to the sound of explosions, when you wake up without being sure if your girlfriend or family are alive, this is scary  really scary.
Back in February, Psiuk came second in his countrys Eurovision selection process with Stefania, a musical tribute to his mother. Then, in a surprise twist, following the withdrawal of the first-placed act due to an alleged visit to the Russian-occupied region of Crimea, he found out he was going to represent Ukraine in this years competition, which takes place in Turin, Italy. At which point, Russia invaded his nation, his song was adopted by his compatriots as a homage to their motherland, and now it soundtracks about 150,000 TikTok clips, from videos of worldwide Standwithukraine protests to footage of rocket launchers being fired from buildings.
Thats why were bringing the world a message I would put in one word: love.
There are people who may see this conflict as a kind of a war film  something that is really far away and something that cannot happen to them. But it has already happened to us. We didnt believe it beforehand, but it has actually happened.
For Psiuk, theres a feeling that this contest might represent a once-in-a-generation chance to rethink petty European rivalries and for the continent to come together through song like never before.
But the band are driven by feelings that they had an important mission to raise awareness for their country  a feeling Psiuk has turned into something that sounds incredibly like a continent-rousing post-Eurovision acceptance speech.
The 2015 contest had anti-booing technology so the audience couldnt hear protests about the invasion of Crimea. This year, however, things might be different.
It gives me a good feeling  its a nice thing to know, says Psiuk  not that he thinks the Russian invasion is entirely responsible for his entrys popularity.
It also puts Kalush Orchestra in a difficult position when it comes to articulating their feelings about their countrys plight. Just to travel to Eurovision this year, Psiuk has had to step away from the 35-person volunteering organisation he set up to provide access to safe accommodation, transport and medicine for refugees. Kalush Orchestra have had to find a replacement for a band member who is fighting in the Kyiv defence forces.
Read MoreEurovision should-bes: The six acts we'd love to see take to the stage in Turin
While nations competing in Eurovision have been at war before  bloody border disputes have erupted between Armenia and Azerbaijan for years, while Russia attacked Georgia in 2008 and invaded the Crimea region in 2014  this time the mood against Russians invasion of Ukraine is resolute. After initially saying that Russia could compete, since the contest was apolitical, the organisers reversed their decision and banned the country.
And while, in 2016, it allowed Ukraine to enter a controversial competition-winning song about Russias deportation of the Crimean Tatar population in the second world war, the broadcasters were quick to condemn Ukraine as host the following year, when the country stopped the Russian contestant Yulia Samoilova from travelling to the final in 2017 due to claims she had illegally entered Crimea. Which the BBCs Moscow correspondent suggested was possibly deliberate Russian provocation, or precisely what Moscow wanted when it chose Samoilova, knowing that she had travelled to Crimea.
Even before the war, our song was in the top five according to the bookies. This situation that has happened may have influenced the way that we have raced to the first position in the odds, but the fact is that we have a very good song  a great song, in fact.
In its 66 years of broadcasting, the Eurovision Song Contest has usually provided joy, hilarity and songs.
For Ukraine, this is the most important year ever for Eurovision. And I would really like it to be true for the whole world as well," he says, as he prepares to end the Zoom call.
Set up with the noble intention of showing that music could unite Europe, it has instead been a glorious failure, with knock-off Slipknots , tone-deaf, bread-baking grannies and Israeli rappers squawking like chickens all emphasising, if anything, the impenetrability of a foreign nations favourite pop music  even when theyre singing in English.
