No end in sight for Ukraine war as Vladimir Putin hails Victory Day
20220509
https://www.irishexaminer.com/world/arid-40868714.html
The Ukrainian military warned of a high probability of missile strikes around the holiday, and some cities imposed curfews or warned people not to gather in public places.
The fall of Mariupol would deprive Ukraine of a vital port, allow Russia to complete a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, and free up troops to fight elsewhere in the Donbas.
Russia has about 97 battalion tactical groups in Ukraine, largely in the east and the south, a slight increase over last week, according to a senior US official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the Pentagons assessment.
More than 60 people were feared dead over the weekend after Russian bombardment flattened a Ukrainian school being used as a shelter in the eastern village of Bilohorivka, Ukrainian officials said.
The US official said roughly 2,000 Russian forces were around Mariupol and the city was being pounded by airstrikes.
Others suggested he might declare the fighting a war, not just a special military operation, and order a nationwide mobilisation, with a call-up of reserves, to replenish the depleted ranks for an extended conflict.
As Mr Putin laid a wreath in Moscow, air raid sirens echoed again in the Ukrainian capital.
In Warsaw, anti-war protesters splattered Russias ambassador to Poland with what appeared to be red paint as he arrived at a cemetery to pay respects to Red Army soldiers who died during the Second World War.
As he has done all along, Mr Putin falsely portrayed the fighting as a battle against Nazism, thereby linking the war to what many Russians regard as their finest hour: the triumph over Nazi Germany.
On the ground, meanwhile, intense fighting raged in Ukraines east, the vital Black Sea port of Odesa in the south came under bombardment again, and Russian forces sought to finish off the Ukrainian defenders making their last stand at a steel plant in Mariupol.
Ukrainian leaders and their western backers have denied that Kyiv or Nato posed a threat.
As many as 2,000 Ukrainian defenders were believed to be holding out at the steel plant, the citys last stronghold of resistance.
Critics said the speech skirted some uncomfortable realities that Mr Putin is facing with the campaign in Ukraine faltering, he has not asked Russians to accept sacrifices to weather the sanctions and diplomatic isolation.
A few scattered protesters were detained around the country on Victory Day, while editors at one pro-Kremlin media outlet revolted by briefly publishing a few dozen stories criticising Putin and the invasion.
Without concrete steps to build a new force, Russia cant fight a long war, and the clock starts ticking on the failure of their army in Ukraine, tweeted Phillips OBrien, professor of strategic studies at the University of St Andrews in Scotland.
Russia has given a pre-emptive response to aggression. It was forced, timely and the only correct decision.
The Soviet Union lost 27 million people in what Russia refers to as the Great Patriotic War.
He steered clear of battlefield specifics, failing to mention the potentially pivotal battle for the vital southern port of Mariupol and not even uttering the word Ukraine.
He also left unanswered the question of whether and how Russia will marshal more forces in the face of significant losses.
The war in the country long known as the breadbasket of Europe has disrupted global food supplies.
"The truth is that Russia's General Staff are failing and they know it". - BWallaceMP The Defence Secretary, Ben Wallace, delivered a speech at the National Army Museum earlier today.  StandwithUkraine  pic.twitter.compwtJ8ivMTz
But his much-anticipated speech offered no new insights into how he intends to salvage the grinding war, and he instead stuck to allegations that Ukraine posed a threat to Russia, even though Moscows nuclear-armed forces are far superior in number and firepower.
But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky declared in his own Victory Day address that his country would eventually defeat the Russians.
I saw silos full of grain, wheat and corn ready for export, Charles Michel, president of the European Council, lamented in a tweet after a visit to Odesa.
Mr Putin has long bristled at Natos creep eastward into former Soviet republics, and argued on Monday that Russia had to invade Ukraine before an inevitable clash.
He added: We are fighting for freedom, for our children, and therefore we will win.
Russian President Vladimir Putin used his countrys biggest patriotic holiday to again justify his war in Ukraine but did not declare even a limited victory or signal where the conflict is headed.
With the war in its 11th week, Russia was perhaps closest to a victory in Mariupol.
Progress in the east, though, has been slow going, and many analysts had suggested Mr Putin might use his speech to declare some sort of victory  potentially in Mariupol  to counter discontent over Russias heavy casualties and the punishing effects of western sanctions at home.
Very soon there will be two Victory Days in Ukraine, he said in a video.
Ukrainian officials said Russia fired four cruise missiles targeting the city on Monday from Crimea.
He also sought to depict the offensive underway for control of the Donbas region in the east  Moscows focus after its abortive attempt to storm the capital, Kyiv  as a fight on Russias historic lands.
The official said that overall, the Russian effort in the Donbas has not achieved any significant progress in recent days and continues to face stiff resistance from Ukrainian forces.
The Russian leader oversaw a Victory Day parade on Moscows Red Square on Monday, with troops marching in formation and military hardware on display to celebrate the Soviet Unions role in the 1945 defeat of Nazi Germany, as his forces pressed their offensive with few signs of progress.
This badly needed food is stranded because of the Russian war and blockade of Black sea ports. Causing dramatic consequences for vulnerable countries.
