Russian diplomat predicts difficult week of talks with US over Ukraine
20220109
https://www.irishexaminer.com/world/arid-40781775.html
A top Russian diplomat predicted difficult talks with the United States this week after attending a working dinner with US officials in Geneva on Sunday as part of the kick-off to a string of meetings in three European cities this week, with bilateral ties at a low over Russias military build-up near Ukraine.
The Russian side came here with a clear position that contains a number of elements that, to my mind, are understandable and have been so clearly formulated, including at a high level, that deviating from our approaches simply is not possible, Ryabkov said.
Ambassador Thomas Greminger, director of the Swiss government-supported Geneva Centre for Security Policy who hosted Ryabkov for a Geneva conference in October, said the Geneva talks were an opportunity to spell out mutual concerns, to spell out mutual expectations. But it would be way too early to expect any clarity, for instance, regarding Ukraines bid for NATO membership.
Russia was coming into the talks seeking a clearer understanding of the US position, and cited signals from Washington that some of the Russian proposals can be discussed, Ryabkov said, according to state news agency Tass earlier on Sunday.
He laid out Russias three demands: no further Nato expansion, no missiles on Russias borders, and for Nato no longer to have military exercise, intelligence operations or infrastructure outside of its 1997 borders.
The United States and other Western allies have pledged severe costs to Russia if it moves against Ukraine.
US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, told ABCs This Week on Sunday he did not expect any breakthroughs in talks in the bilateral talks in Geneva or during conversations in Brussels, at a meeting of the Nato-Russia Council, and at the Organisation for Cooperation and Security in Europe in Vienna later this week.
The dinner was a prelude to a broader discussion between the two teams at the US mission in Geneva starting on Monday  culminating a string of meetings both virtual and in person among US officials, their Western allies, and Russian leaders in recent days and weeks as tensions over Russian pressure against Ukraine have grown.
Russian deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, and other Russian officials met for over two hours with US deputy Secretary of State, Wendy Sherman, the head of the US delegation, and her team at the luxury residence of the US ambassador to the Conference on Disarmament that overlooks Lake Geneva.
What were seeing is a lot of posturing, added Greminger, who is also a former head of the OSCE. I think at the end, both Putin and US President Joe Biden have absolutely no interest to push towards an escalation.
The talks are seen a first step toward rekindling dialogue as ties have worsened because Russia has deployed an estimated 100,000 troops along its border with Ukraine. Concerns have risen about a broader Russian military incursion in the country.
But they warned of hard economic sanctions in case of a Russian intervention, including direct sanctions on Russian entities, restrictions on products exported from the US to Russia, and potentially foreign-made products subject to US jurisdiction.
US officials expressed openness on Saturday to opening discussions on curtailing possible future deployments of offensive missiles in Ukraine and putting limits on American and NATO military exercises in Eastern Europe  if Russia is willing to back off on Ukraine.
Russian president Vladimir Putins government has laid out a list of demands, such as seeking guarantees that the NATO military alliance will not seek to expand any further eastward to countries like Ukraine or Georgia, which are former Soviet republics.
The question really now is whether President Putin will take the path of diplomacy and dialogue or seeks confrontation, Blinken said, suggesting that a Russian move deeper into Ukraine might run counter to Moscows interests in the long run.
We plunged into the substance of the forthcoming issues, but the talks are going to be difficult, Ryabkov told reporters as he left the dinner meeting.
If Russia commits renewed aggression against Ukraine, I think its a very fair prospect that Nato will reinforce its positions along its eastern flank, the countries that border Russia, he told ABC.
They cannot be easy. They will be business-like. I think we wont waste our time tomorrow.
Asked whether Russia was ready for compromise, he said: The Americans should get ready to reach a compromise.
