Ukraine says Russian troops are withdrawing from Kharkiv
20220514
https://www.irishexaminer.com/world/arid-40872485.html
Local residents stand at the side of damaged during a heavy fighting buildings in Mariupol, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Friday, May 13, 2022. AP Photo
No one today can predict how long this war will last, he said in his nightly video address on Friday.
Mr Zelenskyy said Ukraines forces had made progress, retaking six Ukrainian towns or villages in the past day. Western officials said Ukraine had driven Russian forces back around Kharkiv, which was a key target for Moscows troops.
In other developments, a move by Finland and potentially Sweden to join Nato was thrown into question when Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said his country is not of a favourable opinion towards the idea.
The UK Ministry of Defence said Russia lost significant armoured manoeuvre elements of at least one battalion tactical group in the attack. A Russian battalion tactical group consists of about 1,000 troops.
Mr Zelenskyy said in his video address that Ukrainians were doing everything they could to drive out the Russians, but no one today can predict how long this war will last.
It said the risky river crossing was a sign of the pressure the Russian commanders are under to make progress in their operations in eastern Ukraine.
However, Russian forces suffered heavy losses in a Ukrainian attack that destroyed a pontoon bridge they were using to try to cross the river in Bilohorivka, Ukrainian and British officials said, in another sign of Moscows struggle to salvage a war gone awry.
Fighting was fierce on the Siversky Donets River near the city of Severodonetsk, where Ukraine has launched counterattacks but failed to halt Russias advance, said Oleh Zhdanov, an independent Ukrainian military analyst.
Defence minister Oleksii Reznikov said Ukraine is entering a new  long-term  phase of the war.
Ukraines general staff said the Russians were pulling back from the north-eastern city of Kharkiv and focusing on guarding supply routes, while launching mortar, artillery and air strikes in the eastern Donetsk region to deplete Ukrainian forces and destroy fortifications.
He accused Sweden and other Scandinavian countries of supporting Kurdish militants and others Turkey considers terrorists.
The fate of a large portion of the Ukrainian army is being decided  there are about 40,000 Ukrainian soldiers.
Read MoreWar in Ukraine will be over by end of the year, says head of military intelligence
The Ukrainian military chief for the Luhansk region of Donbas said on Friday that troops had nearly full control of Rubizhne, a city with a pre-war population of around 55,000.
Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the war aiming to thwart Natos eastward advance. The invasion of Ukraine has other countries along Russias flank worried they could be next.
The Ukrainians continue to launch counterattacks, particularly around Kherson and Kharkiv. We expect this to settle into a long attritional battle, the official added.
The Russians really havent made much in the way of tactical gains recently, one western official said, describing the wars front line as oscillating.
This will depend, unfortunately, not only on our people, who are already giving their maximum, he said. This will depend on our partners, on European countries, on the entire free world.
After failing to capture Kyiv, Ukraines capital, the Russian military decided to concentrate on the Donbas, but its troops have struggled to gain ground.
Russias offensive in Donbas, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland, appeared to be turning into a village-by-village, back-and-forth slog with no major breakthroughs on either side.
Ukraines airborne command released photos and video of what it said was a damaged Russian pontoon bridge over the Siversky Donets River and at least 73 destroyed or damaged Russian military vehicles nearby.
Russian troops are withdrawing from Ukraines second-largest city after weeks of heavy bombardment, the Ukrainian military said as the two sides engaged in a grinding battle for the countrys east.
As the countrys top prosecutor put a Russian soldier on trial for war crimes, the first of dozens that could face charges, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukrainians were doing their maximum to drive out the invaders and that the outcome of the war would depend on support from Europe and other allies.
