Ukraines anxious grain farmers face uncertainty as harvest begins
20220711
https://www.irishexaminer.com/farming/arid-40914788.html
The green spikes of wheat are already ripening. Soon, the horizon will look like the Ukrainian flag, a sea of gold beneath a blue sky.
Mr Horbachov warned: Without opening the Black Sea ports, I dont see any solution for Ukrainian farmers to survive.
The country has not yet run out of grain storage, but that could happen by the end of September when the harvest of corn and sunflower seeds begins.
Oleksandr Chubuks warehouse should be empty, awaiting the new harvest, with his supply of winter wheat already shipped abroad.
Even more had been expected this year, but now even the best-case scenario forecasts a harvest of only 70 million tons.
Before Russias invasion, Ukraine could export six to seven million tons of grain per month, but in June it shipped only 2.2 million, according to the Ukrainian Grain Association.
Mr Chubuk expects to reap 500 tons, but for the first time in his 30 years as a farmer, he is uncertain about what to do with it.
The country is also trying to ship grain via 12 border crossings with European countries, but trucks must wait in line for days and Europes infrastructure cannot yet absorb such a volume of grain, Mr Horbachov said.
Meanwhile, many farmers in Ukraine could go bankrupt. They are facing the most difficult situation since gaining independence in 1991, Mykola Horbachov, head of the Ukrainian Grain Association, said.
It can be finished in a moment by bombing, or as we see now, the fields are on fire, said Yurii Vakulenko in the Dnipropetrovsk region, with black smoke visible in the distance.
Instead, his storage bins in central Ukraine are piled high with grain he cannot ship because of the war with Russia.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said his country is working with the UN, Ukraine and Russia to find a solution, offering safe corridors in the Black Sea for wheat shipments.
Before the invasion, Mr Chubuk could sell a ton of wheat from his Kyiv region farm for 266. Now he cannot find a buyer even at 132 per ton.
Mr Horbachov said: Most of the farmers are running the risk of becoming bankrupt very soon. But they dont have any other option but to sell their grain cheaper than its cost.
In eastern and southern regions near the front line, farmers continue to work their fields despite the threat to their lives.
The war has trapped about 22 million tons of grain inside Ukraine, according to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a growing crisis for the country known as the breadbasket of Europe for its exports of wheat, corn and sunflower oil.
His workers risk their lives for little return, with storage facilities now refusing to take their grain, Mr Vakulenko said.
With Russias blockade of Ukraines Black Sea ports, the fate of the upcoming harvest in Ukraine is in doubt.
Russias invasion has also caused transportation costs to soar. The price to deliver this years harvested barley to the closest Romanian port, Constanta, is now about 165 per ton, up from about 41. And yet a farmer selling barley to a trader gets less than 83 per ton.
Farmers need to purchase fertilisers, seeds, diesel, pay the salary, Mr Horbachov said. Ukrainian farmers cant print money.
Normally, it sends about 30 of its grain to Europe, 30 to north Africa and 40 to Asia.
The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation says the war is endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
For now, Ukraine is trying less-effective alternatives to export its grain, at least to Europe. Currently, 30 of exports go via three Danube River ports in south-western Ukraine.
