Ukraine invasion Belarus  strategic stability What to expect from PutinBiden summit
20211129
https://www.rt.com/russia/542332-putin-biden-meeting-predictions/
The supposed threat of Russian aggression against Ukraine has been trumpeted in the West since mid-November. Over the weeks, vague claims of a Russian military buildup morphed into full-blown explanations of how the invasion would unfold, complete with maps showing directions of offensive operations, based on US intelligence reportedly shared with NATOmembers.
German newspaper Bild has made a map of a possible Russian invasion of Ukraine, according to estimates of sources from NATO and Ukrainian intelligence. It includes an attack on Kiev. The Russian Foreign Ministry called the article nonsense and "propaganda mixed with ideology." pic.twitter.comwM6YXyGlMv
The June Biden-Putin meeting in Switzerland likewise happened after Western and Ukrainian media spent months hyping up a looming Russian aggression that never materialized. Both then and now, Russia outlined that all of its troop movements were purely defensive.
Ukraine can become the next Afghanistan for Russia if it chooses to move further, Chris Murphy, a member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, told CNN, adding that the US Congress should be ready to support Ukraine with arms and other support.
When Putin staged an earlier military buildup on Ukraines border in the spring, Biden responded by requesting a high-profile meeting in Geneva, with all the pageantry of Cold War superpower summits. Putin loved it, he opined.
McFauls reduction of Russias foreign policy to a high-school drama over who gets to sit with the cool kids is not grounded in reality, said Pavel Sharikov, a senior researcher at the Institute for USA and Canada Studiesof Russian Academy of Sciences, because Moscowis simply too influential to be ignored.
Both McFaul and Kosachev predict that the US and its NATO partners wont risk their own forces for Kiev. Last week, Ukraines defense minister called on America, Britain, and Canadato deploy their troops on Ukraines eastern flank.
Officials in Kiev state that a Russian attack is bound to happen sometime after January 20. But even the fiercest critics of the Russian government are skeptical that military action will actually take place. Barack Obamas ambassador to Russia, Professor Michael McFaul, believes that getting Biden to agree to a one-on-one was a major goal for Russia.
They are incommensurable in many regards  political, geographical, historical  they are too different That is on top of the fact that we dont consider war as the basic scenario, he told RT.
Vladimir Putin and Joe Biden will have a bilateral meeting on Tuesday via a video link. The American leader plans tounderscore US concerns with Russian military activities on the border with Ukraine and reaffirm the United States support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki has indicated.
The presidents of the US and Russia are set to have another one-on-one "summit," which is expected to focus on Ukraine and the Wests claims that Moscow is planning to invade its neighbor.
The war scenario, hypothetical as it may be, has understandably caught the imagination of Western media. Some in the US even appear to secretly wish for it to come true and become a disaster for Moscow.
That said, the Ukraine situation has been pumped up quite a lot, including by statements coming from Moscow itself, he added. Regardless of how it came to be, this kind of tension can only be deescalated through direct talks between Putin and Biden,Sharikov concluded.
Alluring as it may be for the American establishment, the analogy between Ukraine and Afghanistan is hardly justified, counters Ivan Timofeev, a program director at the Russian International Affairs Council, a diplomatic think-tank.
Absent a chance to deny Putin that win, the ex-diplomat, turned 'Russiagate' conspiracy theorist, called on Biden to embrace more coercive diplomacy towards Russia. The US leader should come to the meeting publicly armed with a Western commitment to impose more sanctions against Moscow and help Ukraine with weapons, money, and assistance in democratic state-building, McFaul advised.
The goal of the leaks was to create a self-sustaining impression of the inevitability of a conflict, according to Senator Konstantin Kosachev, who for years chaired the Foreign Affairs Committee in the upper chamber of the Russian parliament. He explainedthat an escalation of violence could only happen if Ukraine initiated it.
The situation is perceived quite differently in Moscow. Russian officials say media hysteria is serving the agenda of Russia-hawks, who oppose even the slightest hint of detente between the West and Moscow.
The US-Russian agenda is quite big and serious. In addition to Ukraine, there are Belarus, Georgia, strategic stability, cybersecurity the global great power rivalry involving China, he insisted to RT.
He was referring to the Soviet Unions 1980s Afghan deployment and the harm that the US managed to inflict on Moscow by arming local Islamist militias.
