Biden Russia war a genocide trying to wipe out Ukraine
20220412
https://www.pentictonherald.ca/news/world_news/article_3fe58490-e7bf-528c-b4b1-0a35527fc37f.html
Biden's comments drew praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who had encouraged Western leaders to use the term to describe Russia's invasion of his country.
Past American leaders often have dodged formally declaring bloody campaigns such as Russias in Ukraine as genocide, hesitating to trigger an obligation under an international genocide convention that requires signing countries to intervene once genocide is formally identified. That obligation was seen as blocking President Bill Clinton from declaring Rwandan Hutus killing of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis in 1994 as genocide, for example.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Biden said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russia's conduct met the international standard for genocide, as Ukrainian officials have claimed, but said it sure seems that way to me.
President Joe Biden speaks to reporters before boarding Air Force One at Des Moines International Airport, in Des Moines Iowa, Tuesday, April 12, 2022, en route to Washington. Biden said that Russia's war in Ukraine amounted to a "genocide," accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to "wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."AP PhotoCarolyn Kaster
DES MOINES, Iowa AP  President Joe Biden on Tuesday said Russia's war in Ukraine amounted to genocide, accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
More evidence is coming out literally of the horrible things that the Russians have done in Ukraine, and were only going to learn more and more about the devastation and let the lawyers decide internationally whether or not it qualifies, he said.
Just last week Biden had he did not believe Russia's actions amounted to genocide, just that they constituted war crimes.
At an earlier event in Menlo, Iowa, addressing spiking energy prices resulting from the war, Biden had implied that he thought Putin was carrying out genocide against Ukraine, but offered no details. Neither he nor his administration announced new consequences for Russia or assistance to Ukraine following Biden's public assessment.
He clarified the comments days later, saying: I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man. I wasnt articulating a policy change.
Yes, I called it genocide," he told reporters in Iowa shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington. Its become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
During a trip to Europe last month, Biden faced controversy for a nine-word statement seemingly supporting regime change in Moscow, which would have represented a dramatic shift toward direct confrontation with another nuclear-armed country. For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power," Biden said.
True words of a true leader POTUS," he tweeted. "Calling things by their names is essential to stand up to evil. We are grateful for US assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities.
