G7 warns Russia of massive consequences if Ukraine invaded
20211212
https://www.pentictonherald.ca/business_news/national_business/article_6e575942-2de9-5f30-b2dd-0f9c8ceca77b.html
Moscow denies having any plans to attack Ukraine and accuses Kyiv of its own allegedly aggressive designs.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, the conference host, said the G-7 was sending a powerful signal to our adversaries and our allies.
The U.S. and its allies have played down talk of a military response to defend Ukraine, with efforts focusing on tough sanctions that would hit the Russian economy, rather than just individuals.
A unified stance towards China continues to prove elusive, however, with the U.S. and Britain generally more hawkish than other G-7 members.
G7 Foreign and Development Ministers pose for a group photo in Liverpool, England Sunday, Dec. 12, 2021. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is hosting U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and other Group of Seven counterparts for weekend talks in the northwest England port city of Liverpool as the wealthy nations club faces growing tensions with Russia, China and Iran. From left, Italy's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Sereni, German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Svenja Schulze, Phillippines Secretary of Foreign Affairs Teodoro L Locsin Jr, Germany's Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, Italy's Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio, Britain's Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Canada's Minister of Foreign Affairs Melanie Joly, Canada's Minister of International Development Harjit Sajjan, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs Josep Borrell and Brunei Darussalam's Minister of Foreign Affairs Dato Erywan Pehin Yusof. Olivier DoulieryPool via AP
Truss insisted Britain has very strong anti-corruption and anti-money laundering rules, but also suggested that Russian money and Russian gas came at a high price.
LIVERPOOL, England AP  The Group of Seven economic powers told Russia on Sunday to de-escalate its military buildup near the Ukrainian border, warning that an invasion would have massive consequences and inflict severe economic pain on Moscow.
Biden, who spoke to Russian President Vladimir Putin on a video call last week, said he had made clear that in the event of an invasion, the economic consequences for his economy are going to be devastating. Devastating.
Chinas muscle-flexing in the Indo-Pacific region and the ailing Iran nuclear deal were also on the agenda for the meeting of top diplomats from the U.K., the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan at the dockside Museum of Liverpool.
Getting a unified response to global crises from the G-7, a group of countries with disparate interests, has often proved tough.
Germany plans on getting gas from Russia soon through the contentious Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which bypasses Ukraine  though Blinken said it was hard to see the pipeline becoming operational if Russia has renewed its aggression on Ukraine, if it takes renewed action."
Any use of force to change borders is strictly prohibited under international law. Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response, the statement said.
In the U.S., reporters asked President Joe Biden on Saturday about the possibility of sending combat troops to Ukraine, and he said that idea was never considered. Are you ready to send American troops into war and go into Ukraine to fight Russians on the battlefield? he said.
The G-7 called on Russia to de-escalate, pursue diplomatic channels, and abide by its international commitments on transparency of military activities, and praised Ukraines restraint.
Britain, which isn't dependent on Russian gas, also has criticized the pipeline  but faces tricky questions about Londons financial district and property market, both hubs for Russian money.
The U.S. and it allies worry that the buildup could be precursor to an invasion, and have vowed to inflict heavy sanctions on Russias economy if that happens.
U.K. bank and financial authorities have long been criticized for allegedly turning a blind eye to ill-gotten gains.
So I think President Putin has to factor that in, too, as hes thinking about what hes going to do next, he said.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
The statement promised a common and comprehensive response but contained no details. Truss said the G-7 was considering all options when it came to economic sanctions. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on NBC's Meet the Press that we are prepared to take the kinds of steps weve refrained from taking in the past if Russia didn't step back.
G-7 nations are also increasingly concerned about Chinas growing economic and technological dominance, especially in developing countries. The G-7 has launched a Build Back Better World initiative to offer developing nations funding for big infrastructure projects as an alternative to money from China that, the West argues, often comes with strings attached.
"What weve set out is a positive agenda about making sure that countries have alternative sources of investment, alternative sources of trade, she said. And that were making sure that we abide by  and ensure others are abiding by  the rules based international system for trade.
We cannot have short term economic gain at the expense of our long term freedom and democracy, she said.
Truss, who also invited ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to the Liverpool meeting, said the G-7 was concerned about the coercive economic policies of China.
Russias movement of weapons and troops to the border region dominated weekend talks among foreign ministers from the G-7 wealthy democracies in the English city of Liverpool.
Foreign ministers from the United States, Britain and the rest of the G-7, joined by the European Unions foreign affairs chief, issued a joint statement declaring themselves united in our condemnation of Russias military buildup and aggressive rhetoric towards Ukraine.
Truss said Biden had made clear to Putin that the U.S. stance carries the support of the G-7 countries as a whole. And that should be very concerning for Vladimir Putin.
