Live updates  NATO chief says more atrocities may surface
20220405
https://www.pentictonherald.ca/news/world_news/article_fee28c03-c400-5255-a1c8-3a7831f8d460.html
MOSCOW -- Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov says the expulsions of Russian diplomats by European countries will prompt a response from Moscow and will complicate international relations.
Germany, France, Italy and Spain are among the countries which have expelled diplomats since Monday.
MADRID -- A senior Spanish official says it is very hard for the European Union to take measures against Russias natural gas sector because some of the blocs countries are dependent on it for their energy supply and the EUs strength lies in its unity.
The national prosecutors office that specializes in terrorism cases said it launched three war crimes investigations on Tuesday, against suspects yet to be identified.
Earlier Tuesday, the European Unions executive Commission said that its president, Ursula von der Leyen, will travel to Kyiv this week.
Russian forces have been bombarding Mariupol for weeks as they try to tighten control over Ukraines southeastern coastline.
LVIV, Ukraine  Seven humanitarian corridors will be open on Tuesday, including from the besieged port city of Mariupol and the Russian-controlled Berdyansk, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on the messaging app Telegram.
She said the energy imports create obvious moral tension, adding that accusations of Russian war crimes in Bucha in recent days increased the pressure on the EU to act.
Last month, Swedens domestic intelligence agency, SAPO, said that every third Russian diplomat in Sweden is an intelligence officer.
Amedia CEO Anders Mller Opdahl said Tuesday that it is impossible for Amedia to continue the printing business because of the war in Ukraine.
According to Vereshchuks post, residents of Mariupol and Berdyansk will be able to leave to Zaporizhzhia on their own transport. Corridors will also be open from the city of Tokmak in the Zaporizhzhia region and cities of Severodonetsk, Lysychansk, Popasna and Hirske in the Luhansk region.
Stoltenberg said Tuesday that we havent seen everything that has taken place because Russia still controls most of these territories around the capital. But when and if they withdraw their troops and Ukrainian troops take over, Im afraid they will see more mass graves, more atrocities and more examples of of war crimes.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Tuesday that the EU needed to increase the pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin after what she described as the heinous crimes carried out around Kyiv.
Austrian public broadcaster ORF reported Tuesday that the chancellery said Nehammer intends to visit and meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the coming days.
Albares said that evidence of massacres of civilians in areas that Russian troops recently left amounts to a turning point which the international community cannot ignore.
France plans to expel 35. The French Foreign Ministry cited national security reasons for the expulsions, saying the Russian diplomats were conducting activities contrary to our security interests. It gave no details.
He added that it is short-sighted and a step which firstly will complicate our communication, which is required in order to seek reconciliation. And secondly it will inevitably lead to reciprocal steps.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- A Norwegian publisher says it is handing control of its Russian printing operations to 2021 Nobel Peace Prize winner Dmitry Muratov, the longtime editor of Russias leading independent newspaper.
Von der Leyen didnt mention natural gas. A consensus among the 27 EU member countries on targeting gas thats used to generate electricity, heat homes and power industry would be more difficult to secure.
In the courtyard of their house, Vlad Tanyuk, 6, stands near the grave of his mother Ira Tanyuk, who died because of starvation and stress due to the war, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, April 4, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Steinmeier told ZDF television Tuesday that we failed on many points, including efforts to encourage Russia toward democracy and respecting human rights.
The statement did not explain how investigators will go about their work or give details about the suspected French victims and what happened to them.
He said that these atrocities have taken place during a period in which Russia controlled these areas. So they are responsible. Second, we have information from many different sources.
But she said coping with this influx is one of the biggest challenges any Moldovan government has faced over the last three decades.
President Frank-Walter Steinmeier served twice as ex-Chancellor Angela Merkels foreign minister, most recently from 2013 to 2017, and before that as ex-Chancellor Gerhard Schroeders chief of staff. In that time, Germany pursued dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin and cultivated close energy ties.
BRUSSELS  NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says he expects more atrocities to come to light in Ukraine as Russian troops continue to retreat from areas around Kyiv.
Britains Ministry of Defense says Ukrainian forces have retaken key terrain after forcing Russian units to retreat north of Kyiv and around the northern city of Chernihiv. The ministry says low-level fighting is likely to continue in some parts of the newly recaptured regions, but diminish significantly over this week as the remainder of Russian forces withdraw.
Teresa Ribera, Spains minister for ecological transition, said Tuesday it is very difficult to explain to European public opinion and Ukrainian society that we are still importing Russian energy that finances this war in Ukraine.
Foreign Minister Ann Lindeannouncement on Tuesday came after Denmark and Italy said they were expelling 15 and 30 Russians, respectively. On Monday, France and Germany announced that they wer kicking out dozens of Russians with diplomatic status.
Tuesdays announcement followed expulsions by several other European countries. Germany said Monday that it was expelling 40 Russians with diplomatic status and France kicked out 35.
Gavrilita said Moldova, with a population of 2.5 million, has tried to provide refugees with decent conditions thanks to an unprecedented mobilization by the public and private sectors.
She said that in addition to financial aid, Moldova also needs help building electricity interconnectors to Romania. She asked the European Union to open its market to agricultural imports from her country as it pivots away from Russia.
Vereshchuk said that, after negotiations, the Red Cross representatives were released at night and sent to Zaporizhzhia.
The president conceded that there were different assessments of Russia among European countries. He added: It is true that we should have taken the warnings of our eastern European partners more seriously, particularly regarding the time after 2014 and the building of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine says a civilian ship is sinking in the port of the besieged city of Mariupol after Russian forces fired on it.
GENEVA  The U.N. migration agency now estimates that more than 11 million people have fled their homes in Ukraine since Russias invasion.
He said the group represents a threat to Spains security and the timing of the expulsion is a response to crimes that cannot go unpunished, in a reference to what he said were barbaric Russian war crimes in Ukraine in recent days.
The move came after France and Germany on Monday announced the expulsion of dozens of Russians with diplomatic status.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Serhiy Haidai said on the messaging app Telegram Tuesday that the incident occurred near the city of Rubizhne, which the Ukrainian military says the Russians have been trying to take over. He didnt specify what area the warning applies to.
A view inside the Mariupol theater damaged during fighting in Mariupol, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Monday, April 4, 2022. AP PhotoAlexei Alexandrov
Sticking to that project was a mistake that cost Germany a lot of credit and credibility in eastern Europe, he said. Chancellor Olaf Scholz suspended the pipeline in the week Russia invaded Ukraine.
Muratovs Novaya Gazeta newspaper used Amedias presses but said last month it will remain closed for the duration of the Russian offensive.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of eastern Ukraines Luhansk region has urged residents to stay inside, shut windows and doors and prepare wet face masks after a Russian strike hit a tank containing nitric acid.
BRUSSELS  NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg says Russia is regrouping its troops away from Kyiv only to mass them in the east and south of Ukraine in the coming weeks for a crucial phase of the war.
The ministry said the Russian ambassador was informed of the decision on Tuesday. It said Denmark strongly condemned Russias brutality against Ukrainian civilians in Bucha and stressed that deliberate attacks on civilians are a war crime.
Her spokesman, Eric Mamer, said Tuesday that her trip will come to ahead of a special pledging meeting in Warsaw over the weekend. It is the second such high-level trip by EU officials. European Parliament President Roberta Metsola went to Ukraine last week.
The International Organization for Migration, in its first such full assessment in three weeks, reported Tuesday that more than 7.1 million had been displaced within Ukraine as of April 1. That comes on top of the figure of more than 4 million who have fled abroad, reported by the U.N. refugee agency.
BERLIN  The prime minister of Moldova says the poor eastern European nation needs major international support to cope with the influx of people fleeing neighboring Ukraine.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Denmarks Foreign Ministry says the country is expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russias Embassy in Copenhagen.
BRUSSELS  Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Unions executive Commission, will travel to Kyiv this week to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Natalia Gavrilita told a donor conference in Berlin on Tuesday that Moldova is hosting about 100,000 refugees from Ukraine, about a quarter of those who have entered since late February.
She said Spain should invest in industrial-scale solar power facilities to improve the EUs energy self-sufficiency.
Stoltenberg said Tuesday that Moscow is not giving up its ambitions in Ukraine after withdrawing troops from region around the capital to regroup, arm and resupply and to shift the focus to the East.
French law allows prosecutors to investigate suspected war crimes committed outside of France if they involve French victims or suspects who are French or who reside in France.
LONDON  British defense officials say Ukrainian forces have taken back more territory as Russian troops continue to retreat in Ukraines north.
Jason Straziuso, an ICRC spokesman, said the team was not planning on trying to enter Mariupol today. Our teams humanitarian efforts today are focused on helping the evacuation efforts in nearby areas.
In an intelligence update posted online, the U.K. says many of the Russian units are likely to require significant re-equipping and refurbishment before being available to redeploy for operations in eastern Ukraine.
The prosecutors statement said the suspected crimes could include deliberate attacks against civilians and deliberately withholding the essentials they needed to survive, physical assaults, and the deliberate destruction of civilian installations.
BRUSSELS  The European Unions executive branch has proposed a ban on coal imports from Russia in what would be the first sanctions targeting the countrys lucrative energy industry over its war in Ukraine.
The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said in a statement Tuesday that the ship was struck during shelling from the sea by Russia, causing a fire in the engine room. The crew was rescued, including one injured crew member, it added.
He said the full list of who is to be expelled is being finalized and may amount to more than 25 people.
Amedia, which has four printing houses in Russia, said it was withdrawing from Russia and that Muratov will exercise all shareholder rights at his own discretion and have full control of day-to-day operations.
Germanys interior minister said authorities attribute those who are being kicked out to Russian intelligence services. And Denmark said on Tuesday that it is expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russias Embassy in Copenhagen.
Ukrainian and Western officials say Russia is refocusing its offensive on the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine.
Vereshchuk said in the same post that the Russian troops dont allow anyone to enter Mariupol, and that the Russians blocked the representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross in the settlement of Manhush just west of Mariupol.
The three French probes will look into suspected suspected crimes in Mariupol, Chernihiv and Hostomel.
BERLIN  Germanys president is admitting mistakes in policy toward Russia in his previous job as foreign minister.
VIENNA -- Chancellor Karl Nehammers office says the Austrian leader plans to travel to Ukraine soon.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Sweden's foreign minister says the Scandinavian country is expelling three Russian diplomats.
The ministry said the ship was flying the flag of the Dominican Republic and posted a picture of a cargo vessel. It didnt specify how many people were on board or the nationalities of the crew members.
Haidai warned that nitric acid is dangerous if inhaled, swallowed and in contact with skin and mucous membranes. The Russian military has not commented on the claim, and it could not be verified independently.
Spanish Foreign Minister Jos Manuel Albares announced Tuesday that at least 25 diplomats and staff at the Russian Embassy in Madrid are being expelled.
Von der Leyen said the ban on coal imports is worth 4 billion euros $4.4 billion per year. She added that the EU has already started working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports.
It was not immediately clear from Vereshchuks statement whether Russia has agreed to halt the fighting along the announced corridors. Some of the Ukrainian efforts to evacuate civilians via humanitarian corridors had previously failed as fighting along them continued even despite agreements with Russia.
IOM said more than 2.9 million others are actively considering leaving their place of habitual residence due to war.
The International Committee of the Red Cross, which has been trying to get a small team into Mariupol since Friday as part of efforts to escort beleaguered civilians out and aid in, said the team held by police in Manhush was released overnight. It did not identify the nationality of the police involved, but Manhush is under Russian control.
He said that we expect a further push in the eastern and southern Ukraine to try to take the entire Donbas and to create a land bridge to the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014.
The officers have two weeks to leave Denmark. Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said they pose a risk to our national security that we cannot ignore.
GENEVA  An international Red Cross team has shelved for Tuesday hopes of entering the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol after being held overnight by police in a town about 20 kilometers 12 miles to the west.
The tally marked an increase from IOMs tally in mid-March of more than 9.7 million displaced internally in Ukraine or driven abroad.
PARIS  French prosecutors say theyre opening investigations into possible war crimes committed against French nationals in Ukraine since Russian troops invaded.
The ICRC said in a statement that the teams focus now is on the evacuation operation, and the incident yesterday shows how volatile and complex the operation to facilitate safe passage around Mariupol has been for our team.
Peskov said that we view negatively, we view with regret this narrowing of possibilities for diplomatic communication, diplomatic work in such difficult conditions, in unprecedent crisis conditions.
