No plans to reduce tax as gas prices soar above 2litre in BC Farnworth says
20220308
https://www.pentictonherald.ca/business_news/article_bbf54cce-9f0a-11ec-99c5-8ff7c1fb66e6.html
The reality is that there is significant instability in the energy markets on a global basis, directly related to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, Farnworth said.
Penticton residents awoke Tuesday to see prices at the local pumps as high as $1.95.9 for regular gasoline.
Prices in Penticton ranged from $1.88.9 to $1.95.9 per litre. Meanwhile in Victoria and Vancouver, prices reached a record-high of $2-plus per litre. The cheapest gas in the valley remains at the newly-opened Costco in Kelowna which, at press time, was selling for $1.71.9 per litre.
Despite the jump in prices, B.C.s minister of public safety said the province has no plans to follow Albertas lead to reduce its tax on gasoline to ease rising prices at the pumps.
As a result of the supply-chain shortfall and increased taxation, Crown corporations have resorted to adding fees to cover fuel costs for their fleets.
Farnworth said theres no simple solution to the rising fuel price situation. He said economists have noted that fuel companies dont simply raise prices to take advantage of the margin.
Werner Antweiler, a business professor at the University of B.C. who specializes in international trade, gas prices and energy systems, said that because oil producers sell their products competitively on global markets, local prices are affected by worldwide events.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Alberta has responded by reducing its tax by 13 cents per litre on both gasoline and diesel.
The hot prices are also expected to pass on the increased transportation and delivery costs of farming, agriculture and forestry products to consumers.
B.C. Ferries has implemented a one-per-cent fuel surcharge, adding 15 cents for adult passengers and 55 cents for a vehicle to the cost of sailings.
Companies that buy or transport oil are reluctant to touch Russias output, fearing it will be subject to sanctions.
The effects are being felt here, event though Canada imports little petroleum from Russia. Most of the coastal B.C. supply comes from an oil refinery in Burnaby and ones in Edmonton and Washington state, which are largely unaffected.
We are at the mercy of international markets, he said. Crude oil is traded in monthly futures contracts and not in low-term contracts. If international prices are up, they will gain that benefit in all their markets.
Mike Farnworth told a news conference Monday that gas prices are driven by events outside of provincial control, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which has upset energy markets around the world.
