Bitcoin and Ether Plunge as Russia Attacks Ukraine
20220224
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/bitcoin-ether-plunge-russia-attacks-ukraine-51645692354
The crypto worlds hopes for assets like Bitcoin to achieve digital gold status have evaporated as speculators have headed for the exit as the crisis in Ukraine has deepened, said Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.
Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda, said in comments before Russia launched its attack on Ukraine that cryptos remain the ultimate risky asset and that escalation of the Russia-Ukraine tensions will likely keep the volatility elevated with swings to 20 in either direction.
Gold spiked to $1,950, its highest since the end of 2020. Bitcoin plunged 5 to $35k think we are finding out which of the two is the real haven, said Neil Wilson, chief market analyst forMarkets.com.
Bitcoin and Ether remain well off their all-time highs of $68,990 and $4,865, respectively, that were reached in early November.
Bitcoin also has slumped this yearit has fallen more than 20 in 2022on the prospect of higher U.S. interest rates. Moya noted how Bitcoin has been battered on bets over tightening from the Federal Reserve but most of those risks are getting close to being priced in.
This crypto winter has been brutal but it might end once we get past that first Fed rate hike, he said.
Gold prices surged Thursday as investors fled to the precious metal, which is typically seen as a haven asset, as the conflict erupted in Eastern Europe. In early afternoon, gold was at $1,924.90 an ounce, up 0.8.
In early afternoon in New York, Bitcoin, the worlds largest cryptocurrency, was down 6.6 over the past 24 hours to $35,982, according to CoinDesk, after Russian President Vladimir Putin launched an attack on Ukraine, with Russian troops and tanks entering Ukraine and airstrikes pounding Ukraines capital and other cities. Bitcoin fell Thursday to as low as $34,338, the lowest levels since late January.
With huge uncertainty around how deep the Ukraine conflict could go and what ripple effects there could be in financial markets, crypto assets are likely to continue to be highly volatile, Streeter added.
