Bread Pasta and PackagedFood Prices Are Rising Heres Why
20220215
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/ukraine-russia-crisis-bread-pasta-food-costs-51644886932
Consumers have faced high food costs since the pandemic began. Food prices, as measured by the consumer-price index, rose 3.4 annually in 2020 and 3.9 in 2021, a significant increase from 2019s 1.9 gain. Food prices are expected to rise between 2 and 3 this year, according to the Agriculture Department.
Wheat futures are already up nearly 4 so far this year. Corn futures have gained more than 10 and soybeans have traded more than 17 higher.
Futures prices for wheat and corn, as well as soybeans, have climbed in recent years, with 2021 marking a fifth straight year of gains for wheat. Corn futureshaveclimbed for four years in a row so far, and soybeans have tallied three straight years of gains. All three commodities saw prices reachmultiyearhighs last year, with wheat and soybeans climbing to their highest settlement prices since 2012 and corn at its highest since 2013.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest grain and vegetable oil exporters, and a major exporter of corn.
Wheat would be the food commodity most impacted, says Arlan Suderman, chief commodities economist at StoneX. Russia is the worlds largest exporter of wheat, and Ukraine is also a major exporter. Combined, the two countries are responsible for 29 of the global wheat trade.
Many commodities have already been impacted based on the risk of what might happen, Suderman adds. Suderman estimates that about 80 cents per bushel in risk premium is already in wheat prices, which would be a little more than a penny for a loaf of bread. We could see the cost of wheat in each loaf of bread go up another one to three cents if war breaks out, he says.
Pasta and flour prices will also be affected,says Gilbertie.Because global wheat supplies have been strained over the past two years, the impactfor consumerswill likely be immediate, he adds.
The cost of rising energy prices likely adds even more.He notes that most of the cost of a loaf of bread is tied to production, packaging, and transportation costs, which have also been affected by geopolitics.The price of oil, for example, has climbed toa more thanseven-year high on the prospect of war.
A prolonged military conflict that disrupts trade could make much of that wheat unavailable to the export market, he says.
Rising corn prices affect soybean prices because they both compete for the same crop land.Soybean supplies are tightening rapidly due to bad weather in South America, which means both corn and soybean prices will have to compete with one another through price increases in order to buy more acres this spring across the Northern Hemisphere, Gilbertie says. Higher prices for those two commodities would affect many packaged foods, which contain corn and soybean oils, he adds.
Tired of paying higher prices for groceries? Dont expect your weekly bill to get any cheaper.
The RussiaUkraine situation could disrupt a major global source of wheat and corn exports for an unknown period of time, Gilbertie says.
Prices for grains look set to climb even more if Russia invades Ukraine. If that were tooccur,Sal Gilbertie, president and chief investment officer at Teucrium Trading,expects price increases for the big three grains: wheat, corn, and soybeans. The price of cooking oil would also be affected, he adds.
