China Promises More Stimulus to Reverse Economic Slowdown
20220311
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/china-promises-more-stimulus-to-reverse-economic-slowdown-51647010657
Two highlights of the annual eventwhich brings together thousands of legislators from across the countrycentered around Premier Li Keqiang, who kicked off the gathering by summarizing what China has in store for its economy and society for the year, including setting a GDP growth target. This year it would be around 5.5, he said, which most observers called ambitious, despite the fact that it would be the weakest expansion for China in more than 30 years.
On China-U.S. relations, Li took a surprisingly diplomatic tone, declining to take jabs at the U.S., a common feature of Chinas daily foreign-affairs press conferences. Instead, he said that despite the ups and downs over the last 50 years, the two countries can and should continue to work together. His only utterance bordering on admonition was that there should be no decoupling between the two countries economies.
On economic liberalization, Li said, As far as Chinas opening-up policy is concerned, there has been no change in our position, nor will there be, adding that there was a high bar for any revising of Chinas Foreign Investment Lawa piece of legislation implemented in 2020 that gave more power to foreign joint-venture partners and strengthened Chinas notoriously weak intellectual property rights. Though the law promises gradual opening in a range of areas, foreign businesses and governments have long grown impatient with Chinas pace of reform.
When asked about this, Li dodged the question and said Beijing would use its leverage to bring both sides to the negotiating table.
They unanimously chose the latter, he said, as it would in one stroke accomplish what the other policies can only do piecemealnamely, drive up employment, consumption, and investment.
The premiers closing press conference on Friday is much-watched because it is normally the only time of the year that a top-level Chinese leader takes questions from international media.
Running more than two hours, the range of topics included economic growth and government stimulus measures, Covid-19, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Hong Kong elections, the property-market crisis, unemployment, Taiwans sovereignty, and China-U.S. relations.
At the same time, Beijing has used state and social media to amplify voices in line with Vladimir Putins talking points on why the war is justified. One directive from censorship authorities to media outlets was leaked that began by telling newsrooms, Do not post anything unfavorable to Russia or pro-Western.
Li said that in Chinas experience, tax and business-fee reductions have worked the best in reviving a slowing economy. He recounted a meeting with a group of business leaders, in which he offered three policy options, and said they could choose only one: massive government and private investment, the handing out of consumption vouchers, or tax and fee reductions.
On the political front, China has surprised many observers with the level of its support for Russia in its invasion of Ukraine. After issuing a joint statement trumpeting its strategic alignment with Russia and abstaining from a vote at the United Nations, it began a broad campaign to censor any content that expressed support for Ukraine or showed the devastating humanitarian disaster the incursion has unleashed.
In addition to these topics, Li noted that China still faces a series of challenges, from climate change, an income gap, debt, and demographic problems.
While stressing the arduousness of hitting the 5.5 GDP target, Li still sounded resolute that the goal would be met. An array of policies will kick-start Chinas economy this year, he said, including a tax-cut stimulus package of no less than 2.5 trillion yuan $400 billion. At the same time we are prepared to roll out a series of financial and pro-job policies, he said.
Sanctions will hurt the world economic recovery, and are in no ones interest, Li said.
As its weeklong legislative gathering concluded, China set a challenging GDP growth target and presented a range of policiesincluding a tax cut packageto boost its sagging economy.
The invasion has put China in a particularly undesirable position, as its long-running mantra is to never meddle in other countries internal affairs. There has also been discussion about if, and how severely, the massive sanctions campaign Western countries have placed on Russia will blow back on China, which is Russias largest trading partner.
