Oil Prices Are Falling Again This Time Its Peace Talks
20220329
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/oil-prices-climb-as-key-opec-meeting-looms-51648550385
Oil prices fell again Tuesday extending Mondays sharp losses as positive signs emerged from the latest round of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine.
OPEC, the group of major oil producers is due to meet Thursday to decide on output levels from May onward. Earlier this month OPEC stuck to its initial plan to increase oil production by 400,000 barrels a day in April despite oil prices pushing above $110 a barrel at the time.
Mondays price slump reflected the lockdown in Shanghai and the prospect of a further release from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve rather than more positive developments out of Ukraine, Deutsche Bank analyst Jim Reid said.
Grateful to Turkey for hosting the next round of peace talks between Ukraine and Russia. I hope that under Turkish mediation leadership these negotiations will bring results serving the interests of peace in Ukraine and our security, Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said in a post on Twitter Monday.
Russia also promised to scale down military activity in Kyiv and northern Ukraine, to increase mutual trust and create the necessary conditions for further negotiations and achieving the ultimate goal of agreeing and signing an agreement, Russias deputy defense minister Alexander Formin said, according to reports.
The moves came after peace talks between Russian and Ukrainian negotiators resumed in Istanbul, Turkey. Russias chief negotiator Vladimir Medinsky told a press conference the talks were constructive, according to multiple reports, including one from Russian state news agency Tass.
Saudi Arabias energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said OPEC will leave  politics at the outside door when it comes to the meeting, according to multiple reports.
West Texas Intermediate futures fell 3, slipping below $103 a barrel, after tumbling 7 Monday. Brent crude futuresthe global benchmarkwere down 3.1 at $106.10 after falling 6.8 in the previous session.
