Opinion The Signs of a Dangerous Shift in How Putin Understands His Own Power
20220225
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/the-signs-of-a-dangerous-shift-in-how-putin-understands-his-own-power-51645746046
Yes. Or even in terms of security, frankly. Because nobodys threatening Russia. So I and a lot of my colleagues came to this conclusion that it just didnt make sense. Now, of course it still doesnt make sense. But hes doing it, so clearly it makes sense to him. So part of me goes back to the drawing board and tries to think, OK, what did I misunderstand about Russian politics? I dont have the answer to that question yet.
So with all of those things in mind, plus of course, sanctions and the impact that has on ordinary citizens and on the elite, on whose behalf Putin rules, it just didnt look like these were risks that would be worth taking. It wasnt clear what he would get out of it that would be better than what he was already getting out of confrontation without a war.
And as he did, there were already signs that Putin may be getting more than he bargained for. Greene had to interrupt the conversation to take a call from Moscow, where he said, evidently people are going out to protest against the war and being rather violently removed from the streets. This transcript has been condensed and edited for clarity.
I would think you have to be worried about expropriation if were looking at corporations that begin to have trouble rolling over corporate debt. Russia could be headed toward a period of a lot more autarky, as a result would be a much smaller economy. Theyve made significant strides in terms of import substitution, but theres only so much they can do. They dont have a system that can replace SWIFT. China can provide some help, but only to a degree. There will be some very difficult decisions to make in the Kremlin, which means that we may see him parting ways with aspects of policy that have been fairly stable and predictable over the last 20 plus years.
Many investors were surprised at the invasion because they thought Putin was aggressive but not irrational. As a result youve seen turmoil in the markets. Should investors expect more irrationality here?
As things begin to bite on the economy, hes going to have to make some decisions about how he manages that. Potentially, that means, doing things to keep money in the economy, keep the ruble strong-ish, and make sure that his currency and gold reserves stretch as long as they can. Im not an economist, but my assumption would be that a falling ruble and difficulty in raising money internationally is going to start putting a lot of pressure on those reserves. As we saw in 2014-2015, they can burn through those reserves rather rapidly if they try to defend the ruble on the open market like they did last time. So if youre an investor, you have to be worried about capital controls.
That uncertainty is part of what makes Putins moves so dangerous. If something has changed in Putins thinking, will he be satisfied with overthrowing the government in Kyiv? Do he and the military he commands pose a rising threat to NATO and the European Union?
The gradual expansion of the EU as a project and EU economic influence in Russias direction makes the Russian elite poorer because it makes it harder for them to continue doing business. The business model that the Russian political economy is built on is a rent-based model, a model that has these massively bloated value chains so that money can be siphoned off in politically convenient directions.
Putin has remained throughout all of this reasonably popular. The elites on whose behalf we believe he rules are of course massively unpopular. So they are afraid of the street. Part of Putins job is to keep the street in line and to keep the system legitimate. But once the elite begin to think that he cant do that, then they begin to think that they need a new leader.
Vladimir Putin managed to keep much of the world guessing right up until the point that cruise missiles began raining down on Ukraine. Even with more than a hundred thousand troops poised on Ukraines borders, it was never certain to many observers that the Russian president would act on his threats to invadeuntil he did.
But another part of me actually sticks to my guns and says, well, the fact that hes decided he can accept these risks doesnt mean the risks arent there. Theres still going to be pain for the Russian economy. There are sanctions on the table that would turn the Russian economy into the Iranian economy eventually. Public opinion is a risk. The economy is a risk. And the war itself is a risk. So we now get to see how they deal with it. And well learn a lot about the system of power that Putin has built.
If the West imposes the kind of sanctions its been saying it will, it will tremendously limit their room for maneuver, limit their independence and autonomy, which is already pretty limited, but limit it even further and tie them much more closely to Putin. Now, they may have an opportunity to decide they dont like that. And if theres a real political risk that Putin faces, thats probably it.
Probably, but at some point, these risks are going to start actually materializing and hes going to have to start navigating them. Hes going to have to rely much more on the institutions of the Russian state, particularly when it comes to the economy, the central bank, and the finance ministry. They are and have been throughout highly professional, as strong technocratically as any central bank and finance ministry anywhere in the world. Putins lesson from the 1990s was that if youre not solvent, youre not sovereign.
Answering those questions involves grappling with the analysis that led so many in the markets and politics to underestimate Putins resolve. Samuel Greene, a professor in Russian politics and director of the Russia Institute at Kings College London, was one of those who thought Putin wouldnt go all the way, and was game to reassess. He spoke on the phone Thursday about why Putin has been so hard to read and what it means for the future.
The idea that sanctions will drive a wedge between the elite and Putin has been part of the theory behind sanctions since 2014. But it hasnt worked. The sanctions so far havent massively affected the elite as a whole. Theyve been targeted. Its been possible for people to say, actually, this doesnt really affect me. It just affects this person over there who is stupid enough to stick his head above the parapet. Whereas if this becomes a problem for the elite as a whole and for their children, and it looks like the kind of problem is not going to go away in six months, but its going to last years or decades, that may turn out to be a very different proposition. Essentially Putin is gambling with their future.
Youve written that the European Union poses a bigger threat to Putin than NATO. He has an incentive to maintain an economic system in which he can enrich his elites. Could the invasion of Ukraine serve those interests?
However, having reasonable access to European financial markets is also important. Being able to transact in global currencies is important. Being able to enjoy some of this wealth that you have built is important.
But at the same time, if you actually turn that rhetoric into action, thered be a lot of risks. Thered be risks in terms of Russian domestic public opinion, which, at least up until now did not look like it was behind the war. It still doesnt look like its really all that interested in the war. There are risks in terms of the war itself, because wars are unpredictable.
I have to begin to question whether something is shifting in how Putin understands his own power. Because hes either making a massive mistake and hurting the interest of the people who he serves. Or hes not as beholden to them or doesnt want to be as beholden to them as weve thought.
If you have to compete in a liberalized market, inefficient corporate management and corporate ownership falls by the wayside eventually, at least in theory. That puts a lot of pressure on your margins, on your structure, and on what youre doing with your money. Thats pressure that is both economic and political at least in its ramifications for Putin and the people on whose behalf he rules. Keeping Ukraine out of that EU integration project is important. Keeping that project at bay so it doesnt begin to exert too much influence on Russia itself is important.
Samuel Greene: I see Putins cost-benefit analysis broadly in the context of domestic politics. It was clear to me that Putin had a lot to gain from confrontation because it cements the core of his argument for legitimacy. Of course, hes picking a fight with a bogeyman. NATOs not going to attack Russia. You can hurl whatever you want in that direction and know its not really going to cause problems as long as its rhetorical.
