Russia Says It Will Resume Gas Exports Europe Plans to Slash Consumption
20220720
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/russia-gas-nordstream-putin-europe-51658309893
bank index down 6.41 the past three months, according to FactSet, compared with a 2.89 fall at the broader
It proposed a plan to reduce gas use in Europe by 15 until next spring and said all consumers, public administrations, households, owners of public buildings, power suppliers and industry can and should take measures to save gas.
If gas starts flowing through the pipeline Thursday it comes at a crucial time for Europe which is facing a series of crises.
Rising energy prices are fueling both a cost of living crisis and spiraling inflation. The euro area annual inflation rate in June was8.6, having jumped from 8.1 the month before, triggering the European Central Bank to signal it plans to raise interest rates for the first time since 2011 Thursday by a quarter point. Reuters has reported policy makers, however, are considering raising interest rates by 50 basis points.
A resumption of gas flows through the Nord Stream pipeline, which underwent 10 days of maintenance and delivers a third of Europes Russian gas, would be a relief for the bloc, which Wednesday signaled plans to cut consumption.
European countries may have to start rationing gas. The European Commission announced plans on Wednesday to protect itself from further gas supply cuts from Russia, due to what it described as the Kremlins weaponisation of gas exports.
Markets will be closely watching both the ECB decision and developments with Nord Stream 1  any surprises could trigger a sharp reaction.
European natural gas had risen as much as 14 Tuesday after a European official warned he didnt expect the flow of gas through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to resume.
French President Emmanuel Macron lost his parliamentary majority which means  he may struggle to achieve his economic reform agenda. Banking stocks have reacted badly to the uncertainty with the
Russian President Vladimir Putin, speaking in Iran late Tuesday, said Europe will start getting gas again, the Journal reported, but with conditions. It quoted him as saying that if sanctions prevent additional maintenance on pipeline components gas flows through the pipeline could be reduced to 20 capacity.
There had been fears Russia would keep the pipeline closed in retaliation for sanctions against the country in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the bloc has been facing a series of recent difficulties amid a deadly heat wave that has caused wildfires, power outages and transport chaos. Italys government is on the brink of collapse with uncertainty over whether Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi will stay in office after the president rejected his resignation last week.
Russia will fulfill its commitments to supply natural gas to Europe through the pipeline, The Wall Street Journal reported, but likely at reduced capacity. Gas flows had been originally scheduled to restart Thursday.
Russia likely will restart shipping gas through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline, but at less capacity, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal.
