Ukraine says it controls Snake Island in Black Sea while Russias assault on eastern Ukraine is unrelenting
20220630
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/russia-says-it-has-pulled-troops-from-black-sea-island-in-goodwill-gesture-01656581017
See: Putin was looking for the Finlandization of Europe. Youre going to get the NATO-ization of Europe: Biden unveils planned expansion of U.S. military presence on continent
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Russian reconnaissance units trying to enter Lysychansk on Wednesday were repelled. He said the Russians were trying to block a highway used to deliver supplies, and fully encircle the city.
Snake Island sits along a busy shipping lane. Russia took control of it in the opening days of the war in the apparent hope of using it as a staging ground for an assault on Odesa.
A senior Ukrainian military official, Oleksiy Gromov, earlier said Kyiv was planning to deploy troops to Snake Island but did not specify a timeline.
It was unclear if the evacuation meant a change in Moscows designs on Ukraines biggest port, which is crucial for shipping grain to Africa, the Middle East and other parts of the world. Its also the headquarters of the countrys navy.
Ukraine and the West have accused Russia of blockading Ukrainian ports to prevent exports of grain, contributing to a global food crisis. Russia has denied that and said Ukraine needs to remove mines from the Black Sea to allow safe navigation.
It was impossible to immediately verify the accuracy of the statements by Andrey Marochko, who heads the armed forces of the self-proclaimed, unrecognized separatist territory, to Russias Interfax agency. There was no official confirmation from Moscow or Kyiv.
The Kremlin portrayed the pullout from Snake Island as a goodwill gesture. But Ukraines military claimed it had forced the Russians to flee in two small speedboats following a barrage of Ukrainian artillery and missile strikes. The exact number of troops was not disclosed.
Military analysts previously told the AP that Russian forces had little chance of crossing the river without major losses due to the defenders elevated positions.
Turkey has sought to broker a deal to unblock grain exports. But the talks have dragged on, with Kyiv expressing fear that Russia will exploit the removal of the mines to attack Odesa.
The islands Ukrainian defenders were captured by the Russians but later freed as part of a prisoner exchange. After the island was taken, the Ukrainian military heavily bombarded the small Russian garrison there and its air defenses.
See: Italys Draghi details sea-corridors plan for Ukraine grain as Biden pledges backing for silos
Unable to withstand the impact of our artillery, missile and aviation units, the Russian occupiers have left Snake Island. The Odesa region is completely liberated, the Ukrainian military said in its regular social-media update Thursday evening.
The Ukrainian military said Thursday evening that Russia had seen partial success that day around the plant, some 17 kilometers south-west of the city. They made no reference to claims that attacking forces had been able to cross the strategic Siverskiy Donets river and enter the city from the north.
The Russians have thrown practically all their forces to seize the city, Haidai said, but denied that Lysychansk had been encircled.
A representative of Russia-backed separatists in Luhansk claimed that pro-Russian forces entered Lysychansk Thursday, after a perilous river crossing  which, if true, would be a significant development.
Nevertheless, Haidai noted that as of Thursday evening, evacuations from the city were impossible due to heavy shelling and mined access roads. Earlier, the Ukrainian military said it was not planning a retreat from Lysychansk.
At a NATO summit in Madrid, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson billed the Russian pullout as a sign that Ukraine will prevail in the war launched by Russian President Vladimir Putin. In the end it will prove impossible for Putin to hold down a country that will not accept Russian occupation, Johnson said.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said the withdrawal was intended to demonstrate that Moscow isnt hampering U.N. efforts to establish a humanitarian corridor for exporting agricultural products from Ukraine.
SLOVIANSK, Ukraine AP  Russian forces withdrew from a strategic Black Sea island Thursday, potentially easing the threat to the vital Ukrainian port city of Odesa, but kept up their push to encircle the last stronghold of resistance in the eastern province of Luhansk.
Meanwhile, Moscow kept up its push to take control of the entire Donbas region in eastern Ukraine. It is focused on the city of Lysychansk, the last remaining Ukrainian stronghold in Luhansk province.
At the moment, we control the island with the help of our weapons: long-range artillery, rocket units and aviation, Gromov said.
The island  shrouded in myth since ancient times  early on took on legendary significance for Ukraines resistance to the Russian invasion, when Ukrainian troops there reportedly received a demand from a Russian warship to surrender or be bombed. The answer supposedly came back, Russian warship, go f yourself.
Russian troops and their separatist allies control 95 of Luhansk and about half of Donetsk, the two provinces that make up the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas.Ukraine said the Russians were shelling Lysychansk and clashing with Ukrainian defenders around an oil refinery on its edges.
