Ukraines President Says Wednesday Will Be the Day of Russias Attack
20220214
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/ukraines-president-says-wednesday-will-be-the-day-of-russias-attack-51644867603
The U.S. is closing its embassy in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and moving operations 340 miles west to Lviv, near the Polish border.
White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said during a Monday afternoon briefing with reporters: We are actively working on diplomatic solutions to de-escalate the crisis, and stressed that the path for diplomacy remains available if Russia chooses to engage.
Biden spoke with Zelensky on Sunday, reaffirming the U.S.s commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, and saying the U.S.  would respond swiftly and decisively, together with its Allies and partners, to any further Russian aggression against Ukraine, according to the White House.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken called the relocation a temporary closure to protect embassy staff, saying the precautions in no way undermine our support for or our commitment to Ukraine, and adding that Our commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity is unwavering.
Blinken said this morning that during a conversation with Ukranian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, I reiterated the U.S. will continue to support Ukraine against all forms of Russian aggression, including key financial assistance packages.
The State Department also ordered that networking equipment and computer workstations be destroyed and the embassys telephone system be dismantled, to make the facility inoperable, the Journal reported, citing U.S. officials familiar with the situation and internal communications.
Biden spoke Monday with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom to review their diplomatic and deterrence efforts in response to Russias continued military build-up on Ukraines borders, reaffirm their support for Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, and underlined the coordination and preparedness among Allies and partners to impose severe consequences on Russia should it choose further military escalation, the White House said.
Still, there was confusion around Zelenskys message, which called for a national holiday on Wednesday. We will make it the Day of Unity, a translation of the Facebook post said. On this day, we will hoist national flags, put on blue and yellow ribbons and show the world our unity.
President Joe Biden warned Russian President Vladimir Putin on Saturday that if Russia chooses to invade Ukraine, and the U.S., its allies and partners would respond decisively and impose swift and severe costs on Russia. The two sides agreed to remain engaged, and Biden said that while the U.S. is prepared for diplomacy, we are equally prepared for other scenarios, the White House said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Ukraine has learned that Wednesday, Feb. 16, will be the day of the attack, according to a Facebook update to the nation.
Zelenskys post comes after comments he made over the weekend downplaying warnings by the U.S. and other nations saying that Russian forces had amassed more than 130,000 troops outside Ukraines borders. Zelensky said he had yet to see convincing evidence, even as the U.S. warned Sunday that more Russian troops were approaching Ukraines borders.
A CNN producer said in a tweet that an advisor to Zelensky said his comment about Wednesday being the day was meant to be ironic.
Zelensky told Biden that American support would allow Ukraine to prevent panic among its residents, and asked Biden for concrete guarantees of Ukraines security, saying European security is impossible without the security of Ukraine, The Wall Street Journal reported.
