UN Meeting on Monday Aims to Find Russia a Diplomatic Way Out
20220130
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/u-n-meeting-aims-find-russia-diplomatic-way-out-51643569593
On whether the U.S. believes a Russian invasion of Ukraine is imminent, Thomas-Greenfield told ABCsThis Week with George Stephanopoulos: We know that the attack is possible. You dont amass 100,000 troops if you dont have intentions to use them.
Nikolai Patrushev, the head of Russias Security Council, on Sunday called Western warnings about a Russian invasion completely ridiculous, saying, We dont want war and we dont need it at all, according to state news agency Tass, the Associated Press reported.
President Joe Biden had a phone call with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky last week, and Secretary of State Antony Blinken recently took a trip to Ukraine.  American and European Union officials have said an invasion would trigger stiff sanctions on Russia
Russia has insisted it does not plan to invade, but has demanded that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization promise never to allow Ukraine to join the alliance, and that NATO stop deploying weapons near Russian borders and withdraw its troops from Eastern Europe. The U.S. and Western allies have rejected those demands.
The Security Council has 15 member nations, including permanent member Russia. Countries agreed to the meeting to call on the Russians to explain themselves, the ambassador said, adding that Were going into the room prepared to listen to them, but were not going to be distracted by their propaganda.
United Nations Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said a Security Council meeting scheduled for Monday to discuss Russias amassing of troops near Ukraine will offer one more opportunity to find a diplomatic way out for the Russians.
Sen. Bob Menendez D., N.J., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told CNNsState of the Union that the mother of all sanctions would include actions against Russian banks to weaken Russias economy and more lethal aid to Ukraines military.
