US Europe to Announce More Sanctions Against Russia
20220405
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/u-s-europe-to-announce-more-sanctions-against-russia-51649197297
The EUs proposals include banning Russian freight carriers, Russian vessels, Russian-operated vessels, and Belarusian carriers. The bloc is also considering capping quotas on the import of potash for fertilizer, and banning imports of wood, cement, seafood, and liquor worth about $6.5 billion, according to the European Commission, the Journal reported.
The European Commission, the EUs executive arm, proposed broad new sanctions, including banning imports of Russian coal, cutting the access by Russian road and shipping goods carriers into Europe, targeting more oligarchs and their families, and blocking some machinery exports, The Wall Street Journal reported. The EUs 27 member nations must approve any new sanctions.
The EU also wants to blacklist dozens more Russian oligarchs, politicians and senior officials, including two of Russian President Vladimir Putins daughters.
Some EU members who last week wanted to reinforce sanctions they had already announced changed their minds over the weekend. French President Emmanuel Macron for the first time joined others urging a ban on importing Russian coal and oil.
The EU is proposing a total ban on transactions with several additional Russian banks, including
Russias second-biggest lender, and two others that have already been removed from the SWIFT financial transactions network, the Journal reported.
The EU is also halting exports of high-tech machinery to Russia, including quantum computers, advanced semiconductors, and sensitive electrical and transport equipment, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said.
A ban on Russian coal would mark the first time EU member states agreed to block imports of Russian energy supplies. EU nations are divided on banning imports of Russian oil and gas, although the idea of a phased-in embargo of Russian oil is gaining support.
The U.S. and the European Union are expected to announce additional sanctions on Russia after gruesome images of war that emerged over the weekend helped coalesce international support to raise the pressure on Moscow for its aggression in Ukraine.
Coal, four banks  a ban on ports and borders with exceptions is not really an adequate sanctions package to the massacres that are being uncovered, he said, adding: A feeble response is just an invitation for more atrocities.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russia of possible war crimes against civilians by Russian military forces outside Kyiv. Russian atrocities in the Kyiv region must be investigated and Russia itself must face new painful sanctions, Zelensky said on
The U.S. on Wednesday will announce bans on all new investments in Russia, in addition to sanctions against Russian financial institutions, state-owned enterprises, and Russian government officials and their families, the White House said.
The White House could tighten restrictions on the Russian banks that are already being sanctioned, such as
But Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis on Twitter called the measures a feeble response that could and should be stronger.
