Russian mutants lost this round Ukraine says after troops leave Chernobyl
20220401
https://www.wkms.org/npr-news/2022-04-01/russian-mutants-lost-this-round-ukraine-says-after-troops-leave-chernobyl
russian occupiers left Chornobyl nuclear power plant. Two key reasons: losses caused by  army and radiation exposure. russian mutants lost this round of stalkerthegameUaArmy
The IAEA said Russian forces had sent two buses of troops out of the area to Belarus as they returned control of the Chernobyl site to Ukraine. A third bus also left a nearby city where many of the Chernobyl staff members live, it said.
Russia's force has fully withdrawn from the area of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, Ukraine's defense ministry confirmed on Friday. It cited two reasons for the exit: military losses and radiation exposure.
When they left, Ukraine's ministry added, the Russian troops looted the power plant, taking "kettles, lab equipment, and radiation." They also took the captured Ukrainian national guard members who had been at the facility when Russia invaded in late February.
"Russian mutants lost this round of stalkerthegame," the ministry said via Twitter, referring to the Stalker video game franchise that is set in the notoriously radioactive zone.
In an update on conditions at the Chernobyl plant, Energoatom, Ukraine's state power company, said on Friday that all control and monitoring systems were operating normally, despite the removal of several containers and spare parts. Ukrainian workers who remained at the plant throughout the occupation to monitor it had remained safe from radiation, it added.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said on Thursday that it's still working to determine the veracity of reports that Russian soldiers received high doses of radiation in the notoriously contaminated Chernobyl Exclusion Zone during more than a month of occupation.
Energoatom has said Russian troops left the site after digging trenches and building fortifications in the Red Forest  an area it says is the most heavily polluted in the entire zone. Without providing details, the company said a panic broke out when the first signs of radiation sickness emerged. On Friday, the company reiterated that the greatest threat to the occupiers was likely posed by inhaling radioactive dust disturbed by their actions.
