Putin has no limit in the violence he will use Defence Secretary warns
20220302
https://www.oxfordmail.co.uk/news/national/19962444.putin-no-limit-violence-will-use-defence-secretary-warns/
He told BBC Breakfast that none of the major cities have been taken control of.
The Ministry of Defence said the latest intelligence suggested Russian forces had reportedly moved into the centre of Kherson in south Ukraine.
There was huge amounts of low morale in the Russian forces, weve seen lots of surrenders.
A senior Western intelligence official estimated that more than 5,000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed, while Ukraine has given no overall estimate of its military losses.
Ben Wallace said the leadership of the Russian military was ruthless and was prepared to lay siege to Ukraines population centres.
Boris Johnson will face Prime Ministers Questions after returning from a trip to show support to Nato allies Poland and Estonia.
The Defence Secretary again rejected calls for the UK and its allies to enforce a no-fly zone in the skies above Ukraine, because shooting down a Russian plane could trigger a Europe-wide conflict between Mr Putin and Nato.
Tonight, I say to the Russian oligarchs and the corrupt leaders who built billions of dollars off this violent regime Were coming for your ill-begotten gains.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: We said Putin and those around him would pay the price for their unprovoked and illegal invasion of Ukraine, and we are being true to our word.
If you had a no-fly zone in Ukraine, the overwhelming scale of the Russian army would be able to drive around with impunity, which it cant at the moment.
There are two ways to achieve a no-fly zone. One is the way that Britain has led the way in, which is arming the Ukrainians with anti-air capabilities, from the ground to the air, and the reason they are doing the bombing at night is because they cant  because of those weapon systems  the Russians cannot fly much in the day, he told Today.
In Washington, Mr Biden said: Putin is now isolated from the world more than he has ever been. Together with our allies, we are right now enforcing powerful economic sanctions: Were cutting off Russias largest bank to the international financial system and choking Russias access to technology that will sap its economic threat and weaken its military for years to come.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
US President Joe Biden used his State of the Union address to announce the closure of US airspace to Russian flights.
He warned that an occupying force would face the kind of insurgency faced by the Soviets in Afghanistan or the UK and Western allies in Iraq.
The UN human rights office said on Tuesday it had recorded 136 civilian deaths including 13 children, but the real toll is believed to be far higher.
But he said the UK had led the way in supplying surface-to-air weapons systems to Ukraine.
Invading a country with overwhelming force is one thing, occupying a people of 44 million who dont want you in  it is a very different thing.
Sberbank, Russias largest bank, which accounts for 35 of the financial sector, has also been prohibited from clearing sterling payments through the UKs financial system.
Mr Wallace told Sky News that meant a plan to carpet-bomb cities, indiscriminately in some cases and on BBC Radio 4s Today he warned they would pummel these cities with artillery and then hope to break the city.
The lack of progress in meeting the aims of the invasion had led to a change in tactics, focusing on aerial and artillery bombardment of cities rather than the kind of lightning mobilised armoured advances originally envisaged by the Kremlin, Western military experts believe.
Earlier on Tuesday, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps had announced a ban on Russian-linked ships  and oligarchs private yachts  from British ports.
But that doesnt take away from the fact you have a very ruthless Russian armed forces leadership and a president who seems to know no limit to how much violence they will use to achieve their aims.
Mr Wallace said: We have definitely seen cases of very quick surrenders by Russian forces, we have seen lots of abandonment of incredible pieces of equipment.
A no-fly zone would also have to apply to Ukrainian jets, meaning they could not target Russian forces from the air, he added.
On Tuesday night the Foreign Office announced that sanctions were in force against Russias central bank and its sovereign wealth fund and its director.
He told the BBC that siege tactics were in the Russian military doctrine, with forces surrounding a city before they bombard it indiscriminately and then eventually close in on a population that they hope to have broken, and indeed take over whats left of the city.
Russia said it would be ready for further peace talks with Ukraine later on Wednesday.
Vladimir Putin knows no limit and will use indiscriminate carpet bombing against Ukrainian cities as his forces close in on the capital Kyiv, the UKs Defence Secretary warned.
But Mr Wallace said the advance of Russian forces continued to be slowed by a combination of overstretched logistics, poor morale and brave resistance by Ukrainian fighters.
The Russians are considerably behind their schedule, by days not hours, and that leads to stresses on their logistical supply chains, he told the BBC.
Russian troops have entered Ukraines second city Kharkiv following days of intensive bombardment, but Mr Wallace said Mr Putins forces did not yet control it.
