Superyacht owned by Russian businessman detained in London
20220329
https://www.oxfordmail.co.uk/news/national/20028466.superyacht-owned-russian-businessman-detained-london/
She is registered to a company based in the Caribbean dual-island nation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, and carries a Maltese flag.
The Department for Transport DfT said it worked with the National Crime Agency and the Border Force Maritime Investigation Bureau to identify and detain Phi.
Phi  named after the mathematical concept  made her maiden voyage last year after being built in the Netherlands.
The DfT said it is looking at a number of other vessels and hopes its strong stance sends an example to international partners.
When you see what hes doing to Ukraine, when you see what hes doing to peoples lives, it cant be right to have a yacht like this here in London, able to just sail away, and that is why weve impounded it and denied its ability to go anywhere right now.
Mr Shapps told the PA news agency the ship was in London for a refit but wont be going anywhere.
He said: Its just another indication that we will not stand by whilst Putins cronies are allowed to sail around the world in these kinds of yachts and people in Ukraine are suffering.
UK officials boarded Phi  owned by a Russian businessman  in Canary Wharf, east London, on Tuesday.
It refused to reveal the name of her owner, stating that he is a Russian businessman.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
At 58.5 metres long, she is twice as long as the other boats docked around her in Canary Wharf.
A 38 million superyacht has been detained in London as part of sanctions against Russia, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has announced.
She is bright blue and features what is described as an infinite wine cellar and a freshwater swimming pool.
Someone thought to be a member of crew stuck a paper sign reading PO JUSTICE FOR THE 800 to the side of the boat.
The vessel is the first to be detained in the UK under sanctions imposed because of the war in Ukraine.
