Arts centre holding two fundraisers for Ukraine humanitarian campaign
20220419
https://www.thereminder.ca/local-arts/arts-centre-holding-two-fundraisers-for-ukraine-humanitarian-campaign-5279912
After anevent raised tens of thousands of dollars for Ukraine relief earlier this month, two more eventsare taking place to raise money for humanitarian efforts in Ukraine.
Interested artists can register for either workshop by calling 204 687-4237 or by emailing norvacentregmail.com.
A second event, a paint night, will take place April 30 at the centre, led by artist Rosimeire Anjos. The workshop will see those registered painting clay flower pots. Art promoting the event shows a flower pot painted with sunflowers, which have become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance against invading Russian forces. Arts supplies will be covered by and provided by the centre.
The entry fee will be $30, with all funds, like the pysanky workshop before it, going to the Red Cross campaign.
The workshops are the latest in an ever-growing number of events meant to raise money for Ukrainians impacted by the Russian invasion. Earlier this month, a major fundraiser organized by arts figures like the Kolts raised over $17,500 for the campaign, while another fundraiser organized by local churches also raised a significant amount of money.
The NorVA Centre is hosting two events in late April to raise funds to assist refugees fleeing for the war-torn nation, both featuring traditional Ukrainian arts and crafts. The first of the two events will be a traditional Ukrainian Easter egg making workshop, which will be held April 22 at the centre starting at 7 p.m. The Ukrainian easter egg, also known as pysanky, normally features ornate folk designs similar to those found in Ukrainian traditional art and clothing, usually dyed using beeswax. Phyllis and Katie Kozak will lead the workshop.
The pysanky workshop has a $40 entry fee, with all proceeds going toward the Canadian Red Cross Ukraine Humanitarian Crisis Appeal fund, where it will be used to provide aid and assistance for the Red Cross relief efforts, funding personnel and equipment needed to help fleeing Ukrainians.
