Unacceptable  world leaders condemn Russia on Ukraine
20220222
https://www.richmondandtwickenhamtimes.co.uk/news/19942063.unacceptable---world-leaders-condemn-russia-ukraine/
At the United Nations, an emergency meeting of the Security Council on Monday night was called by Ukraine, the US and six other countries.
A military clash against the wishes of the international community  would bring huge ramifications in the politics and economies of not only Europe, but to the whole world.
South Koreas foreign ministry spokesperson Choi Young-sam said diplomats are trying to persuade 63 of its nationals who currently remain in Ukraine to leave.
Nato member Turkey, which has close relations to both Ukraine and Russia, criticised Russias decision to recognise the independence of the regions in eastern Ukraine.
It is important that like-minded countries who denounce this sort of behaviour do stick together, and I can assure you that the moment that other countries put in place strong and severe sanctions on Russia, we will be in lockstep with them and we will be moving just as quickly, he added.
Mr Putins actions are unacceptable, and we express our strong condemnation, Mr Kishida told reporters.
Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida criticised Russia for violating Ukrainian territorial integrity and said his country would discuss possible severe actions, including sanctions, with the international community.
Secretary-General antonioguterres considers the decision of the Russian Federation to be a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and inconsistent with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. https:t.coB3iEl3QyIW pic.twitter.comlTAtV7WATr
Vassily Nebenzia accused Ukraine of sharply increasing shelling in residential areas of the separatist regions over the past weekend as well as in some Russian towns and villages near the border.
World leaders have condemned Russian president Vladimir Putin after he ordered his forces into separatist regions of eastern Ukraine.
A conflict could devastate Ukraine and cause huge economic damage across Europe, which is heavily dependent on Russian energy. But Asian nations are also worried.
New Zealands foreign minister Nanaia Mahuta said there was no basis under international law for Mr Putin to recognise the Ukrainian separatist regions.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We are concerned that this is a calculated act by President Putin to create a pretext for invasion, which would be a clear act of aggression. We again call for urgent diplomatic efforts to find a peaceful resolution, Ms Mahuta said in a statement.
Global reactions followed Monday nights emergency meeting of the UN Security Council called by Ukraine, the US and six other countries.
The Turkish foreign ministry said in a statement: We find this decision by Russia unacceptable and reject it.
"The next hours  days will be critical. The risk of major conflict is real  needs to be prevented at all costs."
Ukraines UN ambassador demanded that Russia cancel its recognition of the independence of the separatist regions, immediately withdraw its occupation troops sent there by Mr Putin and return to negotiations.
Leaders in Asia and elsewhere voiced strong support for Ukraines sovereignty, along with worries about how a European war could hurt global and local economies and endanger foreign nationals trapped in Ukraine.
His country has a separate territorial dispute with Moscow over four Russian-controlled northern islands taken at the end of the Second World War. The stand-off has prevented the signing of a peace treaty between the two sides.
Ukraine: antonioguterres says efforts must be focused on ensuring immediate cessation of hostilities, protection of civilians, preventing any actions  statements that may further escalate situation  prioritizing diplomacy.https:t.cognZnOeOwBe pic.twitter.comRnyTOhsH5J
China, a traditional ally of Russia, sounded a cautious note, calling for restraint and a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
Mr Moon instructed his officials to prepare for the economic fallout in South Korea if the Ukraine crisis worsens and US-backed nations levy stringent economic sanctions on Russia.
Russias UN ambassador said the United States and its Western allies were egging on Ukraine toward an armed provocation.
Sergiy Kyslytsya condemned Mr Putins illegal and illegitimate decision to recognise the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
Australian prime minister Scott Morrison said Russia should unconditionally withdraw from Ukrainian territory and stop threatening its neighbours.
