Deutsche Bank to wind down in Russia reversing course after backlash
20220311
https://www.shorenewsnetwork.com/2022/03/11/deutsche-bank-to-wind-2/
Overall, the lender paid 14 more, or 2.1 billion euros, in bonuses for 2021, rewarding staff for the banks most profitable year in a decade.
It also operates a technology centre with about 1,500 employees in Russia and opened a new main office in Moscow in December, which it said at the time represented a significant investment and commitment to the Russian market.
Deutsche joins the ranks of Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, which were the first major U.S. banks to exit after Moscows invasion of Ukraine. Those moves put pressure on rivals to follow..
I would be surprised if they are able to maintain this position as the situation in Ukraine continues to deteriorate, Browder told Reuters earlier on Friday.
The answer is that this would go against our values, he wrote. We have clients who cannot exit Russia overnight.
Deutsche Bank has said that it has pared down its Russian footprint in recent years. This week it disclosed 2.9 billion euros in credit risk to the country, and said exposure is very limited.
Reporting by Tom Sims, John ODonnell and Frank Siebelt additional reporting by Carolyn Cohn editing by Miranda Murray, Jason Neely, Alexander Smith and Chizu Nomiyama
Deutsche had resisted pressure to sever ties, arguing that it needed to support multinational firms doing business in Russia.
The row over Russia came as Deutsche Bank disclosed in its annual report that it paid Sewing 8.8 million euros $9.68 million in 2021, a 20 increase from a year earlier.
The U.S. Department of Justice has been investigating it for years over trades that authorities said were used to launder $10 billion out of Russia, which has led to the German bank being fined nearly $700 million.
The criticism came as Russian forces bearing down on Kyiv were regrouping northwest of the Ukrainian capital and Britain said that Moscow could now be planning an assault on the city within days.
Fabio De Masi, a former member of the Bundestag and a prominent campaigner against financial crime, said that  Deutsche Bank had close ties to the Russian elite, many of whom faced sanctions and that the relationship, where it involved criminal Russian activity, had to end.
A day earlier, Deutsche Banks Chief Executive Christian Sewing explained to staff why the bank was not withdrawing.
We are in the process of winding down our remaining business in Russia while we help our non-Russian multinational clients in reducing their operations, the bank said.
Bill Browder, an investor who has spent years campaigning to expose corruption in Russia, said that Deutsche Bank staying was completely at odds with the international business community and will create backlash, lost reputation and business in the West.
FRANKFURT   -Deutsche Bank, which faced stinging criticism from some investors and politicians for its ongoing ties to Russia, said on Friday in a surprise move that it would wind down its business in the country.
