Russian rockets hit Ukrainian town on independence day 22 killed
20220824
https://www.shorenewsnetwork.com/2022/08/24/ukraine-girds-for-independence/
The 44-year-old leader said Ukraine would recapture Russian-occupied areas of eastern Ukraine and the Crimean peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014.
Russian forces have seized areas of the south including on the Black Sea and Sea of Azov coasts and large tracts of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces that comprise the eastern Donbas region.
In a video address to the United Nations Security Council, Zelenskiy said the rockets hit a train in the small town of Chaplyne, some 145 km 90 miles west of Russian-occupied Donetsk in eastern Ukraine. Four carriages were on fire, he said.
In its evening update, Ukraines army high command said Russian air and missile strikes on military and civilian targets alike continued through Wednesday. Today was rich with air raid sirens, it said in a note without giving further details.
On a surprise visit to Kyiv on Wednesday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson also promised a further $63.5 million worth of military support, including 2,000 drones.
We will without any doubt evict the invaders from our land. No trace of this evil will remain in our free Ukraine, he said.
At a U.N. Security Council session on Wednesday, Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia reiterated Moscows rationale for its actions in Ukraine, saying a special operation was needed to denazify and demilitarise the country to remove obvious security threats to Russia.
In an emotional speech to compatriots earlier in the day, Zelenskiy said Ukraine was reborn when Russia invaded and that it would eventually drive out Russian forces completely.
Air raid sirens blared at least seven times in the capital Kyiv during the day though no attacks transpired.
On the eastern frontlines of Ukrainian resistance and in shattered cities, some with deserted streets under curfew, combatants and civilians marked the holiday with words of resolve and the promise of victory.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told Ukrainians they were an inspiration to the world. You can count on NATOs support. For as long as it takes, he said in a video message.
U.S. President Joe Biden announced nearly $3 billion for weapons and equipment for Ukraine in Washingtons biggest tranche of security assistance to date. Under Biden, the United States has committed more than $13.5 billion in security assistance to Ukraine.
KYIV Reuters      At least 22 people died and dozens were wounded on Wednesday when Russian rocket strikes hit a Ukrainian town and set a passenger train on fire, officials said, as the nation marked 31 years since its independence from Moscow-dominated Soviet rule.
Additional reporting by Pavel Polityuk, Max Hunder, Andrea Shalal, Olzhas Auyezov, John Chalmers, Rami Ayyub, Valentyn Ogirenko and Reuters bureaux writing by Mark Heinrich and Cynthia Osterman and David Ljunggren Editing by Gareth Jones, Hugh Lawson and Grant McCool
Ukraines top military intelligence official, Kyrylo Budanov, said on Wednesday Russias offensive was slowing because of moral and physical fatigue in its ranks and Moscows exhausted resource base.
Celebrations of the Aug. 24 public holiday were cancelled, but many Ukrainians marked the occasion by wearing embroidered shirts typical of the national dress.
Russia has repeatedly denied its forces are aiming at civilian targets. Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu told a meeting in Uzbekistan that Moscow had deliberately slowed down what it refers to as its special military operation in Ukraine to avoid civilian casualties.
Ukrainian forces shot down a Russian drone in the Vinnytsia region while multiple Russian missiles landed in the Khmelnytskyi area, regional authorities said  both west of Kyiv and hundreds of kilometres from front lines.
Russia has made few advances in recent months after its troops were repelled from Kyiv in the early weeks of the war.
The war has killed thousands of civilians, forced more than a third of Ukraines 41 million people from their homes, left cities in ruins and shaken the global economy, creating shortages of essential food grains and pushing up energy prices.
After days of warnings that Moscow could use Independence Day to fire more missiles into major urban centres, the second-biggest city Kharkiv was under curfew, following months of frequent bombardment.
Zelenskiy and his wife, Olena Zelenska, joined religious leaders for aservice in Kyivs 11th-century St. Sophia cathedral and laid flowers at a memorial to fallen soldiers.
Chaplyne is our pain today. As of this moment there are 22 dead, he said in a later evening video address, adding Ukraine would make Russia take responsibility for everything it had done.
Ukraine declared independence from the disintegrating Soviet Union in August 1991, and its population voted overwhelmingly for independence in a referendum that December.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy hadwarned on Tuesday of the risk of repugnant Russian provocations on Independence Day, which by chance was also six months since Russian forces invaded Ukraine, touching off Europes most devastating conflict since World War Two.
A new nation appeared in the world on Feb. 24 at 4 in the morning. It was not born, but reborn. A nation that did not cry, scream or take fright. One that did not flee. Did not give up. And did not forget, he said, speaking in front of Kyivs main monument to independence in his trademark combat fatigues.
Zelenskiy aide Kyrylo Tymoshenko later said Russian forces had shelled Chaplyne twice. A boy was killed in the first attack when his house was hit by a missile and 21 people died later when rockets hit the railway station and set fire to five carriages of a passenger train, he said in a statement.
Moscows stance has been dismissed by Ukraine and the West as a baseless pretext for an imperialist war of conquest.
We will not sit down at the negotiating table out of fear, with a gun pointed at our heads. For us, the most terrible iron is not missiles, aircraft and tanks, but shackles, he said.
