Russia warns on oil import ban as little progress is made at Ukraine talks
20220307
https://www.shorenewsnetwork.com/2022/03/07/russia-warns-west-over/
LVIVIRPIN, Ukraine        A Western ban on Russian oil imports may more than double the price to $300 a barrel and prompt the closure of the main gas pipeline to Germany, Moscow warned on Monday, as talks on Ukraine hardly advanced amid efforts to agree on civilian safe passage.
But if need be the United States is willing to move ahead without allies in Europe, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters. Many countries on the continent are heavily reliant on Russian energy.
Ukraine said on Monday its forces had retaken control of the town of Chuhuiv in the northeast after heavy fighting and of the strategic Mykolayiv airport in the south. Neither could immediately be verified.
The Russian economy, banking system, and currency have been under intense pressure as punishment for the assault on Ukraine. The country will be excluded from all of JPMorgans fixed income indexes, the bank said in the latest such development on Monday.
A Russian strike on a bread factory killed 13 in the town of Makariv in the Kyiv region, Ukrainian officials said. Reuters could not verify the details. Russia denies targeting civilians.
I dont think that in the coming days and weeks, there will be a real negotiated solution, he said.
Our president is not scared of anything, including a direct meeting with Putin, said Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba late on Monday.
Seeking to ratchet up the pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin, the United States said Washington and its European allies were considering banning Russian oil imports. Oil prices spiked to their highest levels since 2008.
We have every right to take a matching decision and impose an embargo on gas pumping through the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline, said Novak.
Death tolls cannot be verified, but footage filmed across Ukraine shows burnt-out wreckage of Russian tanks and armour, and parts of Ukrainian cities reduced to rubble by Russian strikes.
U.S. congressional negotiators on Monday were nearing a deal on a bill to provide Ukraine with billions of dollars in emergency aid.
Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a special operation that it says is not designed to occupy territory but to destroy its southern neighbours military capabilities and capture what it regards as dangerous nationalists.
In the eastern city of Kharkiv, police said the total death toll from the Russian bombardment was 143 since the start of the invasion. It was not possible to verify the toll.
U.S. President Joe Biden held a video conference call with the leaders of France, Germany and Britain as he pushed for their support on the ban.
Deputy mayor Sergei Orlov told CNN that authorities were ready to evacuate 6,000 people on Saturday but Russians had bombed buses that were to transport them. Moscow has accused the Ukrainians of blocking the planned evacuations.
Russias invasion, the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two, has created 1.7 million refugees, a raft of sanctions on Moscow, and fears of wider conflict in the West unthought-of for decades.
A senior U.S. defence official said Putin had now deployed into Ukraine nearly 100 of the more than 150,000 forces that he had pre-staged outside the country before the invasion.
Moscow would give the residents of the Ukrainian cities of Sumy and Mariupol the choice of moving elsewhere in Ukraine on Tuesday, setting a deadline in the early hours for Kyiv to agree, Russian news agencies reported.
The general staff of Ukraines armed forces said Russian forces were beginning to accumulate resources for the storming of Kyiv, a city of more than 3 million, after days of slow progress in their main advance south from Belarus.
As of now, there are no results that significantly improve the situation, Mykhailo Podolyak said.
Reporting by Reuters bureaus Writing by Philippa Fletcher and Costas Pitas, Editing by Angus MacSwan and Rosalba OBrien
A fourth round of talks are due soon, Russian negotiator Leonid Slutsky told Russian state television.
After the third attempt to ease the bloodshed at talks in Belarus, a Ukrainian negotiator said that although small progress on agreeing logistics for the evacuation of civilians had been made, things remained largely unchanged.
Moscow has acknowledged nearly 500 deaths among its soldiers, but Western countries say the true number is much higher and Ukraine says it is many thousands.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Reuters Moscow would halt operations if Ukraine ceased fighting, amended its constitution to declare neutrality, and recognised Russias annexation of Crimea and the independence of regions held by Russian-backed separatists.
In the encircled southern port city of Mariupol, hundreds of thousands of people remained trapped without food and water under regular bombardments.
Germany last month froze the certification of Nord Stream 2 that was due to pipe gas from Russia to Germany.
More than 1.7 million Ukrainians have fled to Central Europe since the conflict began on Feb. 24, the United Nations refugee agency said on Monday.
Sieges and the bombing continued as Kyiv rejected possible humanitarian corridors to Russia and Belarus, but said some limited progress had been made on agreeing logistics for the evacuation of civilians.
French President Emmanuel Macron, who spoke with Putin multiple times last month in the run-up to the invasion, said he saw no impeding breakthrough.
A rejection of Russian oil would lead to catastrophic consequences for the global market, said Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak, saying the price could more than double to over $300 per barrel.
In a humanitarian update, the United Nations described one psychiatric hospital 60 km 40 miles from Kyiv running out of water and medicine with 670 people trapped inside, including bedridden patients with severe needs.
Escape routes to Russia and Belarus, its close ally, were earlier called completely immoral by a spokesperson for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
