Ukraine and Russia What you need to know right now
20220831
https://www.shorenewsnetwork.com/2022/08/31/ukraine-and-russia-what-21/
 In rare public comments Ukraines military chief warned of the threat of Russia using nuclear weapons in Ukraine, which would create the risk of a limited nuclear conflict with other powers.
 Zelenskiy said next years budget would be a war budget, devoting more than a trillion hryvnias $27.40 billion to defence and security spending.
 Senior U.N. and Russian officials met to discuss Russian complaints that Western sanctions were impeding its grain and fertilizer exports despite a U.N.-brokered deal to boost Russian and Ukrainian shipments of the commodities.
 At the United Nations, the U.S. ambassador accused Moscow of committing a war crime by forcibly deporting Ukrainians to Russia and said it has information that Russian officials are overseeing so-called filtration operations.
 Ukraine said on Wednesday it might have to shut down the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant to avoid a disaster and called on residents in areas nearby to evacuate.
 Shelling damaged a backup power line at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which has already lost all four of its regular power lines, the U.N. nuclear watchdog said.
Reuters      Russian President Putin raised the idea of adding limits to a U.N.-brokered deal for Ukrainian grain exports via the Black Sea and threatened to halt all energy supplies to Europe if Brussels caps the price of Russian gas.
 A Ukrainian presidential adviser said Russia had no grounds to review the deal and that its terms were being strictly observed.
 The European Unions proposed price cap on Russian gas raises the risk of rationing in some of the worlds richest countries this winter.
 Putin said he would discuss limiting the destinations for grain and other food exports with Turkish President Erdogan, who helped broker the deal.
 Ukrainian forces are making slow but meaningful progress on the battlefield and are doing better in the south than Russia, a senior Pentagon official said.
 Ukrainian President Zelenskiy said there was good news from the Kharkiv region east of Kyiv, with some settlements recaptured from Russian forces.
