US and allies trade barbs with China but Ukraine dominates Asia security meet
20220611
https://www.shorenewsnetwork.com/2022/06/11/u-s-and-allies-trade/
That China has not done so should give us cause for concern, especially given the investments it is making in military power, he said at the meeting.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin earlier told the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore that Washington will do its part to manage tensions with China and prevent conflict even though Beijing was becoming increasingly aggressive in the region.
Austin and Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe met on Friday and reiterated they want to better manage their relationship but there was no sign of any breakthrough in resolving differences.
The interceptions by the Chinese of our aircraft are very concerning and unprofessional and we need to ensure that the safety and security of our pilots is not at risk, especially when they are simply monitoring as required under U.N.-sanctioned missions, Anand told Reuters in an interview.
But since then, U.S. officials have said while they remain wary about Chinas longstanding support for Russia in general, the military and economic support that they worried about has not come to pass, at least for now.
SINGAPORE      The United States and its allies traded barbs with China at Asias premier security meeting on Saturday, especially on Taiwan, but the war in Ukraine and a remote speech by President Volodymyr Zelenskiy dominated proceedings.
Austin said there had been an alarming increase in the number of unsafe and unprofessional encounters between Chinese planes and vessels with those of other countries.
Australian Defence Minister Richard Marles said it was  reasonable to expect China to make clear it did not support the invasion of a sovereign country in violation of the U.N. Charter.
If  due to Russian blockades we are unable to export our foodstuffs, the world will face an acute and severe food crisis and famine in many countries in Asia and Africa, he said.
Joint military operations between these two strong military powers will undoubtedly increase concern among other countries, Nobuo Kishi said at the Singapore meeting.
Taiwan has complained for years of repeated Chinese air force missions into its air defence identification zone, and Austin said these incursions had surged in recent months.
The defence minister of Japan, one of Washingtons closest allies in Asia, told the meeting that military cooperation between China and Russia had sharpened security concerns in the region.
China and the United States, which have clashed in recent months over everything from Taiwan and Chinas human rights record to its military activity in the South China Sea, were again at odds.
It is on the battlefields of Ukraine that the future rules of this world are being decided along with the boundaries of the possible, he said.
Reporting by Idrees Ali, Chen Lin, Kanupriya Kapoor and Joe Brock Writing by Raju Gopalakrishnan Editing by William Mallard and Gerry Doyle
There were many unfounded accusations against China. We expressed our strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition to these false accusations, Zhang, vice chief of the joint staff department of Chinas Central Military Commission, told reporters.
Ng Eng Hen, the defence minister of host Singapore, said the ties between China and Russia were discussed at a closed-door meeting of the ministers on Saturday, and that several delegates had asked Beijing to do more to rein in Moscow.
Australia has said a Chinese fighter aircraft dangerously intercepted one of its military surveillance planes in the South China Sea region in May, and Canadas military has accused Chinese warplanes of harassing its patrol aircraft as they monitor North Korea sanction evasions.
The United States is trying to form a small circle in the Asia-Pacific region by roping in some countries to incite against some other countries. What should we call this other than confrontation?
Zelenskiy, speaking via video link from an undisclosed location in Ukraines capital, Kyiv, told the delegates that their nations support was crucial not just to defeat the Russian invasion, but to preserve the rules-based order.
Thats especially important as the PRC Peoples Republic of China adopts a more coercive and aggressive approach to its territorial claims, he said.
Earlier this year, Washington said China appeared poised to help Russia in its war against Ukraine.
China claims self-ruled Taiwan as its own and has vowed to take it by force if necessary.
He noted that Russia is blocking ports in the Black Sea and Azov Sea, keeping Ukrainian food exports from the world market.
