US readies new 1 billion Ukraine weapons package
20220806
https://www.shorenewsnetwork.com/2022/08/06/u-s-readies-new-1/
It was unclear if the NASAMS launchers, made jointly by Raytheon Technologies Corp and Norways Kongsberg, are already in Ukraine if the munitions were for launchers donated by another country, or if they were being prepositioned.
Moscow is trying to gain control of the largely Russian-speaking Donbas, comprised of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces, where pro-Moscow separatists seized territory after the Kremlin annexed Crimea to the south in 2014.
The new package would be funded under the Presidential Drawdown Authority PDA, in which the president can authorize the transfer of articles and services from U.S. stocks without congressional approval in response to an emergency.
However, if signed in its current form, it would be valued at $1 billion and include munitions for HIMARS, NASAMS surface-to-air missile system ammunition and as many as 50 M113 armored medical transports.
So far the United States has sent 16 HIMARS to Ukraine and on July 1 pledged to send two National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems NASAMS.
The package is expected to be announced as early as Monday and would add to about $8.8 billion in aid the United States has given Ukraine since Russias invasion on Feb. 24.
Reporting by Idrees Ali and Mike Stone in Washington Editing by Mary Milliken and Josie Kao
Last Monday, the Pentagon announced a separate security assistance package for Ukraine valued at up to $550 million, including additional ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS.
WASHINGTON      The Biden administrations next security assistance package for Ukraine is expected to be $1 billion, one of the largest so far, and include munitions for long-range weapons and armored medical transport vehicles, three sources briefed on the matter told Reuters on Friday.
The new package follows a recent https:www.reuters.comworldeuropepentagon-approves-plan-treat-ukrainian-troops-us-hospital-germany-official-2022-07-26 Pentagon decision to allow Ukrainians to receive medical treatment at a U.S. military hospital in Germany near Ramstein air base.
Since Russian troops poured over the border in February in what Putin termed a special military operation, the conflict has settled into a war of attrition fought primarily in the east and south of Ukraine.
The Kyiv government said in June that 100 to 200 Ukrainian troops were being killed per day.
The armored personnel carriers outfitted with medical  equipment could make the fight with Russia more survivable for Ukrainian troops who could then be sent to Germany for further medical treatment.
The officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that President Joe Biden had not yet signed the next weapons package. They cautioned that weapons packages can change in value and content before they are signed.
HIMARS play a key role in the artillery duel between Ukraine and Russia that has been described as grinding with very little movement of the front line in Ukraines eastern Donbas region.
