Russian organizations across the metro voice support for Ukraine
20220302
https://www.kare11.com/article/news/local/breaking-the-news/russian-organizations-across-the-metro-voice-support-for-ukraine/89-2cae787b-eb24-4a38-81ea-b0f2b0d43707
But regardless of which side one may find themselves on, the reality of whats unfolding is weighing heavily on those standing with a nation under siege.
MINNEAPOLIS  Its been nearly a week since Russian forces first invaded Ukraine, sparking outrage and a show of support from around the world as people join together in solidarity condemning the attacks.
Across the river in St. Paul, Moscow On The Hill restaurant, which is owned by Russian-born immigrants, took to social media voicing their support for Ukraine, and their support is now being threated by anti-Russian bullying.
"Everyone has the same wish for this war to end immediately," said Mark Meister, Executive Director of The Museum of Russian Art.
"It's absolutely unacceptable that people that ethnically are brothers hate each other and this is the result of really bad war and innocent people as a result are dying," said Liberman.
"We, as a Russian restaurant, really struggle...a lot of people send us really bad emails and google reviews and are not connected to us at all, they say were part of Vladimir Putin's regime. Were not Putin, were not related to him and were not responsible for what Russia has done," explained Moscow On The Hill owner, Marina Liberman.
"Our members and supporters are very happy that we have expressed this because they were concerned that the museum might be perceived incorrectly," said Meister.
"We work with the art and culture of all 14 countries that came out of the former Soviet Union in 1991," said Meister. He went on to say, "so were always exhibiting artists who were from Ukraine or artists who are now living in Minnesota who are form Ukraine, and we have many members and supporters from Ukraine.
Which is disheartening on so many levels for Liberman, who has ties on both sides of this fight.
Thousands in Russia have been arrested amid anti-war protests, and the sentiments of those anti-war cries are resonating with Russian organizations here in the Twin Cities. Including a tribute to the Ukrainian flag painted outside The Museum of Russian Artin Minneapolis.
