UN inspectors head to Ukraines Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant to check for damage
20220831
https://www.kare11.com/article/news/nation-world/un-nuclear-ukraine/507-92794607-53b4-4fbf-82e1-0af4f1ac89ef
Underscoring the danger, Kyiv and Moscow again accused each other of shelling the area around the complex overnight. Zaporizhzhia is the biggest nuclear plant in Europe.
He said an initial tour will take a few days, after which "we will have a pretty good idea of what's going on. Grossi said he had received explicit guarantees from Russia that the 14 experts would be able to do their work.
Grossi said he is hoping the IAEA will be able to establish a "continued presence at the plant to safeguard it against an accident.
While the inspectors were on their way, Russia-backed local authorities accused Ukrainian forces of repeatedly shelling the plant grounds and city where it is situated, Enerhodar. They said drone strikes hit the plants administrative building and training center.
Its a mission that seeks to prevent a nuclear accident and to preserve this important  the largest, the biggest  nuclear power plant in Europe, he said.
The world watched the mission's progress with anxiety. European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell renewed a call to Russia to fully demilitarize the area around the plant.
For months, as the fighting has played out, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency has sought access to the plant for an unprecedented wartime mission, and world leaders have demanded that the U.N. watchdog be allowed to inspect it.
Yevhen Yevtushenko, head of the administration in the Ukrainian-held city of Nikopol, across the Dnieper River from the plant, charged that the attacks were carried out by the Russians in a bid to make Ukraine look like the culprit.
IAEA chief and mission leader Rafael Grossi said the real work will start on Thursday. He underscored the challenges ahead.
They are playing games. They are gambling with the nuclear security, Borrell said. We cannot play war games in the neighborhood of a site like this.
The complex has been occupied by Russian forces but run by Ukrainian engineers since the early days of the 6-month-old war. Ukraine alleges Russia is using the plant as a shield, storing weapons there and launching attacks from around it, while Moscow accuses Ukraine of recklessly firing on the place.
The U.N. convoy of vans and SUVs finally set out from Kyiv early Wednesday and arrived in the afternoon in the city of Zaporizhzhia, still some 120 kilometers 70 miles by road from the plant. Ukrainian authorities said the team would stay in the city overnight and attempt to enter the plant on Thursday.
Fighting in early March caused a brief fire at its training complex, and in recent days, the plantwas temporarily knocked offline because of damage, heightening fears of a radiation leak or a reactor meltdown. Officials have begun distributing anti-radiation iodine tablets to nearby residents.
We think that the mission should be a very important step to return the plant to Ukrainian government control by the end of the year, Ukrainian Energy Minister German Galushchenko said.
KYIV, Ukraine  A team of U.N. inspectors made its way towardUkraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant Wednesday on a perilous, long-sought mission to safeguard the site and prevent a catastrophe from the fighting raging around it.
