Dont believe apocalyptic predictions
20220207
https://www.jamaicaobserver.com/international/-don-t-believe-apocalyptic-predictions-ukraine-plays-down-russian-invasion-fears-as-us-sounds-alarm_243306?profile=1470
The stark warnings from the US  part of a deliberate attempt from Washington to pre-empt any Russian actions  come as Europe pushes to defuse the crisis.
Two weeks ago, a total of 60 Russian army battalions were positioned to the north, east and south of Ukraine, particularly in the Crimean peninsula, which Russia annexed after an invasion in 2014.
They added that some 1,500 Russian special forces soldiers known as Spetsnaz arrived along the Ukraine border a week ago.
The Russian force amassed on the frontier is growing at a rate that would give Putin the firepower he needs for a full-scale invasion  some 150,000 soldiers  by mid-February, US officials have said.
It could also trigger a refugee flood of one to five million people, mainly into Poland, the officials added.
By Friday, there were 80 battalions and 14 more were en route from elsewhere in Russia, US officials said.
They assess Putin wants all possible options at his disposal: from a limited campaign in the pro-Russian Donbas region of Ukraine to a full-scale invasion.
Podolyak said the latest Russian moves were no surprise as Moscow has sought to keep up pressure on Kyiv by conducting large-scale troop rotations, manoeuvres and weapon deployments on a regular basis since massing forces at the border last spring.
Presidency advisor Mykhailo Podolyak insisted that the chances of finding a diplomatic solution to the crisis remained substantially higher than the threat of further escalation.
US officials said if Moscow does opt for a full-scale attack, the invading force could take the capital Kyiv and topple Zelensky in a matter of 48 hours.
The move angered Moscow, which has issued demands for NATO to guarantee Ukraine will not enter the alliance and withdraw forces from member states in eastern Europe.
President Joe Biden has reacted to the build-up by dispatching some 3,000 American forces to bolster NATO's eastern flank, with a new batch of US soldiers arriving in Poland on Sunday.
Do not believe the apocalyptic predictions. Different capitals have different scenarios, but Ukraine is ready for any development, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba wrote on Twitter.
They estimated such an attack would leave 25,000 to 50,000 civilians dead, along with 5,000 to 25,000 Ukrainian soldiers and 3,000 to 10,000 Russian ones.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz will also visit the region for talks with Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky the following week in a bid to further the diplomatic efforts.
Kyiv  backed up by some European allies  has consistently sought to play down fears of an imminent attack as it tries to avoid inflicting further harm on its struggling economy.
Today, Ukraine has a strong army, unprecedented international support and the faith of Ukrainians in their country. It is the enemy who should fear us.
KYIV, Ukraine AFP  Ukraine on Sunday pushed back at apocalyptic predictions over a potential Russian invasion, after officials in the United States sounded dire warnings that Moscow had stepped up its preparations for a major incursion.
Russia has also announced what it calls joint military manoeuvres with Belarus, where it has sent several battalions to the north of Kyiv.
How long will such Russian activity last and for what purpose is it maintained? Only the Kremlin can know the exact answer to this question, he said.
-US intelligence has concluded that Russia is continuing to muster a major military force on its border with Ukraine.
US officials said the Kremlin has assembled 110,000 troops along the border with its pro-Western neighbour but intelligence assessments have not determined if President Vladimir Putin has actually decided to invade.
But US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told Fox News Sunday that Biden is not sending forces to start a war or fight a war with Russia in Ukraine.
French President Emmanuel Macron heads to Moscow today and Kyiv tomorrow seeking to de-escalate the crisis and push forward a stalled peace plan for the festering conflict with Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
