HE WAS VERY YOUNG Russians bury dead soldiers as Kremlin admits major losses
20220408
https://calgarysun.com/news/world/he-was-very-young-russians-bury-dead-soldiers-as-kremlin-admits-major-losses/wcm/12e9e7b3-5e3a-4d7a-9ed0-1f3d85eb223a
Dyadyushko, from the nearby settlement of Arkhonskaya, left behind four sisters and a mother, said local leader Alexander Kusey.
Russia sent tens of thousands of soldiers into Ukraine on Feb. 24 on what it calls a special operation. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday that the losses were a huge tragedy for us.
Elsewhere in the cemetery, more than 20 fresh graves for soldiers who died in Ukraine were visible.
In the southern garrison town of Vladikavkaz, near the Caucasus mountains, relatives gathered for the funeral of Vitaly Dyadyushko, one of two soldiers buried on Friday in the towns Vostochnoe cemetery.
Shortly afterwards, mourners gathered for another funeral, that of 41-year-old Ruslan Kozayev. One elderly woman, in tears, gently touched his face.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
He was from a large family, and he was the only one who provided for it. I dont know how the girls will do without him now, he helped a lot, he said. He was not married, he did not have a chance, he was young, very young. Its a shame when the young pass away before their time.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
As the coffin was lowered into the ground, a military brass band played the national anthem and an honour guard fired a salute using automatic weapons.
VLADIKAVKAZ  Russian families buried relatives killed in Ukraine with automatic gun salutes and military brass bands on Friday, a day after the Kremlin admitted for the first time that it had lost significant numbers of troops.
One weeping woman dressed in black kissed the face of the soldier, who lay in an open casket, flanked by soldiers in dress uniform holding rifles. A Russian Orthodox priest waved incense over the coffin.
