NATO defense ministers to discuss weapons for Ukraine
20220615
https://calgarysun.com/news/world/nato-defense-ministers-to-discuss-weapons-for-ukraine/wcm/e1289246-6822-496b-b39c-612e4780244b
U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said at a meeting Wednesday in Oslo that the ambition for the NATO summit in Madrid is ensuring that Sweden and Finland are successfully on the next step towards accession into NATO,
Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar said Tuesday that the invaded nations military had received only around 10 of the Western weapons it had requested to create parity with the Russian army.
The NATO meeting opens with a working dinner Wednesday evening at which ministers will speak with their counterparts from Ukraine, as well as Georgia, Sweden, Finland, and the European Union.
The defense ministers meeting this week also plan to discuss moves to beef up forces along NATOs eastern flank and elsewhere, which have gathered pace since Russia invaded Ukraine.
Because of Turkeys concerns, this will take some more time than we originally expected, he said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
In his nightly address to the nation, Zelenskyy pleaded Tuesday for more and faster deliveries of Western arms, specifically asking for anti-missile defense systems.
We will most definitely not change our stance until Sweden and Finland take clear, concrete and determined steps in the fight against terrorism, Erdogan said in an address to his ruling partys legislators.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
This will mean more presence, more capabilities and higher readiness, with more NATO forward deployed combat formations to strengthen our battlegroups in the East, more air, sea and cyber defenses, pre-positioned equipment and weapon stockpiles, Stoltenberg said.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is hosting a meeting Wednesday of about 50 nations at NATOs Brussels headquarters to discuss weapons deliveries to Ukraine.
Increased arms supplies cant come soon enough for the Ukrainian forces battling to keep Russia from taking control of their countrys industrial east after more than 3 12 months of war.
BRUSSELS AP  NATO defense ministers attending a two-day meeting starting Wednesday will discuss beefing up weapons supplies to Ukraine, and Sweden and Finlands applications to join the trans-Atlantic military alliance, Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said.
My aim is to solve this issue as soon as possible, but since we are several nations involved in this process, there is no way to tell you exactly when we will solve it, Stoltenberg said.
I think it is very important we listen and understand Turkeys concerns and work to a position where Turkey will support the accession and indeed that we can mitigate any of those concerns, Wallace said.
This will be an opportunity for Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov to update us on what Ukraine urgently needs. And for NATO allies to make new announcements of support to Ukraine, Stoltenberg said.
She said Ukraine uses 5,000 to 6,000 artillery rounds a day, while Russia uses 10 times more.
The Ukrainian forces in the east of the country, some of them have been on that front line for 90 days. They are exhausted. They are often, in artillery terms, outnumbered at very, very high ratios, he said.
No matter how much effort Ukraine makes, no matter how professional our army, without the help of Western partners we will not be able to win this war, Malyar said in a televised news conference.
Allies are committed to continue providing the military equipment that Ukraine needs to prevail, including heavy weapons and long-range systems, Stoltenberg said.
The meeting, less two weeks before a summit of NATO leaders in Madrid, comes with Kyiv imploring the West to send more and heavier weapons to help fend off Russias onslaught in eastern Ukraine.
He added that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy would be invited to address the June 29-30 Madrid summit, either in person or by videoconference.
He added that the West needs to do more to support Ukrainians battling advances by far better equipped Russians.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
He wouldnt commit to a timeframe for Sweden and Finland joining NATO. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is blocking the membership bids as he accuses the Nordic nations of supporting Kurdish militants deemed by Turkey to be terrorists.
