NATO rejects Ukraine nofly zone says not part of this war
20220304
https://calgarysun.com/news/world/nato-rejects-ukraine-no-fly-zone-says-not-part-of-this-war/wcm/cbeb2feb-87af-457e-b154-8af50733687a
Instead of a military presence in Ukraine, EU countries  most of them also NATO members  said they were eyeing more economic sanctions to add to coordinated restrictions that have already targeted Russias financial system and elites.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the alliance would defend every inch of NATO territory from attack. Ours is a defensive alliance. We seek no conflict. But if conflict comes to us, we are ready, Blinken said.
We have a responsibility as NATO allies to prevent this war from escalating beyond Ukraine because that would be even more dangerous, more devastating and would cause even more human suffering.
We are not part of this conflict, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told a news conference.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has called for Western powers to enforce a no-fly zone, with Russia shelling cities and bringing fighting to Europes largest nuclear plant.
Ukraine, a former Soviet republic, wants to join the European Union and Western military alliance NATO, whose members are bound in its founding treaty to defend each other from invasion.
Irelands Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said no new sanctions would be announced on Friday but that a fourth round could affect more Russian banks access to the SWIFT international transfer system, bar Russian ships from European ports and cut imports like steel, timber, aluminum or coal.
BRUSSELS  NATO allies rejected Ukraines demand for no-fly zones on Friday, saying they were increasing support but that stepping in directly would lead to a broader, even more brutal European war so far limited to Russias assault on its neighbour.
Stoltenberg said NATO understood Ukraines desperation, calling Russias war in Ukraine horrific and warning the worst was yet to come, with Russia rolling out more heavy arms. But he said a no-fly zone could only be enforced by sending NATO planes to shoot down Russian ones, adding that the risk of escalation would be too big.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
It was not immediately clear, however, when the EU would agree on measures given some countries heavy reliance on Russian energy supplies.
Thousands of people are believed to have been killed or wounded and more than 1 million refugees have fled Ukraine since Feb. 24, when Russias President Vladimir Putin ordered the biggest attack on a European state since the Second World War.
Putin launched his special military operation to get rid of what he said was Ukraines fascist government and demilitarize the country. Zelenskiy says Moscow is trying to prevent a liberal democracy flourishing on Russias border.
Support for Ukraine so far has come mainly in the form of far-reaching sanctions on Russia, with EU members on Friday saying more financial punishment was yet to come. NATO members have sent weapons to Ukraine, but stopped short of military action.
In a video message earlier on Friday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said NATO foreign ministers should not allow Putin to turn Ukraine into Syria, in reference to the devastating Russia-backed campaign against rebel cities in that country.
Russian invasion forces seized Europes biggest nuclear power plant on Friday in heavy fighting in southeastern Ukraine, triggering global alarm. A fire in a training building was extinguished and officials said the facility was now safe.
The 27-nation bloc is examining curbs on Russias influence and access to finance at the International Monetary Fund following its invasion of Ukraine, six officials told Reuters.
We will consider everything, the blocs top diplomat Josep Borrell said, when asked about the possible suspension of the EUs gas imports from Russia, which think-tank Eurointelligence said amount to $700 million daily even during the war.
Took part in the extraordinary meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers. My message: act now before its too late. Dont let Putin turn Ukraine into Syria. We are ready to fight. We will continue fighting. But we need partners to help us with concrete, resolute and swift actions, now. pic.twitter.coms4FCaAOjNy
The picture looks very bleak and very dark in terms of Russias intentions  and so I think there is huge concern, and there is no point in sugar-coating it, Coveney said.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said the bloc should close any loopholes that could allow Russia to circumvent sanctions.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Allies agree we should not have NATO planes operating over Ukrainian airspace or NATO troops operating in Ukrainian territory, Stoltenberg said.
