Russia destroys bridge over Ukrainian river cutting escape route
20220612
https://calgarysun.com/news/world/russia-destroys-bridge-over-ukrainian-river-cutting-escape-route/wcm/f44ca803-68d8-42ce-9930-b7516e5ffdbe
In Lysychansk itself, Russian shelling killed one woman and destroyed four houses and a shopping center, Gaidai said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
That leaves just one of three bridges still standing, and reduces the number of routes that could be used to evacuate civilians or for Ukrainian troops to withdraw to positions on the western side of the river.
After being forced to scale back its initial campaign goals following its Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, Moscow has turned its attention to expanding control in the Donbas, where pro-Russian separatists have held a swathe of territory since 2014.
Moscow has repeatedly criticized the United States and other nations for supplying Ukraine with weapons. Putin said earlier this month that Russia would strike new targets if the West supplied longer-range missiles to Ukraine for use in high-precision mobile rocket systems.
KYIV  Russian forces have blown up a bridge linking the embattled Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk to another city across the river, cutting off a possible evacuation route for civilians, local officials said on Sunday.
To the south and southwest of Sievierodonetsk, Russian forces were firing mortars and artillery around a number of settlements, according to Ukraines general staff. But it said Ukrainian forces had repulsed Russian attempts to advance towards some communities.
A court in the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic on Thursday found Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner  and Moroccan Brahim Saadoun  guilty of mercenary activities seeking to overthrow the republic.
Sievierodonetsk is the last city in Donbass Luhansk province still held by Ukraine and its loss would be significant strategic blow. Victory for the Russians would move them a big step closer to one of Russian President Vladimir Putins stated goals in what he calls a special military operation.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Ukrainian leaders have renewed pleas to Western countries in recent days to speed up deliveries of heavy weapons as Russian artillery pounds the east of the country.
Ukrainian forces have proven more resilient than expected, but the U.S.-based Institute for the Study of War said that as they use the last of their stocks of Soviet-era weapons and munitions, they will require consistent Western support.
Putin says Russias actions aim to disarm and denazify Ukraine. Kyiv and its allies call it an unprovoked war of aggression to capture territory.
Sievierodonetsk has become the epicenter of the battle for control over Ukraines eastern region of Donbas. Parts of the city have been pulverized in some of the bloodiest fighting since the Kremlin unleashed its invasion on Feb. 24.
Britain says Aslin and Pinner were regular soldiers and should be exempt under the Geneva Conventions from prosecution for participation in hostilities. The separatists say they committed grave crimes and have a month to appeal.
The head of the Sievierodonetsk administration said a little more than a third of the city remained under the control of Ukrainian forces and about two-thirds were in Russian hands.
I dont see any grounds, prerequisites, for me to come out with such a decision on a pardon, Denis Pushilin was quoted as saying by Russian news agencies.
Ternopils governor said rockets fired from the Black Sea at the city of Chortkiv had partly destroyed a military facility and injured 22 people. A local official said there were no weapons stored there.
Also on Sunday, the leader of the Russian-backed separatist Donetsk region in the Donbas said there was no reason to pardon two British nationals who were sentenced to death last week after being captured while fighting for Ukraine.
Russian forces have taken most of the city but Ukrainian troops remain in control of an industrial area and chemical plant where hundreds of civilians are sheltering.
Elsewhere, Russian cruise missiles destroyed a large depot containing U.S. and European weapons in western Ukraines Ternopil region, Russias Interfax agency reported.
Ukrainian and Russian forces were still fighting street-by-street there on Sunday, the governor of Luhansk province, Serhiy Gaidai, said.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
But the Russians had destroyed a bridge over the Siverskyi Donets River linking Sievierodonetsk with its twin city of Lysychansk, Gaidai said.
