Russian wife gives soldier husband permission to rape Ukraine women
20220415
https://calgarysun.com/news/world/russian-wife-gives-soldier-husband-permission-to-rape-ukraine-women
At gunpoint, he took me to a house nearby, the woman, identified only as Anna, told BBC. He ordered me: Take your clothes off or Ill shoot you. He kept threatening to kill me if I didnt do as he said. Then he started raping me.
So I should rape and not tell you anything, he responds. Can I really? OK.
While he was raping me, four more soldiers entered. I thought that I was done for. But they took him away. I never saw him again.
The shocking conversation between the unnamed Russian woman and her hubbie was revealed by the Security Service of Ukraine, which recorded the phone call and released the audio clip of the alleged conversation on its Telegram account, according to the New York Post via Ukrinform.net.
Russia invaded the eastern and southern parts of Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022 and the conflict has been ongoing ever since.
One woman, according to BBC, said she was at home with her husband when a Russian soldier forced his way in. She said he was a Chechen fighter who sided with the Russians.
After the rape, Anna said she found her husband shot in the stomach and he died two days later.
The recorded conversation comes on the heels of Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy alleging that invading Russian soldiers have been raping Ukrainian women and sexually assaulting kids while murdering unarmed and bound civilians. Mass graves have also been found.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Rape them, yeah, the unidentified woman says, based on reports. Dont tell me anything, understand? Yeah, I allow you  just use protection.
A Russian wife laid down two ground rules after giving her soldier husband permission to rape women during the invasion of Ukraine.
The 30-second audio clip, titled Wives of Russian invaders allow their men to rape Ukrainian women, suggests this shocking interception by the SBU reflects the moral values not only of the occupiers but also of their relatives, 80 of whom now support the war in Ukraine, according to the Daily Mail.
