Ukraine willing to be neutral says Russia wants to split nation
20220328
https://calgarysun.com/news/world/ukraine-prepared-to-discuss-neutrality-status-zelenskyy-tells-russian-journalists/wcm/0c9434aa-987c-43ad-8a2b-ba0425bd5fc9
All entries and exits from the city of Mariupol are blocked, Zelenskyy said. The port is mined. A humanitarian catastrophe inside the city is unequivocal, because it is impossible to go there with food, medicine and water, he said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
He also dismissed as a joke allegations made by Russia that Ukraine had nuclear or chemical weapons.
I dont even know who the Russian army has ever treated like this, he said, adding that, compared to Russian wars in Chechnya, the volume of destruction cannot be compared.
Zelenskyy was speaking to Russian journalists in a 90 minute video call, an interview that Moscow authorities had pre-emptively warned Russian media to refrain from reporting. Zelenskyy spoke in Russian throughout, as he has done in previous speeches when targeting a Russian audience.
LVIV  Ukraine is prepared to discuss adopting a neutral status as part of a peace deal with Russia but such a pact would have to be guaranteed by third parties and put to a referendum, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in remarks aired on Sunday.
Zelenskyy focused on the fate of the eastern port city of Mariupol, under siege for weeks. Once a city of 400,000 people, it has undergone prolonged Russian bombardment.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Zelenskyy said Ukraine refused to discuss certain other Russian demands, such as the demilitarization of the country.
He ruled out trying to recapture all Russian-held territory by force, saying it would lead to a third world war, and said he wanted to reach a compromise over the eastern Donbas region, held by Russian-backed forces since 2014.
Russian prosecutors said a legal opinion would be made on the statements made in the interview and on the legality of publishing the interview.
Zelenskyy said Russias invasion had caused the destruction of Russian-speaking cities in Ukraine, with damage worse than the Russian wars in Chechnya.
The Russian censorship agency came out with a threat, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address. It would be ridiculous if it werent so tragic.
Zelenskyy pushed back against allegations from Moscow that Ukraine had curbed the rights of Russian speakers, saying it was Russias invasion that wiped Russian-speaking cities off the face of the earth.
Speaking more than a month after Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, Zelenskyy said no peace deal would be possible without a ceasefire and troop withdrawals.
Russia has denied targeting civilians in Ukraine. Russia and Ukraine have traded blame for a failure to open humanitarian corridors.
Russia says it is conducting a special military operation in Ukraine with the aim of demilitarizing its neighbour. Ukraine and its Western allies call this a pretext for an unprovoked invasion.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Security guarantees and neutrality, non-nuclear status of our state. We are ready to go for it. This is the most important point, Zelenskyy said.
