Civilians flee intense fighting in contested eastern Ukraine
20220610
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/business/nation/story/2022-06-09/west-denounces-death-sentences-for-3-who-fought-for-ukraine
An adviser to Ukraines president says artillery attacks devastated two Russian bases in the southern Kherson region, which has been under Russian occupation since early in the war.
Sievierodonetsk is in the last pocket of Luhansk province that has not yet been claimed by Russia or Moscow-backed separatists. The Luhansk and Donetsk regions together make up the Donbas.
Meanwhile, Moscow kept up its artillery strikes on the neighboring city of Lysychansk and surrounding towns and villages, the Ukrainian military said. It also said that Russian troops were preparing to resume an offensive on the city of Slavyansk in the Donetsk region, south of Luhansk.
At the time, Zelenskyy was concerned that the drumbeat of war was unsettling to Ukraines fragile economy.
He said the FSB general was tasked with organizing a referendum on whether the Kherson region should join Russia. There was no immediate confirmation of the claim.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his armys ability to hold off Russian forces in the Donbas depends on the supply of Western weapons.
Oleksiy Arestovych, in his regular online interview, said Friday that the attack on Stara Zburivka, a village along the Dnieper River, killed dozens, including a Russian army general and a general in the FSB intelligence service.
The fighting there has led to mounting casualties and renewed pleas from Ukraine to the West for more weapons.
Karmanau reported from Lviv, Ukraine. Associated Press writers Jill Lawless in London and Jamey Keaten in Geneva contributed.
Mostly women, children and elderly residents left on a special evacuation train that departed from the city of Pokrovsk and headed west.
Every city, thats not an exaggeration. Like Volnovakha, like Mariupol. All of these ruins of once-happy cities, the black traces of fires, the craters from explosions  this is all that Russia can give to its neighbors, to Europe, to the world.
Civilians fled intense fighting in eastern Ukraine on Friday as Russian and Ukrainian forces engaged in a grinding battle of attrition for key cities in the countrys industrial heartland.
An envoy for the Luhansk Peoples Republic, a self-proclaimed separatist territory, reported Friday that some Ukrainian troops were trapped inside a chemical plant on the citys outskirts.
In the weeks before the war began on Feb. 24, Zelenskyy publicly bristled as Biden administration officials repeatedly warned that a Russian invasion was likely.
Although Zelenskyy has inspired much of the world with his wartime leadership, his preparation for the invasion  or lack thereof  has been controversial.
After a bungled attempt to overrun Kyiv, Ukraines capital, in the early days of the war, Russia shifted its focus to an eastern region of coal mines and factories known as the Donbas. The area borders Russia and has been partly controlled by Moscow-backed separatists since 2014.
We live on the front line now, said Svitlana Kaplun, whose family fled as shelling reached their neighborhood in the city of Krasnohorivka. The kids are worried all the time, they are afraid to sleep at night, so we decided to take them out.
Fighting in the Donbas has ground on for more than two months, and the slog continued Friday. A provincial governor said Russian and Ukrainian forces battled for every house and every street in Sievierodonetsk, a city that recently has been under steady attack.
Nothing like this has happened since World War II. I know a lot of people thought I was maybe exaggerating. But I knew we had data to sustain that Russian President Vladimir Putin was going to go in.
Ukrainian troops are doing everything to stop the offensive, as much as they possibly can, as long as there are enough heavy weapons, modern artillery  all that we have asked for and continue to ask for from our partners, he said Friday in his nightly video address.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraines president, told the BBC in an interview aired Thursday that the daily loss of 100 to 200 Ukrainian soldiers is the result of a complete lack of parity between Ukraine and Russia.
Speaking to donors Friday at a Democratic fundraiser in Los Angeles, Biden talked about his work to rally support for Ukraine as the war continues into a fourth month.
They are being told that no conditions will be accepted. Only the laying down of arms and surrender, he said.
He said only more advanced Western weaponry will turn back the Russian offensive and force Moscow to the negotiating table.
He said in both cases the Ukrainian forces used 155mm howitzers supplied by the West.
Arestovych said a separate attack this week on a Russian base in Chkalove killed at least 200 troops, including Arabs, presumably from Syria. He said it was the first confirmed case of Arabs fighting with Russians in Ukraine.
Ukraine has claimed to have killed about a dozen generals in the war, but only a few of the deaths have been confirmed.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai told The Associated Press that Ukrainian forces retain control of the industrial zone on the edge of the city and some other sections amid the painstaking block-by-block fighting.
U.S. President Joe Biden said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy didnt want to hear it when American intelligence gathered information in February that indicated Russia was preparing to invade his country.
Miroshnik echoed earlier claims by a Russian defense official that civilians remained on the plants grounds. But he stopped short of reiterating allegations that Ukrainian forces were barring them from leaving.
All escape routes have been cut off, Rodion Miroshnik, Moscow ambassador for the unrecognized republic, wrote on social media.
