EU coordinator heads to Tehran in bid to save nuclear deal
20220510
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/nation-world/story/2022-05-10/eu-coordinator-heads-to-tehran-in-bid-to-save-nuclear-deal
Mora has played a crucial role in facilitating the negotiations, given that Iran refuses to speak directly to America. He last traveled to Tehran in late March, before heading to Washington.
Russias invasion of Ukraine also has complicated the talks, as Moscow threatened to derail negotiations with new demands and European capitals have grown distracted by the continents greatest humanitarian crisis since World War II.
Officials in Tehran confirmed Moras visit, seeking to portray it as proof of Irans diplomatic engagement and attention to economic problems.
The visit shows the control of the government over the most important file, said Ali Shamkhani of Irans Supreme National Security Council.
The European Union coordinator of talks to revive Irans nuclear accord with world powers said Tuesday he was traveling to Tehran, as the bloc makes a last-ditch effort to salvage the deal after a weekslong standstill.
Separately, the International Atomic Energy Agency, charged with monitoring Irans nuclear program, has grown increasingly critical of Irans failure to cooperate with the organization and its refusal to explain the traces of radioactive material at several undeclared nuclear sites in the country.
The landmark accord in 2015 granted Iran sanctions relief in exchange for strict curbs on its nuclear program. Former President Donald Trump pulled the U.S. out of the deal four years ago, piling sanctions on Iran under a policy of maximum pressure. In response, Iran has gradually accelerated its enrichment of uranium  including a small amount to 60 enrichment, a short, technical step from weapons-grade levels.
We, in the last few months, were able to identify traces of enriched uranium in places that have never been declared by Iran  so we are extremely concerned about this, Grossi said, adding he was skeptical that officials could close a nuclear deal if the IAEA still had unanswered questions.
The agencys head, Rafael Mariano Grossi, expressed his frustration with Iran in comments to the European Parliament committees on Tuesday.
But talks in Vienna have remained at an impasse over several unresolved issues. U.S. officials have said a key hurdle involves  Iranian demands that Washington lift its terrorism designation of Irans powerful, paramilitary Revolutionary Guard.
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said Mora would be conveying messages from the other signatories to Tehran during his trip.
Enrique Mora said hed meet with Iranian negotiator Ali Bagheri Kani during his visit to the Iranian capital. Work on closing the remaining gaps of this negotiation continues, he tweeted.
President Joe Biden vowed to rejoin the deal. Talks to get both sides to return to compliance began in Vienna over a year ago. But the negotiations, which also involve the United Kingdom, Germany, France, China and Russia, have stalled since breaking off in March. The sides had seemed just on the verge of a breakthrough.
