Ill Unhinged Or calculating Russias Putin keeps everyone guessing
20220301
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/nation-world/story/2022-02-28/russia-putin-behavior-mental-health
In recent photos and footage, he even looks different  puffy-faced and sometimes seeming to move stiffly.
Look, said Sam Greene, director of the Russia Institute at Kings College London, the difficulty that Im having analytically is that I dont know how I would be able to distinguish between a Putin who is crazy and a Putin who just understands the world in a very different way than I do.
A no-fly zone, many officials say, would draw the U.S. and its NATO allies into direct combat with Russia  an escalation many liken to a world war. Air combat missions would have to be supported by ground-based operations and the U.S. and its NATO allies would have to be prepared to go in over land, making it a slippery slope from there to a shooting war.
I met him in 1991. Ive been watching him since he was prime minister in 1999, McFaul said Sunday on NBC. I sat in the room with him for five years when I worked in the Obama administration. I speak Russian. I listen to him and I know what he says. Hes increasingly unhinged in the way he talks about Ukraines leaders, especially President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Such behavior is notable in a leader who has long cultivated an international image as a cool-headed, coldblooded calculator of cost and benefit  ruthless, to be sure, but on some level rational in his pursuit of geopolitical goals.
Putins rambling, grievance-laced public statements since the Ukraine crisis surged to the fore have been deeply unsettling to a world audience.
On Sunday, he announced he was placing his countrys nuclear deterrent forces on alert, railing against a Western campaign of punitive economic sanctions. In other speeches, he has denounced Ukrainian leaders as drug abusers and fascists, all the while insisting that Ukraine  a sovereign nation for more than three decades  is not even a real country.
But many Putin watchers see a far more dangerous phenomenon at work in his attempted conquest of Ukraine, a sovereign country of 44 million people.
Some analysts suggest that Putins decades in power have begun to act as something of a reality-distorting force field, an echo chamber of sorts. Few close to him dare to express any disagreement.
Several organizations in California, as well as international aid groups, are helping refugees, wounded soldiers and others in and around Ukraine. Heres how you can contribute.
Hes not the first autocrat who gets very bad advice, Greene said. And does dumb things as a result of it.
At that meeting, like several others held lately with dignitaries and aides, Putin was photographed sitting at the far end of an extremely long table, which has emerged as something of a meme underscoring a vast degree of disconnection.
Some world leaders, however, have come away from recent encounters with Putin with the impression he was increasingly unmoored from reality. French President Emmanuel Macron, who traveled to Moscow for talks with Putin weeks before Russian forces commenced their wide-ranging assault, described him as more rigid, more isolated.
Michael McFaul, the U.S. ambassador to Russia under President Obama, suggested in a weekend talk show appearance that over time, the Russian leader had come to believe his own propaganda.
Is he genuinely unbalanced, they ask, or just letting everyone think he is? Or some combination of the two? Or something else?
I met with him many times, and this is a different Putin, Rice said Sunday on Fox News. He was always calculating and cold, but this is different. There is an ever-deepening, delusional rendering of history.
Finlands president, Sauli Niinisto, a frequent interlocutor over the years, recounted an abrupt shift in Putins demeanor during a recent phone call, with the Russian leader suddenly abandoning a normal conversational exchange to embark on a strident recital of demands.
Even some traditional allies expressed disbelief that Putin would make the leap from menacing Ukraine with a massive troop buildup  an attention-getting tactic that forced the West to engage in high-level talks with him  to attempting a violent dismemberment of the country, very different than the nearly bloodless 2014 seizure of the Crimean peninsula.
As Europes largest land battle in decades rages in Ukraine, world leaders and diplomats, intelligence analysts and Kremlin-watchers are all trying to decipher Russian President Vladimir Putins mental state, particularly in light of his latest nuclear saber rattling.
But others who have kept a close eye on the 69-year-old Russian leader during his more than two decades in power believe some fundamental personality shift has occurred  whether because of physical illness, drawn-out isolation prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic, the insularity and sycophancy of Putins inner circle, or a burning sense of historical insult coupled with aspirations of imperial grandeur.
The notion that a head of state can reap foreign policy rewards by appearing utterly unpredictable  a tactic President Nixon was said to have employed to try to rattle North Vietnam  also had recent echoes during the Trump administration, when supporters maintained he cleverly flummoxed opponents by unexpectedly breaking with established norms.
Condoleezza Rice, who was secretary of State in President George W. Bushs administration, said the Russian leader had been acting erratic.
The madman theory is a long-standing political trope, redolent of Cold War-era rivalries. The idea is to throw opponents off balance by making them believe you are so volatile, so hostile and so irrational that theres simply no telling what you might do next.
There are set definitions and processes for determining whos a war criminal and how they should be punished. The investigations into Putins actions already have begun. The U.S. and 44 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, and theres another inquiry by the International Criminal Court.
Greene, of Kings College, said Putin being surrounded by people who are afraid to tell him hard truths might offer a sounder explanation than unverifiable theories about COVID isolation-induced paranoia or the Russian leader suffering from some kind of terminal illness.
After last weeks invasion commenced, Czech Republic President Milos Zeman, a longtime backer, called the Russian leader a madman.
Longtime personalist leaders like Putin are the most prone to making mistakes, Andrea Kendall-Taylor, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, wrote Saturday on Twitter. His decision to attack Ukraine is a painfully unfortunate example of that.
He has behaved in a way which is very difficult to predict, Niinisto said Sunday on CNN. But that might be, also, intentional  namely, to behave that way because that brings confusion to surroundings.
I personally think hes unhinged, James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence, said Sunday on CNN. I worry about his acuity and balance.
Ukraine won its independence in 1991 with the fall of the Soviet Union. Russian President Vladimir Putin contends it was never a state.
