In 1st big campaign do Macron unveils vision for 2nd term
20220310
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/nation-world/story/2022-03-17/macron-barely-campaigning-leads-french-presidential-race
Boosting Frances growth must go through investing more and working more, he added, vowing to achieve full employment. The unemployment rate recently reached 7,4, down from more than 10 when he came into power.
Polls see Macron about 10 percentage points ahead of far-right contender Marine Le Pen, placing them both in a position to reach the runoff and replay the 2017 election. They show that in that case the French president is widely expected to win.
Macron himself acknowledged the risk in a behind-the-scenes video posted on his campaigns Youtube channel. Thats what Im going to tell the French, and also my supporters: If they think its done, it means we have lost, he said.
Last week, he gathered EU leaders at the Versailles palace, west of Paris, to discuss sanctions against Russia. France holds the rotating presidency of the European Union Council, which gives Macron a key role in coordinating the bloc of 27s response. Next week, he is expected to be seen alongside U.S. President Joe Biden, at NATOs summit in Brussels.
It gives the impression that Macron in 2017 has been elected on a promise to renew politics and that Macron in 2022 wants to be elected on the promise of having experience, he said in an interview with French newspaper LOpinion. Polls show most French, whether they intend to vote for him or not, consider he is up to the job, he stressed.
Political history expert Jean Garrigues stressed the unifying impact around the head of state in a war-related situation.
If thats part of a campaign strategy it seems to be paying off, reinforcing his position as frontrunner in the race while making it difficult for other contenders to challenge him.
French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday unveiled his proposals to boost the economy, fight inequality and improve Frances reactions to global crises if he wins a second term in next months elections.
Rivals have accused Macron of focusing on Ukraine to avoid domestic issues which may prove more tricky for him.
Macron spoke at a press conference thats his first major campaign event  taking time off from his focus on the war in Ukraine to provide details about his vision for the next five years.
When theres a war, theres a reflex to be legitimist, Pcresse said. People think: theres a captain leading the operation ... We must not be afraid to change the captain on April 11, she added.
Macron recently released unusual pictures of himself working nights and weekends at the Elysee palace, looking tired and unshaven, in jeans and a hoodie.
In recent days, he pushed for a cease-fire in Ukraine during phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and spoke on an almost daily basis with Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Advocates for Macron argue that the situation in Ukraine involves key domestic issues that are being fully debated in the campaign, like energy and defense policies.
Pollster Bernard Sananes, president of poll institute Elabe, said that obviously the international situation is reinforcing his stature.
Pollsters said Macrons greatest challenge as the frontrunner may be a low turnout, with sympathizers not going to polling stations because they think he will win, while those angry at his policies would further mobilize.
Le Pen said Macron is using the war in Ukraine to scare French people, because he thinks scaring can benefit him.
He vowed to push ahead with a controversial pension reform that would progressively raise the retirement age from 62 to 65, and suggested that people who start working at a young age would still be able to retire before 65.
Another far-right candidate, Eric Zemmour, far-left figure Jean-Luc Mlenchon, and conservative contender Valrie Pcresse are amid other challengers.
We can see that Macrons adversaries have no experience equivalent to the presidential function, or even as key ministers, and are de facto in a situation of inferiority, he noted.
Macron also promised to keep investing in the French military, and fight inequalities at school and in health care access, amid other proposals.
Even though he formally announced he is running for a second term at the beginning of the month, Macron has not held any rallies yet. Hes been criticized by other candidates for refusing to take part in any televised debate before the first voting round, scheduled on April 10.
Asked about his campaigns motto, he said he wants the French to be stronger and happier all together.
