Live Updates  RussiaUkraine War
20220414
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/business/nation/story/2022-04-14/live-updates-russia-ukraine-war
A German official said in early March that the superyacht was registered to a holding company in Malta, but subsequent investigation by the Federal Criminal Police Office revealed the vessel is owned by a series of companies based in the Cayman Islands, Cyprus and Switzerland leading to Usmanovs sister as the beneficial owner.
WFP executive director David Beasley also warned in an interview Thursday with The Associated Press in Kyiv that Russias invasion of grain-exporting Ukraine risks destabilizing nations far from its shores and could trigger waves of migrants seeking better lives elsewhere.
In the early hours of Thursday, the Russian Defense Ministry said the ship sustained serious damage after its ammunition detonated as the result of a fire. The ministry did not ascribe the fire to a missile strike.
In his telephone conversation with U.S. President Joe Biden, Zelenskyy said they discussed the new weapons shipment, even tougher sanctions against Russia and efforts to bring to justice those Russian soldiers who committed war crimes in Ukraine.
Officials said Thursday that Eugene Tenenbaum took control of Evrington Investments Ltd., an Abramovich-linked investment company, immediately following Russias invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24. Tenenbaum, who is also a director of Chelsea Football Club, was hit with an asset freeze.
Humanitarian groups like the IFRC have recently touted the effectiveness of cash assistance programs for people in places hit by events like natural disasters, drought, famine and conflict, as a way to allow people to decide what they need and put money back into the local economy, Robicheau said by phone.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres launched the report Wednesday stressing that the war is supercharging a crisis in food, energy and finance in poorer countries that were already struggling to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and a lack of access to adequate funding for their economic recovery.
BERLIN  German authorities say they have seized a massive superyacht in Hamburg after determining that it belongs to the sister of Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov.
PARIS  France is moving its embassy in Ukraine back to Kyiv from the western city of Lviv, after Russian troops pulled away from regions around the capital and have concentrated on embattled eastern Ukraine.
UNITED NATIONS  A U.N. task force is warning in a new report that Russias war against Ukraine threatens to devastate the economies of many developing countries that are now facing even higher food and energy costs and increasingly difficult financial conditions.
The Russian Defense Ministry confirmed the ship was damaged Wednesday, but not that it was hit by Ukraine.
The Federal Criminal Police Office said Wednesday that, after extensive investigations and despite offshore concealment, it had been able to determine that the owner is Gulbakhor Ismailova, Usmanovs sister.
The United States and EU last month announced economic sanctions against Usmanov, a metals magnate, over his ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin and in retaliation for the invasion of Ukraine.
In his daily late-night address to the nation, Zelenskyy also said he was thankful for Wednesdays visit by the presidents of Poland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia.
The fluid nature of the conflict, which has seen fighting shift away from areas around the capital and toward eastern Ukraine, has made it especially difficult to reach hungry Ukrainians.
Zelenskyy gave an extensive and almost poetic listing of the many ways in which Ukrainians have helped to fend off the Russian troops, including those who showed that Russian warships can sail away, even if its to the bottom of the sea.
Speaking on French radio France Bleu, Macron said he spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Thursday and will speak again with him later that day. He said he will do everything to end this war and stay by the Ukrainians side.
Speaking Thursday, Putin said European attempts to find alternatives to Russian gas shipments will be quite painful for the initiators of such policies.
France had maintained its embassy in Kyiv at the outset of the war but moved its operations to Lviv in March. France sent a new convoy of fire trucks, ambulance and emergency equipment to Ukraine on Thursday and a team of French investigators arrived this week to gather evidence of war crimes.
The ministry said in a statement Thursday that there is no open fire at the ship anymore and explosions of the ammunitions have ceased. The main missile weapons were not damaged, the statement read.
In his late-night video address, Zelenskyy called it an achievement of millions of Ukrainians, of everyone who on Feb. 24 made the most important decision of their life  to fight.
Rebeca Grynspan, secretary-general of the U.N. agency promoting trade and development who coordinated the task force, said 107 countries have severe exposure to at least one dimension of the food, energy and finance crisis and 69 countries are severely exposed to all three and face very difficult financial conditions with no fiscal space, and with no external financing to cushion the blow.
PARIS  Frances government says it has frozen 33 properties on the French Riviera, Paris and elsewhere that belong to Russian oligarchs targeted for sanctions over the war in Ukraine.
Macron previously denounced war crimes in Ukraine and France sent magistrates and police officers to help the International Criminal Court, which opened an investigation.
Asked about the use of the term by U.S. President Joe Biden, Macron said the word genocide must be spelled out by jurists, not by politicians.
PARIS  French President Emmanuel Macron declined to use the term genocide to describe Russias Ukraine war, arguing against an escalation of words.
It is also a strong backer of Ukraines bid to join the European Union, and the government said Coveney would discuss how Ireland can assist Ukraine in its application for EU candidate status.
The program aims to help some 360,000 people inside Ukraine and many more in countries of refuge.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Russias Defense Ministry says the fire at the Moskva cruiser, the flagship of Russias Black Sea Fleet, has been contained. It says the vessel remains afloat and will be towed to the port.
The French Foreign Ministry announced the move Thursday after Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian spoke with his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba about French military and humanitarian support for Ukraine. A date for the move was not announced.
U.S. Attorney Damian Williams said Babakovs actions show Russias illegitimate actions against Ukraine extend beyond the battlefield, as political influencers under Russias control allegedly plotted to steer geopolitical change in Russias favor through surreptitious and illegal means in the U.S. and elsewhere in the West.
The total value of Russian assets frozen or seized in France is now approaching 24 billion euros, with the bulk of that being nearly 23 billion euros in frozen financial assets for the Russian central bank. Aside from financial assets and properties, French authorities have also frozen or seized three yachts and four transport ships, and frozen six helicopters and three artworks.
Canada has deployed hundreds of additional troops to eastern Europe since Russias invasion as the NATO military alliance seeks to both support Ukraine and prevent the conflict from expanding into a broader war.
It said at least six houses in the village were damaged and seven people, including a toddler, sustained injuries. The Investigative Committee has launched a probe into the attack.
Zelenskyy also said work was continuing to clear tens of thousands of unexploded shells, mines and tripwires that were left behind in northern Ukraine by the retreating Russians.
Another Siberia-based journalist was also arrested Wednesday on suspicion of breaching Russias new laws on the media coverage of the situation in Ukraine. Sergei Mikhailov, the founder of the LIStok weekly newspaper based in the Republic of Altay, was reportedly placed in pre-trial detention over the outlets alleged calls for sanctions against Russia.
But they didnt know how brave Ukrainians are, how much we value freedom and the possibility to live the way we want, Zelenskyy said.
The other sanctioned Russian is David Davidovich, who was subject to an asset freeze and a travel ban.
Anand said the majority of the deployed troops will head to reception centers across Poland to help care for and register Ukrainian refugees.
ODESA, Ukraine  In the Odesa region of Ukraine, Gov. Maksym Marchenko says forces have struck the Russian guided-missile cruiser Moskva with two missiles and caused serious damage.
The European Union is dependent on Russia for 40 of its natural gas and 25 of its oil.
Oleksiy Arestovych, adviser to Ukrainian presidents office, said in a Facebook post that 510 crew were onboard the Moskva cruiser as it sank in the Black Sea, following serious damage from a Ukrainian missile strike.
Russian authorities have accused Ukrainian forces of launching air strikes on the Russian region of Bryansk which borders with Ukraine, the latest in a series of allegations of cross-border attacks by Kyiv on Russian territory.
KYIV, Ukraine  President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Ukrainians on Thursday they should be proud of having survived 50 days under Russian attack when the Russians gave us a maximum of five.
Russias deputy U.N. ambassador Dmitry Polyansky shot back saying: The main factor for instability and the source of the problem today is not the Russian special military operation in Ukraine, but sanctions measures imposed on our country seeking to cut off any supplies from Russia and the supply chain, apart from those supplies that those countries in the West need, in other words energy.
The report urges countries to ensure a steady flow of food and energy through open markets, and it calls on international financial institutions to do everything possible to ensure more liquidity immediately.
Zelenskyy said he remembered the first day of the invasion when many world leaders, unsure whether Ukraine could survive, advised him to leave the country.
PRAGUE  Three Czech lawmakers from Parliaments upper house, the Senate, are visiting Kyiv together with their counterparts from Poland. Led by speaker Milos Vystrcil, they were invited by Ruslan Stefanchuk, chairman of Ukraines unicameral parliament Verkhovna Rada.
Afanasyev was accused Thursday of disseminating deliberately false information about the Russian armed forces, an offense which carries a maximum 10-year jail sentence, according to a law passed in early March.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said hes sincerely thankful to the U.S. for the new round of $800 million in military assistance.
Linda Thomas-Greenfield told a U.N. Security Council meeting on war-torn Yemen on Thursday that the World Food Program identified the Arab worlds poorest nation as one of the countries most affected by wheat price increases and lack of imports from Ukraine.
All three men named are based in Russia and remain at large, authorities said. Babakov currently serves as deputy chairman of the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian legislature, federal authorities said in a release.
Ukrainian officials claimed however that the ship has sunk, saying its a resounding slap in the face to Moscows forces. The conflicting accounts couldnt be immediately reconciled.
LONDON  Irelands foreign minister is in Kyiv, the latest in a string of senior European politicians to make the trip to show support for Ukraines fight against Russian invasion.
LONDON  Britains Foreign Office says it is freezing the assets worth up to 10 billion pounds $13.1 billion belonging to two Russian oligarchs described as long-standing business associates of Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich.
UNITED NATIONS  The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations accused Russia of making the precarious food situation in Yemen and elsewhere worse by invading Ukraine, calling it just another grim example of the ripple effect Russias unprovoked, unjust, unconscionable war is having on the worlds most vulnerable.
Together, the 33 properties are estimated to be worth more than half a billion euros. Unlike property that is seized or confiscated, frozen properties still belong to their owners and they can continue living in them. But they cannot be sold or rented out.
Nicole Robicheau, spokeswoman of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, said Thursday the organization plans to distribute well over 100 million Swiss francs  about $106 million - to people affected by Russias seven-week-old war in Ukraine.
Earlier on Thursday, Russias state security service, or the FSB, also accused Ukrainian forces of firing mortars at a border post in the Bryansk region on Wednesday.
The reports could not be independently verified. Earlier this month, Ukraines top security officials denied that Kyiv was behind an air strike on an oil depot in the Russian city of Belgorod, 35 miles from the border.
IFRC says it and national Red Cross organizations have already helped over 1 million people with items like blankets, food, mats and kitchen equipment.
The WFP is trying to put food supplies now in areas that could be caught up in the fighting, but Beasley acknowledged that there are a lot of complexities as the situation rapidly evolves.
The Finance Ministry this week published an updated list of Russian-owned properties that have been frozen in France, including a luxury chateau overlooking the Mediterranean on the Cap dAntibes that reportedly belonged to sanctioned Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres launched their report saying: As many as 1.7 billion people -- one-third of whom are already living in poverty -- are now highly exposed to disruptions in food, energy and finance systems that are triggering increases in poverty and hunger.
The sharp exchange took place a day after a U.N. task force warned that the war threatens to devastate the economies of many developing countries that are now facing even higher food and energy costs and increasingly difficult financial conditions.
OTTAWA, Ontario  Canada is sending soldiers to Poland to help with the care, co-ordination and resettlement of Ukrainian refugees in Poland, including some who will come to Canada.
Superyacht Dilbar was launched in 2016 at a reported cost of more than $648 million.
Britains government said the measures cut key revenue sources for Putins war machine amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
More than 2.6 million Ukrainians have fled into Poland since the first Russian troops crossed into Ukraine on Feb. 24 and over 2 million more have fled into other surrounding countries.
Ireland has sent Ukraine 20 million euros $22 million in humanitarian aid and 33 million euros $36 million in non-lethal military assistance.
KYIV, Ukraine  The head of the U.N. World Food Program said people are being starved to death in the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol and he predicted the countrys humanitarian crisis is likely to worsen as Russia intensifies its assault in the coming weeks.
It was his only reference to the Russian missile cruiser Moskva, which sank while being towed to port.
Russian news reports say a criminal case has been opened against a Siberian journalist whose news website had published content critical of Russias military operation in Ukraine.
The German police office said German authorities worked in Brussels to ensure that European Union sanctions applied to the owner. It says the yacht can no longer be sold, rented, or loaded.
He urged people returning to their homes in those towns to be wary of any unfamiliar object and report it to the police.
Mikhail Afanasyev, the chief editor of Novy Fokus in the Russian region of Khakassia, was arrested by security forces Wednesday over the websites reporting on 11 riot police who had allegedly refused deployment to Ukraine as part of Russias military action there.
Putin noted that supplies from other countries that could be sent to Europe, primarily from the United States, would cost consumers many times more. He added it would affect peoples standard of living and the competitiveness of the European economy.
He said those leaders have helped us from the first day, those who did not hesitate to give us weapons, those who did not doubt whether to impose sanctions.
GENEVA  The international Red Cross says its rolling out its largest-ever cash assistance program to help more than 2 million people in Ukraine or who have fled abroad cope with the fallout from Russias invasion.
Military analyst Oleg Zhdanov said the damaging of the Moskva significantly raises the morale of Ukrainian forces on the eve of a new wave of Russian offensive in the Donbas.
NEW YORK  A Russian legislator and two aides were charged with conspiring to violate U.S. sanctions as they pushed a covert Russian propaganda campaign in the U.S. to win support for moves against Ukraine and other countries, an indictment unsealed Thursday said.
The war that began Feb. 24 was devastating the people in Ukraine, Beasley said, lamenting the lack of access faced by the WFP and other aid organizations in trying to reach those in need amid the conflict.
The Irish government says Simon Coveney, who is also defense minister, is meeting Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
The Ministry says ammunition on board detonated as a result of a fire whose causes were being established, and the Moskvas entire crew was evacuated. The cruiser typically has about 500 on board.
Russias Investigative Committee alleged that two Ukrainian military helicopters entered Russias air space Thursday and, moving at low altitude, acting deliberately, they carried out at least six air strikes on residential buildings in the village of Klimovo, about 11 kilometers away from the Russian border.
Three conspiracy charges were brought in an indictment in Manhattan federal court against the legislator, Aleksandr Babakov, 59, and two of his staff members  Aleksandr Nikolayevich Vorobev, 52, and Mikhail Alekseyevich Plisyuk, 58.
MOSCOW  Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that Western countries attempts to phase out Russian gas imports will have a negative impact on their economies.
The move came after the Channel Island of Jersey said this week it is freezing an estimated $7 billion of assets suspected to be connected to Abramovich, an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
