Live updates  Ukrainians wait in Mexico City for US entry
20220503
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/business/nation/story/2022-05-03/live-updates-uk-russian-military-significantly-weaker
About 500 evacuees were waiting Tuesday in large tents under a searing sun on a dusty field on the east side of Mexicos sprawling capital. The camp has been open only a week and from 50 to 100 people are arriving every day.
Konashenkov said Russian aircrafts have hit 39 other targets, including concentrations of troops and weapons and two command posts.
BRUSSELS  The European Unions top diplomat says the blocs executive branch is on the cusp of proposing a new raft of sanctions against Russia, including on oil.
Osnat Lubrani told a virtual press conference from the Ukrainian-held city of Zaporizhzhia soon after the arrival Tuesday of 127 people evacuated from the plant and the town of Manhush on Mariupols outskirts that she wants to believe the successful operation will be a stepping stone to more such operations from Avostal and other towns and cities being shelled and bombarded by the Russians.
He said you are the masters of your fate, and no-one can or should impose anything on Ukrainians. We in the U.K. will be guided by you and we are proud to be your friends.
Putin has to stop this war, Frederiksen said Tuesday, adding immediately, I hope that India will influence Russia.
WASHINGTON  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says the war in Ukraine has worsened problems in the Western Hemisphere caused by the coronavirus pandemic, such as rising poverty.
Osnat Lubrani, the humanitarian coordinator for Ukraine, said Tuesday that those evacuated included 101 people who could finally leave the bunkers below the Azovstal steelworks and see the daylight after two months.
The Kremlin said in its readout of Tuesdays call that despite Kyivs inconsistency and its lack of readiness for serious work, the Russian side is still ready for dialogue.
Its very difficult to wait. We dont know how the program will work, he said.
Member countries have been involved in drawing up the proposals, but they routinely take days to endorse them. The sanctions can only enter force once they are published in the EUs Official Journal. Hungary and Slovakia have already expressed reservations about signing on.
ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine  The U.N.s aid coordinator for Ukraine says 127 people have been evacuated from the besieged Azovstal plant in Mariupol and nearby areas to a government-controlled city, in an operation carried out along with the international Red Cross.
The move comes almost two weeks after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered its military not to storm the plant, but rather block it off.
The reports come amid a U.N. effort to evacuate civilians from the plant, which helped scores of people escape the sprawling facility.
The Russians knew exactly where to aim  the workers just finished their shift and were waiting for a bus at a bus stop to take them home, Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote in a Telegram post. Another cynical crime by Russians on our land.
Indias neutral stance in the war has raised concerns in the West and earned praise from Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who lauded India for judging the situation in its entirety, not just in a one-sided way.
The U.S. has provided at least 7,000 Javelins, including some transferred during the Trump administration, or about one-third of its stockpile, to Ukraine in recent years, according to an analysis by Mark Cancian, a senior adviser with the Center for Strategic and International Studies international security program. The Biden administration says it has committed to sending 5,500 Javelins to Ukraine since the Feb. 24 invasion.
Some of them may have been afraid to come out, some of them probably couldnt make it, Lubrani said. Its a huge area and some of the elderly people could hardly walk and a broken bus with flat tires was used to help some of them leave.
GENEVA  A top Red Cross official helping oversee a dramatic, five-day effort that led to the evacuation of dozens of civilians from the besieged Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol to a government-held city said he remains extremely concerned about new clashes between Ukrainian and Russian forces there  with some other civilians still inside.
The last major attack targeting the city came April 18, which killed at least seven people. Lviv has become a haven for those fleeing the wars front line in the east.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Denmarks Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has urged her visiting Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi, to try to influence Russia to end the war in Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  The deputy commander of the Azov Regiment that is holed up in the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol has confirmed to The Associated Press that Russian forces have started to storm the plant on Tuesday.
Some of the evacuees opted to be dropped off before arriving in the city, which is in government-controlled territory, Lubriani said in a statement.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Latvia has summoned Russias ambassador to the Baltic country over Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrovs anti-Semitic statements, the Latvian foreign minister said Tuesday.
Concerned about world food security, Macron said he was willing to work with international organizations to try to help seek a lifting of the Russian blockade on exports of food goods via the Black Sea, according to the statement.
It was the first time that the French president has had a conversation with Putin since March 29  before the discovery of the exactions in the Ukrainian town of Bucha  after multiple telephone talks. The call came three days after Macron last spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
We are today with a mixed feeling. We have done everything to help these people to basically leave the place where they were  to leave hell, Hundt said in a call with reporters from Kyiv. But we would have hoped that much more people would be able to join the convoy and to get out of hell.
According to Denys Shlega, commander of the 12th Operational Brigade of Ukraines National Guard who is also currently at Azovstal, 200 civilians including children remain at the plant.
Pascal Hundt, who heads the Ukraine office of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said the humanitarian agency and the United Nations carried out the evacuation after Russia and Ukraine agreed that it would only include civilians. He said some people simply chose not to leave, and he didnt know why  but suspected fear about continued fighting played a part.
Johnson said Ukraine had exploded the myth of Russian President Vladimir Putins invincibility, and expressed confidence Ukraine would win the war.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Donetsk regional governor said the Russian troops on Tuesday shelled a chemical plant in Avdiivka, a city in eastern Ukraine, killing at least 10 people and wounding 15 more.
He also restated his willingness to work on conditions for a negotiated solution to the war, for peace and for full respect of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and reiterated his oft-stated demand for a cease-fire, the statement said.
NSC spokesperson Adrienne Watson said National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Oscar Stenstrm, state secretary for foreign affairs to Swedens prime minister, discussed the security situation in Europe in light of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
MOSCOW  Russian President Vladimir Putin has told French President Emmanuel Macron that Moscow is ready for talks with Ukraine.
Ukraines railroads have played an important role in moving people, goods and military supplies during the war as roads and bridges have been damaged.
The Russian military says its artillery has hit over 400 Ukrainian targets during the last day.
The topics included ongoing efforts to support Ukraine and impose costs on Russia, Watson said.
Asked about the reports in Ukrainian media that the huge steelworks  the last holdout of Ukrainian resistance in a city otherwise controlled by Moscows forces  was being stormed, Sviatoslav Palamar told the AP that it is true.
MEXICO CITY  Hundreds of Ukrainian refugees are camping out in Mexico City and waiting for the U.S. government to allow them into the country.
The unions foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in a tweet that the executive is working on the 6th package of sanctions which aims to de-swift more banks, list disinformation actors and tackle oil imports. Swift is the most widely used international system for bank transfers.
EU policy commissioners have been discussing the new sanctions and are set to send their proposals later Tuesday to the 27 member countries for debate.
LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has told Ukraines parliament that their country has achieved the greatest feat of arms of the 21st century by repelling Russias attempt to capture Kyiv.
A total of 127 people were evacuated from Azovstal and the Mariupol area in buses that arrived in government-controlled Zaporizhzia on Tuesday.
Johnson addressed lawmakers in Ukraines legislature, the Verkhovna Rada, by video link on Tuesday. He is the first world leader to do so since Ukraine was invaded on Feb. 24.
Youre allowing the Ukrainians to defend themselves, Biden told the workers, his podium flanked by Javelin missile launchers and shipping containers. And, quite frankly, theyre making fools of the Russian military in many instances.
Blinken plans to chair two United Nations meetings later this month aimed at spotlighting how the war in Ukraine and other conflicts is affecting the availability of food and prices.
Macron asked Putin to restart evacuations at the Azovstal plant, which has served as a refuge for Ukrainians, in coordination with humanitarian units, while allowing evacuees to choose their destination, as called for under international law.
The evacuees were receiving humanitarian assistance, including health and psychological care, from the U.N, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and partner agencies after arriving in Zaporizhzhia on Tuesday.
 This item has been corrected to fix the spelling of Osnat Lubranis last name.
Giorgi Mikaberidze, 19, arrived in Tijuana April 25 and found the U.S. border closed. He went from being just yards from the United States to some 600 miles 966 kilometers away in the Mexico City area. He said he traveled to Mexico alone.
In an interview with an Italian news channel, Lavrov said that Ukraine could still have Nazi elements even if some figures  including the countrys president  were Jewish, claiming that Hitler also had Jewish origins.
The presidents visit to the Lockheed Martin factory in Alabama also drew attention to a growing concern as the war drags on: Can the U.S. sustain the cadence in shipping vast amounts of arms to Ukraine while maintaining a healthy stockpile it may need if conflict erupts with North Korea, Iran or elsewhere?
The Ukrainian military also reported strikes on railways in the Kirovohrad region, saying there were unspecified casualties.
The ambassador was to provide explanations on May 5 and receive a protest, Edgars Rinkevics wrote on Twitter.
PARIS  French President Emmanuel Macron, in a phone call Tuesday with Vladimir Putin, stressed the extreme gravity of the consequences of Russias war of aggression in Ukraine, and called on the Russian leader to allow evacuations from the Mariupol steel mill to continue, the Elysee Palace said.
Speaking of the people who wanted to stay in Mariupol, she said, These are people that have lived their lives and worked in Mariupol and so it was difficult for them to just leave without knowing what the fate of their loved ones is.
WASHINGTON  President Joe Bidens national security adviser met Tuesday with a Swedish foreign affairs officials and committed to continuing close coordination on security issues, a U.S. National Security Council spokesperson said.
He charged that a U.S.-supplied artillery radar, four air defense radars and six ammunition depots were among the targets destroyed with precision-guided weapons over the last day.
The U.S. government announced in late March that it would accept up to 100,000 Ukrainian refugees. Hundreds entered Mexico daily as tourists in Mexico City or Cancun and flew to Tijuana to wait for a few days to be admitted to the U.S. at a San Diego border crossing on humanitarian parole.
Lubrani said the people still trapped underground in the Avostal plant will hear about the safe evacuation to Zaporizhzhia which is very important, so if we do another operation, I think hopefully more will come out.
UNITED NATIONS  The U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine says about 30 people who came out of the besieged Avostal steel plant in Mariupol chose not to leave the city, saying they were horrified at its total devastation and first wanted to find out if their loved ones were still alive.
Dnipro region Gov. Valentyn Reznichenko said Russian missiles struck railway infrastructure in the area, leaving one person wounded and disrupting train movement.
The strikes happened in multiple directions just before 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday  about about an hour and a half after air raid sirens sounded in the city and reportedly went off across the entire country. At least four distinct explosions could be heard from downtown Lviv.
Some refugees have already been to the U.S. border in Tijuana where they were told they would no longer be admitted. Others arrived at airports in Mexico City or Cancun.
Giving the luncheons keynote address in Washington, Blinken said: Now, with the Russian governments brutal war of aggression on Ukraine, many of these preexisting problems, these preexisting conditions, have been made worse, raising the price of essential commodities throughout the Americas, from fertilizer to wheat to petroleum, cutting off key export markets for many industries in the Americas, and forcing households across the region to make very wrenching choices as the cost of living skyrockets.
Earlier on Tuesday, Mariupol patrol police chief Mykhailo Vershinin was quoted by Ukrainian television as saying that the Russian military have started to storm the plant in several places.
She said there is knowledge that there are civilians still trapped in the Avostal plant, but the U.N. has no numbers.
Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said the strikes damaged three power substations, knocking electricity off in parts of Lviv. Two pump stations were also without power, affecting water supply in the city. Two people were injured in the attack, according to the mayor.
Another 58 people joined the convoy in Manhush, a town on the outskirts of Mariupol.
Johnson, one of Ukraines most prominent international supporters, announced a new 300 million pound $375 million package of military aid to Ukraine, including radar, drones and armored vehicles.
Today, we brought people safely to Zaporizhzhia, Lubriani said. However, I worry that there may be more civilians who remain trapped.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Tuesday that the targets included Ukrainian artillery positions, troops strongholds and two fuel depots.
Concerns about the war decreasing the availability of food and increasing prices have sparked fears of increasing hunger and starvation in other nations. Blinken told the annual Conference of the Americas Luncheon on Tuesday that the effects of the war are being felt after the pandemic inflicted massive economic harm throughout the region.
TROY, Ala.  President Joe Biden on Tuesday credited the assembly line workers at a Javelin missile plant for doing life-saving work in building the antitank weapons that are being sent to Ukraine to stifle Russias invasion as he made a pitch for Congress to approve $33 billion so the U.S. can continue hustle aid to the front lines.
Analysts also estimate that the United States has sent about one-quarter of its stockpile of shoulder-fired Stinger missiles to Ukraine. Raytheon Technologies CEO Greg Hayes told investors last week during a quarterly call that his company, which makes the weapons system, wouldnt be able to ramp up production until next year, due to parts shortages.
The Kremlin added that Putin also informed Macron about the course of Russias special military operation. It added that the two leaders also discussed the global food security and Putin underlined that Western sanctions have exacerbated the situation.
Oleksandr Kamyshin, the head of the Ukrainian railways, said the Russian strikes on Tuesday hit six railway stations in the countrys central and western regions, inflicting heavy damage.
Sadovyi wrote on a social message app that those in the city should take shelter. Trains coming out of Lviv stopped service. Car alarms went off after the blasts, and emergency sirens could be heard.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian officials say the Russian military has struck railroad infrastructure across the country.
The British leader said Western allies had not done enough to stop Russia after it annexed Crimea and triggered a conflict in eastern Ukraine in 2014, and said Ukraines allies should not press it to give up territory to make peace.
The mayor on Monday had a news conference with the countrys top U.S. diplomat, discussing how America planned to reopen its diplomatic presence in the city located near the Polish border.
Macron urged Russia to rise to the level of its responsibility as a permanent member of the U.S. Security Council by ending this devastating aggression, an Elysee statement said.
Hundt said about a dozen people taken out in the convoy were sick or injured, but none were in critical condition.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk told reporters Tuesday that about 150 civilians have been taken from Azovstal and a few hundred remain at the plant. We need a few more days to continue this operation, Vereshchuk said.
EU ambassadors are scheduled to meet on Wednesday. EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is also likely to explain the proposals early Wednesday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France.
