Russian soldier sentenced to life in Ukraines first war crimes trial
20220523
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/nation-world/story/2022-05-23/russian-sentenced-life-ukraine-war-crimes-trial
But the Ukrainian military said Russian forces were unsuccessful in their attack on Oleksandrivka, a village outside Severodonetsk.
Sgt. Vadim Shyshimarin pleaded guilty to shooting a 62-year-old man in the head in a village in the northeastern Sumy region in the early days of the war.
Zelensky said his country had slowed Russian advances and his peoples courage had stirred previously unseen unity in the democratic world.
On the battlefield, Russian forces have stepped up shelling in Ukraines eastern industrial heartland as they press their offensive in the region that is now the focus of fighting.
Western support  both financial and military  has been key to Ukraines defense, helping its outgunned and outnumbered forces to repel Russias attempt to take the capital of Kyiv and fight them to a standstill in other places. In the face of those setbacks, Moscow has retreated to more limited goals in Ukraine, with its sights now on trying to expand the territory in the east that Russia-backed separatists have held since 2014.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky addressed the World Economic Forum as it opened in Davos, Switzerland, calling for maximum sanctions against Russia.
He testified that he shot Oleksandr Shelipov after being ordered to do so. He told the court that an officer insisted that Shelipov, who was speaking on his cellphone, could pinpoint their location to Ukrainian forces.
Grinding battles in the Donbas, where Ukrainian and Russian forces are fighting town by town, have forced many civilians to flee their homes.
In Tokyo on Monday, President Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida joined in condemning Moscows invasion of Ukraine. Earlier on his trip to Asia, Biden signed legislation granting Ukraine $40 billion more in U.S. support for its defense against the Russian attack.
On Sunday, Ukraines parliament voted for the third time to extend martial law and mobilize its armed forces, until Aug. 23. Ukrainian officials have said little since the war began about the extent of their countrys casualties, but Zelensky said Sunday that 50 to 100 Ukrainian fighters were being killed, apparently each day, in the east.
Ukrainian prosecutors are investigating thousands of potential war crimes, as the world has pushed for Russia to be held accountable for its invasion. Russian forces bombed a theater where civilians were sheltering and struck a maternity hospital in the southern city of Mariupol. In the wake of Moscows withdrawal from towns around Kyiv weeks ago, mass graves were discovered and streets were strewn with bodies in towns such as Bucha.
The wars effects have also been felt well beyond Ukraine, pushing energy and food prices higher. The United Nations said the conflict has helped push the number of people displaced worldwide to the highest level on record, with more 100 million people driven from their homes across the globe.
A Ukrainian court sentenced a 21-year-old Russian soldier to life in prison Monday for killing a Ukrainian civilian, sealing the first guilty conviction for war crimes since Moscows invasion three months ago.
Haidai said Sunday that the Russians had occupied several towns and cities in Luhansk after shelling indiscriminately around the clock and concentrating forces and weaponry there, bringing in troops from Kharkiv to the northwest, Mariupol to the south and from inside Russia.
While the east is now the focus of fighting, the conflict is not confined there. Powerful explosions were heard early Monday in Korosten, about 100 miles west of Kyiv, the towns deputy mayor said. It was the third straight day of apparent attacks in the Zhytomyr district, Ukrainian news agencies reported.
Ukrainian forces dug in around Severodonetsk, the main city under Ukrainian control in the Luhansk province of the Donbas, as Russia intensified efforts to capture it. Regional Gov. Serhiy Haidai accused the Russians of simply intentionally trying to destroy the city ... engaging in a scorched-earth approach.
