Social media The newest weapon of war
20220313
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/a-path-forward/story/2022-03-13/social-media-the-newest-weapon-of-war
Vasyuta curates videos posted on Telegram, a messaging app that is popular among Ukrainians, and shares them on TikTok. Shes become an overnight sensation or influencer, in TikTok terms, with 200,000 followers. According to the BBC, Vasyutas video of a bombing near Kyiv has been viewed some 50 million times.
In Russia, the Kremlin has acted to slow the free flow of information about the Ukrainian conflict. Under a new law, people face up to 15 years in prison for contradicting the governments official narrative, which rejects words like war and invasion. For now, TikTok isnt allowing users in Russia to create and upload any videos. And warning labels are being added to videos produced by users with Kremlin ties often, they falsely frame the invasion as a response to Ukrainian aggression.
I never thought I would get war updates on TikTok, commented one user. I never imagined hearing those words.
TikToks algorithm compounds the spread of misinformation. The emotional pull of stories and images from the war make it more likely that a person will watch a video to the end, share it and follow the creator  metrics that feed the algorithm, designed to keep users on the app for as long as possible.
Vasyuta attributes her popularity to being a regular young woman from Ukraine. She believes it makes her relatable to a wider audience and more trustworthy than traditional news outlets.
But to be clear, theres a difference between misinformation and what were seeing in Russia and China, which are using censorship and intentional distortion to manipulate their citizens.
Ukrainian citizen and TikTok user Marta Vasyuta has become a de facto war correspondent. She was featured in a recent BBC News story. Vasyuta, whos 20 years old, was in the U.K. when the Russian invasion occurred. Horrified by the news and thousands of miles away from home, Vasyuta turned to social media as a way of doing something.
TikTok is a video-sharing social network that is owned by Chinese tech giant ByteDance. It has more than 1 billion active monthly users around the globe, including 100 million in the U.S. The TikTok app allows them to create and share videos as short as 15 seconds often, they feature singing, dancing and comedy.
Many of the images and sounds contained in TikTok videos  ostensibly from the current Ukrainian crisis  are from older wars or presented without proper context. Video game imagery is being passed off as war footage: A widely circulated clip of a Ukrainian fighter jet blowing up a Russian aircraft was believed to prove the existence of the Ghost of Kyiv, a mysterious ace pilot. It turned out to be fake footage from the 2013 game called Digital Combat Simulator: World, according to a TelevisaUnivision gaming website.
In China, the government is amplifying pro-Russia talking points, leaving its citizens with an airbrushed, false version of events, Axios China author Bethany Allen-Ebrahimian writes. Chinese media outlets were told to avoid posting anything unfavorable to Russia or anything pro-Western on their social media accounts. Now they are spreading baseless claims that the U.S. is funding bioweapons labs in Ukraine.
This week, Ive been struck by the role of social media in covering the war. Its provided some of the most direct  and heartbreaking  glimpses of the Russian invasion. Of the many social media platforms, TikTok has stood out, creating a stream of war footage.
Still, experts warn that TikTok is rife with false information, which can spread regardless of an intent to mislead.
Dinkin is president of the National Conflict Resolution Center, a San Diego-based group working to create solutions to challenging issues, including intolerance and incivility. To learn about NCRCs programming, visit ncrconline.com.
Last week, I wrote about the conflict in Ukraine: how I was taken by the stories and pictures of Ukrainians proudly defending their country.
The actions by Russia and China make clear: Social media has become a weapon of war. But as Vasyutas dispatches have shown, it can be a useful tool in the fight for democracy. The fight gets harder every day, all around the world.
In a conversation about social media hosted by the National Conflict Resolution Center last week, panelist Aza Raskin talked about the ways information technology including TikTok and other platforms, like YouTube is using algorithms to rewire our brains, accelerating the transmission of messages. The result, Raskin said, is cascades of information, causing a sort of social epilepsy. As a co-creator of the movie The Social Dilemma, Raskin is well-versed in the perils of the online world.
