Zelenskyy says Ukraine takes as seriously as possible an apparent threat of Russian chemical weapon use
20220412
https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/nation-world/story/2022-04-11/zelenskyy-says-ukraine-takes-as-seriously-as-possible-an-apparent-threat-of-russian-chemical-weapon-use
In his latest address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy seized on an apparent Russian threat to use chemical weapons against the remaining defenders of Mariupol, as they prepare for what he called a new stage of terror against Ukraine.
The British Defense Ministry said Monday that prior use of phosphorous munitions by Russian forces in the Donetsk region in eastern Ukraine raises the possibility of their future employment in Mariupol as fighting for the city intensifies.
Earlier Monday, a Ukrainian unit in Mariupol claimed on social media that Russian invaders had used chemical weapons there. Lesia Vasylenko, a member of Ukraines Parliament, made a similar charge. But those reports could not be independently confirmed.
Unfortunately, we are not getting as much as we need to end this war sooner, Zelenskyy said in a translation of his address shared by his office. I am sure that we will get almost everything we need, but not only time is being lost. The lives of Ukrainians are being lost  lives that can no longer be returned.
We are aware of social media reports which claim Russian forces deployed a potential chemical munition in Mariupol, Ukraine, said Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby. We cannot confirm at this time and will continue to monitor the situation closely. These reports, if true, are deeply concerning and reflective of concerns that we have had about Russias potential to use a variety of riot-control agents, including tear gas mixed with chemical agents, in Ukraine.
Referring to those remarks, Zelenskyy said in his latest video address, We take this as seriously as possible. The video was posted online Monday in the United States and shortly after midnight on Tuesday in Ukraine.
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday night.
Zelenskyys comments came after Eduard Basurin, a spokesperson for the Kremlin-backed, separatist Donetsk Peoples Republic, said on Russian television that Russia should bring in chemical forces to use in Mariupol, the besieged southern city. He said the remaining Ukrainian forces in Mariupol were dug in at a steel plant and that Russia should encircle it and smoke out the moles.
The Ukrainian Parliament said Monday that it had learned of local reports from police that Russian forces had fired on nitric acid tanks in the Donetsk region.
