The Oscars 2022 hold moment of silence for Ukraine
20220328
https://www.marieclaire.co.uk/news/oscars-2022-moment-silence-ukraine-772163
A moment of silence was held at this year's Oscars ceremony 2022 to pay respect to those in Ukraine suffering from the Russia invasion.
Mila, 38, previously spoke out in a personal video with husband Asthon Kutcher about the heartbreaking ordeal unfolding in her home country.
The Oscars 2014 wasn't all glossy red carpet pictures, oh no. This gaggle of A-listers LOVE a cheeky Instagram photo or ten. See the best of the Academy Awards selfies...
Prior to the heartfelt moment Ukraine-born Mila Kunis spoke out about the horrific event, which saw Russia president unleash a multi-pronged attack on Ukraine on February 24 that is still ongoing.
In the post, she said: "I was born in Chernivtsi, Ukraine, in 1983. I came to America in 1991 and I have always considered myself an American. A proud American.
The Oscar nominations are in. See who's been put forward for an award this year, from Jennifer Lawrence to Bradley Cooper...
Leonardo DiCaprio isnt the only one to have had his share of award snubs, but its hard to believe some of the films that have missed out on the biggest prizes in Hollywood. So as the world turns its attention to The Academy Awards for another year, we look back at the greatest pictures to have never bagged an Oscar. And there are some serious shockers.
The Hollywood stars went on to condemn the invasion saying there is no place in this world for this kind of unjust attack on humanity.
Maisie is a writer and editor, covering Royal News, Showbiz, Lifestyle content, as well as Shopping Writing and E-Commerce, for print and digital publications, including Marie Claire, Hello!, Fabulous, Mail Online and Yahoo!.
It continued: "Resources are scarce and we collectively as a global community can do more."
"One cannot help but be in awe of those who find strength to keep fighting through unimaginable darkness."
As Russia continue to attack Ukraine, which has seen over one thousand people, including children, die, and millions more displaced.
"I love everything that this country has done for myself and my family. But today, I have never been more proud to be a Ukrainian.
She said: "Recent global events have left many of us feeling gutted. Yet when you witness the strength and dignity of those facing such devastation, it's impossible to not be moved by their resilience.
Leonardo DiCaprio is one of the finest actors of our time and each performance he gives is totally captivating. But why hasn't this screen god won an Oscar yet? He's been nominated four times, goddamit.
Reba McEntire went on to performSomehow You Do fromFour Good Dayson stage, which was followed by the moment of silence.
A statement released from Oscars organisers discussing the minute tribute, read: "To show our support for the people of Ukraine currently facing invasion, conflict, and prejudice within their own border.
"While film is an important avenue to express our humanity in times of conflict, the reality is millions of families in Ukraine need food, medical care, clean water and emergency services."
'I stopped writing this movie about twenty times because I thought it wasn't going to work'
The Oscars - also known as 94th Academy Awards - urged viewers and guests to StandWithUkraine, and encouraged people to donate funds or supplies, to those in Ukraine who have lost loved ones, been displaced due to the war, and in need to food, medical help and shelter.
Public-speaking coach Hilary Lyons on how to deliver a knockout Oscars speech because, well, you never know
