What is a vacuum bomb And why are they so dangerous
20220303
https://www.marieclaire.co.uk/news/what-is-vacuum-bomb-why-dangerous-ukraine-russia-768836
Speaking to reporters earlier this week, Markarova, said "they Russia used the vacuum bomb today", while Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch accused Russian forces of cluster bombs, with Amnesty claiming they'd been used in an attack on a preschool in northeastern Ukraine.
Amy Sedghi is a freelance journalist, specialising in health and fitness, travel, beauty, sustainability and cycling.
Covering a diverse range of subjects appeals to Amy. One minute she may be writing about her online styling session with Katie Holmes stylist and the next shes transporting readers to the basketball courts of Haringey where she joined a group trying to lower knife crime in the capital.
Highly powerful, vacuum bombs are capable of catastrophic damage to both buildings and human life. Also referred to as aerosol bombs or fuel air explosives, vacuum bombs are a two-stage munition.
The White House responded to claims that vacuum bombs had been used by Russian forces by saying: "we have seen the reports. If that were true, it would potentially be a war crime."
Keen to scroll the best companies prepping healthy, tasty meals ready to deliver to your door? Look no further.
This means that an initial first-stage charge releases a cloud of very fine material gas, fuel or even tiny metal particles, while the second-charge ignites it, creating a fireball and sucking up all the nearby oxygen.
He went on to say that while it wasn't clear yet if they'd been deployed, use of these weapons by Russia would be pretty standard."
One of the things we know about Russian tactics is that they are willing to destroy everything," he concluded.
There has been no official confirmation that vacuum bombs - also known as a thermobaric weapon - have been used in the conflict in Ukraine, but multiple reports from officials and journalists, plus video footage, say they have been deployed.
Ukraine's ambassador to the US, Oksana Markarova has accused Russia of using vacuum bombs - a highly powerful and potent weapon that when used in a civilian setting could constitute a war crime.
While all bombs have potential to cause devastation, vacuum bombs are particularly nasty and have been widely condemned by international organisations. As well as creating a huge shock wave and a blast that can last much longer than a conventional explosive, they are also capable of vaporising human bodies.
While cluster bombs are widely banned due to a convention backed by more than 100 countries, neither Ukraine or Russia have signed the agreement.
She also loves being active, spending time outdoors and travelling - with some of her favourite features shes worked on combining all three. Cycling and eating her way round the Isle of Man, learning to sail on the Cte d'Azur and traversing the Caminito del Rey path in Spain are just some of her highlights.
When shes not writing, Amy can be found trying to get through her towering stack of books-to-read, cycling down at Herne Hill Velodrome or looking for the next place to eat and drink with friends.
Speaking to the Guardian, Dr Marcus Hellyer, senior analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, said: "They are not illegal even though their effects can be pretty horrific, because of that effect of creating a vacuum and sucking the air out of the lungs of defenders.
While at university, Amy was awardedThe Media Societybursary. Following her stint at the Guardian, Amy worked atGoogleand as well as writing forMarie Claire, she regularly contributes interviews, features and articles toNational Geographic Traveller,The Guardian,The Independent,The Telegraph,Stylist,Refinery29,Glorious Sport,Cycling WeeklyandRouleur.
Having started her career inThe Guardiannewsroom working with an award-winning team, Amy's proud to have reported on a variety of topics, speaking to a range of voices and travelling far and wide to do so. From interviews on ski lifts to writing up breaking stories outside courtrooms, Amy is used to reporting from a range of locations shes even been known to type up a story in a tent.
