Russian government accounts are using a Twitter loophole to spread disinformation
20220315
https://theconversation.com/russian-government-accounts-are-using-a-twitter-loophole-to-spread-disinformation-178001
Social media has played a crucial role in the spread of these and other false claims. We have identified a network of dozens of Russian government Twitter accounts using a loophole in the platforms rules to run a coordinated program of disinformation.
In February this year, reports surfaced on Twitter and Facebook that the Ukrainian government was undertaking a mass genocide of civilians. Around the same time, conspiracy theorists began saying Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy was an agent of the New World Order.
The sheer speed at which disinformation is disseminated  especially via automated bot accounts  makes it hard for content moderators to keep up. The emotive, partisan nature of much online disinformation also means internet users and journalists are more likely to spread it without checking it too closely.
Between 25 February and 3 March 2022, about these accounts made 1,157 tweets  and around three quarters were about Ukraine. The accounts have tried to spread false narratives to justify the invasion.
The picture above shows a network visualisation of coordinated retweet behaviour among the 75 Russian government accounts. Larger nodes coordinate more often, links indicate retweeting within 60 seconds of one another, and the colours represent communities of accounts that tend to co-retweet especially frequently.
The tweets below show Russian government accounts spreading disinformation narratives: delegitimising Ukraine as a sovereign state, sowing doubt and mistruths about the Ukraine government and neo-Nazi infiltration, spreading whataboutisms that downplay the Ukraine invasion by drawing attention to alleged war crimes by other countries, and spreading conspiracy theories about UkraineUS bioweapons research.
Users can and should ask themselves: How accurate is this claim? How can the claim be verified? Who is posting this information about Russia? What stake does that person or persons have in Russian state affairs? How might amplifying this content, even to criticise it, unwittingly spread it further?
We tracked the Twitter activity of 75 official Russian government accounts and found they are a major source and amplifier of disinformation. At time of writing these accounts together have a total of 7,366,622 followers. They have been retweeted 35.9 million times, received 29.8 million likes, and 4 million replies.
Twitter needs to do more to safeguard the platform from harmful content by state actors. Government accounts are still free to flood the space with false information.
Russia's false claims about biological weapons in Ukraine demonstrate the dangers of disinformation and how hard it is to counter  4 essential reads
This is a well-known tactic of coordinated disinformation or astroturfing, where a network of accounts retweet content together repeatedly to amplify it and maximise its reach.
Russian government Twitter accounts have played a key role in the spread of pro-Russia disinformation.  While Twitter has fewer users than Facebook or Instagram, it is a pivotal site for the production and dissemination of news.
Democracy relies on citizens ability to make informed decisions about policy, politics and world affairs. This ability is severely compromised when fake and deliberately misleading claims are promoted as fact.
Twitter has recognised the disinformation possibilities of state-affiliated media, putting warning labels on their content and not recommending or amplifying them.
The most prominent accounts re the two Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs accounts mfarussia and midrf, the Russian Mission in Geneva missionrussian, and the Russian Embassy in USA rusembusa.
This design is not simply the result of an impoverished understanding of political theory by young white male Silicon Valley entrepreneurs. Its good for business: blocking government disinformation could result in governments blocking platforms in retaliation, cutting off valuable users.
These claims have been thoroughly debunked, but not before attracting millions of views and offering a purported justification for Russias invasion of Ukraine. More recently, Russian and Chinese officials have claimed the United States has funded bioweapons research in Ukraine.
Anyone with an internet connection can access social media, where all kinds of content can be shared with a speed and reach that was impossible with heritage media.
The 75 Russian government accounts we studied are also working together to amplify disinformation. We analysed their tweets and found they often retweet the same content at about the same time.
Fake viral footage is spreading alongside the real horror in Ukraine. Here are 5 ways to spot it
However, these rules do not apply to government-controlled accounts not labelled as media, such as foreign embassies.
Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and many other platforms are designed as amplification systems. They are built to be open to all comers and increase the volume on any type of content.
Twitters policies and rules need to be modified to suit special circumstances such as war. They also need to adapt to non-Western contexts where disinformation is easily missed by automated moderation tuned to the English language and the norms of the US and western Europe.
Individual Twitter users can also help stem the spread of state-issued disinformation by doing exactly what conspiracists and disinformation actors have long encouraged: their own research.
Since the 2016 US elections, disinformation has been recognised as a growing threat to democracy.
As we have seen during the COVID-19 pandemic, disinformation can also pose a grave threat to public health and safety.
Some positive changes have been made, particularly after the January 6 Capitol riots in the US, but platforms are still designed on the principle that the other side should always be heard.
If a piece of information cannot be verified, or appears to be driven by bias or prejudice, it is in everyones best interest not to tweet or retweet.
Disinformation itself is not new, but over the past decade it has found an ideal place to flourish on social media platforms.
As a result, these accounts are flooding the platform with propaganda. This is a critical gap in Twitters moderation practices, and one that has received little attention.
Disinformation campaigns are murky blends of truth, lies and sincere beliefs  lessons from the pandemic
By disinformation, we mean factually incorrect material distributed with the aim of unsettling or damaging something or someone: a politician, a political party or system, or a way of life.
Platforms have traditionally taken their cues from the techno-libertarian adage that information wants to be free. This has turned out to be a disaster for liberal democracy and public health.
