Anas Sarwar suggests Vladimir Putin would back Scottish independence
20220704
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20254586.anas-sarwar-suggests-vladimir-putin-back-scottish-independence/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
And I dont think at a time when we have despotic leaders like Vladimir Putin we should be projecting an inward-looking UK, I think we should be projecting a united, diverse, changing, modern, reforming, outward-looking international community and I think Scotland should be part of that."
Meanwhile, Keir Starmer is set to make the case for maintaining Boris Johnsons hard Brexit as he ruled out returning to the customs union if Labour got into power.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
This is not the first time a Unionist has invokedPutin's feelings on Scottish independence. Back in 2014, it was reported that David Cameron appealed to Putin to support the Better Together campaign. But the Russian president rebuffed Cameron saying it was a "domestic issue".
Sarwar said that in the midst of Putins invasion of Ukraine, it was a bad idea for the UK to be projecting an inward-looking image.
He went on to make the case for Scotland to be part of an outward-looking international community that stands against Putin.
He said: Vladimir Putin wants to damage our role and who he regards as his enemies in the world.
In an event that was dominated by constitutional discussion, Sarwar also argued for the abolition of the House of Lords and that it be replaced with an elected Senate.
He wants to damage the institutions that stand up to him, he wants to damage the institutions that help to keep global peace and justice, yes, in Ukraine, but also in the wider world.
Sarwar also madethe case for a legal duty of cooperation between the UK and Scottish Governments which he says would "ensure they work together where they can and not against each other.
And the Scottish Labour party leader claimed it was pretty obvious that Putin would be happy with Nicola Sturgeons renewed campaign for independence.
Sarwar had been speaking at an event in London on Monday when he was discussing the constitutional future of Scotland and the UK.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
