Boris Johnson announcement on Ukraine today  how to watch
20220307
https://www.thenational.scot/news/national/uk-today/19974609.boris-johnson-announcement-ukraine-today----watch/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Prime Minister BorisJohnson  will hold a press conference later alongside Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte MinPres  and Canadian Prime Minister JustinTrudeau
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
This will be available to live stream on the Downing Street social media accounts. The Twitter account can be found here, the Facebook account here and the YouTube account here.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
Downing Street has announced that Boris Johnson will give an announcement today regarding the ongoing Russian conflict in Ukraine.
The Prime Minister will be joined by Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte as well as Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a joint press conference.
The UK has faced criticism for refusing to open its borders to Ukrainians but Johnson has insisted the country would welcome those fleeing the fighting, with thousands of visa applications being processed.
Johnson today warned that Russian President Vladimir Putin was doubling down on his attacks against Ukraine, and his unrestrained anger must be met with tougher sanctions.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
