Claim Putin would welcome Scottish independence referendum smacks of desperation
20220322
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20011036.claim-putin-welcome-scottish-independence-referendum-smacks-desperation/
Stewart McDonald MP, the SNP's Defence spokesperson, said:"The idea that an independent Scotland  as a member of the EU, NATO, the UN and OSCE  is somehow in Putins interests is to totally misread the politics of Scottish independence.
I disdain the way some people have used Ukraine to make domestic political points, but this merits a response.
His comments, which were retweeted by First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, came after Dr Jonathan Eyal, of the Royal United Services Institute RUSI in London, argued an independence vote next year would be "exactly" what the Russian president would want, as it would distract the UK Government's attention from foreign policy issues.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
He added: "Putin is not terribly interested in Scotland one way or the other. I can assure you he doesn't go to bed at night thinking of Scotland. But anything that creates troubles, anything that paralyzes western countries works to his advantage.
In the interview published in The Herald, Eyal dismissed the idea that pausing a second independence referendum because of the situation in Ukraine would be grist to the Kremlins mill.
"The choice for Scotland in the face of Russias war against Ukraine is clear to me what is the best way for Scotland to contribute to the strengthening of multilateral institutions that form the essential underpinnings of Western unity?
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
The SNP'sdefence spokesperson Stewart McDonald MP also hit back atEyal'sclaim,saying that it "misread the politics of Scottish independence" and thatallowing the "spectre of Vladimir Putin to stifle our democracy would be to give him exactly what he wants."
"Putins record speaks for itself: the idea of small liberal democracies working in concert to promote and protect their shared values of democracy, sovereignty and human rights is anathema to him."
"The reality is, is that Putin would be delighted by the UK being absorbed in a debate about Scottish independence or by the UK being involved in a discussion about dividing the assets of the United Kingdom as a result of a Yes vote to independence.
"Anything that weakens or breaks up the United Kingdom would be considered to be to Putin's advantage. The truth is that Putin would be delighted by any breakdown of the United Kingdom. It would make the UK weaker, it would involve internal debate and it would improve his chances in Europe."
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
He said: "The SNP appear to be saying that not holding the referendum would be a gift to Putin. This is so bizarre. It is exactly the opposite - namely holding the referendum would be exactly what Putin would want.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
He added: My own view, as another solitary foreign policy analyst, has only been strengthened by Putins aggression. In the context of Brexit, Scotlands best contribution can be made as an independent member state of the EU and NATO.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
"In the face of the threat from hostile foreign states, we must do everything we can to strengthen our democratic institutions.
He added: Russian interference in democracy is widespread across the Western world, as highlighted by the UK Parliaments Intelligence and Security Committee Russia Report  the same report which highlighted the UK governments repeated failure to take action against this threat.
David Clark, who previously worked for the late Labour MP Robin Cook, said that Scotland's case to be an independent member state of the EU and Nato has only been strengthened by Putins aggression".
Writing on Twitter, Clark, who served as Cooks special adviser at the Foreign Office from 1997 to 2001, said: Based on the opinion of a solitary defence analyst with well known partisan views on independence - smacks of real desperation.
My own view, as another solitary foreign policy analyst, has only been strengthened by Putins aggression. In the context of Brexit, Scotlands best contribution can be made as an independent member state of the EU and NATO. End
"To do the opposite  to allow the spectre of Vladimir Putin to stifle our democracy  would be to give him exactly what he wants."
A FORMER Foreign Office adviser has dismissed claims by a defence expert that Vladimir Putin would welcome anindependencereferendum, saying it "smacks of real desperation".
