Edinburgh council demands withdrawal of Russian consul
20220408
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20056579.edinburgh-council-demands-withdrawal-russian-consul/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
The council said it is also supporting aid efforts to Poland and Ukraine and is helping refugees settle into their new lives, with 100,000 allotted to the cause.
When Russia ordered its troops into Ukraine, protesters gathered outside the consulate in Edinburghs New Town and chanted Glory to Ukraine.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
In a strongly-worded letter to Andrei Kelin on Friday, City of Edinburgh Council leader Adam McVey told him the consulate is no longer welcome in Edinburgh until Russia stops this illegal war and Russian troops leave Ukrainian soil.
In his letter, McVey said Edinburgh is not an enemy of the Russian people and we recognise the courageous actions across the Russian population who have expressed opposition to this war at great cost to themselves at the hands of their own government in Moscow.
The warning comes after the council voted to condemn the war and made the president of Ukraine and mayor of Kyiv freemen of the city last month.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
The council has been flying a Ukrainian flag above the City Chambers as a mark of solidarity with the besieged country.
Our wholehearted sympathy and thoughts are with the Ukrainian people resisting the Russian governments illegal and senseless war.
Until Russia withdraws from Ukraine, I reiterate that we will not be accepting any civic invitations or collaborations of any kind and I ask that you withdraw the consul from our city immediately.
He added: We are witnessing the actions of the government you represent and the murder of brave Ukrainian civilians and soldiers  which will be investigated as war crimes in due course.
The Russian ambassador to the UK has been told that his countrys consulate is no longer welcome in Edinburgh.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
