Glasgow cuts ties with twin city RostovonDon after Russia invades Ukraine
20220224
https://www.thenational.scot/news/19949799.glasgow-cuts-ties-twin-city-rostov-on-don-russia-invades-ukraine/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
Major Ukrainian cities reported missile strikes and explosions and Ukraine's government called it a full-scale war.
"We must stand also with the Ukrainian community in Glasgow who will be suffering greatly today."
However, on Thursday a committeeunanimously decided to rescind the pact and cut ties with the cityin Southern Russia afterVladimir Putin's forces invaded Ukraine.
I have this morning written to LordProvostGCC to urge him to immediately suspend the citys twinning link with Rostov-on-Don. While this is a small thing in the circumstances Glasgow must join the world in unequivocally condemning the acts of war unleashed on Ukraine by Russia
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Aitken joins Sturgeon and a plethora of western leaders who have united against Russia's actions.
"While this is a small thing in the circumstances Glasgow must join the world in unequivocally condemning the acts of war unleashed on Ukraine by Russia.
She tweeted: "I have this morning written toLordProvostGCC to urge him to immediately suspend the citys twinning link with Rostov-on-Don.
"The committee stands in solidarity with the people of Ukraine and agrees to immediately suspend our twinning arrangement with Rostov-on-Don and instructs officers to bring a paper on options to end this twinning agreement to a future commitee."
Civiliansare starting to flee the capital Kyiv, among fears the Russian military could be invaded.
The motion read: "City Administration Committee notes that Glasgow is currently twinned with the city Rostov-on-Don and has been since 1986.
Glasgow City Council leader Susan Aitken urged the Lord Provost to suspend ties with the Russian city
Glasgow City Council leader Susan Aitkenurged the Lord Provost to suspend the city's links this morning, in a show of support for Ukrainians.
"Glasgow must show that we stand in solidarity with the people and government of Ukraine as they defend their national sovereignty and now their lives from unprovoked aggression.
