Michael Fabricant Ukraine attack sees Tory MP branded idiot
20220428
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20100292.michael-fabricant-ukraine-attack-sees-tory-mp-branded-idiot/
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
Wendy Chamberlain, the LibDem MP for North East Fife, raised the case of two children aged four and six who had finally arrived in Scotland from Ukraine and had to deal with tortuous bureaucracy before arriving.
Tory backbencher Michael Fabricant drew the ire of Scottish MPs when he slammed the SNPs calls to scrap the requirement for Ukrainian refugees to obtain a visa before travelling to the UK as reckless.
The SNPs home affairs spokesperson StuartMcDonald reiterated his calls for the Tories to scrap visas, saying the massive wall of bureaucracy erected by the Home Office was causing totally unnecessary misery for Ukrainians fleeing war.
A number of MPs told how their constituents were dealing with contradictory and nonsensical advice from the Home Office or its contractors.
The Government was again taken to task over its chaotic response to the crisis in Europe as what is thought to be the largest movement of refugees on the continent since World War 2 takes place.
In that time the family made three visits to the Visa Application Centre, each time waiting for hours and then being sent away.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
Fabricant had earlier cited Russian spies poisoning Sergei Skripal in Salisbury in 2012 as a reason to impose additional checks on Ukrainians entering the UK.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Stewart McDonald, the SNPs defence spokesperson, hit back at the accusations and shouted across the Commons: You are an idiot.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Chamberlain added the family had been staying in temporary accommodation in Poland with no funds.
Home Office minister Kevin Foster said the Governments long-term aim was to move away from people having to go to a Visa Application Centre every time they want to apply for particular types of visas.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
READ MORE:'I love this country': Ukrainian refugee on her life one month after arriving in Scotland
MICHAEL Fabricant has been branded an idiot after a dubious attack on the SNP over their calls to help Ukrainian refugees.
She said: Their application was initially submitted in mid-March and it was finally, I am pleased to say, granted last night, but weeks after the adults in their group were able to travel.
He added: For those who dont have international passports, valid passports, the VACs do form a role of safeguarding checks, particularly in relation to children. Those of a younger age, we are not for example looking at security checks we might do with adults, but with children ensuring key safeguarding checks are done.
McDonald later added: Although Fabricant has beetled out the chamber, can I just remind the House that the Salisbury attack was carried out by Russian FSB secret service agents, not Ukrainian refugees, to conflate the two was wildly inappropriate.
