Patrick Harvie Ukraine war shows Scotlands need to speed up move away from fossil fuels
20220304
https://www.thenational.scot/news/19969413.patrick-harvie-ukraine-war-shows-scotlands-need-speed-move-away-fossil-fuels/
Asked if Green members felt they should go further in government, she said the party had welcomed the Bute House agreement which led to its two ministerial roles.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
She said: It is a big change for us to be part of that decision-making structure rather than just scrutinising the government.
Its environmentally destructive, its unsustainable, but its also clearer now to more people than ever before that its connected to political instability and our global shared security.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
Harvie said: Absolutely everybody has been shocked and distressed to see the images coming out of Ukraine and the appalling, completely unjustifiable unprovoked invasion that Vladimir Putin has unleashed.
Were gaining new experience but I also think were gaining real credibility for what we can deliver.
On Friday, Harvie and his fellow Green minister Lorna Slater visited the Alexander Dennis bus plant in Falkirk, speaking to apprentices working on new electric buses being built there.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
This week marks six months since the Greens entered government as part of a co-operation agreement with the SNP.
We stand in solidarity with Ukraine and I think its been inspiring to see people in Russia protesting against the war.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The war has sent oil prices soaring and has led to many European countries reconsidering their reliance on Russian gas.
Everybody is always wishing to be able to do more than they can  thats something we need to work on.
Slater said entering government six months ago had been a step change for the party.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Discussing the Scottish Governments independence prospectus, she said formulating the document would be a detailed process which would take many months.
Harvie, who is the Minister for Zero Carbon Buildings, Active Travel and Tenants Rights, called on the UK Government to rebalance energy prices to allow householders to run zero-carbon heating without falling into fuel poverty.
Once youre in government you have to take responsibility, you have to follow the correct processes.
THE war in Ukraine shows the need to accelerate the shift away from fossil fuels, Green minister Patrick Harvie has said.
