PMQs Keir Starmer says that means nuclear on energy crisis
20220309
https://www.thenational.scot/news/19981445.pmqs-keir-starmer-says-means-nuclear-energy-crisis/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Commenting, Janet Fenton, co vice-chairof the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear disarmament, said: Nuclear power wouldnt comein time to solve the energy crisis. They need to invest in renewables and they need to have the resources to be able to do that.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
Starmer criticised the Tory scheme for being shortsighted as he claimed it relied on an eventual dip in energy prices, which is now increasingly unlikely after the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
KEIRStarmer has slammed Boris Johnsons handling of the energy cost crisis while doublingdown on Labours commitment to nuclear power.
In response, Starmer said: Come off it! Labour is pro-nuclear. This Prime Minister cant get a single brick laid of a new nuclear plant.
He said: Britain cant afford another crisis like this. We need to improve our long-term energy security. That starts with supporting new nuclear and renewables. But the conservatives have effectively banned new onshore wind. As a direct result of this shortsighted approach, were using more gas every year that we import from Russia.
We should not be considering the twin heads of the same monster, nuclear weapons and nuclear energy. It doesnt make sense to resolve the energy crisis with something that is inherently extremely expensive to put together takes a very long time before it produces any energy and then gives us a huge problem with waste that we dont have any means of resolving.
Johnson then highlighted Starmers approval of nuclear power and that he was delighted to welcome them now into the fold of parties supporting the use of the controversial energy source.
Speaking during PMQs on Wednesday, Starmer called on Johnson to force Rishi Sunak into a u-turnon the upcoming government backed 200 loan to householdsdesigned to alleviate the cost-of-living crisis.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
