Russia war in Ukraine Kyiv Kharkiv and Kherson under attack
20220302
https://www.thenational.scot/news/19962454.russia-war-ukraine-kyiv-kharkiv-kherson-attack/
The attack on Freedom Square, Ukraines largest plaza, and the nucleus of public life in the city, was seen by many Ukrainians as brazen evidence that the Russian invasion was not just about hitting military targets but also about breaking their spirit.
One senior Western intelligence official estimated that more than 5000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed. Ukraine gave no overall estimate of troop losses.
Cluster bombs shoot smaller bomblets over a large area, many of which fail to explode until long after theyve been dropped. If their use is confirmed, that would represent a new level of brutality in the war and could lead to further isolation of Russia.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
Where are the children? What kind of military factories do they work at? What tanks are they going at? Zelensky said.
Day six of the biggest ground war in Europe since the Second World War found Russia increasingly isolated, beset by the sanctions that have thrown its economy into turmoil and left the country practically friendless, apart from a few nations like China, Belarus and North Korea.
In an emotional appeal to the European Parliament later, Zelensky said: We are fighting also to be equal members of Europe. I believe that today we are showing everybody that is what we are.
Ukraines defence ministry also said on Tuesday it has evidence that Belarus, a Russian ally, is preparing to send troops into Ukraine, while oil prices surged more than $5 3.75 per barrel after a release of supplies failed to calm markets.
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion. Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an invasion or war.
Another Russian airstrike hit a residential area in the city of Zhytomyr, the towns mayor said.
In the US, President Joe Biden in his first State of the Union address that the US was closing airspace to Russian planes and vowed to seize the yachts and apartments of Russian oligarchs.
It is a nightmare, and it seizes you from the inside very strongly. This cannot be explained with words, said Kharkiv resident Ekaterina Babenko, taking shelter in a basement with neighbours for a fifth straight day. We have small children, elderly people, and frankly speaking it is very frightening.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
Many military experts worry that Russia may be shifting tactics. Moscows strategy in Chechnya and Syria was to use artillery and air bombardments to pulverize cities and crush fighters resolve.
As for dialogue, I think yes, but stop bombarding people first and start negotiating afterwards, he told CNN.
Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraines east in recent days. Residents also reported the use of such weapons in Kharkiv and Kiyanka villiage.
The UK Ministry of Defence said overnight it had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days. It also said three cities  Kharkiv, Kherson and Mariupol  were encircled by Russian forces.
A spokesman for the memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941, was damaged, but the extent would not be clear until daylight.
Zelenskys office also reported a missile attack on the site of the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial, near the tower.
RUSSIAN forces are carrying out a campaign of terror in Ukraine as Vladimir Putins troops lay siege to three major cities and step up attacks on residential areas.
Russian troops have been spotted in the centre of Kherson, in southern Ukraine. Russia's defence ministry claimedon Wednesday that it hascaptured the port city, according to RIA news agency.
The bombardment blew out windows and walls of buildings that ring the massive square, which was piled high with debris and dust. Inside one building, chunks of plaster were scattered, and doors, ripped from their hinges, lay across hallways.
The bank said its subsidiaries in Europe were facing an abnormal outflow of funds and a threat to the safety of employees and branches, according to Russian news agencies.
BBC Studios, meanwhile, revealed on Tuesday that it was halting all content licensing with its Russian customers over the invasion of Ukraine. ITV has also stopped working with Russian customers because of the conflict.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Zelensky said 16 children had been killed around Ukraine on Monday, and he mocked Russias claim that it is going after only military targets.
Leading Russian bank Sberbank also announced on Wednesday that it is pulling out of European markets amid tightening Western sanctions.
About 85 miles west of Kyiv, Zhytomyr is the home of the elite 95th Air Assault Brigade, which may have been the intended target.
Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget, Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky vowed after the bloodshed on the central square in Kharkiv, where airborne Russian troops have landed.
The first talks between Russia and Ukraine since the invasion were held on Monday, but ended with only an agreement to talk again. On Tuesday, Zelensky said Russia should stop bombing first.
The Slovenian foreign ministry said its consulate in Kharkiv, located in another large building on the square, was destroyed in the attack.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The bombing came after Russia announced it would target transmission facilities used by Ukraines intelligence agency. It urged people living near such places to leave their homes.
A 40-mile convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles advanced slowly on Kyiv, the capital city of nearly three million people.
The Russians also pressed their assault on other towns and cities, including the strategic ports of Odesa and Mariupol in the south.
Zelensky called the attack frank, undisguised terror and a war crime. This is state terrorism of the Russian Federation, he said.
The UN human rights office said it has recorded 136 civilian deaths. The real toll is believed to be far higher.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
READ MORE:Ukraine and its troubled path to joining the EU  the facts as they stand
Ukraines emergency services said Tuesdays strike killed at least two people, set three homes on fire and broke the windows in a nearby hospital.
Ukrainian authorities said five people were killed in the attack on the TV tower, which is near central Kyiv and a short walk from numerous apartment buildings. A TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
People are under the ruins. We have pulled out bodies, said Yevhen Vasylenko, an emergency official.
In Kharkiv, with a population of about 1.5 million, at least six people were killed when the regions Soviet-era administrative building on Freedom Square was hit with what was believed to be a missile.
