Scottish Government HQ raises Ukrainian flag at St Andrews House in Edinburgh
20220226
https://www.thenational.scot/news/19954484.scottish-government-hq-raises-ukrainian-flag-st-andrews-house-edinburgh/
Posting a photo on Twitter showing the flag at St Andrew's House in Edinburgh the Scottish Government said "Scotland stands with Ukraine".
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
The Kremlin accepted Kyivs offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraines embattled leader instead of a gesture towards a diplomatic solution.
It comes as Kyiv officials are warning residents that street fighting is under way against Russian forces as Ukraines president refused to leave the city.
The warning issued on Saturday advised residents to remain in shelters, to avoid going near windows or on balconies and to take precautions against being hit by debris or bullets.
Russian troops continued towards Ukraines capital early on Saturday as explosions reverberated through the city and the president urged the country to stand firm against the siege that could determine its future. He refused American help to leave, saying: The fight is here.
"But from the President to the women and men in the streets, their courage and resolve is awe-inspiring. Its nowhere near enough, but we send them strength and solidarity."
In a statement issued several hours earlier, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said of Russia: This is the night they will storm.
Natali Sevriukova reacts next to her house following a rocket attack the city of Kyiv, Ukraine AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
A second Russian military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles south of Kyiv, according to two American officials who spoke to the Associated Press.
UN officials reported 25 civilian deaths, mostly from shelling and air strikes, and said 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes. They estimate that up to four million could flee if the fighting escalates.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
It remains unclear how many people have died so far. Ukrainian officials reported at least 137 deaths on their side from the first full day of fighting and claimed hundreds on the Russian one. Russian authorities released no casualty figures.
Hundreds chanted slava Ukraini glory to Ukraine outside the consulate on Friday afternoon, with many bringing Ukrainian flags and anti-Putin signs.
As fighting persisted, Ukraines military reported shooting down an II-76 Russian transport plane carrying paratroopers near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv, an account confirmed by a senior American intelligence official. It was unclear how many were on board, with transport planes able to carry up to 125 troops.
Zelensky was urged to leave Kyiv by the US government but turned down the offer, according to a senior American intelligence official, who quoted the president as saying that the fight is here and that he needed anti-tank ammunition but not a ride.
Protests spread across Europe, including in major Russian cities, whileRussian tennis player Andrey Rublev wrote "No war please" on a TV camera after his final in Dubai.
Biden subsequently signed a memo clearing the way for the US to expedite up to 600 million dollars 448 million in emergency military assistance to the Ukrainian government, though it was not immediately clear how quickly the aid would flow.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Hundreds of casualties were reported in the fighting, which included shelling that sliced through a Kyiv apartment building and pummelled bridges and schools. There also were growing signs that Russia may be seeking to overthrow Ukraines government, which US officials have described as Russian President Vladimir Putins ultimate objective.
Meanwhile, demonstrators gathered on Friday outside the Russian consulate in Edinburgh for a second day as Scotlands Ukrainian community voices outrage at the ongoing war.
Russian tennis player Andrey Rublev writes "No war please" on the camera following his advancement to the final in Dubai. pic.twitter.comGQe8d01rTd
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
THE Ukrainian flag has been raised at the Scottish Government's HQ in an act of solidarity with the country as Russia continues its invasion.
Few of us - mercifully - will ever be tested as Ukrainians are being right now. But from the President to the women and men in the streets, their courage and resolve is awe-inspiring. Its nowhere near enough, but we send them strength and solidarity StandwithUkraine
Zelensky tweeted that he and US President Joe Biden spoke by phone and discussed strengthening sanctions, concrete defence assistance and an antiwar coalition.
A bagpiper played Ukraines national anthem and some Ukrainians addressed the crowd through a megaphone, calling for more Western help to resist the invasion.
The flag of Ukraine being raised outside the Scottish Governments HQ at St Andrews House, Edinburgh. pic.twitter.comvr0i6u7Wuh
US defence officials believe the Russian offensive has encountered considerable resistance and is proceeding slower than Moscow had envisioned, though that could change quickly.
Nicola Sturgeon repeated calls of solidarity with the nation as she labelled Ukrainian courage "awe-inspiring".
The First Minister said: "Few of us - mercifully - will ever be tested as Ukrainians are being right now.
This night we have to stand firm, he said. The fate of Ukraine is being decided right now.
As his country confronted explosions and gunfire, and as the fate of Kyiv hung in the balance, Zelensky appealed for a ceasefire and warned in a bleak statement that multiple cities were under attack.
