Tensions between Russia and Nato will affect postindy plans for Trident
20220126
https://www.thenational.scot/politics/19874395.tensions-russia-nato-will-affect-post-indy-plans-trident/
If it looked like there was a realistic chance that independence was likely to happen, there can be no doubt sufficient military force would be inserted into the Gare Loch to ensure there was no possibility of a Scottish Government ejecting them.
I recall when the UK was at the forefront of nuclear generation, including the breeder reactor at Dounreay. Whatever happened to all that leading-edge technology? Probably all flogged off to the first bidder for a quick buck by our own peasant society headquartered at Westminster on Thames.
WIDESPREAD protests in Kazakhstan have recently been ruthlessly crushed by what is a thoroughly brutal regime.
This would be an intolerable situation for Scotland, both from the perspective of national sovereignty and because any attempt to resist on Scotlands part would almost certainly damage relations with the US and a number of critical EU countries.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
I HAVE been surprised not to have seen any discussion in the press about the potential impact on independence of the steadily deteriorating relationship between Nato and Russia.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
The issue of the Clyde submarine base is going to cast a shadow over any independence negotiations well into the foreseeable future and there needs to be a strategy to address it. A long-term lease agreement isnt going to cut it for a large number of voters.
In 2011 former Labour PM Tony Blairs consultancy firm was paid $13 million by Kazakhstans then dictator Nursultan Nazarbayev. His role was to whitewash the regime after it had massacred up to 100 oil workers in the town of Zhanaozen.
It seems close to incredible that the UK Government would permit any interference in the stable operation of the base at Faslane during a period when they believe the nuclear deterrent might finally be of some use to them.
Prince Andrew, a former UK Government trade envoy, also profited from Kazakhstans dictatorship. In 2007 Kazkh energy tycoon Timur Kulibayev paid the Duke of York 15 million for his marital home, Sunninghill Park. This was 3m more than the asking price.
I find it difficult to believe that he is still claiming China to be a peasant economy when they are indulging in a major space programme and a massive nuclear submarine manufacturing exercise to add to their existing fleet of nuclear attack subs and nuclear ballistic missile subs. Presumably when he refers to developed countries he includes the UK, where French company EDF is now building a Chinese-designed nuclear power plant, somewhat delayed for technical reasons, at Hinkley Point in England.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
I REFER to the present threat of war from Russia, Putin threatening to invade the Ukraine and the USA saying a small skirmish would be permissible. This did not go down well with the Ukraine, not surprisingly, as they do not want any skirmishes, small or otherwise.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
PRESIDENT Xi of China was reported recently in The National as having said that his country was prepared to work with other countries on climate change but offered no initiatives or funding as it was up to developed countries to provide the finance and technology.
One of the key drivers for independence has always been removal of this abominable weapons system from our shores, and whether or not Russia invades Ukraine, the relationship between Russia and Nato is unlikely to improve for a long time.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Russia has been invaded three times from the West, by Napoleon in the 19th century, and twice by the Germans in the 20th century. It is my understanding that Gorbachev agreed to the reunification of Germany ONLY if there was NO Nato expansion further east, thereby threatening the security of Russia. That was what the Western democracies agreed to, but in their usual warmongering, belligerent, aggressive, imperialistic way, the United States brought Nato closer to Russian border, thereby doing exactly what Gorbachev was afraid of. Especially after the American exploits in Afghanistan and Iraq, Putin knows full well that treachery and betrayal are the well-honed talents of the USA and the UK. This is the strongest case for independence, and this is why we must rid ourselves of the Westminster government.
Then there is former Tory minister Jonathan Aitken. He wrote two grovelling books about Nazarbayev. Aitken, who was convicted of perjury in 2009, said he wasnt paid. Yet leaked documents in the Pandora Papers reveal he pocketed 166,000.
Instead of using threatening language, experienced diplomats should be using tactful, sensitive words. Keep the warmongers at home, stop sending them all over the globe to threaten our security.
