The White Rose Scots disinformation group says Ukraine run by Nazis
20220320
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20006591.white-rose-scots-disinformation-group-says-ukraine-run-nazis/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
McManus reportedly described Russias invasion of Ukraine as a panto and said the pro-Ukrainian cone now seen on Glasgows Duke of Wellington statue was hideous propaganda.
An investigation by The Ferret has uncovered a network of groups on the messaging app Telegram who go by the name the White Rose.
Weve seen in Germany, for example, the murder of a gas station attendant by one of their anti-lockdown conspiracy theorists. Weve seen arson attacks in the Netherlands.
Thats not to fearmonger but I think there is the risk that this community could become more radicalised and all the data points we have point towards conspiratorial thinking and conspiracy theories sharply upticking globally, but certainly in the UK as well.
Foreign and defence policy expert Elisabeth Braw, at the American Enterprise Institute AEI, suggested the Russian state has targeted those who are vulnerable to state-sponsored propaganda.
She said: What Russian propaganda does is focus on disaffected groups. They dont just share messages and hope that the entirety of the population will somehow pick up their side of the story.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
They dont create division they find the divisions that exist in a society and then attempt to bolster them. Hostile state disinformation activity in the UK presents a very real threat.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
While most contributors of the White Rose remain anonymous, the Ferret has revealed that the University of Glasgows Dr Alan McManus has shared anti-Ukraine content within the group.
SCOTTISH disinformation groups have been spreading claims that Ukraine orchestrated the bombing of its own civilians at a maternity hospital.
SNP MP Stewart McDonald above said: Whoever is running these campaigns, whether theyre domestic or foreign, they do largely target disenfranchised groups.
Members of the Scotland-wide group share content from Russian state-funded network RT, which is now banned in the UK, as well as claims that Ukraine is governed by neo-Nazis.
Hate movement researcher at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue Jacob Davey said: There is this new cohort of people living in a parallel universe and on the one hand this does potentially represent a security risk.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
