Ukraine crisis Volodymyr Zelenskyy says UK helping thanks to public pressure
20220328
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20025090.ukraine-crisis-volodymyr-zelenskyy-says-uk-helping-thanks-public-pressure/
Zelenskyys comments were followed by a late-night video interview on Sunday with independent Russian journalists in which he reiterated earlier statements that signalled he was willing to discuss neutrality with Russia.
In an earlier interview, the president said Britain is definitely on our side and is not performing a balancing act, but he declined to say whether the UK wants to end the war quickly at any cost.
Interviewed on Sunday, Zahawi said it is for the Russian people to decide how they are governed but suggested they would certainly do well to have someone who is democratic and understands their wishes.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
The president added that Ukraine could consider offering security guarantees to the Kremlin involving his government agreeing to stay out of Nato. Ukraine would also remain nuclear-free, he said.
He told the Economist magazine that Germany are making a mistake today as it tries to take a balanced approach due to its deeper economic ties with Moscow.
Johnson has forged a close relationship with the Ukrainian leader, speaking to him regularly by phone.
Zelenskyy has previously warned he would not give up territory in peace talks as he noted that his troops have delivered powerful blows to invading forces.
In a highly charged speech in Warsaw, Biden appealed to Russian people directly with comparisons between the invasion of Ukraine and the horrors of the Second World War.
BORIS Johnson is helping more than other European leaders to send aid to Ukraine thanks to public pressure in the UK, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said.
French President Emanuel Macron said he wouldnt use those terms voiced by Biden and suggested they could make it harder to resolve the conflict, adding: We want to stop the war that Russia launched in Ukraine, without waging war and without escalation.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
US secretary of state Antony Blinken insisted we do not have a strategy of regime change as the Kremlin said it is not up to the Americans to decide who will remain in power in Russia.
Zelenskyy put foreign nations into categories, ranging from those who want the conflict to end quickly by any means so they can keep access to Russian markets to those supporting the Ukrainian people who want the war to end quickly at any cost.
Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawi said whether to overthrow Putin for his invasion of Ukraine is up to the Russian people after the US Presidents apparently unscripted call caused the White House to scramble to row back on the remark.
But he declined to criticise Biden, unlike Tobias Ellwood, the Conservative MP who chairs the Commons Defence Committee, who said Putin will now spin this, dig in and fight harder.
Ukraines military intelligence chief Kyrylo Budanov warned that the Russian president wants to split the country in two under a Korean scenario, referencing the split between North and South Korea.
He told the reporters that the issue of neutrality should be put to Ukrainian voters in a referendum after Russian troops withdraw.
Peace talks between Ukraine and Russia are expected to begin in Turkey in the coming days.
Meanwhile, the Government distanced the UK from Joe Bidens apparent call for regime change in Moscow when he said in an impassioned speech that Putin cannot remain in power.
But Macron warned providing armoured vehicles and fighter jets could drag Nato into a direct conflict with Russia by crossing a red line.
But a White House official swiftly tried to clarify and argued that the US Presidents point was that the Russian leader cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbours or the region.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Thats up to the Russian people and it is only the Russian people that can make that decision, I suspect most of them are pretty fed up with Putin and his cronies and the illegal war, he told the BBCs Sunday Morning show.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
He said a vote could take place within a few months of the troops leaving.
The leaders of countries react according to how their constituents act. In this case, Johnson is an example.
Britain is definitely on our side. It is not performing a balancing act. Britain sees no alternative for the way out of the situation, he said.
For Gods sake this man cannot remain in power, he said at the close of his speech about the Russian president he earlier described as a butcher.
His comments came after Moscow indicated it could scale back its offensive to focus on what it claimed was the main goal, liberation of Donbas, the region bordering Russia in the east of Ukraine.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
The Prime Minister said sending the tanks and fighter jets Zelenskyy pleaded for as he addressed a summit of Nato leaders last week would be very difficult logistically but did not rule it out.
Britain wants Ukraine to win and Russia to lose, but Im not ready to say whether Britain wants the war to drag on or not.
When asked if the Prime Minister had been keener than Frances President Emmanuel Macron to send weapons, Zelenskyy responded: Yes. To be honest, Johnson is a leader who is helping more.
In an interview in Kyiv, Zelenskyy said France was being more hesitant in sending weapons because they are afraid of Russia.
