Ukrainian troops in Mariupol still defy Russian calls to surrender
20220418
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20075115.ukrainian-troops-mariupol-still-defy-russian-calls-surrender/
Explosions were reported overnight in Kramatorsk, an eastern city where rockets killed at least 57 people at a train station crowded with civilians trying to evacuate before the expected Russian offensive.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
He said Ukraine is prepared to end the war through diplomacy, if possible, but we do not have intention to surrender.
After the humiliating loss of the flagship of its Black Sea Fleet, Russias military command vowed on Friday to step up missile strikes on the capital. The Russian military said yesterday that it had attacked an ammunition plant near Kyiv overnight with precision-guided missiles, the third such strike in as many days.
Seizing Mariupol would free Russian forces to weaken and encircle Ukrainian forces in eastern Ukraine, where Russia has focused its war aims for now and is deploying personnel and equipment withdrawn from the north after a botched attempt to take Kyiv. Ukrainian deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar described Mariupol as a shield defending Ukraine as Russian troops prepare for a full-scale offensive in Donbas, the countrys eastern industrial heartland where Moscow-backed separatists already control some territory.
Ukrainian prime minister Denys Shmyhal said on ABCs This Week: We will fight absolutely to the end, to the win, in this war.
In a reminder that no part of Ukraine was immune until the war ends, Russian forces carried out new missile strikes on Sunday near Kyiv and elsewhere in an apparent effort to weaken Ukraines military capacity before the anticipated assault in the east.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
The Russian military also claimed yesterday to have destroyed Ukrainian air defence radars in the east, near Sievierodonetsk, as well as several ammunition depots elsewhere.
The gutted remains of vehicles are seen at the Illich Iron  Steel Works Metallurgical Plant, the second largest metallurgical enterprise in Ukraine, in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol
Russia gave a deadline for their surrender, saying those who put down their weapons were guaranteed to keep their lives, but the Ukrainians did not submit.
Russia renewed attacks on Kyiv after accusing Ukrainian forces of airstrikes on Russian territory that wounded seven people and damaged about 100 residential buildings in Bryansk, a region bordering Ukraine. Ukrainian officials have not confirmed hitting targets in Russia.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
He said intercepted communications indicated there were about 400 foreign mercenaries with the Ukrainian troops at the Azovstal steel mill, a claim that could not be independently verified.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The ongoing siege and relentless bombardment of Mariupol have come at a terrible cost, with officials estimating Russians had killed at least 21,000 people. Just 120,000 people remain in the city, out of a pre-war population of 450,000.
The destruction of all our guys in Mariupol  what they are doing now  can put an end to any format of negotiations, Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an interview with Ukrainian journalists.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
The Russian military estimated that about 2500 Ukrainian fighters holding out at a hulking steel plant with a warren of underground passageways provided the last pocket of resistance in Mariupol.
THE battered port city of Mariupol appeared on the brink of falling to Russian forces yesterday, after seven weeks under siege, a development that would give Moscow a crucial success in Ukraine following Russias failure to storm the capital and the loss of its Black Sea flagship.
Malyar, the deputy defence minister, said the Russians have continued to hit Mariupol with airstrikes and could be getting ready for an amphibious landing to beef up their ground forces. Capturing the city would mark Russias first palpable success after two months of fighting and help reassure the Russian public amid the worsening economic situation from western sanctions. It would allow Russia to secure a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014, and deprive Ukraine of a major port and prized industrial assets.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said a strike on Saturday on what Russias defence ministry identified as an armoured vehicle plant killed one person and wounded several. He advised residents who fled the city earlier in the war not to return.
All those who will continue resistance will be destroyed, Maj Gen Igor Konashenkov, the Russian defence ministrys spokesman, said.
Mariupols seizure also would make more troops available for a new offensive in the east, which if successful, would give Russian president Vladimir Putin a position of strength from which to pressure Ukraine into making concessions.
