Ukraine SNP become first UK party to suggest Russia is committing genocide
20220404
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20044338.ukraine-snp-become-first-uk-party-suggest-russia-committing-genocide/
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
As more testimony and evidence come to light, and we must allow the proper authorities time and support to conclude their work, we may even conclude that genocide is being committed against the people of Ukraine.
Despite this, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps told Times Radio on Sunday that if reports of men aged 18-60 being rounded up and killed in Bucha are correct, this would be genocide.
Alyn Smith, the SNP foreign affairs spokesperson, wrote to Foreign Secretary Liz Truss encouraging her to provide further financial support to the court to back its work documenting, investigating and prosecuting war crime accusations.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
"Yes, if its true, it is," he told listeners. "Were hearing these stories coming out all the time and quite clearly theyll need to be properly evidenced and investigated."
A boy looks at a destroyed Russian tank after recent battles in Bucha, close to Kyiv
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
The Stirling MP also called on Truss, who is currently in Poland, to provide an immediate update on the situation in Ukraine to MPs following the Easter break.
THE UK Government is being urged by the SNP to do more to support the International Criminal Courts investigations into war crimes being committed by Russia in Ukraine.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
In the communication, Smith writes that we may even conclude that genocide is being committed against the people of Ukraine  making the SNP the first party in the UK to make this suggestion publicly.
Bidens comments to reporters came after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky visited Bucha, one of the towns surrounding the capital Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found.
It came afterUS President Joe Biden called for a war crimes trial against Russian president Vladimir Putin and said he will seek more sanctions following the reported atrocities in Ukraine.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of Kyiv.
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general Iryna Venediktova said.
The evidence coming to light of atrocities deliberately committed against civilians surely constitute war crimes, Smith wrote.
Zelensky called the Russian actions genocide and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
