Ukraine invasion unlikely to have been preventable experts suggest
20220227
https://www.thenational.scot/news/19955341.ukraine-invasion-unlikely-preventable-experts-suggest/
He will be absolutely immune to anything on the ground in Russia in terms of public discontent.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
READ MORE:David Pratt: The dramatic events from Russia's invasion of Ukraine that shocked the world
OBrien added: In the post Cold War world in Europe, we did have events in the Balkans but we didnt have this full state intervention.
So I dont see you could have prevented the action, unless Ukraine literally agreed to its own destruction.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
I know people say you should have done more, quicker, but that is not the way these things often work. There were negotiations going on and you dont want to give a pretext for them to say that they will invade.
THE invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin was unlikely to have been preventable  but many did not believe he would launch a full-scale attack, according to experts.
There was a recent survey among the Russian public that found over 70 of Russians do not support military action in Ukraine, he said.
Putin knows very well his demands will not be met and his demands are unfeasible  he was preparing for this outcome for quite a long time.
What they are now making it difficult to do is to move money around and things like that, but over the last few years they have accepted so much capital here that it is very hard to stop it, he said.
The EUs latest round of sanctions also target Russian elites and make it harder for its diplomats to travel, while UK sanctions have been aimed at Russian banks and oligarchs.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Most likely this has been in preparation for quite a few months and it is not very likely that something could have prevented it, he said.
Western nations have now ordered a series of sanctions with the latest target the assets of Putin and his
If you have sanctions they may say well why not invade then. I think it might have been good to talk about it earlier, but it is not so easy to do.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, which will be frozen in the US, EU, UK and Canada.
OBrien said he believed the invasion of Ukraine was harder than Putin expected and even if he wins a military victory it had weakened him considerably.
The real thing to do would be to start seeing where the money has gone in the UK and all the other countries, and find a way to try to confiscate it.
He compared the actions of Putin to the invasion of Poland by Hitler in 1939, which triggered the start of World War Two.
DrHuseyn Aliyev below, lecturer in Central and East European studies at Glasgow University, echoed this view saying there had been general disbelief in expert circles that Russia would stage a full-scale invasion.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Aliyev said the outcome of the coming days of war and whether Russia achieves its military aims would determine what happens next. But he said the opinion of the Russian population about the action being taken by their President is unlikely to have any influence on Putin.
But he added: It has probably been over 15 years since Putin completely stopped caring about the public opinion of the Russian population. He suppresses any protests or demonstrations criticising his policies.
We dont know how reliable the figures are, but we have seen large protests taking place across Russia and clearly there are thousands more who disagree with this policy and who mistrust the Kremlin. The rising number of casualties in the war that Russia is currently sustaining is certainly likely to increase discontent in Russia. So we will probably witness even more discontent over the coming days and weeks.
My general feeling was he might go for pockets of Ukraine, he might go for the East, but not this massive full-on invasion. This is in my mind weakening his rule.
Phillips OBrien below, professor of strategic studies at St Andrews University, said while the West could have acted sooner, it would have been unlikely enough to deter the action taken by Russia.
Possibly if the West was willing to accept Russias unrealistic conditions on Nato and non-enlargement. But both Putin and Western countries knew very well this is not something that could have been achieved.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
However, OBrien said the real impact would come from rooting out the Russian money which has flowed into countries such as the UK.
I just dont think we believed it would happen  I believed he wouldnt do this as it is too much of a threat to his rule.
He said: To Putin, his vision of Ukraine is not as an independent state  he said Ukraine should be part of Russia, he is trying to get it back to a Russian Empire.
But that is not easy to do. It is in flats in London, probably flats in places like Glasgow and Edinburgh.
