Ukrainian Independence Day marked with demonstrations in Edinburgh and Aberdeen
20220824
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20739295.ukrainian-independence-day-marked-demonstrations-edinburgh-aberdeen/
Ukrainian Independence Day is usually celebrated with a military parade in Kyiv, with smaller community-led marches occurring in towns and cities across the country.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
So, we will get together with some Ukrainian families in Peterhead and Fraserburgh to spend time together, to talk about Ukraine and about the situation.
On Wednesday, six months on from the Russian invasion, public gatherings are currently banned in the Ukrainian capital due to concerns over security.
But now I feel different because I am in a safe place with other Ukrainians while our families are still back in Ukraine, suffering and living in fear every day.
In Edinburgh, Ukrainian immigrantswere joined by politicians and community leaders as they marched up the steps of Calton Hill
Ukrainians have been fighting for freedom from the Russians for eight years so even last year we knew the cost of freedom.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
We wont have any huge celebrations today because our country is struggling so were just trying to take some solace and support our warriors and citizens in a remote way.
It comes as the First Minister expressed Scotlands solidarity with Ukraine in a letter to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
UKRAINIANSin Scotland have marked Ukrainian Independence Day with protests and gatherings amid the continuing Russian invasion.
Alongside other Ukrainians in the city she gathered outside Marischal College to commemorate those who have been lost in the war with Russia.
So, this day is really important for me because it is when we remember all the people  all the poets, all the politicians, all the heroes  that died for us to be able to express our feelings, our thoughts and ourselves the way we want.
It was first held in 1991 on the anniversary of the Ukrainian parliaments declaration of state sovereignty from the Soviet Union.
Our hearts are broken  on this day especially  but we understand that we just have to come through it and wait until the war ends.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
In my region there was the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, which was one of the main enemies of the Soviet Union because they were fighting for Ukrainian independence.
However, Ukrainians in countries all over the world have marked the day with get-togethers and protests.
He told The National: I celebrate this day every year. Last year I was in Kyiv and I went to the Ukrainian independence march.
Nicola Sturgeon said that she hoped the action would strengthen the bond between the two countries now and in a more peaceful future.
My mother was quite young when Ukraine became independent but my grandparents still remember living under the Soviet Union, she said.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Its very hard to stay so far from home and not be able to see friends and family.
Nick, who moved to Edinburgh from eastern Ukraine in April and helped organise the march, said it is a big day for Ukrainians.
It is the biggest national holiday in our country. We usually have a day off and people wear traditional garments.
We used to have a military parade and we would watch it on TV but this year of course it will not be held.
She said that while the day is political it also allows people to spend time with their families and celebrate Ukrainian traditions.
Lots of Ukrainians arrived in Kyiv from all over Ukraine and joined in a big celebration.
