Ukraine war  Volodymyr Zelenskyy calls for worldwide demonstrations
20220324
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20017287.ukraine-war-zelenskyy-calls-worldwide-demonstrations/
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
He said in a video address shot near the presidential offices in Kyiv that the war breaks my heart, the hearts of all Ukrainians and every free person on the planet. He called for people to visibly show their support for Ukraine starting from Thursday 24 March, exactly one month after Russia launched its invasion.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
Speaking in English, he said: Come from your offices, your homes, your schools and universities. Come in the name of peace. Come with Ukrainian symbols to support Ukraine, to support freedom, to support life.
Come to your squares, your streets. Make yourselves visible and heard. Say that people matter. Freedom matters. Peace matters. Ukraine matters.
He appealed to Western countries to stay united in the face what he says are Russias efforts to lobby its interests with some partners to bring them over to its side.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We ask that the alliance declare that it will fully assist Ukraine to win this war, clear our territory of the invaders and restore peace in Ukraine, he said.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
In Edinburgh, a peaceful gathering is planned for 5.30pm on Thursday 24 March at The Mound, organised by the organisation Help Ukraine Scotland. For further details, visit their Facebook event here.
We will see who is a friend, who is a partner and who has sold out and betrayed us, he said in an emotional speech. Together we should not allow Russia to break anyone in NATO, the EU or G7, to break them and drag them to the side of war".
On Wednesday, on the eve of a Nato summit in Brussels,Zelenskyy called on the alliance to provide effective and unrestricted support to Ukraine, including any weapons the country needs to fend off the Russian invasion.
Switching to Russian, Zelenskyy appealed to Russians to leave Russia so as not to give your tax money to the war. Tens of thousands of Russians already have fled Russia since the war began, fearing the intensifying crackdown at home.
UKRAINIAN President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called on people around the world to come to your squares, your streets to stand with Ukrainein a day of anti-war protests.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
