UKs Online Safety Bill will fail to protect from fake news and disinformation says MP
20220320
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20006594.uks-online-safety-bill-will-fail-protect-fake-news-disinformation-says-mp/
He added: Failure to remove it will ban Brits from doing normal things like making jokes, seeking help and engaging in healthy debate online. There are now lots of new and unworkable ideas tacked on at the last minute, making it a monstrous melange of fit to fail duties that will make minority groups less safe online.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
Jim Killock, above, executive director of the Open Rights Group, raised concerns about the impact on free speech, saying using the term legal but harmful amounted to the creation of a censors charter.
The Bill will see Ofcom as a new regulator for the sector and with the power to fine companies or block access to sites that fail to comply with the new rules.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
He said: Disinformation is the scourge of our age. During the pandemic, we saw the real-life consequences of disinformation, with people fed harmful lies to dissuade them from wearing masks and getting vaccinated.
THE UK Governments Online Safety Bill does not go far enough in tackling disinformation as the scourge of our age, an SNP MP has warned.
However, Nicolson said disinformation should have been top of the list of the issues the legislation will tackle.
The Government said it had strengthened proposals in a number of areas after draft legislation was published last year.
This includes the power to hold company executives criminally liable if they fail to comply with Ofcom information requests just two months after the Bill becomes law, rather than the two years previously drafted.
In addition, company managers will now be held criminally liable for destroying evidence, failing to attend or providing false information in interviews with Ofcom and for obstructing the regulator when it enters company offices.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
She said it has established new criminal offences which will help better address harmful online behaviour, such as deliberately sharing dangerous disinformation about hoax Covid-19 treatments.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Under the updated Bill, the biggest social media platforms must address this content and carry out risk assessments on the types of harms that could appear on their service and how they plan to address it, setting out how they will do this in their terms of service.
Now we are seeing Kremlin officials and Russian diplomats lying about the war as they try to spin their way out of responsibility for the carnage theyve wreaked on Ukraine.
But John Nicolson, the SNPs culture and media spokesman, said the updated Online Safety Bill will not tackle the spread of fake news.
As we know, big tech bosses will not willingly do anything that will hurt their profits, even if it helps protect people on their platforms.
The long-awaited proposals for new internet safety laws  which have been in progress for around five years  were introduced to Parliament last week.
Last week UK Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said the central aim of the bill is to make the UK the safest place to go online.
The revised Bill has also changed its approach to so-called legal but harmful content  material which is not itself illegal but could cause harm to users who encounter it.
He added: The Online Safety Bill does not go anywhere near far enough to stop disinformation on social media platforms.
