UKs ties with Hungary hailed by Number 10 as rightwing Viktor Orban wins landslide
20220404
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20043184.uks-ties-hungary-hailed-number-10-right-wing-viktor-orban-wins-landslide/
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
Hungary is an important Nato ally and a V4 partner and we will work closely with them to ensure further vital aid reaches the most vulnerable in Ukraine, the Prime Ministers official spokesman said.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
The whole world has seen tonight in Budapest that Christian democratic politics, conservative civic politics and patriotic politics have won. We are telling Europe that this is not the past, this is the future, Orban said.
With a quarter of votes still to be counted, Orbans Fidesz-led coalition had won 54.5, while a pro-European opposition coalition, United for Hungary, had nearly 34, according to the National Election Office.
Boris Johnsons official spokesman said he was not aware of any plans at the moment for a congratulatory message from the Prime Minister, but insisted that Hungary was an important partner for the UK.
In a 10-minute speech to Fidesz party officials and supporters at an election night event in Budapest, Orban said it was a huge victory for his right-wing party.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
Hungary seems to have reached a point of no return, she said. The key lesson is that the playing field is tilted so much that it became almost impossible to replace Fidesz in elections.
Orban is viewed as Putins closest ally within the European Union, with Hungary maintaining close economic ties with Moscow, including continuing to import Russian gas and oil on favourable terms, further complicating ties with Brussels, which were already difficult.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We want to build on the strong and robust relationship we have with Hungary to reinforce Natos eastern flank and support Ukraine.
THE UK will continue to have a robust relationship with Hungary, Downing Street said after right-wing nationalist prime minister Viktor Orban secured another term in office.
Edit Zgut, a political scientist at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw, predicted that what appeared to be a clear victory for Orban would allow him to move further in an autocratic direction, sidelining dissidents and capturing new areas of the economy.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a congratulatory message to Orban following the landslide election win for the Hungarian leaders Fidesz party.
Orban described Brussels bureaucrats and Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as elements of an overwhelming force that his party had overcome.
The spokesman highlighted Hungarys membership of the Nato alliance and the Visegrad V4 group of countries, along with the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia.
We won a victory so big that you can see it from the moon, and you can certainly see it from Brussels, Orban said.
Victory for Orbans party was welcomed in the Kremlin, with Putins message saying that despite the difficult international situation, the further development of bilateral partnership fully conforms to the interests of peoples of Russia and Hungary.
