UN to vote on suspending Russia from Human Rights Council amid Ukraine invasion
20220407
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20050344.un-vote-suspending-russia-human-rights-council-amid-ukraine-invasion/
THE UN General Assembly will vote on whether to suspend Russia from its premiere human rights body.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
Meanwhile, Ukraine gathered its dead and collected evidence of Russian atrocities on the ruined outskirts of Kyiv as the two sides geared up for what could become a climactic battle by Moscows forces to seize the countrys industrial east.
To be approved, the resolution requires a two-thirds majority of assembly members that vote yes or no. Abstentions do not count.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
The March 2006 resolution that established the Human Rights Council states that the assembly may suspend membership rights of a country that commits gross and systematic violations of human rights.
US ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield made the call for Russia to be stripped of its seat on the 47-member Human Rights Council in the wake of videos and photos of streets in the town of Bucha strewn with the corpses of what appeared to be civilians.
Ukrainian officials have stepped up calls for civilians to evacuate westward from towns near the frontline ahead of the anticipated offensive.
While the Human Rights Council is based in Geneva, its members are elected by the 193-nation General Assembly for three-year terms.
The fate of our land and of our people is being decided. We know what we are fighting for. And we will do everything to win,
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
We believe that members of the Russian forces committed war crimes in Ukraine, and we believe that Russia needs to be held accountable, Thomas-Greenfield said on Monday.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The move was initiated by the US in response to the discovery of hundreds of bodies after Russian troops withdrew from towns near the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, sparking calls for its forces to be tried for war crimes.
The videos and reporting from the town have sparked global revulsion and calls for tougher sanctions on Russia, which has vehemently denied responsibility.
General Assembly spokeswoman Paulina Kubiak said yesterday the assemblys emergency special session on Ukraine will resume today when the resolution to suspend the rights of membership in the Human Rights Council of the Russian Federation will be put to a vote.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian forces were trying to push deep into Ukraine in the east  but that the Ukrainian army was holding them back.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
The brief resolution to be voted on expresses grave concern at the ongoing human rights and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, particularly at the reports of violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law by the Russian Federation, including gross and systematic violations and abuses of human rights.
