What is a windfall tax and how are energy companies reacting to the idea
20220526
https://www.thenational.scot/news/20167598.windfall-tax-energy-companies-reacting-idea/
The Prime Minister has previouslysaid that it would put off investors: I dont like them. I dont think they are the right way forward. I want those companies to make big, big investments.
Chancellor Rishi Sunak has previously said he is not naturally attracted to the policy, but that he is pragmatic about introducing it.
So thats why weve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate  and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
She also shared the Prime Ministers concerns regarding the potential lack of investment a windfall tax might cause.
Labour have said the Chancellor has been "dragged kicking and screaming" into backing its call for a levy on fossil fuel companies who have benefited from high global prices.
The energy industry has warned that introducing a windfall tax will bring about job losses.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about  people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Lets get that debate started!
A windfall tax is a one-off tax which is imposed by a government on a company or a specific group of comapnies.
This isnt feeling good, to have this unexpected surprise on a sector that has been committed to working positively with the government on the security of energy supply and on the energy transition.
Like BP, they said they had felt the impact of the Ukraine War and that pulling out of Russian investments has cost them 3.1bn.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who arent really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
This will form part of a relief package for households across the country struggling with rising bills as a result of the cost of living crisis.
CHANCELLOR Rishi Sunak is expected to cave into pressure and impose a windfall tax on the soaring profits of oil and gas companies.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Similarly, Shells profits almost tripled to 7.3bn  the companys largest quarterly profit on record.
The idea is to target companies who are benefitting from something which they themselves are not responsible for - iea windfall.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. Weve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
It's being introduced because companies who get oil and gas from the ground are profitting from it more than they were last year.
Chief executive of Offshore Energies UK Deirde Michie said: This will directly impact manufacturing in this country.
BPs profits more than doubled to around 4.9bn in the first three months of this year, although this was cancelled out by money written off after the decision to exit its investments in Russian oil firms after the invasion of Ukraine.
