In pictures How an Andover woman got people together to support Ukraine
20220227
https://www.andoveradvertiser.co.uk/news/19956182.pictures-andover-woman-got-people-together-support-ukraine/
Olga, who is originally from the city of Zaporizhzhya in south-east Ukraine,lit a candle for Ukraine while her husbandTaras read out a poem written by his mum, followedby a poignant moment of silence and then a round of applause.
While thousands have managed to flee to neighbouring countries, millions more remain in Ukraine, taking shelter in underground car parks, metro stations and basements.
Many were wearing yellow and blue outfits while others were holding yellow and blue signs, flags and balloons.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Fighting in Ukraine has now been going on four days, after Russian troops began an unprovoked invasion from three different sides.
Organised by Ukrainian national Olga Kott, who lives in Appleshaw near Andover,the event began in the Cathedral Close, Salisbury,where families, kids and older people got together just after 1pm.
After the service, many carried on with their daily business, but around 100 or so supporters walked to the Market Place - waving flags, holding signs and singing Ukrainian anthems.
THE tragic events of the past few daysfeel quite close to home here - a place that experienced first hand what Putin'sRussia is capable of.
A few minutes latercrowds made their way inside the Cathedral, where Canon Anna Macham led a brief but touching ceremony.
"My mum, my dad, my sister, my goddaughter, all my friends from university, from school, my neighbours... A lot of people are affected from the different cities now, they are all in danger," she added.
"It's a great support for us because we cry every single day, every single night."
Talking about the conflict, the mum-of-two said: "It's not supposed to happen nowadays, it's not our war, people want peace, they pray for peace.
It's perhaps not surprising then that hundreds of people turned out today to pray and support Ukraine in a bright, moving but most importantly, peaceful, display of solidarity.
For Olga, a 38-year-old business owner who has lived in the UK for 15 years, the event went beyond her expectations.
In the Market Place, supporters of all nationalities Ukrainian, Polish, Belorusian, Slovakian and of course Britishshared messages of solidarity, before going on to pose for group photos.
