Live Lviv mayor reports further strike after rockets wound several
20220326
https://www.bignewsnetwork.com/news/272425031/live-lviv-mayor-reports-further-strike-after-rockets-wound-several
Joe Biden's latest comment about his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin narrows the prospects for mending ties between the two countries, TASS news agency cited a Kremlin spokesman as saying on Saturday.
Joe Biden is not seeking "regime change" in Russia, the White House said, after the US president declared in a major speech that Vladimir Putin "cannot stay in power".
"I have been released. Everything is fine, as far as it is possible under occupation," Yuri Fomichev, mayor of Slavutych, told AFP by phone, after officials in the Ukraine capital Kyiv announced earlier he had been detained.
"The Russian defence ministry is not summoning and does not plan to summon any reservists to the military commissariats," spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in a statement. He added that "many" Russian men had in recent days received "false" phone calls notifying them of their summons to the military commissariats.
"I am not sure they have," Biden said when asked by a reporter if Russia had changed its strategy.
Biden called the conflict in Ukraine a "strategic failure" for Russia but said ordinary Russians were "not our enemy".
Zelensky said countries such as Qatar could make a contribution to the stabilisation of Europe.
"The president's point was that Putin cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbours or the region," a White House official said. "He was not discussing Putin's power in Russia, or regime change."
7:35 pm: Watch Biden's speech here: 7:35 pm: Biden's speech was an 'exception to the rule'
"There have been several air raid sirens ringing out around the city with announcements telling people to get into bomb shelters, so it's a change here because the strikes this afternoon hit the fuel depot around 5 km from the city centre -- so a pretty significant development in Lviv, which has seen several incidents but on the outskirts and around the wider region."
Russian forces took control of a town where staff working at the Chernobyl nuclear site live and briefly detained the mayor, sparking protests, Ukrainian officials said Saturday.
Russian forces say they are aiming to take control of the entire Luhansk and Donetsk administrative regions in Ukraine's Donbas. FRANCE 24's Gulliver Cragg reports from Kyiv.
"A lot of people say it's difficult to watch Biden speak because he has a lot of passion but he doesn't always communicate it well," said FRANCE 24 International Affairs Commentator Douglas Herbert in the video below. "This speech was an exception to the rule."
US President Joe Biden will argue in a speech in Poland on Saturday that the "free world" opposes Russia's invasion of Ukraine and that there is unity among major economies on the need to stop Russian President Vladimir Putin, the White House said.
Ukraine's new Agriculture Minister Mykola Solskyi on Saturday said Ukraine's ability to export grains was getting worse by the day and would only improve if the war with Russia ends.
Biden's speech will be "historic because he will be giving his definition of the free world", noted FRANCE 24 correspondent Emmanuelle Chaze from Warsaw in the video below.
Biden referred to Putin as a "butcher" during a visit to NATO ally Poland and said he was not sure Russia was changing its strategy in Ukraine, despite getting bogged down in some areas.
The mayor of Ukraine's capital Kyiv on Saturday cancelled a curfew he had announced just hours earlier for the next day without providing further explanation.
Lviv, some 60 kilometres 40 miles from the Polish border, has so far escaped the bombardment and fighting that has devastated some Ukrainian cities closer to Russia since Moscow launched its invasion.
Later, Mayor Andriy Sadoviy said there had been another strike. "One more rocket strike on Lviv," he said in an online post.
"The residents all around were staring at this huge plume of black smoke rising from the city, coming from the northeastern," FRANCE 24's Catherine Norris-Trent reported from Lviv in the video below.
"For God's sake, this man cannot remain in power," Biden told a crowd in Warsaw. Biden also said the Russia-Ukraine war, now in its second month, had united the West, adding that NATO was a defensive alliance which never sought Russia's demise.
Polish President Andrzej Duda said that during his meeting with Joe Biden in Warsaw he had asked about the possibility of speeding up military purchases.
"Clearly, what we said is that we are totally committed to apply all the sanctions," he said. "So the question for us is what do we do with existing assets. And these ones we are not ready to give for zero to Russian people, to Russian oligarchs or to Russia."
The mayor of Lviv said another rocket had hit the city in western Ukraine on Saturday, not long after two rockets struck its outskirts and wounded at least five in what appeared to be the first attacks within the city's limits since the start of the war with Russia. Follow our live blog for the latest developments. All times in Paris time GMT1.
Defence Minister Halusi Akar described the object, first discovered by fishermen in the upper Bosphorus strait, as an old type of mine and said he was in touch with both Russian and Ukrainian authorities about it.
At least five people were wounded Saturday in two strikes on the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, the regional governor said, in a rare attack on a city that has escaped serious fighting since Russian troops invaded last month.
"Let there be no doubt that this war has already been a strategic failure for Russia," Biden said in a speech at the Royal Castle in Warsaw.
Russian President Vladimir Putin could not remain in power, and his war against Ukraine has been a strategic failure for Moscow, Biden said on Saturday.
"Our guys are going to fulfil their military duty with a proudly raised banner," the leader of South Ossetia, Anatoly Bibilov, said on Telegram.
"We want to show that the Russians who live here are against Putin, against the war, that they support Ukraine," added the artist and activist, who has lived in Prague for ten years.
Biden portrayed Ukraine's resistance against Russian forces as part of a "great battle for freedom" and said the world should prepare for a "long fight ahead".
"New information from the military command: the Kyiv curfew will not enter into force tomorrow," mayor Vitali Klitschko announced on Telegram. The usual overnight curfew from 8:00 pm 1800 GMT to 07:00 am 0500 GMT would hold but people would "be able to freely move around Kyiv on Sunday during the day", he added.
Thousands of largely Russian protesters rallied against President Vladimir Putin in central Prague on Saturday, calling on him to stop the war in Ukraine.
"I ask you to increase the output of energy to ensure that everyone in Russia understands that no one can use energy as a weapon to blackmail the world," Zelensky said in a video message to the Doha Forum meeting in Qatar's capital.
A fresh curfew will be imposed on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv from Saturday evening until Monday Sunday, Mayor Vitali Klitschko announced.
Russia said Saturday it did not plan to call up reservists as Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine entered its 31st day, denouncing what it claimed were "false" summons to Russian men by Kyiv's security services.
Totalenergies CEO Patrick Pouyanne said on Saturday the company would not many any new investments in Russia.
Of the total, 64 children have been killed in the Kyiv region, the office said. A further 50 children have died in the Donetsk region, it said.
Ukraine's Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said on Saturday that he and Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba had held a joint meeting with their US counterparts for the first time.
"We did receive additional promises from the United States on how our defence cooperation will evolve," Kuleba told reporters.
Ukraine received additional security pledges from the United States on developing defence cooperation, its Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Saturday.
Poland is taking a "significant" responsibility in the humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, Joe Biden said during a visit to Warsaw on Saturday, adding that the world should help lessen the burden.
Around 5,000 people, according to the organisers, chanted "Russia without Putin", "Freedom for Russia, peace for Ukraine" and "Putin is not Russia" as they marched through Prague's historic centre.
US President Joe Biden will meet with Poland's President Andrzej Duda and refugees from Ukraine during his visit to Warsaw on March 26, 2022. FRANCE 24's Emmanuelle Chaze reports.
However, he continued, Russia was "hedging its bets from the beginning it's very similar to what they did in Syria" where they were "always very cautious about making blanket statements about Assad recapturing the entire country".
"The Czech Republic is home to 40,000 Russians and up to now these Russians have been unknown to the Czechs," organiser Anton Litvin told AFP.
Asked about Biden's comment, spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Reuters: "That's not for Biden to decide. The president of Russia is elected by Russians." A White House official said Biden, who was speaking in Warsaw, had not been calling for regime change in Russia.
Biden also told his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda he views NATO's Article 5 guarantee of mutual defence between member-states as a "sacred" commitment.
"If Russian oligarchs ... or any Russian citizens want to visit Turkey of course they can," Cavusoglu said in response to a question at the Doha Forum international conference.
Three explosions were heard near Ukraine's western city of Lviv on Saturday, an official from the Lviv city council said.
In what US officials were billing as a major address, Biden "will deliver remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, hold Russia accountable for its brutal war, and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principles," the White House said in a statement.
Earlier, Kyiv announced that Russian troops had entered Slavutych and occupied the municipal hospital. Some 25,000 people live in the town 160 kilometres 99 miles north of the capital, built after the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident.
The war in Ukraine has killed 136 children in the 31 days since the start of the Russian invasion, Ukraine's office of the prosecutor general said on Saturday in a message on the Telegram app.
"There have been three powerful explosions near Lviv...Everyone should keep calm and stay indoors," Igor Zinkevych said in a post on Facebook.
Biden called his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin a "butcher" while meeting Ukrainian refugees in Warsaw.
Biden could be seen seated at a long white table between Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, facing Kuleba and Reznikov. There were Ukrainian and US flags in the background.
In an online statement, Pavlyuk said Russian troops had occupied the hospital in Slavutych and kidnapped the mayor.
The US has a "sacred commitment" to the NATO military alliance's collective defence, Biden told his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda on Saturday during a visit to Warsaw.
"You can count on that... For your freedom and ours," he told Duda, who said that Poles were feeling a "great sense of threat" as a result of the conflict across the border in Ukraine.
Turkey's military deactivated a mine on Saturday that had drifted in from the Black Sea, setting off a loud explosion north of Istanbul, days after Russia warned several of them had washed away from Ukrainian ports.
Reuters witnesses saw heavy black smoke rising from the north-east side of the city. The cause could not be immediately verified.
After three days of emergency meetings with allies of the G7, European Council and NATO, and a visit with US troops in Poland, Biden will meet with Polish President Andrzej Duda.
Duda said he was referring to purchases of Patriot missile systems, High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS, F-35 aircraft and Abrams tanks.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday called on Qatar to increase production of natural gas to counter Russian threats to use energy as a weapon.
9:51 am: Ukraine says more than 130 children have been killed since Russia's invasion began
"It was undeniable that the Kremlin's main objective was to - as they put it - 'demilitarise' and 'de-Nazify' Ukraine, and that implied a blitzkreig seizure of Kyiv, probably within the space of a week, overthrowing Zelensky and replacing him with a pro-Kremlin puppet," Samuel Ramani, an associate fellow at RUSI, told FRANCE 24 in the video below.
In a dawn report, the army's general staff said it had "inflicted significant losses", claiming to have shot down three planes, destroyed eight tanks and killed dozens of soldiers.
Biden said he was not sure that Russia had changed its strategy in its invasion of Ukraine, after Moscow said its focus was now to completely "liberate" the breakaway eastern Donbas region.
"There were two missile strikes within Lviv," the regional governor Maksym Kozytsky said, adding that, "According to preliminary data, five people were injured." Plumes of thick smoke could be seen by AFP journalists in the city centre.
Georgia's breakaway region of South Ossetia has sent troops to Ukraine to "help protect Russia", its leader said on Saturday, as Moscow's military campaign in the neighbouring country entered its 31st day.
But on Saturday Governor Maksym Kozytskyy said two rockets had struck the city's eastern outskirts in the mid-afternoon and ordered residents to take shelter.
Biden is speaking in Warsaw's Historic Castlr Square, recalling the memory of John Paul II, the Polish former pope and an icon of freedom in Eastern Europe due to his opposition to Soviet-backed communism.
Russian oligarchs are welcome in Turkey but must abide by international law in order to do any business, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said.
Joe Biden met in Warsaw with two Ukrainian ministers in the first face-to-face talks between the US president and top Kyiv officials since Russia's invasion began. Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov made a rare trip out of Ukraine in a possible sign of growing confidence in the fightback against Russian forces.
Ukraine's army said Saturday it had clashed with Russian forces around the cities of Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region.
The arrival of refugees from Ukraine has swelled Warsaw's population by 15 percent in one month. FRANCE 24's Emmanuelle Chaze reports from Poland's capital.
The Kremlin's chief spokesman dismissed Biden's remark that Vladimir Putin "cannot remain in power," saying Russians choose who their leader should be.
Russian forces have taken control of the town of Slavutych, where workers at the defunct Chernobyl nuclear plant live, the governor of the Kyiv region Oleksandr Pavlyuk said on Saturday.
Speaking in a televised briefing, Solskyi said Ukraine, one of the world's top grain producers, would normally be exporting 4-5 million tonnes of grain per month - a volume that has fallen to just a few hundred-thousand tonnes.
"We discuss current issues  cooperation in political and defense directions between Ukraine and the United States," Reznikov said on Twitter, posting a photograph of the meeting in Warsaw with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin.
Speaking at Warsaw's Royal Castle in Warsaw, Biden also said Russia "has strangled democracy and sought to do so elsewhere" and told Ukraine: "We stand with you. Period."
Biden's focus in Poland is on the "need for NATO in Europe", FRANCE 24 International Affairs Commentator Douglas Herbert said in the video below. "We're at an inflection point in the world right now. What's happening in Ukraine will really decide the direction in the battle, as Biden sees it, between democracies and autocracies."
