Live Macron Germanys Scholz and Italys Draghi en route to Kyiv
20220616
https://www.bignewsnetwork.com/news/272587814/live-macron-germanys-scholz-and-italys-draghi-en-route-to-kyiv
"If you ask me how many... I don't know, but it will be pretty big numbers."
Reports that the two men have been taken prisoners of war by Russia are unconfirmed, the families and a US State Department spokesperson said.
The three leaders left in the morning, according an AFP video, which showed the trio sitting together in a train compartment.
"The United States announced new strengthening of our defence, a new $1 billion support package," Zelensky said. "I am grateful for this support, it is especially important for our defence in Donbas."
The leaders of France, Germany and Italy are expected to visit Kyiv on Thursday, a day after the United States announced $1 billion worth of new arms for embattled Ukrainian forces. Kyiv's troops are resisting a fierce onslaught in the Donbas region by Russian forces, which are pushing to seize a swathe of eastern and southern Ukraine.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi left Poland Thursday on board a train bound for Kyiv, an AFP reporter said.
Alexander Drueke, 39, of Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Andy Huynh, 27, of Hartselle, Alabama, were last in contact with their families on June 8 and did not return from a mission around the Kharkiv region of eastern Ukraine.
Efforts to address the global food insecurity crisis, which has been dramatically aggravated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, is "of paramount importance... to prevent a larger number of people moving," the United Nations refugee chief Filippo Grandi told reporters.
Ukrainian officials have been saying they urgently need more weapons to fend off Russian advances in the south and the east, an appeal aimed at the West as French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi travel to Kyiv on Thursday. FRANCE 24's Catherine Norris Trent reports from Ukraine's capital.
Russia's war in Ukraine has pushed global displacement numbers above 100 million for the first time, and the UN warns the resulting hunger crisis could force many more to flee their homes.
"We do not have confirmation for anything beyond that. Obviously the longer the search goes the more we start to consider other scenarios," she added.
Russia and the United States must discuss the extension of the START nuclear arms reduction treaty, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the RIA news agency in an interview on Thursday.
The newest US arms package features 18 more 155mm howitzers and 36,000 rounds of ammunition two land-based Harpoon anti-ship missile systems and additional rockets for four Himars precision rocket artillery systems that Ukraine is soon to put in the field.
White House national security spokesperson John Kirby said that if the reports are true, the United States "will do everything we can" to get them back.
In a show of support, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi are expected in Kyiv. While there has been no official announcement about the trip, Macron is already in the region, having visited Ukraine's neighbours Romania and Moldova in recent days.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Wednesday that he was "grateful" for the latest $1 billion arms package promised by US President Joe Biden, even as troops showed off freshly delivered French artillery on the battlefield in the fierce fight for the eastern Donbas region.
Two US citizens who traveled to Ukraine as volunteer fighters against Russian forces have been missing for a week and are feared captured, family members said on Wednesday.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi left Poland on a Kyiv-bound train Thursday morning, AFP reports, and are due to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Ukrainian troops Wednesday showed off freshly delivered French artillery being used against Russian targets on the front lines in the eastern Donbas region. Follow FRANCE 24's liveblog for the latest updates. All times are in Paris time GMT2.
Zelensky said later in his evening address to the people of Ukraine that he was grateful for the package.
They are due to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, and the visit comes as Kyiv is pushing for membership in the EU.
"What we know officially at this point from the State Department is that Andy and Alex are missing," Joy Black, Andy's fiancee, said by phone.
Russian forces continued to pressure Kyiv's troops in Donbas, but Ukrainian forces pushed back, shelling Russian targets in Donbas with newly arrived French Caesar howitzers.
The matter was important for global security and Russia's military operation in Ukraine was no reason to avoid its discussion, Peskov added.
Ukrainian officials also met in Brussels Wednesday with Western allies, hoping to obtain more ammunition and more lethal weapons to turn the tables on the invaders.
If the pair have been captured, they would be the first confirmed US citizens to have been taken as prisoners of war in the conflict.
It is the first time that the leaders of the three European Union countries have visited Kyiv since Russia's February 24 invasion of Ukraine.
