Putin Holds Annual Press Conference As Tensions Over Ukraine Soar
20211223
https://www.bignewsnetwork.com/news/272007951/putin-holds-annual-press-conference-as-tensions-over-ukraine-soar
Because of pandemic restrictions, journalists were being required to submit three negative PCR tests in order to enter the hall. Organizers also set up "disinfection tunnels" -- a unproven technology that sprays individuals with a disinfectant as they walk through.
For many observers, the question of Russia's intentions with Ukraine, and its goals with NATO, will be of paramount importance.
The December 23 conference is one of three carefully orchestrated, nationally televised public events that Putin holds almost every year, as part of an effort to showcase his dominance of Russia's political life.
Russian President Vladimir Putin is holding his annual news conference amid a massive deployment of Russian forces near the border with Ukraine and a list of ultimatum demands that the Kremlin has presented to NATO, demands that would drastically rewrite the security guarantees for Europe.
Putin has said he does not want a war but has been adamant that, if new fighting breaks out, it will be the fault of Kyiv and the West.
The new military buildup has become the backdrop for Putin's push for the United States and NATO to give Russia sweeping 'security guarantees' that would drastically alter the post-Cold War order in Europe.
In recent weeks, the United States, NATO, and Kyiv have raised the alarm over around 100,000 Russian troops deployed near the border with Ukraine and in the Russian-occupied Crimea peninsula.
In past years, press conferences have gone more than three hours the longest was last year, at 4 12 hours.
U.S. officials say Moscow is planning for a possible military offensive that, if it happens, could come within weeks.
More than 13,200 people have been killed in fighting in parts of eastern Ukraine between Kyiv and Russia-backed fighters since early 2014.
The Kremlin and the U.S. administration have said they plan to hold bilateral talks next month on the security issues.
The demands, released publicly on December 17, call for prohibiting NATO from expanding further to the east and leaving Ukraine and several other countries as buffer states with limited sovereignty when it comes to military affairs.
Domestically, the Russian government in 2020 designated dozens of organizations and individuals as "foreign agents," subjecting them to restrictions and criminal liability. International and domestic critics have accused the Kremlin of using its so-called "foreign agent" laws to stifle dissent and persecute political opponents.
