Russias troops withdrawing and risk being attacked by Ukraine forces  Radakin
20220331
https://www.thewestmorlandgazette.co.uk/news/national/20035905.russias-troops-withdrawing-risk-attacked-ukraine-forces---radakin/
And, conversely, Nato is stronger and more united today than at any time I can remember.
The comments echoed what the head of the GCHQ intelligence agency, Sir Jeremy Fleming, had said in a rare public speech, in which he stated that Mr Putin had overestimated the abilities of his military to secure a rapid victory.
That in itself is a difficult evolution for Russia because they are doing that under contact, so Ukraine armed forces will attack those Russian forces as they retreat.
A source said: I dont think we are seeing any signs at the moment that there is a really serious attempt at finding compromise, Im pretty cautious about the negotiations.
The MoD said that while the city centre of Mariupol, the besieged southern port which has been a key target for Moscows forces, remains under Ukrainian control, it is coming under fierce attack.
We are starting to see the early indications of those forces being moved back from Kyiv and retreating to both Russia and Belarus.
And it looks now that less emphasis is being placed on Kyiv and more emphasis is being placed on the east and the south.
The Prime Ministers official spokesman said there appears to be evidence of war crimes but it was not for Britain to rule on that.
Along with the military commander, the UK sanctioned a range of Russian media outlets and presenters blamed for spreading the Kremlins propaganda.
During his opening remarks on Thursday, British military chief Sir Tony said the coming weeks would continue to be very difficult for Ukraine before adding: But in many ways, Putin has already lost.
Colonel-general Mikhail Mizintsev, dubbed the butcher of Mariupol, is the chief of Russias national defence command and control centre, where all military operations are planned.
Sir Jeremy, speaking in Australia, said: Weve seen Russian soldiers  short of weapons and morale  refusing to carry out orders, sabotaging their own equipment, and even accidentally shooting down their own aircraft.
Meanwhile, the UK has sanctioned a Russian commander believed to be responsible for the bombardment of Mariupol, with Downing Street suggesting the devastation caused to the city appeared to be a war crime.
The department predicted heavy fighting would continue to take place in the Kyiv suburbs in the coming days.
You have to set the negotiations against the absolutely brutal assault that is continuing against Ukrainian cities.
And even though we believe Putins advisers are afraid to tell him the truth, whats going on and the extent of these misjudgments must be crystal clear to the regime.
Sir Tonys comments come after the Ministry of Defence MoD, in its latest intelligence assessment, said significant Russian shelling and missile strikes had continued around Chernihiv  which lies between Kyiv and Belarus  despite the Kremlin stating it would de-escalate fighting in the area.
Russias bid to take all of Ukraine during its invasion looks to have fallen apart as Vladimir Putins troops retreat away from Kyiv, the head of Britains armed forces has said.
He branded it insane and morally bankrupt that Russian officers, according to Western intelligence, had led troops into battle without informing them that an invasion had been ordered.
The Kremlins plans havent gone well and that the way senior commanders had prosecuted the invasion looks to us like it has been very poorly conducted, Sir Tony added.
Far from being the far-sighted manipulator of events that he would have us believe, Putin has damaged himself through a series of catastrophic misjudgments.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
In a speech and follow-on question-and-answer session at an Institute for Government IfG event, the Chief of the Defence Staff said Mr Putin was a weaker and more diminished figure today than he was before the invasion started on February 24.
He added: Like all authoritarians, he allowed himself to be misled as to his own strength, including the effectiveness of the Russian armed forces.
He announced that the UK was incredibly cautious about believing Russian claims of ground troops withdrawing from Kyiv but said there did appear to be signs the Kremlin was preparing to focus its efforts on the east and south of Ukraine.
Sir Tony, who replaced General Sir Nick Carter in the top job late last year, would not say whether he believed the Russian armed forces was in mutiny.
The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine  31 March 2022
Sir Tony said: I think we are seeing that Russias ambitions to take Kyiv and Russias ambitions to take the whole of Ukraine, and do that in a very swift and impressive fashion, those ambitions have fallen apart.
Admiral Sir Tony Radakin said the Russian president had been misled about the effectiveness of his countrys armed forces, with early indications suggesting Moscow was withdrawing troops  a move that has opened them up to counter attacks by Ukrainian defenders.
He said it would include armoured vehicles and artillery ammunition to counter the bombardment of Ukrainian cities by Russian artillery.
Talks between Ukraine and Russia are set to resume on Friday via video, according to the head of the Ukrainian delegation, David Arakhamia.
What is very clear is that Putin is a weaker and more diminished figure today than he was a month ago.
Following a conference call with defence ministers from more than 35 nations, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said they had agreed to step up the supply of military equipment to Ukraine.
