Ukraine update Russian army has reportedly begun to withdraw from Kharkiv area across the border
20220511
https://www.dailykos.com:443/stories/2022/5/10/2097247/-Ukraine-update-Russian-army-has-reportedly-begun-to-withdraw-from-Kharkiv-area-across-the-border%20class=
Not only does this side by side from warmapper give you a thumbnail view of progress north of Kharkiv, the dots he has here for towns and villages gives a good sense of just how many different locations have been liberated in this brief period of high activity. I usually take recaptured towns from past days off the map, leaving just those sites around the front line,to make each days actions more legible, but its nice to see them all here.
A note of caution. As of 9ET, OSINT was still saying they did not have clear evidence of the Ukrainian forces at Ternova. However, that news is being reported by a number of so-far reputable sources including reporters on the ground in Ukraine. Please keep this in mind.
Assuming Ukrainian forces have taken the areas as described, it isnt the first time that Ukraine has reached the Russian border, of course. Ukraine already controlled the Russian border region all the way from just east of Chernahiv in the north down to just outside Kozacha Lopan north of Kharkiv. But theres no doubt that any action at Ternova is making Russia gulp. Not only does it place Ukrainian forces at the border in a location very close to critical Russian supply lines, Ukraine has twice in the last few days demonstrated the ability to move quickly, surprise Russian troops, and capture a large chunk of territory in an unexpected direction.
Perhaps the best thing about Ukrainian forces unexpectedly moving to recaptureTernova is that it puts us right back into the position we were in this morning we have no idea what Ukrainian forces in this area are going to do next. Neither does Russia.
5. We have not observed open-source evidence to support reports that Ukrainian forces recaptured Borshchova , Slobozhanske , Lyptsi , or Ternova . We will update our maps if  when we can verify this information. We're looking hard. pic.twitter.com2mhzB8YGgV
In another massive and unexpected move, Ukrainian forces have reportedly cut a path 18km northwest of Staryi Saltiv and recaptured the town of Ternova along with the surrounding territory. If true, this means that Russian-occupied territory within Ukraine is no longer contiguous, but has been split on the north end.
Elsewhere, they report on Russia capturingVelyka Komyshuvakha west of Izyum, a process thats been underway for the last few days. Outside of that small change, the message in other locations is the same: Russia attacked, but Ukrainian troops successfully repelled the attacks. That also seems to be true in the area of Popasna, where Russia has not yet been able to exploit Ukrainian forces departing from the heavily damaged town.
Looking at the FIRMS data, there has been some active shelling over the last two days at two small towns SE of Mykolaiv, but not the kind of activity there you might expect with reports of heavy fighting.
For days, its seemed every story about activity in Kharkiv has included the phrase and we dont actually know whats happening on the west bank of theSiverskyi Donets River. After racing up the river to surprise everyone by grabbing Staryi Saltiv, Ukrainian forces then began shelling the area surrounding the bridge near Rubiznhe. When that bridge was blown, shells began falling farther north near Starytsya. But did that mean Ukrainian forces were racing up the river?Were they moving forces out of the area after failing to capture an intact bridge?
A static comparison of territorial control North of Kharkiv over the last 2 weeks.27th April left -- 11th May right pic.twitter.comBTNJpTkZNz
Unconfirmed but solid reports that Ukrainian troops have reached the Russian border to the North-East of Kharkiv near the town of Ternova. Today the UAF General Staff announced that Russian troops have withdrawn across the border. This unconfirmed news makes that seem more likely pic.twitter.comUNt0aWChQi
In addition, Ukraine reportedly took villages likeSlobozhanske and Pytomynk, tightening down the space still occupied by Russian forces.There is still fighting just outside ofLyptsi, and whether Russia still controls Petrivka who knows? Theres a good chance that if Russian forces are still there, it wont stay that way for long.
Other outlets are describing the news about Ternova as solid but also unconfirmed and you should continue to take it that way until there is video,official confirmation from the Ukrainian government, or a statement from U.S. intelligence.
1 Ukrainian TVD, Day 73-76. The past 100 hours has seen the Ukrainian military expand on the initial success of its limited counteroffensive around Kharkiv. Russias offensive along the Siverskyi Donets Line has generally stalled, with limited successes in Popasna. UkraineWar pic.twitter.com1kdukplYH0
The 76th day of Russian Invasion - summary of situation on all frontlines, including detailed maps. Available on https:t.coldGzFxRJNw Ukraine UkraineInvasion UkraineRussiaWar maps
Caution for anyone looking at the FIRMS data in this area: There are a number of extreme hotspots south and southwest of Kherson, but these are not artillery fire. They are forest fires which Russia has blocked anyone from addressing.
MilitaryLand.net is out with their daily summary. However, they put this together before the news about Ternova was firmed up. So, while they still report considerable activity north of Kharkiv, its not quite as exciting as it could be. That said, their report does include this sweet line: The Russian army has reportedly begun to withdraw from the Kharkiv area across the border back to Russia.
As in almost every case when it comes to Ukraine, Im basing these updates off sources that have been reliable as well as a great deal of chatter on Twitter and Telegram.
U.S Defense and Intelligence Officials have stated that over the last 72 hours they have begun to see Extremely Heavy Fighting in Southern Ukraine between the Cities of Kherson and Mykolaiv as Russian and Ukrainian Forces both try to advance in the Region. pic.twitter.comQWsH569Z2M
