Ukraine update Russia asks for green corridor to evacuate encircled troops north of Kherson
20220723
https://www.dailykos.com:443/stories/2022/7/23/2111993/-Ukraine-update-Russia-asks-for-green-corridor-to-evacuate-encircled-troops-north-of-Kherson
Pro-Russian sites are eager to see their new superweapon in action. On the other hand, several Ukrainian commentators are also excited. After all, destroying the first T-14 ever to enter battle with a Javelinwould be a story-to-tell-the-grandchildren.
I have been joking before that it wont take long until Russia pulls out T-34 to fight in Ukraine. Now look what we have here in Lysychansk. This Russian WW2 fetish reached unhealthy levels. Ukraine  pic.twitter.comA0gvVyn2Ln
According to that official, Russia has still not figured out how to make effective use of combined arms. But then, thats not a huge surprise considering kos discussion of the lack of training given to Russian soldiers. Putin has been tossing undertrained infantry and ancient equipment into a meat grinder and telling them the only way out is to advance. That worked as long as the number of troops and the number of artillery shells was great enough to overmatch the Ukrainian forces standing in their way. That no longer seems to be true.
Again, Ukraine seems to be moving, step by step, to isolate Russian forces in Kherson oblast.
Lets see. New weapons are coming by the land. Check. And air. Check. And sea. Double check. The U.S. alsomade clear on Friday that it is considering providing U.S. fighter jets to Ukraine, with reports that some Ukrainian pilots are already training in F-16s and other reports that the U.S. is considering sending along the scary, scary A-10.
   ...       .      pic.twitter.comer1lSZDjLQ
Indications are that the best interpretation for the most is that both towns are almost cut off. There remains a Russian presence in the towns. In fact, its a sizable presence, as Vysokopillya has been an important staging location andadepot for both supplies in addition to a command center. It appears thatwhat remains of three BTGs is still split between the towns.There are more Russian forces just over the line in that area of Russian occupation. Ukraine is trying to sever the last lifelines into those Russian occupied locations and take all the ground around them, but as of the end of daylight on Friday in Ukraine, they didnt seem to have quite accomplished this.
This is actually along the main highway running north out of Kherson. Taking out this bridge separates the city from the bridge at Nova Kakhovka, making it more difficult for Russian troops to move between the two bridges or to escape.
Note the location on this bridge. Even though its over the Inhulets River, its not to the west near Davydiv Brid or along that part of the front.
On the other hand Russia, which has already tossed 85 of its military into Ukraine, might want to think about who is sharpening knives out there along their 35,910 miles of border.
And the U.K. is actually training new sailors and providing new ships for the Ukrainian Navy.
It shouldnt take long before this is tested. On Friday evening, Russia hit Odesa with a missile. It might as well have carried a note saying we cant be trusted.
There are, naturally enough, concerns that the deal is some kind of setup by Putin. If the agreement holds, it will help remedy an already growing shorting and price increases due to Ukrainian grain being off the market or stolen by Russia. But there are concerns that Russia will play games, either by holding ships for extended periods during inspections, or by halting ships with claims that war materials are on board. Either action could make it impossible to find ships willing to visit the ports, and so slow transport that the agreement holds little value.
Its been some time since we checked in at Oryx to see Russias verified losses in this war. Thats not because the rate of loss slowed down, but mostly because fighting in the east has left a lot of wreckage in places where its tough to document, resulting in an ever-increasing disparity between what Russia has actually lost and what has been captured on video.
However, even if Ukrainian forces dont seem to have occupied all the ground that would technically make this an encirclement, that seems to be all it is a technicality because Russia clearly can no longer get new troops or supplies into those areas. Even more critically, as Ukrainian forces press in, Russia cant get out.
Kherson locals report that one of the big Russian checkpoints was empty today.  Checkpoint at the exit through the Antonovsky bridge.Kherson Ukraine pic.twitter.comV2uD8VvIBf
For all intents, the encirclement is effective. This is clear, because Russia has had the audacity to ask for a green corridor for surrounded troops. The same kind of corridor it refused to open so many times for trapped civilians. The same kind of corridor Russia has offered, then used as a convenient means of attack.
Another day, another Kherson map. And if this one looks as if little has changed, thats genuinely the case. However, there is definitely something underway that demands attention.
Above all else, Russia continues to have logistic problems that are limiting their ability to resupply, reequip, and reinforce front line units. A second wind is always possible, but it certainly appears unlikely. Right now Russia seems to have extended itself to the limit of its strength. Its not fighting to advance so much as it is to hang on.
While most of the action recently has been at the southern end of the map, attention on Friday turned to the north. First, that Ukrainian bridgehead across the Inhulets River south of Davydiv Brid is not only still there, it appears to be in control of more villages than previously acknowledge. Reportedly, the area of Ukrainian control is expanding, but whether thats true and how far it has gone wont be clear until some additional towns or villages report in as liberated.
After weeks of negotiation, Ukraine, Russia, Turkey, and the UN signed an agreement on Friday allowing Ukrainian grain to be exported from a trio of ports near Odesa. Or actually they didnt.
However you define encirclement, whats happening inVysokopillya looks like a hugeloss for Russia. This is Ukraine taking a significant target, against significant opposition, in an area where Russia has been dug in for months. Russia has even transported pillbox structures toVysokopillya to provide hardened firing points.
Stay turned for updates. If Ukraine is able to takeVysokopillya, especially if they capture a large number of Russian forces in the process, its going to be a big deal.
But it seems worth mentioning that at this point photographically verified data shows Russia has lost over 4,750 vehicles. That includes873 tanks.Those tanks now range from a T-62manufactured somewhere in the mid 1960s, to a pair of T-90M tanks that were manufactured after 2016.
If you dont trust U.S. intelligence which could be true for a number of reasons, including some connected to the founding of this site, then how about Canadian intelligenceor U.K. intelligence, both of whom agree Russia is running out of steam.
At the northwestern tip of the area under Russian control, the town ofVysokopillya has been an area of conflict for weeks. This town is reportedly home to a Russian command HQ, and it has served as the launching point for past attacks onKryvyi Rih to the north. Some reports on Friday indicated that Russian forces inVysokopillya had been completely cut off by Ukrainian forces pinching in from both sides to block their line of reinforcement or retreat. A similar claim has been made about the nearby town ofArkhanhel's'ke.
My conclusion regarding the Vysokopillya situation isI might have to redefine my definition of encirclement, for me it has been completely surrounding the enemy. No matter which words used to describe the RuAF situation, the seem to be knee deep in shit.
Under the agreement, only ships carrying fertilizer or grain can access the port, and Russia promises not to stop or damage these ships as they leave the protection of missile batteries on shore. Russia is also not supposed to follow or harass the ships in route. All commercial ships originating in Odesa will be halted for inspection before entering the Bosporus, with Russian, Ukrainian, and Turkish inspectors going on board. That probably means a Russian and Turkish inspector going on at one time, and a Ukrainian and Turkish inspector going on at another.
Western weapons supplies are beginning to have an effect in Donbas, Zelensky says. Ukrainian fatalities down to 30 a day from 100-200. Ukraine used to be able to fire 1,000-2,000 shells to Russias 12,000 daily. Now it can fire 6,000 as Russia experiences shortages. https:t.colmC9V1FSIV
As kos has pointed out, its been two weeks since Russia has notched a territorial gain worth noting. Theyre no longer grinding out the kind of slow advance under a screen of artillery theyve managed over the last five months. Russia still seems to be continuing the reconnaissance by fire tactic of sending out fragmentary BTGs in hopes of hitting a weak point, but these are being routinely repulsed.
This particular T-34 doesnt really seem to be aWorld War II veteran. It looks more like early an Korean War version. Thoroughly modern!
Back in early May, I wrote an update on Ukraine in which I insisted that that the tide had turned and that Ukraine was about to do big things in Kherson and Kharkiv. Which, yeah, that didnt exactly pan out. Though to be fair, at the time Russia still occupied some areas right outside of Kharkiv, and Ukraine was just beginning the move that would net Staryi Saltiv and drive Russian forces back to the border in some areas, so it wasnt completely wrong.
BREAKING: Poland has donated another large batch of BMP-1 Infantry Fighting Vehicles to the Ukrainian Army.  pic.twitter.comH6vNts44w0
Blinken- The United States strongly condemns the Russian missile attack on the Ukrainian port of Odesa today the attack casts serious doubt on the credibility of Russias commitment to yesterdays deal pic.twitter.comN8EQlbzMKp
Biden has signed a new $270 million military aid package for Ukraine, media reports citing White House spokesman John Kirby.The package includes 5 more HIMARS and 580 Phoenix Ghost drones.
This is a Russian convoy traveling over the bridge near Nova Kakhovka. They are going east. Out of Kherson oblast.
Ukraine signed a grain agreement with Turkey and the UN. Russia signed a grain agreement with Turkey and the UN. And when you put the two together, they are both halves of a reasonable solution, made without ever having a Ukrainian and Russian negotiator sign the same piece of paper.
However, this time Im on a little more solid footing in saying that the war as a whole is pivoting. As in, this is a position apparently supported by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The U.S. is sending more of the recently sainted HIMARS and a ston of the mysterious Phoenix Ghost drones.
The regular spacing of those impact craters is fun. Its like Ukraine is drawing an underline under the precision of the HIMARS.
This is not the only report of Russian positions in Kherson being abandoned. In both the city and in surrounding villages, long-held Russian checkpoints are reportedly suddenly empty.
Maybe Russia is playing  is there a Russian equivalent of possum? Otherwiseit certainly appears as though they have punched themselves out. And when it comes to bringing in more forces from elsewhere, forget about it. Theres long been an assumption that what Russia has invested in Ukraine is a significant portion of their military. Its only recently that its become evidence just how significant.
Still, thats not quite everything Russia has made in the last sixty years. There is also the brand new T-14 Armata whose appearance has been so far limited to Moscow parades. In the last few days, there are rumors that Russia is thinking of sending one ormore of its half dozen or so T-14s to Ukraine, maybe to give people something to talk about other than trainloads of rusty Cold War rejects.
NEW from Senior U.S. Defense Official on the war in Ukraine:Russia has committed nearly 85 of its military to the war in Ukraine It has removed military coverage from other areas on their border and around the world.
This is reportedly a Russian base inChulakivka, on that peninsula of land that juts back southwest beneath Kherson, being taken out. According to the tweet it is no longer there.
Ukraine refuses the enemy's request for a green corridor for thousands of soldiers to exit Kherson region.  Ukraine demands their surrender of troops and equipment otherwise they will be eradicated. https:t.coKhOMb0aX3I
Ukrainian sailors are being trained onboard a Royal Navy Sandown Class Minehunter off the coast of Scotland. Image via BrianD2016https:t.coO99uB4n2cn
