Ukraine update Anatomy of a Ukrainian ambush and what it says about Russias battlefield prowess
20220314
https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2022/3/14/2085715/-Ukraine-update-Anatomy-of-a-Ukrainian-ambush-and-what-it-says-about-Russia-s-battlefield-prowess%20class=
b. Soldiers not in the kill zone locate and place suppressive fire on the enemy, take up covered positions and shift fire as the assault begins.
The latest arms package, which officials say includes Javelin antitank missiles and Stinger antiaircraft missiles, follows a $350 million arms package that the Biden administration approved last month. Altogether, the administration has authorized $1.2 billion in weapons for Ukraine in the past year, officials said.
The video opens up with a convoy of Russian vehicles coming down a four-lane boulevard in a remote region. Ukrainian forces are hidden behind a tree line. They allow a few vehicles to pass, before twoanti-tank rockets fire. One has no reaction, maybe hit the tree line, or was a dud. The other,likely a British NLAW,hits a tank, which has its top blown off, but continuous rolling decapitated down the road.
c. The unit moves out of the kill zone, forces the enemy to withdraw, or destroys the ambush.
In this case, with no initial suppressive fire from the convoy, the ambushers were leftunchallenged, easily shooting those Russian in the back as they ran away panicked. Most vehicles turned away, exposing their weaker flanks lucky for them, there werent enough ambushers to cause even more damage.Tactics and training matter, and Russia clearly has neither, to disastrous consequences.
The United States lost a total 7,075troops in Iraq and Afghanistan combined, inover 20 years. Russia has already lost at least that much in less than three weeks. In those 20 years, American forces were so effective at repelling ambushes, that the enemy resorted to roadside IEDs and suicide bombers to inflict casualties. Yet no Russian general thought it helpful to study that filmand adopt those tactics? Sure confirms analysis stating that Russia keeps its general stupid in order to prevent any real challenge to Vladimir Putins power. Clearly,its working, Just not for Russia or the hapless souls trapped in its army.
In other words, China said no. And we knowthe last part if just a lie.
The White House has approved an additional $200 million in arms and equipment for Ukraine, administration officials said on Saturday, responding to urgent requests from President Volodymyr Zelenskyfor more aid to stave off the Russian invasion.
The Posts visual analysis verified nine incidents, including the strike in Mariupol, where hospitals faced direct damage as a result of a reported Russian attack. There were fatalities in at least three of the incidents verified by The Post, according to officials.Three of the facilities specifically served women or children.
So what would you do if trapped in a similarambush? Maybe you think its perfectly reasonable to run the hell away from the kill zone as fast as your legs can take you. Its human natureto run away from danger, after all.But as counterintuitive as it may sound, the best chance to survive an ambush is to attack it. This is how the US Army teaches it:
Immediately, convoy vehicles disperse at 0:13. Most turn tail and head for the opposite side of the road. An armored personnel carrier APC stops right behind the stricken tank and six soldiers ridding on its roof jump or fall off, one is immediately immobile on the road. The other fiveall try to run away from the ambush, desperate for that cover on the other side of the road. Two moredont make it. Theyre seen slowly trying to crawl to safety. By the end of the video, theyre immobile on the road.One more goes down on the opposite lane, but crawls to safety by the end.A second APC behind that first APC also comes under small-arms fire, seven soldiers dismount, three are immediately gunned down. Theres abitof a wrenching moment at 0:18 where one fleeing solider slows down by one of his fallen comrades, hesitates a bit, likely deciding whether to help, but then decides to save his own skin and books it, refusing to slow for another injured comrade trying to crawl to safety. At 0:49, yet another Russian on the median strip goes down.
b. Soldiers not in the kill zone begin fire and movement to destroy the enemy.
One of President Vladimir Putin's closest allies said Russia's military operation in Ukraine had not all gone as quickly as the Kremlin had wanted, the strongest public acknowledgement yet from Moscow that things were not going to plan.
To confirm which hospitals have been damaged, The Post examined more than 500 videos and photos, reviewed social media posts from the hospitals, spoke to witnesses and hospital employees, and compared key details from these incidents to reports from Ukrainian officials, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, Human Rights Watch, the Center for Information Resilience and ACLED, a group that monitors armed conflict around the world.
Bear in mind, a Russian missile landed within 10 kms of the Polish border over the weekend:
Reuters - Russia has not asked China for military assistance and has sufficient military capability to fulfil all of its aims in Ukraine in time and in full, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
a. Soldiers in the kill zone immediately return fire, take up covered positions, and throw fragmentation grenades or concussion and smoke grenades. Immediately after the grenades detonate, soldiers in the kill zone assault through the ambush using fire and movement.
A fourth round of high-level discussions between Ukrainian and Russian officials is underway even as Moscows troops press their assault on Kyiv and other cities.
Another day, not much happening in Ukraine. As I write this, Sunday night. Things might always change, even though if not much has.Ukraine continues to harass Russian forces, as this twitter account tracking video of losses on both sides shows. This single attack destroyed 16 Russian vehicles! But with no real new news on the battlefield, lets do something else. Lets analyze theonevideo we have showing the big picture overview of a Ukrainian ambush, and what it says about the state of Russias forces. Warning, the video shows the killing or injuring of multiple Russian soldiers, but from up above. So not graphic, but still disturbing.
Incredibly, two soldiers seem to jump out of the stricken tank, one running toward the ambush site, where he falls to the ground and stays down, likely hit by small arms fire. The other books it away from the ambush and finds refuge on the other side.
Asked on ABC what happens if Russia strikes in Poland, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby says: "We take our Article 5 commitment very seriously  An armed attack against one is considered an armed attack against all."
AP images of a pregnant woman being rushed to an ambulance after Russia bombed a maternity hospital in Mariupol where she was meant to give birth shocked the world.  AP has learned that the woman and her baby have died. https:t.cotlTUPpbM6r
Australia on Monday announced that it is sanctioning 33 Russian oligarchs in response to Moscows continued invasion of Ukraine, joining allies in placing penalties on prominent Russian individuals.
Just a split-second letter, no more than 10 meters away, a Ukrainian ambusher fires back, despite being deafened by the explosion, feeling heat and shrapnel from the near-miss.With a supernatural steady hand...
JUST IN: SpeakerPelosi and SenSchumer announce Ukrainian President ZelenskyyUa will deliver a virtual address to Congress Wednesday at 9amET.
His comments appeared at odds with an assessment on Friday by Russia's Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu who told Putin that "everything is going according to plan.
In both cases, standard operating procedure is to face the ambush head on, suppress the enemy with fire forcing them to keep their heads down, and move to flank the ambushers by moving to their sides. With all that armor present, all those Russian vehicles including the chickenshit ones in the back of the convoy shouldve rushed into the ambush zoneand laid down heavy fire, while the infantry could then work their way to the sides and try to trap the Ukrainians. Only two Russian tanks got it right, and they may have very well gotten some of the ambushers. Had more joined the battle, the ambush wouldnt have lasted as long as it did. The ambushers wouldve had to book it after taking out the one tank. Butit takes a great deal of training and trust in your unit to pull this off, while your brain is screaming RUN!
National Guard chief Viktor Zolotov, speaking at a church service led by Orthodox Patriarch Kirill on Sunday, blamed the slower than expected progress on what he said were far-right Ukrainian forces hiding behind civilians, an accusation repeatedly made by officials in Russia.
Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne said Australia will impose penalties on Russian oligarchs, prominent business people and their immediate family members, including Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich and Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller.
BREAKING: Israel announces publicly for the first time it will comply with the international sanctions against Russia. FM Lapid says "Israel won't be used as a means to bypass the sanctions on Russia"
a. Soldiers in the kill zone immediately return fire and take up covered positions. The leader identifies the enemys location and soldiers place accurate suppressive fire on the enemys position.
Sources confirm to CBSNews that White House officials are discussing a possible presidential trip to Europe in the coming weeks  perhaps including a stop in Brussels home to NATO  for talks wworld leaders about Russias invasion of Ukraine. First reported by NBCNews
The front of the tank is the thickest armor, but white smoke follows the black smoke, suggesting it penetrated. End result, three vehicles destroyed, and eight Russians down on the road, whether dead or injured impossible to tell.
The bulk of theconvoybehind the ambush site stops. The vehicles ahead of the ambush book it out. Finally, the two closest tanks face the ambush site, start firing rounds into the treeline. At 0:50, the most amazing thing happens. One of the tank fires a round, you can see where it hits here:
Russian restaurants in New York City have a public relations problem. Even though many of the owners are openly against the war, or are even Ukrainian, they are getting burned by reservation cancellations, social media campaigns and bad reviews online at a time when restaurants, in general, are still reeling from the shutdowns and restrictions of Covid-19. Some places have even been vandalized.
In Poland, I met with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada to discuss our united response to Russias invasion of Ukraine. Our coordinated response, from sanctions to other economic measures, is rooted in our shared commitment to supporting the people of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comVLgf1BBGac
