Ukraine Update Russian lines recede south of Izyum as Russia rushes to potential Kherson trap
20220805
https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2022/8/5/2114556/-Ukraine-Update-Russian-lines-recede-south-of-Izyum-as-Russia-rushes-to-potential-Kherson-trap
Two weeks ago I speculated the main Ukrainian counteroffensive wont be Kherson, but south ofZaporizhzhia and southern Donbas. Im more and convinced thats the play. Certainly no reason to hit a mass of Russians at Kherson when its far easier to cut them off. And the near-daily announcements of Ukraines big push to Kherson has beenperfectbait. If youhavent yet, check out how this would play out.
The big question here, and one Ive repeatedly asked since Russian forces seemed to lose interest in Bohorodychne, is a chicken and egg oneare Russian forces withdrawing because of strong Ukrainian pressure, or is Ukraine advancing because Russia is thinning out the region? General Staff has announced several unsuccessful Russian ground assaults in the area in recent days including one against Bohorodychne yesterday, and theUkrainianin the video above explains how they forced out the Russian garrison by cutting off its supplies. So Russia doesnt seem to be giving up, or withdrawing on its own initiative. But theanswercan also be bothas Ukraine degrades Russian linesand the invaders lack the reinforcements to patch up losses.
According to Ukrainian General Staff, Ukraine has launched a new offensive in Kharkiv area in northern Ukraine, The defense forces of Ukraine advanced into the depths of the enemys defenses and gained a foothold. No details were offered, but will definitely bear watching.Russia is already emptying out the Izyum area to reinforce the Kherson front. Ukraine is forcing Russia to spread itself ever thinner, reminding them that their northern front isnt particularlysecure.
By all indications, Russia is shifting a huge number of their forces to Kherson where they are ripe for being cut off. Supplies and access to the Kherson region run through just three easy-to-cut railroads and a handful of bridges. You know how in some stupid movie, you see the heroes headed into a trap and you scream at the screen, because its so obvious its a trap?
Indeed, we had hints something was happening on this front a week ago, reading between the lines of General Staff reports:
Liberation means all Russian forces contesting those settlements have beenpushedaway WarMapperhad some with the red border which means contested, as Bohorodychne was until recently.As for Dovhenke,General Staff has reported shelling of Ukrainian forces in the area of Dovhenke. Given that Russian troops dont shell themselves at least not intentionally, thats usually General Staff code for Ukrainian troops are sitting there. In other words, while Russia might still be occupying that pile of rubble, Ukrainian forces are actively contesting it.
If this is whats happening, weve got a couple more of weeks for the Kherson honeytrap to lure whatever Russians are in transit, then we can wrap up Season 3 and move toward what will hopefully be the fourth and triumphant final season of this war.
There are sections of the front in the eastern Donbas region where the Ukrainian military is slowly managing to push back Russian troops. Borys Sachalko of CurrentTimeTV has the story of one unit that captured some Russian trenches. pic.twitter.comQiHi1oAqtO
Note how quietly Ukraine has approached its limited tactical counteroffensives around Izyum, in southern Donbas, and this new one around Kharkiv. Now compare that to Kherson, whereeveryonein Ukraine hasnt shut up about their supposedly imminent counteroffensive.Even President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a big speech about ordering his armed forces to take Kherson back, as if the Ukrainian army was confused about their job.
Note how drone operator destroys a Russian ammo truck. If they managed that consistently, maybe it was a supply issue after all. Also nice to hear the contrast between this video, with Russian artillery booming in the vicinity, and the liberation one further up, with Ukrainian troops chilling in blissful peaceful quiet.
In the video you can see how hilly the area is. It helps explain why Russia was unable to advance quickly, and also explains why liberating it will be slow going.
472. Other vehicles inare recorded in twt 456 - now better views. In front of BMP-3 530 is already recorded 522 south of village at 48.977055, 37.251978 ht azyakancokkacan. Soldier says destroyed when attacking by shells  ATGM. Claims manyKiA. .https:t.cojnOzByfH4p pic.twitter.combO9xFrpAs9
Meanwhile further southeast, Russian propaganda claims theyve entered Bakhmut. Were going to wait a few days before any kind of confirmation, but Russia often plays loose with how they define their geographic locations.
In other words, if Ukraine was serious about Kherson, they wouldve kept their mouths shut, sprung the surprise on Russia. Instead they gave themmonthsadvance notice. Ukraine isnt that dumb.
If the intent was to panic the Russians into reinforcing the region, its been a smashing success.Russia has already moved between a quarter and a third of its total combat forces in Ukraine to the area, and according to video on Telegram, troops and equipment continueto stream in. Yesterday I wrote:
With Dovhenke now Russias southernmost position around Izyum, it means the front lines are back to where they were June 11.
In addition to that, the entire frontline Dmytrivka - Bohorodychne seems to have been mentioned way less in the GSUA reports. That usually indicates less activity, but it could also mean increased AFU activity, and GSUA is keeping a tight lid.
General Staff also announced the liberation ofMazanivka and Dmytrivka in the Izyum front, something they generally dont dounless Ukrainian forces have moved well beyond the location. We are now seeing a real roll back of Russian forces around southern Izyum:
I would think something like this is the reality, if there is any sort of truth to it. My guess is they managed to get to the abandoned ruins on the outskirts of the town, which is technically "entering Bakhmut". 23 pic.twitter.com3TAVmD48xd
