Ukraine update Russian warship welcome to the age of missiles
20220414
https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2022/4/14/2091896/-Ukraine-update-Russian-warship-welcome-to-the-age-of-missiles%20class=
There have been additional reports of shells landing in or around the village ofZhuravlevka. To give a sense of where that is, heres a quick image of Kharkiv, Belgorod, and the location of the reported artillery strikes. For weeks, Russian forces near Belgorod have been lofting artillery shells overZhuravlevka to strike at Kharkiv. A few shells landing in or around the village could be coming from Ukraine. They could also be very easily coming accidentally or deliberately from the Russian forces that are firing thousands of such rounds each day into Ukraine.
One other thing about the site of the reported shelling. Its very close to this:
There have been questions about the continued value of large ships for a long time. And theres absolutely no doubt that the billions spent on ships ranging from cruisers to aircraft carriers are heavily swayed by feelings of tradition, national pride, and more than a little, Hey, thats a lot of jobs in my district. Whether they are worth what they cost is an extremely good question.
That sentiment echoed statements from Daily Kos community memberKokopelli2018 who wrote back on April 5about the possibility of sinking the Moskva and the rest of the Black Sea fleet.
Earlier this week, the site Small Wars Journal, warned thatUkraine can easily achieve a resounding victory that would combine massive substantive defeats for the Russians with tremendous symbolism and loss of prestige for Russia in addition to greatly affecting the way ground combat plays out in the south and east.I am talking about the near-annihilation of the Russian Navy presence in the Black Sea, including the entirety or almost the entirety of the substantive portion of the Black Sea Fleet.
Good morning Twitter. It appears one can comfortably assert that on 13 April 2022, a new piece of naval history was written in the context of this terrible affair that is the Russian invasion of Ukraine. A thread on the RFN cruiser Moskva pennant No 121: pic.twitter.comDDEUKZki7z
As I mentioned earlier, there is also the matter of thefleet, which is supposed to work together to identify and neutralize any threats. Apparently, Russian navy ships have the same communication issues that have made it impossible for Russia to coordinate large-scale assaults on the ground, or keep its Air Force operating at any real impactful tempo.
On Thursday morning, it was clear that removing Russian warship from the battlefield was accomplished with a plan that took practice and timing. Still, the ultimate cost of a couple of Neptunes vs. hundreds of millions invested in the missile cruiser has elevated the question, Is the ageof warships over? just as Russias loss of 500 tanks has raised the question,Is the age of tanks over?
Its likely Moskva will be towed to Sevastopol, which is the home of Russias southern fleet. They even rented the spot from Ukraine before Putin decided to just take Crimea and save himself the monthly payments. Right now, the port atSevastopol is about 140 miles from territory definitively controlled by Ukraine, making the ships in harbor safe from additional missile attacks. Probably. But every step that Ukraine takes in recapturing the territory north of Crimea is also a step toward making Sevastopol a scrapyard for the Russian navy.
The article points out things that have gotten a lot of attention herefrom rotten tires to leaking bearingsare signs that even the most important Russian gear hasnt received the necessary levels of maintenance.
why were the layered hard and soft kill systems were not engaged? One single TB-2 couldnt surely overwhelm the crew? I suppose the crew was on alert and in their battle stations, some watching the displays. Afterall there is a war going on, on land for the last 48 days. 33
However, the ship had several other self-defense systems that shouldve come online. The fact they failed means the Russian navy is afflicted by the same grift, incompetence, and vodka that have bedeviled the rest of its armed forces.
This thread has more info on that ridiculous radar with 180 degree field of vision.
If you have wondered how the Ukrainian Neptune anti-ship missile system that took out the Moskva looks like, wonder no more. pic.twitter.comYGerY0wk05
Think about modern warfare and it's likely images of soldiers, tanks and missiles will spring to mind. But arguably more important than any of these is something on which they all rely: the humble truck. Armies need trucks to transport their soldiers to the front lines, to supply those tanks with shells and to deliver those missiles. In short, any army that neglects its trucks does so at its peril.
Ukraine: The Ukrainian 80th Air Assault Brigade captured a damaged 152mm 2A65 Msta-B howitzer in Mykolaiv Oblast around March 20th.A BTR-80  other Msta-B were also damagedcaptured at the same time, but these were posted at the time. Another vehicle was possibly hit. Pic 2 pic.twitter.comBwn3eBbWNW
Ships have held that role at sea for far, far longer. From Actium to Trafalgar toLeyte Gulf, ships have been the ultimate form of power projection. In the modern age, theyve been both mobile gun platforms capable of targeting sites far inland with massive shells, landing strips for planes that can range out thousands of miles, and the launching points of both short-range and long-range missiles. What does Russia or China or the United States do when they want to show someone they mean business? They park a carrier group on their doorstep, putting an incredible nexus of power just seconds away.
Tanksa device developed initially with the idea of countering trenches and machinegun nestshave proven themselves to be effective means of projecting force on the battlefield in a way that, for the last century, was hard to counter with anything short of another tank. That value is still there, but now that a tank can be taken down with handheld weaponry that can be produced at a fraction of the cost, its worth as a piece that can take, defend, and decisively occupy territory is greatly diminished. In a battlefield of drones and missiles, a tank is a relatively slow-moving target, and despite the cleverness of alloys and ceramics and active explosive defensive systems, its armor no longer means its all but immune to anything but another member of its own species.
But we really dont know what the near-sinking of the Moskva says about naval power overall. Right now, we know that it says dont build your missile cruisers with such a useless defensive system that if youre directing your radar somewhere else, it cant see an incoming missile. We dont know a lot more than that. Both on land and at sea, Russias defensive systems have proved astoundingly flawed. However, that could be just another example of Russias vast and public grift-driven incompetence.
But is that power now as questionable as that of land-based armor? In The Age of Missiles, where every nation with a coastline is capable of fielding low-cost weapons that punch out a hundred miles from shore, is a big ship sitting on the horizon anything but a target? The answer is we dont know.
How did the Russians not see the incoming Neptunes? The Moskva hashad a single main air defence radar - a 3P41 Volna phased array to guide S300 missiles. Problem is, it only has a 180 degree field of vision. 11 pic.twitter.com81I8aBOJon
Theres a real danger in drawing a general example from a single incident. Even so, you can bet every admiral on the planet is sweating this morning. And when it comes to the Black Sea fleet, that sweat may be enough to raise the waterline.
Naval actions are so incredibly rare, that the only active service ship in the U.S. Navy which has ever sunk another ship in battle is the U.S.S. Constitution, which did its damage during the War of 1812. The Moskva is only the second cruiser-class ship taken down since World War II Argentina lost one during the Falklands War.
This is the crossing point between Ukraine and Russia, east of Kharkiv. The image is from before the war began, and shows how this site was equipped to handle a large number of vehicles making the crossing each day. If Ukraine is directing artillery in this direction, its easy to believe that like the fuel depot, and like a railway bridge damaged in the area the target is damaging this highway which is the route along which Russian forces have been pouring into the area.
CNN has discovered what kos has been talking about since the war began Russia has a problem with say it with me logistics.
And oh yeah,any idea Russia ever had about a naval invasion of Odesa? That is long gone.
Despite the instant birth of 1,000 hilarious memes, it turns out that Russias Black Sea flagship, the Moskva Moscow, isnt currently being harvested by Ukrainian tractors scouring the seafloor. It is, however, reportedly being towed back to port after suffering serious damage and a fire resulting from the strike of two Neptune missiles launched by a shore battery.
