Ukraine update Russia appears to be losing the artillery battle at Severodonetsk
20220610
https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2022/6/9/2103189/-Ukraine-update-Russia-appears-to-be-losing-the-artillery-battle-at-Severodonetsk
South ofZaporizhzhia, where there have been reports all week that a column of Russian tanks were about to head north, reports are now indicating that many of those forces have dug into position while others are heading off to reinforce Kherson.
Artillery units of the Ukrainian 28th Mechanized Brigade shells Russian dug-in positions at the southern front.Russia Ukraine pic.twitter.comEaO5MXumMP
Back on June 6, as Russia pushed back against the counteroffensive, locations in Lysychansk were getting absolutely pounded by Russian artillery somewhere on the far side of Severodonetsk. But day by day, the numbers of shots falling on the Ukrainian side of the river from guns around Severodonetsk seems to be declining.
On June 8 in particular you can see hits being made in the Russian backfield, on the far side of Rubizhne. That continued on Thursday. This likely represents counterbattery fire against Russian positions beyond Severodonetsk. Also on Thursday, most of the fire around Severodonetsk itself is on the north side of the citythe area where Russian forces are reportedly positioned.
Every day you see something that reminds you, holy cow, these things are used against people. Every time it happens brings a shudder.
Whats really odd about this map is almost all the fire is on the other side of the river. This is a clear, dry day in Ukraine. Its the kind of day where FIRMS is really good at picking up the flashes of artillery impacts and even better at reporting any resulting fires. But the bluffs at Lysychansk are apparently going unmolested.
The best guess is that this indicates something of an artillery duel in progress. Ukraine is likely firing at Russian gun positions north of Rubizhne and northeast of Ternova. Russia is firing back at Ukrainian positions along a line south of Rubizhne. Whats interesting here is that the area of activity on the right seems to have expanded again. Though it really not at all clear whats going on over there near Hontarivka. Conditions are dry, and that is a patch of wood, So this could be simply a forest fire. However, it wasnt there yesterday, and trees are cover.
In Izyum itself, Russian forces are reportedly building fortifications. For the last three days, the forested area west of the city has been absolutely alight when it comes to FIRMS. How much of this is artillery, how much is forest fires, is hard to tell. But Ukrainian forces have reportedly been very close to the city and Russian forces are anticipating an attack.
France handed over proximity fuses for "CAESAR" self-propelled guns to Ukraine, and with their help ours are already destroying the orcs.They use radar to measure the distance to the ground and detonate at a predetermined altitude, causing a "rain" of shrapnel. pic.twitter.comRPjeBZe0rL
Because conditions are so good for FIRMS today, heres another map from the area of Staryi Saltiv, northeast of Kharkiv.
The fighting in Severodonetsk continues to be described as fierce, and NASA FIRMS data shows fire all across the area. Except, strangely enough, for those bluffs in Lysychansk that have served as a home for Ukrainian artillery since Ukraine began its counteroffensive on the evening of June 4.
Ukraine: A Ukrainian 9K33M3 Osa-AKM SAM system shooting down a Russian drone claimed to be the common Orlan-10. pic.twitter.comnIQoB9Ne7T
If this eastern area is actually Ukrainian fire, heres a reminder that Ukraine doesnt have to actually take Vovchansk in the north to break the Russian supply line. Anywhere on the line south will do.
Ukrainian Pravda is reporting that Russian occupation forces and officials are bringing their families to Kherson. The occupiers families make no secret of their admiration for the standard of living in the Kherson region, which, even after more than 100 days of occupation, is many times higher than in their native Russian regions." My advice to them: Dont get too comfortable.
Yesterday, June 9, Ukrainian artillery destroyed the Wagner PMC detachment, which was stationed at  . Approximately 250300 brutal, motivated mercenaries were killed.
All of this seems to indicate that if theres an artillery battle going on around Severodonetsk, Ukraine is winning.
Otherwise, there were some reports that Ukraine had made significant gains in the Kherson area, including fighting to the south around the eternally besieged Olexsandrivka. But nothing is yet confirmed. Check for updates.
East of Izyum, there were reports on Wednesday that Russian forces had crossed the river intoTetyanivka, but speculation that this was no more than a handful of troops appears to be correct. Theres no sign of Russian armor in the town.
Exactly why Russia has an apparent deadline of taking control of Severodonetsk of June 10 remains a mystery. Its been put forward as a test for the current general in charge of the illegal, unprovoked invasion, the Butcher of SyriaAleksandr Dvornikov, and that date has been mentioned repeatedly by the head of the Russian-allied Luhansk separatists. But whatever June 10 means to Vladimir Putin, its soon going to be time to recalibrate, because on the eve of that date, Ukraine shows no sign of going away.
