Ukraine update Russia pulling forces from Izyum to deal with whats happening north of Kharkiv
20220511
https://www.dailykos.com:443/stories/2022/5/11/2097300/-Ukraine-update-Russia-pulling-forces-from-Izyum-to-deal-with-what-s-happening-north-of-Kharkiv%20class=
Two-part video from Ukraine's 54th Mechanized Brigade showing artillery strikes on a Russian armored column.https:t.coG4tZlotEau pic.twitter.comRsgAkYJXWX
Russia has blown up the bridges at Staryi Saltiv, Rubiznhe, Starytsya, and Ohirtseve. Which is all of the bridges on the northern Donets. But the river is only 30 meters wide at Ohirtseve, and less than 50 meters wideat Starytsya. These are the kinds of distances that engineering unitswithpontoon bridges were designed to tackle. Even all the way down at Staryi Saltiv, where the river is dammed into a reservoir over 1,500 metersacross, the actual span of bridge that was taken down was much smaller. Ukraine has been directing artillery at the area around the other end of that bridge, which may be a sign that they believe the Staryi Saltiv bridge could be repaired.
Listening to Russian media, or pro-Russian Twitter, or far-right evangelicals who have suddenly decided to join the Russian Orthodox Church because they like the traditionsall that stuff was just a feint designed to distract Ukrainian forces from Russias real goals in the Donbas. You have to particularly like the part where Russia had their own troops dig trenches in the red forest around Chernobyl, exposing themselves to a few hundred lifetime doses of radiation in a week. Thats real commitment to a role.
But those Russian positions are not allowing them to keep pressure on Kharkiv at this point. Absolutely the only purpose they are serving is to occupy the attention of some Ukrainian forces thatare whittling back Russias area of control day by day. Those Ukrainian forces are just about to get to the point where the ugly phrase mopping up starts showing up in the media. And yes, Russia could put in more forces just to keep Ukraine fighting in the area, but pumping forces into these locations is just another way of throwing them away.
On Monday, Ukrainian forces reportedly quick-marched northwest from the area of Staryi Slativ to capture the town of Ternova and the surrounding area,putting them right on the border with Russia and dividing Russias area of control in Ukraine. This action still has not been confirmed by official sources in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense, but has been repeated by knowledgeable sources on the ground. With the capture of Ternova, and over a dozen other villages and towns in the Kharkiv area in the last two weeks,Russian forces in Kharkiv oblast are reduced to not just a small area north of the hard-hit city, but an area that is difficult to hold and to supply.
Chinese television crew caught the moment of launching the turret of a Russian tank into the sky pic.twitter.comgsPCSTtlmD
For this one, you might want to turn that volume down, but just watch how precisely this homegrown drone drops a bomb right on the button. Also worth noting that this is happening in the south,not in the area of Kharkiv.
Weve seen this column get hit before, but now it has a better musical score and also has an entry in the turret-tossing contest.
With the rapid movements of Ukrainian forces to take first Staryi Slativ and then Ternova, its clear to the Russians that Ukraine is not practicing the Russian technique of spending days pulverizing a town with artillery, then slowly advancing into the ruins. Ukraine is moving quickly, and not always in the direction that analysts might predict.
19 Either option brings offensive operations in the Donbas to a general halt but losing their operational base would be catastrophic. Russia appears to already be shifting forces away from the Izium Axis toward Kharkiv, more forces will more than likely be diverted north.
The bridges might be blown, but there are a good 25 kilometersof river along which Ukraine could construct some kind of crossing point. Ukrainian forces that moved fast to take Staryi Saltiv, then Rubiznhe, then Ternovamight also carve a path east of the river. And they dont even have to capture a rail hub likeKupyansk to cause damage. Ukraine could just take out rail lines or bridges leading into these critical supply points.
Exceptif all that was a feint designed to distract Ukraine, why are Ukraines repeated victories in the area around Kharkiv suddenly causing such concern to Russia that they are shifting forces away from the Donbas?
In the northeast of Kharkiv region, we continue to record the enemy's advance towards our border. Now the enemy is near Vovchansk. But to continue the offensive, he will have to fordthe Siverskyi Donets. And it's not so easy to do. It will be difficult for the enemy to advance further.
Authors note: After he died in prison, Pots bodywas literally put on ice until enough people could view his frozen corpse to make sure there would be norumors the mass-murdering SOB was still alive. Then he was cremated by throwing his body on a stack of burningtires and trash. Theres no word that anyone bothered to collect what was left. Thats the kind of funeral planning that ought to be kept on file.
That result is generating two statements that seem to be at odds. On Monday, Ukrainian officials stated that Russia waswithdrawing someif not allof their troops from the Kharkiv region. Reports had indicated thatas of last week, Russia had three Battalion Tactical Groups in the area, and that has proven to be utterly insufficient to hold positions asUkraine has advanced from town to town. Withdrawing from the area and just ceding the area west of theSiverskyi Donets River seems reasonable.
Russia is moving north not to take the area around Kharkiv, but to keep the forces that recaptured that area for Ukraine from doing the same thing to the east. That Russian Telegram message may believe that theSiverskyi Donets represents a real barrier that will keep Ukrainian forces away from their supply lines. Someone in Russia doesnt agree.
It may be difficult to tell on this slightly 3D-ish map from Google Earth, but Staryi Saltiv is on high ground with woods on two sides and the river on another. This should have made this an extremely difficult area to assault. Ukraine took it. Ukrainian troops have captured multiple points that had both strategic importance in terms of their location in the region, and tactical advantages in terms of the battlefield conditions. This does not appear to be true of Russias remaining positions in the area with the possible exception of the area between Lyptsi and Kozachan Lopan, where Russian forces were reportedly digging into defensive positions.
All this means that the only thing any Russian forces in Kharkiv oblast can do at this point is defend unimportant crossroads in areas where holding those points provides no benefit to Russia. Also, they will likely lose these locations anyway. Putting more forces there wouldnt be a feint, it would just be stupid.
So why, in addition to reports that Russia is abandoning itssmall, pointless, and increasingly difficult to support positions north of Kharkiv, are there also reports like this one:
That Ukrainian actions in Kharkiv are impacting Russian movements from Izyum is also the assessment of U.S. intelligence. But why? Why is Russia dragging forces back to the north, even as it also reportedly tries to withdraw forces from the same area?
In any case, the Russian forces moving north away from Izyum are unlikely to be getting dragged back into Russia, then fed back down the pipeline to hold onto positions like Pertrivka and Kozacha Lopan. Because what do those positions matter anyway? They were important when Russia occupied a ring of villages around Kharkivbecause Russian supplies coming down the road from Belgorod through the entry port just east ofKozacha Lopan keep the shells falling on Ukraines second largest city. Note: If you havent already seen it, UnHerd reporter David Patrikarakos has a terrific, informative, and heartbreaking piece up about how Kharkiv has suffered after weeks of constant assaults from Russian forces.
Ukraine: A Ukrainian Aerorozvidka drone dropping munitions onto a Russian tank somewhere in the South- it is claimed to be a T-90 but the type cannot be verified. It is damaged. pic.twitter.comerzBQS7wkJ
So when Russia is moving forces out of Izyum, its unlikely theyre headed to Lyptsi. Instead, theyll be defending the area that kos talked about on Tuesday, and which was hinted at by those Russian Telegrams:Volchansk and Kupyansk. Because its not so much that Russia is going to defend their areas on the western side of the Donetsas it is that they dont trust Ukrainian forces to stay on the western side of the Donets.
The weather this next week looks to be rainy in northeastern Ukraine, which is likely to keep rivers high and roads muddy. Russia should be glad.
Its probably because of reports like the one in this Telegram message. The message is from Russian sources, and spends most of itstime talking about May 9 celebrations, praising the firing of missiles into Odesa, and claiming that Ukraine has lost dozens of UAVs and boats trying to retake Snake Island. However, it also includes this:
TheAerorozvidka guys drove out of Kyiv at night on quadbikes to deploy drones and bomb Russian vehicles back during that 40 mile convoy situation. Thats one of the scenes that has to be put in a movie one day.
All anyone has to do is tune into pro-Russian Twitteror U.S. right-wing mediato discover that Russias plans for Ukraine are bothsimple and brilliant. It works like this: In order to capture the Donbas, Russia invaded everywhere that was not the Donbas. Like the area north of Kyiv, and the border region at Chenihiv, and Sumy, and all the areas around Kharkiv, and in the south around Kherson. And then Russia, simply and brilliantly, went on to lose 20,000 men, dozens of aircraft, hundreds of tanks, and thousands of vehicles while slaughtering villages, dusting offthe term rape and pillage for a new generation,and in generalracking up a list ofcrimes against humanity that is making Pol Pot spin in his nonexistent grave.
