Ukraine update Russia reportedly pulls forces from  occupied towns to rush troops to Kherson
20220731
https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2022/7/31/2113534/-Ukraine-update-Russia-reportedly-pulls-forces-from-occupied-towns-to-rush-troops-to-Kherson
On the southern lines between Donetsk and Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine continues to press in a pair of areas, while Russia is also making offensive moves. This is also the scene of the second location where Russian forces seem to have gone inexplicably missing.
Meanwhile, the rest of the front still stretches to Kharkiv and beyond, and while neither Russia nor Ukraine seems to have made huge gains in the last week, that doesnt mean things have been quiet. Far from it. Right now, Ukraine is reportedly advancing at multiple points east of Zaporzhzhia, Russia is making yet another push in the sliver of land east of Bakhmut, theres action from both sides around Kharkiv, and weirdness in some areas. Not only are there reports that Russia has pulled out of the towns ofYaremivka and Studenok near Izyum, there are now reports that Russia has withdrawn from a pair of towns in the south.
Ukrainian forces are reportedly pressing southward in the area south ofHulyaipole, and in the pocket south of Pavlivka. Meanwhile, Russia is most active on the eastern edge of the map, especially in pressing into the fortified suburbs around Donetsk and attempting to break the Ukrainian line near Pisky.
Right now, Ukraine seems to be involved in a combination counteroffensive giant trap in the Kherson oblast. By simultaneously attacking Russias points of access in the bridges at Kherson and Nova Kakhovka, as well as a series of bridges over the Inhulets River in the middle of the oblast, Ukraine seems to be forcing Russia to scramble to come up with ways to maintain supply lines, while simultaneously encouraging Russia to reinforce their westernmost flank. And if the intent was to bring in more Russian forces, it seems to be working. Some reports now have the number of battalion tactic groups in Kherson at 25, up from 15 a few weeks ago.
Speaking of Bilohorivka, it appears to be under Russian control again after changing hands multiple times. Further south, Russia has reportedly taken control of Berestove after a prolonged period of fighting. And at the southern end of this map, Russia has also advanced toVershyna, southeast of Bakhmut. Note: Shortly after this map was made reports came out that Russia has occupiedPokrovske, which on this map is the blue marker immediately west ofPylypchatyne.
Before looking at at the details, open this image in another tab for a good view. Now locate Severdonetsk and Popasna. Then recall that at the start of this thing, both those towns were within a a kilometer of the front. That small slice, from Severodonetsk over to around Bilohorivka is all that has changed in the east. Now look how far it is to Russias actual goals in the area Slovyansk and Kramatorsk.
Some ofUkraines advances areoff the southern edge of this map, where theyve taken control of a reported half-dozen formerly disputed towns and villages. But the more important area may be the one in the northwest corner of this map, where Russian forces have withdrawn from occupied towns on both sides of the river and apparently abandoned their fight to gain full control ofBohorodychne. BothBohorodychne and Dolyna are now back in Ukrainian control, and Ukraines forces there have reportedly repelled a pair of Russian attempts to get back into the area from the west.
Unless the situation in the west changes quickly, it seems to represent a collapse of Russias effort to encircle the Slovyansk and Kramatorsk area. Russia is continuing to push toward that Siversk  Bakhmut line on the east, but that seems to be the only place theyre moving aggressively.
Ukraine: A moving Russian T-80 tank was destroyed by the 93rd Mechanized Brigade of Ukraine in the vicinity of Izium, Kharkiv Oblast, using an anti-tank guided missile. pic.twitter.comrKBGwcnmDX
Quick note: Im going to be out for the next couple of weeks, but Hunter will be stepping in with the latest news andto see that Ukraine remains a regular part ofDaily Kos coverage. The attention of Daily Kos readers to this topic continues to betremendously encouraging.
But the strange report on Sunday is that Russian forces at the southern end of this map, around Tokmak andChernihivka, have gone the way of forces in Studenok. These were previously the scene of significant Russian occupations, which now seem to have gone completely missing. These forces may have been hustled to Kherson, repositioned to address the attempted counteroffensives in the area, or it may mean that Russia simply felt these areas were far enough behind the lines that they didnt need troops to keep them under control as, unlike the area across the river from Studenok, these towns arent in close proximity to current fighting.
The clearest, and oddest, of Russias change in direction is the apparent abandonment of positions at Yaremivka and Studenok. The pontoon bridge that had earlier been erected across the SilveskyyDonets at this location has now apparently been completely removed, leaving the next intact bridge a dozen kilometers to the north, below the dam at Oskil.
Ukraine is now fully in possession ofBohorodychne, a location that Russia struggled for weeks to take and the site of some major equipment losses. Ukrainian forces are moving to occupy the surrendered area, rolling back months of slow advances on the part of Russia.
On Saturday, a Ukrainian drone reportedly struck the headquarters of the Russian Black Sea fleet in Sevastopol.
Interesting to see Russian forces hustled out of Tokmak to reinforce Kherson area. I wrote about how critically important Tokmak is, as it hosts theonlyrail line connecting Donbas and eastern Ukraine to Kherson oblast. It will undoubtedly feature heavily in any Ukrainian effort to retake its lost territories. If Ukraine can hold Tokmak and cut off the two bridges from Crimea, every Russian troop between Tokmak, Kherson, and up toward Kryvyi Rih will be effectively cut off. Helicopters wont resupply thirsty artillery guns
Ukraine has also gained ground to the west atBrazhkivka, liberating that town along with a smaller village. That area may be the site of this video.
An optimistic view takes this as a sign that Russias occupied areas have been hollowed out in the effort to back up Kherson while maintaining the fight for the remainder of the Donbas. If Russias control really is as fragile as a Faberg egg,that should soon become apparent.
The headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Navy in Sevastopol has been hit, the Sevastopol governor says. At least 5 reported "injured". This on Russia's much revered Navy Day.
