Ukraine Update To protect its southern land bridge Russia might have to give up on Izyum
20220725
https://www.dailykos.com:443/stories/2022/7/25/2112410/-Ukraine-Update-To-protect-its-southern-land-bridge-Russia-might-have-to-give-up-on-Izyum%20class=
It took Russiamonths and the combined might of Russias armies to take a few farmhouses in Dovhenke, so please explain to me how they're supposed to threaten Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, combined populations of around 250,000?
Given that Bohorodychne is still being actively contested, its unlikely Russians abandoned the two towns helping supply that assault. Maybe a unitrotatingout decided to bring some looted souvenirs back home.Less likely, perhaps some unit deserted, looting their way out of town. But Russia isnt withdrawing from here just yet.
It is nice to the see the Donbas front so relativelyquiet. Ukrainiansdefendingthat line deserve some respite.
I couldnt contain myself when that came out. It might still be one of the stupidest claims Ive seen all war. Eventually, Russia managed to move 32 kilometers toVelyka Komyshuvakha pop. 882 before running out of steam, 200 kilometers from Dnipro pop. 1 million. My god that wasstupid. Really really stupid.
NEW: Slovakia is ready to discuss transferring its 11 MIG-29s to Ukraine, defence minister says. JaroNad says the jets will be grounded by end of August. Czech  Polish jets will start protecting  air space. But Slovakia would need a plan with allies to fill any capability gap
1. Russians know Kherson bridge can be easily destroyed and large force on the Kherson side of Inhulets River will be trapped if this bridge is out. But a few GMLRS can destroy the pontoon. Typical Putin. The outward display of a plan just reveals incompetence. https:t.coojxijKCCOh
I made that on May 13, mocking the idea they could sustain any such attack for hundreds of kilometers with Ukraine nipping at their flanks. Eventually, Russia figured that out as well, unable to punch out more thana few dozen kilometers. It didnt help that instead of pushing south, Russia did the Russia thing and, well, did this:
The Izyum approach was Russiasmain approach. And little Dovhenke and a lot of Ukrainian artillery falling from that exposed western flank squashed them.Eventually many of those forces were moved to the Severodonetsk-Popasna-Lysycanskassault, but even then, the Izium arearemainedthe second largest concentration of Russian forces in the country, and is likely still so today.
Ukraine hasnt declared the village liberated, but it generally doesnt like to do so until its forces are well in advance past a certain location. This spot may still be moving back and forth between the two sides.
      .    .     .     .      . ,   ,     . pic.twitter.comKOKbkt7LTm
The clip itself is comical: Retreating Russian infantry carrier hastily takes offthrowing a soldier riding at the top out the back.
PhillipsPOBrien JominiW noclador GlasnostGone DefMon3 perhaps you will be interested, this barrel from the Russian BMP was filmed by Ukrainians. pic.twitter.comS4AGIWypPw
FIRMS Data: 2022-07-2417:45Added 329 locations to kmlFiltered 682 locations by proximity to other firesRemoved 99 false positives pic.twitter.comhYGT3CvSvj
Over the weekend, Mark wrote about Ukraines more aggressive posture in the Kherson region, and the panic it is supposedly generating with Russian troops in the line of advance. Last week, I speculated thatUkraines big counteroffensive might actually happen toward the southeastaway from Kherson, which would along with blowing a few strategic bridges cut off Russian forces from supply lines everywhere between Kherson and Melitpol and beyond. Speculation aside,Ukraine will ultimately pushwherever Russias lines are weakest. Limited counteroffensives will probe for those weaknesses,while HIMARS, Tochka-U ballistic missiles, and long range Excalibur guided artillery shellssystematically destroysupply depots, rail lines, command and control centers, air defenses, and troop barracks.
It took Russiaalmost three months to finally take Dovhenke, just 27 kilometers from Izyum. Indeed, that village is one of the few differences south of the river between the May 24 and July 24 maps above. That hamlet with a pre-war population of 800cost Russia untold lives and equipment and almost single-handedly stalledRussias Izyum advance. Dovehenkewas and remains one of my pet obsessions, and perhaps my favorite story this entire war.Id love to someday write an entire book about this little speck of dirt.
3. Looks like Ukraine brought the area where the pontoon bridge was being constructed under artillery fire. pic.twitter.com2qhsLZsujw
Their southern approach wasnt much better and it wasnt long beforeRussia decided that a broad encirclement of the entire Donbas wasnt going to happen. So instead they decided to target the twin fortresscities ofSlovyansk and Kramatorsk. That has fared as well as their attempt to head in Dnipros direction.
Ukraine: A Russian 2S7M PionMalka 203mm self-propelled howitzer suffered a catastrophic barrel failure - likely due to serious wear. pic.twitter.comL90OdsB2Vz
So what now? Thats a lot of Russians sitting on an exposed approach doing nothing while artillery fire continues toraindown on their positions. Ukrainian forces constantly harass Russian forces in the forestwest of Izyum.
Given that US intelligence estimates that Russia has committed 85 of its land forces to the war, reinforcing theirprecious land bridge will be tough. Given their menu of bad options, it may be time for them to abandon their Izyum approach.Remember Izyum?
Meanwhile, Ukraine is making gains down south, and its clear that something big is coming in a matter of weeks. Russia is thinnest in that southern front.Logic would dictate that Russia admit their Sloviansk-Kramatorsk dream is dead and surrender this entire approach to reinforce the south.Russia can claim its agood will gesture and the pro-Russia side can cope by pretending it was all a feint just like Kyiv. Butthat land bridge to Crimea wont protect itself.
Studenok is on the south bank of the Siversky Donets river,Yaremivka is on the north side. The two villages have been connected by a pontoon bridge supporting the Russian assault on Bohorodychneanother contender for hero city status. There is asupply railhead atYaremivka. Thats why the pontoon bridge was placed there. So is Russia really abandoning those positions? That would be incredible!
Unfortunately its not likely true.The occupiers tried to establish control over the settlement of Bohorodychne by assaulting them,Ukrainian General Staffreported on Sunday, virtually rolling their eyes.And again, traditionally, without any success.
If you recall, Russian troops atIzyum were supposed to spearhead Russias grand encirclement of Ukraines entire Donbas defense. Remember this map?
Holy crap, look at allthat fire between Kherson and Melitpol! Def Mon tries to filter out traditional agricultural burns false positives, but its unfathomable that there are that many military targets in that population no-mans land. Its all agricultural steppe.
Ukraine doesnt need HIMARS to reach these exposed positions. Regular artillery and even anti-tank missiles are doing the trick.
WarMapper played with some of the red-pink shading, so ignore that. Look at cities that have actually changed hands. The most obvious differenceis that Russia captured everything north of the SiverskyDonets river. That has little to do with the Izyum salient, though will all that territory filling in to its east, its probably time to stop calling it a salient.
So it was curious to see that onSunday morning, Ukrainian sources on Telegram claimed that Russian troops had looted the towns of Yaremivka and Studenok, packed everything up, and left.
But whats notable is that it has been geolocatedheading east out of Velyka Komyschuvakha. Thats the lone settlement Russia took west of Izyum. These troops are retreating out of that village toward Izyum.
Embarrassingly for Russia,the Izyum approach once featured the heaviest concentration of Russian combat forces in all of Ukraine. Here was the estimated distribution on April 30, by Henry Schlottman on Twitter:
Suffering from military ADD, Russia couldnt mass or focus its forces on a single line of attack, literally fanning out in four separate directions. That push westward seemed to freak out US intelligence:
1 Update for 13 June done on https:t.coYKKYG1wu6SData: https:t.cosB1tTfljgsSome refinements for assessed Russian forces in Kherson Oblast and near Izium pic.twitter.comvXD7KXrPj1
New York Times: Russia will likely wage an offensive between Izium and Dnipro. U.S. analysts predict Russian troops will carry out a major offensive from Izium to the central city of Dnipro, a strategic target in Donbas region, unnamed U.S. military officials said on April 10.
Its a really a case when one graffiti from St. Petersburg Russia is worth a thousand words. One of the best examples of oppositional street art.RussianWarCrimes pic.twitter.comeuB0tnpPbi
