This matters Ernst says about preventing invasion of Ukraine
20220126
https://nonpareilonline.com/news/local/this-matters-ernst-says-about-preventing-invasion-of-ukraine/article_9f5f334a-7ef3-11ec-8676-5be764b4260e.html
Put those sanctions in place. We can ratchet them up even higher if he does invade, she said. We need to start pushing back now and letting President Putin know that we do mean that we are actually going to follow through on what were saying were going to do. We need to prevent an invasion.
Ernst has been calling on the Biden administration to impose tougher sanctions on Russia now as a deterrent to an invasion. Russia has amassed weapons and more than 100,000 troops on Ukraines eastern border.
Ernst, an Army combat veteran, is not calling for U.S. military involvement beyond providing lethal weapons to help Ukraine defend itself. Congress has allowed for $450 million of aid to Ukraine.
The one thing that we took away from there was not just the differences in our agriculture, but the fact that Ukraine at that time wanted to be an independent, free nation, she said Tuesday in Cedar Rapids.
So yes, I have strong feelings about this, she said about threats by Russian President Vladimir Putin to invade his independent neighbor. It is extremely disheartening to see his actions and the buildup as he prepares for a potential invasion.
Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst welcomes guests during a campaign stop at the Pottawattamie County GOP headquarters in Council Bluffs on Oct. 28, 2020.
CEDAR RAPIDS  As she pushes for a more forceful response to Russian aggression toward Ukraine, U.S. Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, draws on a personal perspective.
Once an invasion happens, lives are lost and Putin gains territory, Ernst said, adding that Russia has not moved out of Georgia and Crimea after invading those former Soviet states.
Council Bluffs police are investigating the "suspicious death" of a woman who had been missing since the middle of February.
Russia invading Ukraine matters to Americans  not only for the safety and security of our partners in Europe, she told CNN. When we have a stable Europe, when we have democracy around the globe, it makes our country safer. This matters.
Diplomacy always must be the first answer. When diplomacy fails, thats when all of those actions will be considered, she said. But I think its imperative we start putting the sanctions in place now to try to prevent that.
More than four years after Joseph Hellman was shot, killed and sunk in the Missouri River, his killer was sentenced to nearly 20 years in pris
This hits me very hard, said Ernst, who as a college student lived on collective farm while on an agricultural exchange in Ukraine in 1989.
Ernst, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has criticized President Joe Biden for a doctrine of appeasement toward Putin.
