Fall of Mariupol to Russians appears at hand as Ukraine moves to abandon steel plant
20220517
http://www.chicagotribune.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-russia-20220517-z6opccdktvcblagcksyvzp6ahe-story.html
Over the past few days, Sweden and Finland announced plans to apply for NATO membership, and Ukraine reported that Moscows forces had retreated from around the northeastern city of Kharkiv in the face of counterattacks and had taken heavy losses in an Ukrainian assault on a pontoon bridge in the Donbas.
Russias main federal investigative body said it intends to interrogate the troops to identify the nationalists and determine whether they were involved in crimes against civilians. Also, Russias top prosecutor asked the countrys Supreme Court to designate Ukraines Azov Regiment, whose members have been holding out at Azovstal, a terrorist organization. The regiment has links to the far right.
Mariupol appeared on the verge of falling to the Russians on Tuesday as Ukraine moved to abandon the steel plant where hundreds of its fighters had held out for months under relentless bombardment in the last bastion of resistance in the devastated city.
I dont think it will make a significant difference because the Russians have already pulled the bulk of their forces out, OBrien said. So maybe its a symbolic moment, but I dont think it will make any difference to Ukrainian resistance.
In other developments, the chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Court prosecutor, Karim Khan, said he sent a team of 42 investigators, forensic experts and support personnel to Ukraine to look into suspected war crimes. Ukraine have accused Russian forces of torturing and killing civilians.
The withdrawal could also work to Moscows benefit by taking the worlds attention off the suffering in Mariupol.
And it would give Russia a victory after repeated setbacks on the battlefield and diplomatic front, beginning with the abortive attempt to storm Kyiv, the capital.
While the focus of the fighting has shifted eastward in the Donbas, that, too, has turned into a slog.
Oleksiy Polyakov, right, and Roman Voitko check the remains of a destroyed Russian helicopter lie in a field in the village of Malaya Rohan, Kharkiv region, Ukraine, May 16, 2022. Bernat ArmangueAP
The governor of the Lviv region, Maksym Kozytskyy, said Russian strikes targeted railroad and military facilities around Yavoriv, west of the city.
The operation to abandon the steel plant signaled the beginning of the end of a nearly three-month siege that turned Mariupol into a worldwide symbol of both defiance and suffering.
Strikes have also occasionally hit other areas of the country. The western city of Lviv was rocked by loud explosions early Tuesday. Witnesses counted at least eight blasts. The sky west of the city, which was under an overnight curfew, was lit up by an orange glow.
Ukraine needs Ukrainian heroes to be alive. Its our principle, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in announcing that troops had begun leaving the mill and its labyrinth of tunnels and bunkers.
More than 260 Ukrainian fighters  some of them seriously wounded and taken out on stretchers  left the ruins of the Azovstal plant on Monday and turned themselves over to the Russian side in a deal negotiated by the warring parties. Ukrainian authorities said they were working to extract the remaining soldiers from the sprawling steel mill. They would not say how many were still there.
The Yavoriv area, which is just a short drive from the Polish border, has been the target of previous Russian strikes apparently aimed at slowing the flow of weapons and other supplies coming from Western countries. A Russian strike in March also killed 35 people at Yaroviv military training base.
A negotiated withdrawal could save lives on the Russian side, too, sparing its troops from what almost certainly would be a bloody battle to finish off the defenders inside the plant, which sprawls over 4 square miles.
During the siege, Russian forces launched lethal airstrikes on a maternity hospital and a theater where civilians had taken shelter.Close to 600 people may have been killed at the theater.
Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar expressed hope that the fighters would be exchanged for Russian prisoners of war. But Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of the lower house of the Russian parliament, said without evidence that there were war criminals among the defenders and that they should not be exchanged but tried.
The soldiers who left the plant were given pat-down searches, loaded onto buses accompanied by Russian military vehicles, and taken to two towns controlled by Moscow-backed separatists. More than 50 of the fighters were seriously wounded, according to both sides.
The Russian victory, though, is mostly symbolic, said Phillips OBrien, professor of strategic studies at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
Russia called it a surrender. The Ukrainians avoided using that word and instead said that its garrison had completed its mission and that there was no way to rescue its members militarily in the otherwise Russian-held city.
But because the Azovstal defenders incredible resistance tied down Russian troops, Ukraine can also claim that it came out on top.
The Russian bombardment killed over 20,000 civilians, according to the Ukrainian side, and left the remaining inhabitants  perhaps one-quarter of the southern port citys prewar population of 430,000  with little food, water, heat or medicine.
Ukrainian servicemen sit in a bus after they were evacuated from the besieged Mariupol's Azovstal steel plant, near a remand prison in Olyonivka, in a territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic's control, eastern Ukraine May 17, 2022. Alexei AlexandrovAP
Gaining full control of Mariupol would give Russia an unbroken land bridge to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014, and deprive Ukraine of a vital port. It could also free up Russian forces to fight elsewhere in the Donbas, the eastern industrial heartland that the Kremlin is bent on capturing.
Both sides will be able take pride or boast about a victory  victories of different kinds, he said.
The capture of Mariupol would make it the biggest city to be taken by Moscows forces yet and would give the Kremlin a badly needed victory, though the landscape has largely been reduced to rubble.
McQuillan and Yuras Karmanau reported from Lviv, Ukraine. Mstyslav Chernov and Andrea Rosa in Kharkiv, Elena Becatoros in Odesa and other AP staffers around the world contributed.
Retired French Vice Adm. Michel Olhagaray, a former head of Frances center for higher military studies, said Azovstals fall would be more of a symbolic boost for Russian President Vladimir Putin than a military one, since factually, Mariupol had already fallen.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak likened the Ukrainian defenders to the vastly outnumbered Spartans who held out against Persian forces in ancient Greece. 83 days of Mariupol defense will go down in history as the Thermopylae of the XXI century, he tweeted.
