Russia blames Ukraine for car bombing death of daughter of man known as Putins brain
20220822
http://www.chicagotribune.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-russia-ukraine-nationalist-killed-20220822-fa74irfndfajjdvbffo6nq2vqq-story.html
Dugin, dubbed Putins brain and Putins Rasputin by some in the West, has been a prominent proponent of the Russian world concept, a spiritual and political ideology that emphasizes traditional values, the restoration of Russias global influence and the unity of all ethnic Russians throughout the world.
Russias Federal Security Service, or FSB, the main successor to the KGB, said Duginas killing was prepared and perpetrated by the Ukrainian special services.
The FSB said Vovk used a license plate for Ukraines Russian-backed separatist Donetsk region to enter Russia and a Kazakhstan plate in Moscow before switching to a Ukrainian one to cross into Estonia.
In a letter extending condolences to Dugin and his wife, Putin denounced the cruel and treacherous killing and added that Dugina honestly served people and the Fatherland, proving what it means to be a patriot of Russia with her deeds.
In a statement, Dugin described his daughter as a rising star who was treacherously killed by enemies of Russia.
Our hearts are longing not just for revenge and retaliation. It would be too petty, not in Russia style, Dugin wrote. We need only victory.
Dugin helped popularize the Novorossiya, or New Russia concept that Russia used to justify the 2014 annexation of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula and its support of separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine. He has urged the Kremlin to step up its operations in Ukraine.
Her father, Alexander Dugin, a philosopher, writer and political theorist who ardently supports Russian President Vladimir Putins decision to send troops into Ukraine, was widely believed to be the intended target. Russian media quoted witnesses as saying that the SUV belonged to Dugin and that he had decided at the last minute to travel in another vehicle.
His daughter expressed similar views and had appeared as a commentator on the TV channel Tsargrad, where Dugin had served as chief editor.
The FSB said Vovk arrived in Russia in July with her 12-year-old daughter and rented an apartment in the building where Dugina lived in order to shadow her. It said that Vovk and her daughter were at a nationalist festival that Dugin and his daughter attended just before the killing.
The FSB said a Ukrainian citizen, Natalya Vovk, carried out the killing and then fled to Estonia.
Daria Dugina, a 29-year-old commentator with a nationalist Russian TV channel, died when a remotely controlled explosive device planted in her SUV blew up on Saturday night as she was driving on the outskirts of Moscow, ripping the vehicle apart and killing her on the spot, authorities said.
The car bombing, unusual for Moscow since the gang wars of the turbulent 1990s, triggered calls from Russian nationalists to respond by ramping up strikes on Ukraine.
Ukraines presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak denied any Ukrainian involvement in the bombing. In a tweet, he dismissed the FSB claims as fiction, casting them as part of infighting between Russian security agencies.
The agency released video of the suspect from surveillance cameras at the border crossings and at the entrance to the Moscow apartment building.
Dugin has also promoted authoritarian leadership in Russia and spoken with disdain of liberal Western values. He has been slapped with U.S. and European Union sanctions.
MOSCOW  Moving quickly to assign blame, Russia on Monday declared Ukrainian intelligence responsible for the brazen car bombing that killed the daughter of a leading right-wing Russian political thinker over the weekend. Ukraine denied involvement.
Russian Foreign Minisry spokeswoman Maria Zakharov said Duginas killing reflected Kyivs reliance on terrorism as an instrument of its criminal ideology.
Dugina herself was sanctioned by the U.S. in March for her work as chief editor of United World International, a website that Washington has described as a source of disinformation.
In Estonia, the prosecutor generals office said in a statement carried by the Baltic News Services that it has not received any requests or inquiries from the Russian authorities on this topic.
Sergei Markov, a pro-Kremlin political analyst, argued that the perpetrators of Duginas killing might have hoped to encourage a split between those in the Russian elite who advocate a political compromise to end the hostilities in Ukraine and proponents of even tougher military action.
In an appearance on Russian television last week, Dugina called America a zombie society where people oppose Russia but cannot find it on a map.
