Ukraine shuts off Russian gas pipeline amid talk of annexation
20220511
http://www.chicagotribune.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-russia-20220511-jm5hniplpfbgvcnl5wticsgvka-story.html
The hub handles about one-third of Russian gas passing through Ukraine to Western Europe. But analysts said much of the gas can be redirected through another pipeline from Russia that crosses Ukraine, and preliminary data suggested that was already happening.
On the battlefield, Ukrainian officials said a Russian rocket attack targeted an area around Zaporizhzhia, destroying unspecified infrastructure. There were no immediate reports of casualties. The southeastern city has been a refuge for civilians fleeing the Russian siege in the devastated port city of Mariupol.
Still, there is growing fear that the fighting in Ukraine may remain a source of continental and global instability for months or even years.
The immediate effect of the energy cutoff is likely to be limited, in part because Russia can divert the gas to another pipeline and because Europe relies on a variety of suppliers. But it marked the first time since the start of the war that Ukraine disrupted the flow westward of one of Moscows most lucrative exports.
The gas cutoff came as Western powers have been looking to ratchet up economic pressure on Moscow and bolster Ukraines defenders. The U.S. House approved a $40 billion Ukraine aid package Tuesday. Senate approval appeared certain.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak mocked the notion of its annexation, tweeting: The invaders may ask to join even Mars or Jupiter. The Ukrainian army will liberate Kherson, no matter what games with words they play.
Meanwhile, the talk of annexation in Kherson  and Russias apparent willingness to consider such a request  raised the possibility that the Kremlin will seek to break off another piece of Ukraine as it tries to salvagean invasion gone awry.Russia annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula in 2014.
The ministry said Russian resupply vessels have minimum protection since the Russian Navy retreated to Crimea following the sinking ofthe flagship of its Black Sea fleet.
A local residence rides a bike past a destroyed Russian military vehicle in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, May 10, 2022. Efrem LukatskyAP
Russia has repeatedly used annexation or recognition of breakaway republics as tactics in recent years to gain pieces of fellow former Soviet republics Ukraine and Georgia. Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 after holding a referendum on the peninsula over whether it wanted to become part of Russia.
Kherson, a Black Sea port of roughly 300,000, provides access to fresh water for neighboring Crimea and is seen a gateway to wider Russian control over southern Ukraine. It was captured early in the war, becoming Ukraines first major city to fall.
On the energy front, Ukraines natural gas pipeline operator said it moved to stop the flow of Russian gas through a compressor station in part of eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed separatists because enemy forces were interfering with the stations operation and siphoning off gas.
In his nightly address Tuesday, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy suggested Ukraines military is gradually pushing Russian troops away from Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city and a key to Russias offensive in the Donbas, the eastern industrial region that the Kremlin has said is its main objective.
Gambrell reported from Lviv, Ukraine. Yesica Fisch in Bakhmut, David Keyton in Kyiv, Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Mstyslav Chernov in Kharkiv, Lolita C. Baldor in Washington, Kelvin Chan in London and APs worldwide staff contributed.
Zelenskyy said his troops drove Russian forces out of four villages near Kharkiv, in the countrys northeast.
U.S. officials and NATO have expressed concern that Russia may be digging in for a protracted conflict as the war grinds into its third month with little sign of a decisive military victory for either side and no resolution in sight.
The plant, with its network of tunnels and bunkers, has sheltered hundreds of Ukrainian troops and civilians during a months-long siege. Scores of civilians were evacuated in recent days, but Ukrainian officials said some may still be trapped there.
ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine  Ukraine shut down a pipeline Wednesday that carries Russian natural gas to homes and industries in Western Europe, while a Kremlin-installed official in a southern region seized by Russian troops said the area will ask Moscow to annex it.
It was not clear if Russia would take any immediate hit, since it has long-term contracts and other ways of transporting gas.
The city of Kherson is Russia, Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Kherson regional administration installed by Moscow, told Russias RIA Novosti news agency. He said regional officials want Russian President Vladimir Putin to make Kherson a proper region of Russia.
The allianceis also waitingto see whether Sweden and Finland, two neighbors of Russia, announce plans to join NATO, a move the Kremlin would see as an affront.
Still, European gas futures seesawed on the news, meaning consumers may face higher energy bills at a time of already rising prices.
Yesterdays decision is a small preview of what might happen if gas installations are hit by live fire and face the risk of extended downtimes, said gas analyst Zongqiang Luo at Rystad Energy.
Ukraine is also targeting Russian air defenses and resupply vessels on Snake Island in the Black Sea in an effort to disrupt Moscows efforts to expand its control over the coastline, according to the British Ministry of Defense.
Russian troops continued to pound the steel plant that is the last bastion of Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol, its defenders said. The Azov Regiment said on social media that Russian forces carried out 38 airstrikes in the previous 24 hours on the grounds of the Azovstal steelworks.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that it would be up to the residents of the Kherson region to make such a request, and that any move to annex territory would would have to be closely evaluated by experts to make sure its legal basis is absolutely clear.
Were losing a few percent in overall European gas supply, when you consider imports and domestic production as well, said Tom Marzec-Manser, head of gas analytics at ICIS market intelligence firm. So this is not a huge cutoff to gas supplies for Europe.
Separately, Ukraine said it shot down a cruise missile targeting the Black Sea port city of Odesa on Wednesday.
