Family of Ukrainian international student fleeing Kyiv as Russia invades
20220225
https://www.ktvb.com/article/news/world/ukrainian-student-in-idaho-fears-for-family/293-c1753aa3-31e3-46d8-b384-24779da976e2
What makes me mad is that potentially, Russians can destroy facts and things that belong to Ukraine, she said. And then rewrite history.
Vladovska said shes also worried about the future of her country. Ukraine celebrated 30 years of independence from the Soviet Union in 2021.
Nineteen-year-old Annie Vladovska was on a call with a college friend when her mom messaged her.
Around noon Ukrainian time, Vladovskas mom said they were leaving Kyiv to drive to a safer area. Many residents, along with Vladovskas family, were evacuating, and others sought shelter in the underground metro stations.
Russia unleashed a full-scale invasion of the country on Thursday, sending troops and tanks and launching airstrikes on cities and military bases.
Im confused and scared for my family, Vladovska said. Im scared that my family will die.
She said its important to her that people understand the difference between Russia and Ukraine, and dont say shes Russian or part of the Soviet Union because she can speak Russian.
They have certain value, Vladovska said. For me it is important that these historical artifacts stay untouched.
Im mad at the aggressor and the things that are happening, she said. It's not the first time its happened, the aggression toward Ukraine from Russia, and they try to eliminate the culture and the history.
She said Russians were always welcomed to Ukraine. There wasnt a language barrier either as Ukrainians also spoke Russian along with their own language.
The explosions were coming from the direction of Ukraines largest airport, Boryspil International Airport, about 40 minutes from Vladovskas family home in Kyiv.
Ukraine has a lot of potential, she said. Im scared after the war ends, people will have to start over again like they did 30 years ago.
COEUR D'ALENE, Idaho  It was around 7:30 p.m. Wednesday when she got a text, as reported by our news partners, the Coeur d'Alene Press.
Two different lives are happening right now, Vladovska said. People are getting married, people are happy  theyre just living their life. And there is my family in a country where they have to run, and they stand in the line not knowing if they will be able to make it to the border.
The Coeur d'Alene Press is a KREM 2 News partner. For more news from our partner, click here.
I was confused, still am, Vladovska said. Scared. Trying to find out how I can be of any help.
Her grandparents, parents and 10-year-old sister are among almost 3 million others living in the capital of Ukraine.
Vladovskas mom told her the explosions woke them up but they didnt know what they were. She was then updated that the invasion had started.
As of Press time Thursday night, Vladovska last heard her family was in heavy traffic because of the evacuations. Her mom said they were stopped, not moving anywhere.
While she left Ukraine in 2019 to study at North Idaho College, Vladovska can still see photos of destroyed buildings and read of casualties in the country where she was born and raised.
She said photos are very important. Vladovska said even if everyone with information about the family photos were to die, people who found the photos might not know the people but would be able to learn how they dressed and what foods they were preparing.
It was his main income, she said. He doesnt have his instruments. Thats the thing, having to leave your office and things you cannot bring with you.
