Derbyshire family angry at red tape stopping them taking in seven Ukrainian refugees
20220420
https://www.derbytelegraph.co.uk/news/local-news/derbyshire-family-angry-red-tape-6974087
A Derbyshire family trying to take in seven Ukrainian refugees have voiced their frustration after being met with complex paperwork and lengthy visa delays. Louise Orange, 43, a school business manager from Ridings, near Alfreton, lives with her husband Jon, 44, and their two daughters, Evelyn, 12, and Alice, 7, and have space to home an entire family of Ukrainian refugees.
Now, after generous members of the local community renovated the property for free, they have the space to welcome the desperate refugees, three generations of the same family, to their home. But they say this act of kindness has been blocked by visa delays and complex paperwork.
A spokesperson for Nigel Mills MP's constituency office said: "The Homes for Ukraine scheme is operated on a first come first serve basis. We've been assured that the Home Office is working as quickly as they can.
Local electrics firms installed 1,000 worth of equipment, as well as a new plumbing system. This was accompanied by furniture and clothes.
The Orange family moved in to an old doctor's house last year, which has attached to it a three bedroom annexe. This needed plenty of work done, including installing new carpets, plumbing and electrics.
Louise says she has experienced many delays and has been in touch with her local MP and the Home Office day after day to speed up the process.
"The more MPs contact the Home Office, however, the slower it will be. Their capacity is already struggling, but we'll keep liaising with Louise and keep pursuing her case."
"I admit we've taken on a lot, but we've sent off the right forms - the latest batch two weeks ago. We've had to fill out five two or three sided forms, along with quarantine forms, a permission to travel letter. They all feed into one another too so you can't do one without the others.
"We've been waiting almost a month. We just want to help and have them here safe with us."
The Ukrainian family have been living in one room of a hostel in Prague for over a month
Louise said: "This all would've cost us about 10,000 to do this ourselves. People have been amazing.
Yuliia, 28, her daughter Sofiia, 4, her aunt and her twin boys, 7, another aunt, as well as two Yorkshire terriers, escaped from the besieged city of Kharkiv in the north of the country in early March. They have been stuck in one room of a hostel in Prague awaiting travel to Derbyshire since March 18. Their UK visas are currently still being processed by the Home Office.
Louise added: "We emailed our MP, Nigel Mills, two weeks ago. Then emailed last Friday again. His office have told me that at the moment they've got no information for us.
"We've made sure to chase Louise's case multiple times, but she isn't alone in our constituency in wanting to accept Ukrainian refugees. We will keep pushing, the same as most MPs are doing nationwide.
Louise said: "I felt like I needed to help, its so horrible when you see it on the news. They're a family exactly like us, they were having Christmas together a few months ago.
A Hucknall carpet fitter has installed all the carpets in the annex for free, and the family has also received a heat pump free of charge from Daiken.
"As a family we talked about pros and cons, such as the fact we're working, we've got small children and dogs. My husband wanted us to wait but I'm not very good at waiting. A Ukrainian lady messaged me in minutes after I posted on the Facebook group, so we found each other within an hour really."
It has been incredibly stressful trying to make arrangements for them, I have had to do seven separate visa applications and apply for permits for quarantine for the pets. The Orange family say that the Home Office has only provided one visa for the family so far.
"The Home Office clearly wasn't ready for all these applications. They should have made sure the system was ready before appealing for people to come forward and offer their homes.
"We couldnt have done it without all of this help and thanks to everyone a family from the Ukraine will have a lovely fully furnished three bed house to themselves that is full of clothes toys and toiletries."
Derbyshire Live contacted the Home Office who advised our reporter to contact the press office at the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.
Kharkiv has been under fire from Russian forces since Putin's troops invaded on March 4. The United Nations estimates that over ten million Ukrainians have fled their home since the beginning of the conflict. The Orange family felt they had no option but to offer the extra space to people in need.
"We didnt realise the annex was even there when we first came to view the house. It was converted to a house from the stables in the 1970s and hasnt been lived in for over 20 years. There was no kitchen, working bathroom, and the boiler and electrics were condemned when we moved in."
Psst... share your email to join the Secret Elves Club and get first access to exclusive reviews of this year's must-have products.
Louise said: "At the moment six applications are stuck with an entry officer and three different visa officers. The Home Office has had a glitch and I have still heard nothing about six of the visas despite contacting them constantly and asking my local MP for help.
Two weeks ago, the Orange family found out that they would also be taking in Yuliia's mum. She had also managed to escape along with two more dogs and a cat.
The family are currently living in a one room in a hostel in Prague desperately waiting for news on their visas, it is heartbreaking.
"We're really desperate. There's seven people in one room in a hostel in Prague. At least they're safe. We're all really frustrated, and really angry. It's so complicated, which you don't realise when you take this on.
The two families found each other on the Facebook group 'Accommodation, Help  Shelter for Ukraine', which now has nearly 100,000 members.
"KRCS have given me some iPad minis for the children, and 200 Degrees coffee has arranged a huge collection of toys and clothes, giving us 300 towards food and things that the family will need.
"I've also raised issue of funding. It's obviously my choice to take in seven or eight people, but I'd say we at least need extra facility for housing them in a self-contained house. As well as extra food bills, we're having to take on extra council tax and water and heating.
