Netflix may start showing adverts and considers password rule change
20220420
https://www.derbytelegraph.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/netflix-start-showing-adverts-considers-6975865
Netflix has been grappling with slowing revenue growth caused by stiffer competition from rival services in recent months. Yesterday it announced that it ended the first quarter of 2022 with 200,00 fewer subscribers than the three months before - missing its growth projection by 2.7 million customers.
The company may expand a trial programme it has been running in Chile, Costa Rica and Peru. This allows subscribers to extend their account to another household for a discounted price.
The firm offered no additional information about how a cheaper ad-supported version would work or how much it would cost.
Netflix has announced that it's considering cracking down on password sharing and might introduce a subscription model with adverts. This comes after the American streaming service experienced a sudden drop in customers.
Those who have followed Netflix know that Ive been against the complexity of advertising and a big fan of the simplicity of subscription, Mr Hastings said, the Wall Street Journal reported. But as much as Im a fan of that, Im a bigger fan of consumer choice.
Netflix says it expects to lose two million more customers worldwide this quarter. The end of pandemic lockdowns, which led people to binge-watch television, and the rise of rival platforms such as Apple and Disney, has chipped away at Netflix's dominant position.
Those who are piggy-backing on someone else's Netflix account can breath easy for the time being, as the company's boss has said reducing sharing wasnt a high priority to be working on. Mr Hastings did not give details of how password sharing might be addressed and whether there would be a limit on the number of people who can use an account.
This could spell the end of the platform's reputation as an advert-free service, reports the Mirror. Despite its popularity, the company is facing a difficult spell in terms of subscribers, which it attributes to password sharing among its members.
Netflix estimates that besides its almost 222 million paying households, the service is being shared with an additional 100 million homes. Chief executive Reed Hastings says the company is testing password-sharing subscription models at the moment.
The firm's drop in users stemmed in part from it decision to withdraw from Russia in protest at the war against Ukraine, resulting in a loss of 700,000 subscribers. Netflix's boss has said a separate, cheaper subscription plan with adverts is being considered.
