No UN vote on Russias derided resolution
20220318
http://ptinews.com/news/13212203_No-UN-vote-on-Russia-s-derided-resolution.html
U.N. Security Council to meet ahead of vote on Russian humanitarian resolution    Biden flatly calls Putin a war criminal, but investigations for determining that have only begun
United Nations, Mar 18 AP Russia's U.N. ambassador says he is not asking for a vote Friday on its resolution on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine, which has been sharply criticized by Western countries for making no mention of Russia's responsibility for the war against its smaller neighbor. Vassily Nebenzia told the U.N. Security Council Thursday that Russia decided at this stage not to seek a vote because of pressure from the United States and Albania on U.N. members to oppose it, but he stressed that Moscow is not withdrawing the resolution.Nebenzia said Russia plans to go ahead with a council meeting Friday to discuss again its allegations of U.S.  biological laboratories  in Ukraine with claiming new documents. His initial charge was made without any evidence and repeatedly denied by U.S. and Ukrainian officials.U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield responded to Nebenzia's announcement by saying  their farcical humanitarian resolution ... was doomed to fail.   We know if Russia really cared about humanitarian crises, the one that it created, it could simply stop its attacks on the people of Ukraine,  she said.  But instead, they want to call for another Security Council meeting to use this council as a venue for its disinformation and for promoting its propaganda.
At last Friday's council meeting on Russia's initial allegations of U.S.  biological activities,  Thomas-Greenfield accused Russia of using the Security Council for  lying and spreading disinformation  as part of a potential false-flag operation by Moscow for the use of chemical or biological agents in Ukraine.
CHERNIHIV, Ukraine   An American man was killed in a Russian attack on the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv, where he was seeking medical treatment for his partner. The death of Jim Hill, of Diggs, Idaho, was reported Thursday by his sister.Ukrainian officials reported that 10 people were killed Wednesday in Chernihiv while standing in the bread line.
Cheap but lethal Turkish drones  bolster Ukraine's defenses   Go to  https:apnews.comhubrussia-ukraine for more coverage
UNITED NATIONS   The U.N. health chief decried the devastating consequences of war on the Ukrainian people who are facing severe disruption to services and medication and stressed that  the life-saving medicine we need right now is peace.  World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told the U.N. Security Council Thursday that WHO has verified 43 attacks on hospitals and health facilities with 12 people killed and 34 injured.In a virtual briefing, Tedros said  the disruption to services and supplies is posing an extreme risk to people with cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, HIV and TB, which are among the leading causes of mortality in Ukraine.  The WHO chief said displacement and overcrowding caused by people fleeing fighting are likely to increase the risks of diseases such as COVID-19, measles, pneumonia and polio.In addition, more than 35,000 mental health patients in Ukrainian psychiatric hospitals and long-term care facilities face severe shortages of medicine, food, health and blankets, he said.So far, WHO has sent about 100 metric tonnes 110 tons of medical supplies, enough for 4,500 trauma patients and 450,000 primary health care patients for a month, to Ukraine along with other equipment. Tedros said the agency is preparing a further 108 metric tonnes 119 tons for delivery.
UNITED NATIONS   The U.N. political chief is calling for an investigation of massive civilian casualties and the destruction of hundreds of residential buildings, schools, hospitals and other civilian infrastructure in Ukraine, and for those responsible to be held accountable.Undersecretary-General Rosemary DiCarlo told the U.N. Security Council Thursday that  international humanitarian law is crystal clear  in prohibiting direct attacks on civilians in military operations and ensuring their protection. Yet, she said, many of the daily attacks that are battering Ukrainian cities  are reportedly indiscriminate, resulting in civilian casualties and damage to civilian infrastructure.
An American man was among many killed in a Russian attack on the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv
WASHINGTON   Secretary of State Antony Blinken says U.S. officials are in the process of evaluating and documenting potential war crimes committed by Russia in its war against Ukraine.The statement to reporters on Thursday came one day after President Joe Biden called Russian leader Vladimir Putin a  war criminal.  Blinken says he believes the intentional targeting of civilians in Ukraine would amount to a war crime, and that there will be accountability and  massive consequences  for any war crimes determined to have occurred.NEW YORK   PayPal users will now be able to send money to Ukrainians, both in the war-ravaged country as well as those now refugees across Europe, the company said Thursday.Previously, people in Ukraine were only able to use the payments platform to send money out of the country. They will now be able to receive funds, as well as make transfers within Ukraine and abroad.
