Russian pledge to scale back in Ukraine draws skepticism
20220330
http://ptinews.com/news/13243334_Russian-pledge-to-scale-back-in-Ukraine-draws-skepticism.html
It noted, however, that the shift is unlikely to mean relief for civilians in cities suffering relentless Russian bombardments, saying that it expects Moscow will  continue to compensate for its reduced ground maneuver capability through mass artillery and missile strikes.
Even as negotiators gathered, Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces blasted a gaping hole in a nine-story government administration building in a strike on the southern port city of Mykolaiv, killing at least 12 people, emergency authorities said. The search for more bodies in the rubble continued. It's terrible. They waited for people to go to work  before striking the building, said regional governor Vitaliy Kim.  I overslept. I'm lucky.
The meeting in Istanbul was the first time negotiators from Russia and Ukraine talked face-to-face in two weeks. Earlier talks were held in person in Belarus or by video.Among other things, the Kremlin has demanded all along that Ukraine drop any hope of joining NATO.Ukraine's delegation offered a detailed framework for a peace deal under which a neutral Ukraine's security would be guaranteed by a group of third countries, including the U.S., Britain, France, Turkey, China and Poland, in an arrangement similar to NATO's "an attack on one is an attack on all  principle.Ukraine said it would also be willing to hold talks over a 15-year period on the future of the Crimean Peninsula, seized by Russia in 2014.Vladimir Medinsky, head of the Russian delegation, said on Russian TV that the Ukrainian proposals are a  step to meet us halfway, a clearly positive fact.
President Joe Biden, asked whether the Russian announcement was a sign of progress in the talks or an attempt by Moscow to buy time to continue its assault, said:  We'll see. I don't read anything into it until I see what their actions are.  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken suggested Russian indications of a pullback could be an attempt by Moscow to  deceive people and deflect attention.
He did not spell out what that would mean in practical terms.Zelenskyy said Ukrainian troops had forced Russia's hand, adding that  we shouldn't let down our guard  because the invading army can still carry out attacks. Ukrainians are not na ve people," he said. "Ukrainians have already learned during the 34 days of the invasion and during the past eight years of war in the Donbas that you can trust only concrete results.
He cautioned that the parties are still far from reaching an agreement, but said:  We know now how to move further toward compromise. We aren't just marking time in talks.
Russian Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin said Moscow has decided to  fundamentally ... cut back military activity in the direction of Kyiv and Chernihiv  to  increase mutual trust and create conditions for further negotiations.
The U.S. and others also expressed doubts about Russia's intentions.While Moscow portrayed it as a goodwill gesture, its ground troops have become bogged down and taken heavy losses in their attempts to seize Kyiv and other cities. Last week and again on Tuesday, the Kremlin seemed to lower its war aims, saying its  main goal  is gaining control of the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas region in eastern Ukraine.Britain's Ministry of Defense said Wednesday that Russia stating a focus on Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region  is likely a tacit admission that it is struggling to sustain more than one significant axis of advance.
Russian units suffering heavy losses have been forced to return to Belarus and Russia to reorganize and supply,  the ministry said in a statement.  Such activity is placing further pressure on Russia's already strained logistics and demonstrates the difficultie Russia is having reorganizing its units in forward areas within Ukraine.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said the U.S. has detected small numbers of Russian ground forces moving away from the Kyiv area, but it appeared to be a repositioning of forces,  not a real withdrawal.  He said it was too soon to say how extensive the Russian movements may be or where the troops will be repositioned. It does not mean the threat to Kyiv is over,  Kirby said.  They can still inflict massive brutality on the country, including on Kyiv.
It was a bitter reality check in a rare moment of optimism five weeks into what has devolved into a bloody war of attrition, with thousands dead and almost 4 million Ukrainians fleeing the country.Earlier Tuesday, Ukraine's delegation at the conference in Istanbul laid a framework under which the country would declare itself neutral and its security would be guaranteed by an array of other nations.Moscow's public reaction was positive, and the negotiations were expected to resume Wednesday.
By Nebi Qena and Yuras Karmanau Kyiv, Mar 30 AP Russia's pledge to scale back some military operations in Ukraine drew skepticism even as the two nations planned to return Wednesday to talks that could produce a framework for ending the war that has imposed an increasingly punishing toll.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said there was no reason to believe Russia's announcement that it would reduce military activity near Kyiv, the capital, as well as in the northern city of Chernihiv, given what's happening on the ground. We can call those signals that we hear at the negotiations positive,  he said in his nightly video address to the Ukrainian people.  But those signals don't silence the explosions of Russian shells.
It wouldn't be the first time. In the tense buildup to the invasion, the Russian military announced some units were loading equipment onto rail cars and preparing to return to their home bases after completing exercises. At the time, Putin was signaling interest in diplomacy. But 10 days later, Russia launched its invasion.Western officials say Moscow is now reinforcing troops in the Donbas in a bid to encircle Ukraine's forces. And Russia's deadly siege in the south continues, with civilians trapped in the ruins of Mariupol and other devastated cities. The latest satellite imagery from commercial provider Maxar Technologies showed hundreds of people waiting outside a grocery store amid reports of food and water shortages. There is what Russia says and there is what Russia does, and we're focused on the latter,  Blinken said in Morocco.  And what Russia is doing is the continued brutalization of Ukraine.
