Fife nuclear test veteran says Russian invasion of Ukraine is particularly heartbreaking
20220304
https://www.thecourier.co.uk/fp/news/fife/3072218/fife-nuclear-test-veteran-says-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-is-particularly-heart-breaking/
In the early hours of Friday morning, Russia took control of a nuclear power station in Ukraine after it was hit by shelling.
Human guinea pigs: Veteran of Britains nuclear tests on invitation to step into bomb crater
World leaders have accused Russia of endangering the safety of an entire continent, and Ukraines president accused Russia of nuclear terror.
It would appear that Chernobyl is in the news again, said Dave, 85, whose health problems over the years include the loss of all his teeth at 25 and the discovery in his mid-30s that he was sterile.
The brave Ukrainian people have been betrayed many times in their history from the 1930s to date and must not be allowed to return to subjugation under brutal rule of Vladimir Putins communist Russia.
The stakes are high in the Russian war of aggression against the Ukrainian people, he said.
He and those who planned the unprovoked invasion of an independent self-governing state must be indicted and tried in person or in absentia at the Hague International Criminal Court.
Many veterans say exposure to radiation during British atomic bomb tests in the South Pacific led to a legacy of ill-health which the British authorities denied.
A fire broke out at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant  the largest in Europe  and Ukraine said it was shelled by Russian troops.
However, Britains test veterans have also long empathized with the people of Ukraine since the Chernobyl nuclear power station disaster of 1986.
Soviet scientists, bureaucrats and civilians documented staggering increases in cases of birth defects,child mortality, cancers and a multitude of life-altering diseases years after the disaster in Ukraine and elsewhere.
It appears the Russians have disturbed the area around the reactors and caused a leak of radiation.
For all freedom loving people in Europe and the world, this must not be allowed to succeed.
They played an important role during the Cold Warwhich eventually led to the collapse ofSoviet communism in 1989.
A Fife man, who helped secure the freedom of Europe during the Cold War, is amongst British nuclear test veterans describing the Russian invasion of Ukraine as particularly heartbreaking.
I do not agree with Putinordering his troops to attack a sovereign country and liken it to our service personnel being ordered to attend the nuclear detonations.
For atomic test veterans, who loyally served the United Kingdom and suffered legacy ill health, premature deaths and genetic damage to help secure the freedom of Europe during the Cold war and the collapse of Soviet communism in 1989, the Russian invasion of Ukraine is a particular heartbreaking event to be taking place in 2022.
The service personnel knew nothing about the dangers of radiation, very similar to the Russian soldiers not being told why they were attacking Ukraine.
Chernobyl 35th anniversary: Fife engineers role in radiation containment as charity seeks new host families for children
Speaking on behalf of the Combined History Archive of Nuclear Veterans, nuclear test veteran Dennis Hayden said the brave Ukrainian people and their lion-hearted President Volodymyr Zelensky deserve all help possible.
If Putin and his generals are found to have indiscriminately used tactical thermo-baric missile systems, airdropped cluster bombs, any chemicalbiological weapons or depleted uranium tank or bunker penetrating shells against the people of Ukraine they are guilty of crimes against humanity.
Dave Whyte, of Kirkcaldy, who blames his exposure to the fallout from five British atomic and hydrogen bomb blasts at Christmas Island in 1958 for a catalogue of health problems, said the Ukrainian people deserve all help possible.
A new Iron Curtain is in process of descending across Europe which is aimed to replace borders again to those of the former 1989 bankrupted Soviet Union.
