Ukraine assault Nicola Sturgeon says Kremlin must face the severest consequences
20220224
https://www.thecourier.co.uk/fp/politics/scottish-politics/3043215/ukraine-assault-nicola-sturgeon-says-kremlin-must-face-the-severest-consequences/
Ms Sturgeon tweeted: Overnight developments in Ukraine  however anticipated  are appalling and horrific.
Ukraines ambassador at the United Nations has also told the security council that President Putin has declared war on Ukraine and pressed his Russian counterpart to state that Russia will not shell and bomb Ukrainian cities.
Dmytro Kuleba, Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs, said Russia has launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine and said Ukraine would defend itself against Russian aggression and will win.
The first minister and External Affairs Secretary Angus Robertson lodged a motion for the Scottish Government to give unqualified support to Ukraine in Holyrood on Thursday 24 February.
And to that end, we must also collectively cease the dependence on Russian oil and gas that for too long has given Putin his grip on western politics.
Nicola Sturgeon says the Kremlin must face the severest consequences for the unprovoked aggression in Ukraine, as Boris Johnson holds an emergency Cobra meeting.
A number of people have already died in Russian bomb attacks, and Ukrainian armed forces have shot down Russian planes and a helicopter  although Russia denies this.
He said: Its because weve been so alarmed in recent months at Russian intimidation that the UK became one of the first countries in Europe to send defensive weaponry to help the Ukrainians.
In the early hours of this morning Russian President Vladimir Putin made a televised statement where he stated Moscows response would be instant if anyone tried to stop the military operation.
I am appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine and I have spoken to President Zelenskyy to discuss next steps.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Russias attack on Ukraine was the saddest moment of his five-year tenure.
If the months ahead are grim and the flame of freedom burns low, I know that it will blaze bright again in Ukraine.
The first minister has now called on the world to stand with the people of Ukraine.
Boris Johnson chaired an urgent Cobra meeting, a committee which meets to discuss matters of national emergency or major disruption, where he called on world leaders to meet and plan a response.
Our mission is clear  diplomatically, politically, economically and eventually militarily, this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure.
For all his bombs and tanks and missiles, I dont believe the Russian dictator will ever subdue the national feeling of the Ukrainians and their passionate belief that their country should be free.
Russias military said it had targeted Ukrainian air bases and airports, including Kyiv International Airport, but had not targeted populated areas.
Ukraines president has declared martial law and urged citizens not to panic as Russia launched military strikes on the country.
Anticipating international condemnation and countermeasures, President Putin issued a warning to other countries not to get involved, and said: Whoever tries to impede us, let alone create threats for our country and its people, must know that the Russian response will be immediate and lead to the consequences you have never seen in history.
Ukraines border guard agency said Russian troops unleashed an artillery barrage as part of an attack backed by Belarus and Ukrainian border guards were firing back.
Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes. This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
He said: In the name of humanity do not allow to start in Europe what could be the worst war since the beginning of the century, with consequences not only devastating for Ukraine, not only tragic for the Russian Federation, but with an impact we cannot even foresee in relation to the consequences for the global economy.
Other allies have now done the same and we will do what more we can in the days ahead.
Boris Johnson made an address to the people of the UK were he said the hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure.
Overnight developments in Ukraine  however anticipated  are appalling and horrific. The Kremlin must face the severest consequences for this unprovoked aggression. And the world must stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine StandWithUkraine
President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
Here is the Scottish Government motion lodged in ScotParl by First Minister NicolaSturgeon and External Affairs Secretary AngusRobertson, giving unqualified support for Ukrainian sovereignty. It will be debated in the parliament chamber tomorrow  StandWithUkraine pic.twitter.comDKmslWmfJD
Today, in concert with our allies we will agree a massive package of economic sanctions designed in time to hobble the Russian economy.
He added: I say to the Ukrainians in this moment of agony, we are with you.
