I must remain strong Toronto chef honours Ukrainian heritage through food while fundraising for war relief
20220304
https://toronto.ctvnews.ca/i-must-remain-strong-toronto-chef-honours-ukrainian-heritage-through-food-while-fundraising-for-war-relief-1.5806136
Matkivska says her family, many of whom were not able to leave Ukraine before the onset of the war, are located near Kyiv and that many of them have volunteered in local defence groups.
Heavenly Perogys menu is full of traditional Ukrainian eats. Customers can order perogies, pork or chicken schnitzel, sauerkraut, cabbage rolls and borscht  all handmade by Matkivska and her small team.
She recalls growing up in Ukraine overhearing her parents whispering to avoid being caught expressing political beliefs.
We stand beside them, we worry about them and we try to help as we can.
Are you in Ukraine? Do you have family in Ukraine? Are you or your family affected? Emaildotcombellmedia.ca.
They have to be strong and brave, because if they're not, they'll end up where they were a century ago and they do not want to be there, she said.
We are really motivated because this is something we can do for our people and my family in Ukraine  my four sisters, my mom, my husband's parents, my cousins, friends.
I started part time at the beginning  we only sold once a week  and then I extended two days a week, three days a week after a few months, she said.
It hasnt been an easy couple of weeks for Matkivska, owner of Heavenly Perogy  much of her immediate family lives in Ukraine and have been made to endure the recent Russian invasion and subsequent violence.
Only a few days ago, one of Matkivskas grandmothers passed away in Ukraine. She says her family was not able to mourn as they intended due to ongoing battles.
On Wednesday, Matkivska told CTV News Toronto that being away from her family has been very difficult and very hard, but that she must remain strong.
Ukrainians are fighting now for their homeland and freedom, she said. The whole world stands with us because we are fighting for the most cherished values in this world: sovereignty and democracy.
When Matkivska arrived in Canada 16 years ago, St. Volodymyr's Ukrainian womens organization welcomed her. Here, she started volunteering to make Ukrainian food once a month to help raise funds for the church. The project eventually fizzled out, but three years ago, with the churchs support, Matkivska decided to once again use her skills and open her own business.
Culture is what makes the soul rise, she said. My children dont have grandparents around, so I do my best to emulate our culture for them.
Only last year, in September and October, did I start to work full time selling lunches and dinners.
My grandparents taught me a lot about cooking  they had a big, deep impact in my life, she said.
Nestled in the basement of St. Volodymyr's Ukrainian Orthodox Cathedral near Torontos Kensington Market, Tetyana Matkivska prepares orders of Ukrainian fare to be delivered within the community.
Currently, Matkivska is asking her customers to make donations to the Red Cross or the Ukrainian Defence Fund through Heavenly Perogys website.
The project isnt just about serving homemade traditional food though. Matkivska opened her business as an homage to Ukrainian culture and she hopes to pass those values onto her children.
