Fox One Brewing in Cwmbran creates beer to support Ukraine
20220501
https://www.southwalesargus.co.uk/news/20104841.fox-one-brewing-cwmbran-creates-beer-support-ukraine/
Our label showcases not only the blue and yellow of the Ukrainian flag but also highlights Ukrainian culture.
The Hop for Hope beers will raise money to support those affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
We were finalists in two categories at the Best of Welsh Business awards. Just to be a finalist is pretty cool.
Its a super light beer so nothing too complicated and it hopefully appeals to everyone, said Mr Allen-Boyland.
We are a small business, but you dont have to be big to make an impact. We can all do something to help out.
The Hop for Hope beer is described as a light, clear and peaceful 3.7 per cent ale.
Donations made via JustGiving and use of the JustGiving website will be subject to the JustGiving privacy policyhttps:www.justgiving.comaboutinfoprivacy-policyprivacy-policy-v30and cookie policyhttps:www.justgiving.comaboutinfocookie-notice
Its about trying to do something about it, said Mr Allen-Boyland, who left the army in 2020.
Whats happening is terrifying, and on such a large scale. I still have friends in the army and they are on high alert. And its only going to get worse and worse.
Things are getting better and better and getting bigger and bigger, said Mr Allen-Boyland. I think its pretty cool for a team of two.
The idea to brew their own beers started from a conversation in the pub, and in just two years, the business was named as a finalist in both the Best Business Specialist and Best New Business categories at the 2022 Best of Welsh Business Awards.
None of the donation will be collected by Newsquest. Financial transactions are with JustGiving to donate to the British Red Cross Society DEC Ukraine Humanitarian Appeal.
Were going to sell the beer, and then contact the Ukrainian embassy to ask where the money will be best donated.
You can find out more about the beer, or how you can support the Hops for Hope appeal, at foxonebrewing.co.uk.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We have also won bronze for our Speakeasy Cwmbran at the London Beer Competitions. Its a big achievement, especially for our first beer.
A CWMBRAN brewery has stopped production of itsusual beers to raise money for Ukraine through its new Hop for Hope creation.
Listening to a first-hand account from our amazing artist Lenase Menkova being evacuated to Prague  she didnt know where she was going when she got on the train.
Shes a key component for us. When I said we wanted to do a beer for Ukraine, she whipped this up in five days while living in a flat in Prague with five other families.
In the unlikely event that the British Red Cross Society raise more money than can be reasonably and efficiently spent, any surplus funds will be used to help them prepare for and respond to other humanitarian disasters anywhere in the world.
The brewery  based at Springvale Industrial Estate  has launched a new beer to raise funds to support those affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
I contacted Lenase when we started up as I loved her artwork, and asked if she would design our labels. We wanted all our beers to have different characters.
The brewery launched in 2020, with Mr Allen-Boyland and Mr Bishop working alongside their jobs with the Welsh Ambulance Service and as a teacher respectively.
We want to get it out quickly so people can get the money quickly. Day by day things are escalating. I dont want to be in a position where weve raised the money but its too late to help.
