History is repeating itself time and time again says Ukrainian MP
20220312
https://www.southwalesargus.co.uk/news/national/19988540.history-repeating-time-time-again-says-ukrainian-mp/
And then they stepped in when the death toll was going up by the millions.
She said there is still time to stop President Vladimir Putin once and for all, adding: A year ago, eight years ago was the time to do this, but nobody wanted to get involved.
This is the same as 1938 when also the world and the United States in particular were averting their eyes from what was being done by Hitler and his Nazi Party.
She said it is easier to prevent death and destruction than to deal with the aftermath.
She said she is grateful to people around the world who are talking to their governments and telling them to act.
Ms Vasylenko was asked about how concerned she is about her own safety when she returns to Ukraine.
Ms Vasylenko told Times Radio: I dont think I know that someday in the future it could be me or any of my 426 colleagues or any one member of our families.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Russia of kidnapping the mayor of the southern port city of Melitopol, and Ms Vasylenko was asked if she fears that one day that will happen to her.
We knew this from day one that we are targets on a special Russian list, and theres the fate of each one of us is predetermined already in that list.
All the help Ukraine gets from  and many more, must be accounted and billed to Russia. Reparations are the normal practice at the end of any war. StopRussia
And I hope that, and I have confidence in the armed forces of Ukraine, that that will not be happening anytime soon.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Asked if she thinks that the war will get so bad that the West may get involved, Ms Vasylenko told Times Radio: The history is just repeating itself time and time again, and I dont understand what is wrong with us humans and humanity why we dont learn from the lessons.
Lesia Vasylenko, who is in Strasbourg on a diplomatic assignment, said she does not understand why people do not learn the lessons of the past.
Its so much easier to prevent death from happening, and destruction from happening, than to later restore it and deal with all the trauma.
A member of Ukraines parliament has said history is repeating itself as she referred to the world averting their eyes from Adolf Hitler before stepping in as the death toll increased.
And its going to be the same thing here as well, because theres just so much that humanity can take, she said.
But the Government is not listening so what does that tell us about democracy? she said.
