Ukraine officials come under shelling attack on front as invasion fears rise
20220219
https://www.southwalesargus.co.uk/news/national/19937055.ukraine-officials-come-shelling-attack-front-invasion-fears-rise/
Earlier Saturday, separatist leaders in eastern Ukraine ordered a full military mobilisation, amid a spike of violence in the war-torn region and fears in the West that Russia might it as a pretext for an invasion.
Meanwhile US president Joe Biden said on Friday he is now convinced Mr Putin has decided to invade Ukraine and assault the capital, Kyiv.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet him and seek a resolution to the crisis.
The officials fled to a bomb shelter before leaving the area, according to a journalist from The Associated Press who was on the tour.
Russia has also conducted massive nuclear drills on Saturday. The Kremlin had said that Mr Putin, who pledged to protect Russias national interests against what it sees as encroaching Western threats, would watch the drills and personally oversee the display of his countrys nuclear might from the situation room at the Russian defence ministry.
The official also said the number of Russian ground units known as battalion tactical groups in the border area had grown to as many as 125, up from 83 two weeks ago. Each group has 750 to 1,000 soldiers.
Lines of communication remain open. The US and Russian defence chiefs spoke on Friday, and US secretary of state Antony Blinken and Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov agreed to meet next week.
On Friday, the rebels began evacuating civilians to Russia with an announcement that appeared to be part of their and Moscows efforts to paint Ukraine as the aggressor.
At the Munich Security Conference I urged leaders to back a surge in diplomacy for peace, a surge in political will for peace, and a surge in investment in peace. https:t.cocDXYTVirxB
Shelling and shooting are common along the line that separates Ukrainian forces and the rebels, but targeted violence is unusual in rebel-held cities.
Russia on Saturday said at least two shells fired from a government-held part of eastern Ukraine landed across the border.
Pro-Russian rebels began evacuating civilians from the conflict zone with an announcement that appeared to be part of Moscows efforts to paint Ukraine as the aggressor instead.
Fears of such escalation intensified amid Fridays violence. A bombing struck a car outside the main government building in the rebel-held city of Donetsk, according to an Associated Press journalist there.
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops now posted around Ukraines borders, the long-simmering separatist conflict could provide the spark for a broader attack.
Adding to the tensions, two explosions shook the rebel-controlled city of Luhansk early on Saturday. The Luhansk Information Centre said one of the blasts was in a natural gas main and cited witnesses as saying the other was at a vehicle service station.
Metadata from two videos posted by the separatists announcing the evacuation show that the files were created two days ago, The Associated Press confirmed.
Russia announced this week that it was pulling back forces from vast military exercises, but US officials said they saw no sign of a pullback and instead observed more troops moving toward the border with Ukraine.
The Kremlin also sent a reminder to the world of its nuclear might, announcing drills of its nuclear forces for the weekend.
That shift has been under way for about a week, other officials have said, and does not necessarily mean Mr Putin has decided to begin an invasion.
Top Ukrainian military officials came under a shelling attack during a tour of the front of the separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine.
The Ukrainian people are proud  proud of their country, their democratic values, and their community. Nataliya has had to rebuild her life even as she works each and every day to help empower fellow displaced Ukrainians. Truly a remarkable voice of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comLQlomYnfbS
The military-political situation in Europe continues to deteriorate. Russias proposals on security guarantees are aimed at improving this situation.
Separatists in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions that form Ukraines industrial heartland known as the Donbas announced they were evacuating civilians to Russia.
The explosions and the announced evacuations were in line with US warnings of so-called false flag attacks that Russia could use to justify an invasion.
Notably, the planned exercise involves the Crimea-based Black Sea Fleet. Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula after seizing it from Ukraine in 2014.
He alleged in a video statement that Mr Zelenskyy was going to order an imminent offensive in the area.
Denis Pushilin, head of the pro-Russian separatist government in the Donetsk region, released a statement on Saturday announcing a full troop mobilisation and urging reservists to show up at military enlistment offices.
We're calling out Russias plans. Not because we want a conflict, but because we are doing everything in our power to remove any reason Russia may give to justify invading Ukraine.
Putin: We had a discussion on strengthening the common defence space of Russia  Belarus. We have agreed to continue taking the necessary collective measures to ensure the security of our states in light of the growing military activity of NATO.
There were no reports of casualties and no independent confirmation of the circumstances of the blast.
Mr Putin has ordered the government to offer a payment of 10,000 rubles about 95 to each evacuee, equivalent to about half of an average monthly salary in the war-ravaged Donbas region.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ukraines military said two soldiers died early Saturday in the government-held part of the Donetsk region and that separatist forces were placing artillery in residential areas to try to provoke a response.
After weeks of saying the US was not sure if Mr Putin had made the final decision, Mr Biden said that his judgment had changed, citing American intelligence.
Ukraine and the two regions held by the Russia-backed rebels each accused the other of escalation.
As further indication that the Russians are preparing for a major military push, a US defence official said an estimated 40 to 50 of the ground forces deployed in the vicinity of the Ukrainian border have moved into attack positions closer to the border.
If Russia pursues its plans, it will be responsible for a catastrophic and needless war of choice.
Overall, monitors from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe reported more than 600 explosions in the war-torn east of Ukraine on Friday.
Immediate worries focused on eastern Ukraine, where Ukrainian forces have been fighting pro-Russia rebels since 2014 in a conflict that has killed some 14,000 people.
The announcement came as a mass evacuation of women, children and the elderly from the rebel-held territories in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions to neighbouring Russia got under way.
I dont know what the president of the Russian Federation wants, so I am proposing a meeting, Mr Zelenskyy said at the Munich Security Conference.
The head of the separatist forces, Denis Sinenkov, said the car was his, the Interfax news agency reported.
Authorities began moving children from an orphanage in Donetsk, and other residents boarded buses for Russia. Long lines formed at gas stations as more people prepared to leave on their own.
The presidents comments at the White House followed a day of rising violence that included a humanitarian convoy hit by shelling and a car bombing in the eastern city of Donetsk.
Mr Pushilin cited an immediate threat of aggression from Ukrainian forces, accusations that Ukrainian officials vehemently denied earlier.
Ukraine will continue to follow only the diplomatic path for the sake of a peaceful settlement.
Mr Pushilin said women, children and the elderly would go first, and that Russia has prepared facilities for them.
He said: I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need.
Mr Biden reiterated his threat of crushing economic and diplomatic sanctions against Russia if it does invade, and pressed Mr Putin to reconsider. He said the US and its Western allies were more united than ever to ensure Russia pays a steep price for any invasion.
UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres said the threat to global security is more complex and probably higher than during the Cold War.
Asked about Western warnings of a possible Russian invasion on Wednesday that did not materialise, Mr Putin said: There are so many false claims, and constantly reacting to them is more trouble than its worth.
He told the security conference in Munich that a small mistake or miscommunication between major powers could have catastrophic consequences.
By Saturday morning, more than 6,600 residents of the rebel-controlled areas were evacuated to Russia, according to separatist officials, who have announced plans to evacuate hundreds of thousands of people.
There was no immediate word on injuries or a cause. Luhansk officials blamed a gas main explosion earlier in the week on sabotage.
