Ukraine says it has struck Russian boat in Black Sea
20220617
https://www.southwalesargus.co.uk/news/national/20217220.ukraine-says-struck-russian-boat-black-sea/
Despite the apparent success, Ukraine has urged its allies to rush more and better weapons to the country, saying it cannot hold off Russias more powerful forces without more support.
Snake Island, 20 miles off the coast, figured memorably early in the war when Ukrainian border guards stationed there defied Russian orders to surrender, using colourful language that later became a rallying cry.
After a series of setbacks early in the war, including the failure to seize Ukraines capital, Russian forces have switched their focus to the Donbas, pressing a grinding offensive.
We are old people, we do not have a place to go. Where will I go? asked Vira Miedientseva, one of the elderly residents grappling with the aftermath of an attack on Thursday in Lysychansk, which lies just across the river from Sievierodonetsk, a key focus of battles in recent weeks that Russians have nearly captured.
The constant shelling made it impossible for 568 people, including 38 children, sheltering in the Azot chemical plant in the city to escape, he said.
Kyiv has also pushed for increased political support, including a fast track to membership in the European Union.
A group of volunteers called the IT Army of Ukraine took credit for a cyberattack that delayed Mr Putins speech.
He has insisted before that his invasion was necessary to protect people in parts of eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed rebels and to ensure Russias own security.
On a visit to Ukraine on Thursday, four European Union leaders vowed to back Kyivs candidacy to eventually join the bloc. The European Commission is set to meet on Friday to make its official recommendation.
The war has increased pressure on EU governments to move more quickly on Ukraines candidate status, and Thursdays pledge to support candidacy status for Ukraine and neighbouring Moldova pushes the 27-nation union closer to doing so.
The group, convened by Ukraine after the invasion to launch cyberattacks against Russian targets, said it carried out a distributed denial-of-service attack, which leverages networks of zombie computers to flood websites with junk traffic, rendering them unreachable.
But the process is expected to take years, and EU members remain divided over how quickly and fully to open their arms to new members.
In recent weeks, they have moved in on Sievierodonetsk and surrounding villages  the last pocket of the Luhansk region not yet claimed by Russia or its allies.
Russian forces have destroyed all three bridges leading out of the city, but Mr Haidai said it had still not been fully blocked off.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Writing on social media on Friday, Rodion Miroshnik of the self-proclaimed Luhansks Peoples Republic, said Russian troops and separatists are ready to consider options for opening a humanitarian corridor for the exit of civilians, but subject to strict adherence to the ceasefire.
Earlier this week, Mr Miroshnik accused Kyivs troops of trying to disrupt the evacuation of civilians from Azot, a claim denied by Ukrainian officials.
The navy said the Vasily Bekh was used to transport ammunition, weapons and personnel to Snake Island, which is vital for protecting sea lanes out of the key port of Odesa.
The flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet, used in the seizure of Snake Island, was sunk in April by Ukraine  a major coup for the outmanned and outgunned Ukrainian forces, which used technology and intelligence from the US to target the ship.
The Moscow envoy for Russia-backed separatists who control much of the territory around Sievierodonetsk said an evacuation from the Azot plant could take place, under certain conditions.
At Russias showpiece economic forum in St Petersburg on Friday, President Vladimir Putin reprised his usual defence of the Kremlins war in Ukraine, falsely claiming that it was an act of self-defence.
The Russians are pouring fire on the city, said Luhansk governor Serhiy Haidai. Its getting harder and harder for us to fight in Sievierodonetsk, because the Russians outnumber us in artillery and manpower, and its very difficult for us to resist this barrage of fire.
The Ukrainian navy claims it has struck a Russian boat carrying air defence systems to a strategic island in the Black Sea.
It said that was not enough to prevent Ukraines naval forces from demilitarising the Russian occupiers.
The Ukrainian navy said on Friday that after the sinking of the flagship Moskva, the Russians began to install an anti-aircraft missile system called TOR on the decks of their ships.
Russia pressed its offensive in the countrys eastern Donbas region on Friday, leaving desperate residents struggling to make sense of what the future holds for them.
