What is the state of play in Ukraine crisis
20220223
https://www.southwalesargus.co.uk/news/19947467.state-play-ukraine-crisis/
Earlier Moscow and Beijing issued a joint statement backing Russias objections to Nato accepting Ukraine and other former Soviet republics as members and buttressing Chinas claim to the self-governing island of Taiwan.
A statement from the Turkish presidents office said Mr Erdogan told Mr Putin that Turkey does not approve of actions that undermine Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, and described Ankaras position as a principled stance.
Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said Washington keeps sending weapons to Ukraine, creating fear and panic and even playing up the threat of war.
With Russian politicians having authorised Mr Putin to use military force outside the country and Ukraine surrounded on three sides by more than 150,000 troops, the rumble of tanks did not appear far off.
Ukraines Western supporters said they had already sent out a strong message with a first batch of sanctions on Tuesday.
Mr Zelensky has called up some military reservists as the threat of a Russian invasion grew.
Now they have confidence in the future and that the years-long war will finally come to an end, she said.
At the same time, they worked to maintain a united stance and vowed to impose tougher sanctions in the event of a full-fledged invasion.
The US and key European allies accused Moscow of having already crossed a red line by formalising a military deployment to regions of eastern Ukraine controlled by Russia-backed separatists.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter that the West should target Mr Putin where it hurts without delay.
Mr Biden waived sanctions last year when the project was almost completed, in return for an agreement from Germany to take action against Russia if it used gas as a weapon or attacked Ukraine.
The Ukrainian military said one of its soldiers was killed and six more were injured.
This is the toughest sanctions regime weve ever put in place against Russia, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said of measures that target key banks that fund the Russian military and oligarchs.
Ukraines forces are no match for Moscows military might, so Kyiv is counting on other countries to hit Russia hard  with sanctions.
Channel One struck a more festive tone, with its correspondent in Donetsk asserting that local residents say it is the best news over the past years of war.
Separatist officials reported several explosions on their territory overnight and three civilian deaths. When will the West impose more sanctions?
She said China has been calling on all parties to respect one anothers legitimate security concerns.
Along the Kremlin wall, soldiers put red carnations on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier while Mr Putin honoured the memory of the ones who died in past wars.
US actions announced Tuesday target high-ranking Russian officials and two Russian banks considered especially close to the Kremlin and Russias military, with more than 80 billion US dollars in assets. How is the confrontation seen in Russia?
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke by phone with Mr Putin and said a military conflict would benefit no one.
Turkey, which is part of Nato but also has strong bonds with Russia and Ukraine, sought to keep all sides close.
He said during Wednesdays commemoration that Russia would continue to strengthen and modernize its army and navy, striving to increase their effectiveness, so they are fitted out with the most cutting-edge equipment.
He acknowledged that his country faces huge odds without membership in a powerful security alliance like Nato.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
You paid with your blood for these eight years of torment and anticipation, anchor Olga Skabeyeva said during a popular political talk show Tuesday morning.
Our state has been in a state of war for almost eight years, which is being waged in all directions: military, informational, ideological, economic, Denis Pushilin said. What is happening in Ukraine?
Russia evacuated its embassy in Kyiv and marked Defender of the Fatherland Day, a holiday high in national symbolism.
President Joe Biden allowed sanctions to move forward against the company that built the Russia-to-Germany Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and against the companys chief executive.
The head of the rebel government in Donetsk, one of the separatist-held areas of eastern Ukraine known as Donbas, marked the Russian holiday and celebrated Mr Putins decision to recognise the regions independence.
Kyiv reported shelling on the frontline in eastern Ukraine, where Russia-backed rebels have held territory since 2014.
World leaders waited to see if Russian President Vladimir Putin would order troops deeper into Ukraine.
It allows authorities to impose restrictions on movement, block rallies and ban political parties and organisations in the interests of national security and public order.
TV presenters are professing the end of suffering for the residents of the breakaway regions.
The parliament on Wednesday approved Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys decree that imposes a nationwide state of emergency.
Mr Putin whipped up Russian nationalism on Monday with a fiery speech indicating that Ukraine historically had no cause for being.
The European Union finalised a similar package, which also targets legislators in the lower house of Russias parliament and makes it tougher for Moscow to get on EU financial and capital markets.
They said Russian troops moving beyond the separatist-held regions would produce more painful sanctions and possibly the biggest war in a generation on Europes mainland.
Here are the things to know about the conflict over Ukraine and the security crisis in Eastern Europe:
Russian state media are portraying Moscow as coming to the rescue of war-torn areas of eastern Ukraine that are tormented by Ukraines aggression.
