Russian troops disobey orders to shell Ukrainian homes intelligence claims
20220302
https://www.joe.co.uk/news/russian-troops-disobey-orders-to-shell-ukrainian-homes-intelligence-claims-320473
Russian troops are said to be "operating in disarray," with their morale rapidly falling and some "crying in combat."
In one recording, a foot soldier is told about plans from senior command to "cover" a town with artillery fire. He reminds his commander that civilians are still in the town and need to be allowed to leave.
Their founder, Samuel Cardillo, said that Russian forces have "no clue where they are going and how to really communicate with each other properly."
Throughout Putin's attack on Ukraine, Russia's defence ministry has claimed it is only targeting military infrastructure with its missile strikes. However this has clearly not been the case, with civilian areas such as Kharkiv's Freedom Square being hit by strikes in recent days.
Russian troops involved in the invasion of Ukraine have disobeyed orders from their central command to bomb civilian areas, according to a new intelligence report.
Russias cruise missile hits Kharkiv city council - Roman Semenukha, deputy head of Kharkiv Regional State Administration. This is Mr Semenukhas photo pic.twitter.comyxRrwhjSk2
He added that soldiers could be heard "insulting each other" in other recordings, and there was even one instance "where they shot at each other."
Ukrainian emergency service says more than 2,000 civilians have been killed during the Russian invasionFor more on this and other news visit https:t.coNEDMP2uP6W
According to the Telegraph, intercepted radio messages suggest that soldiers are refusing to obey central command orders to shell Ukrainian towns.
Footage continues to emerge online of civilian areas of no military significance being hit by attacks and it seems like Russian troops are starting to oppose orders from above to carry these out.
In another recording, a soldier sounds like he is in tears and can only be heard saying: "It's slow, it's slow."
Videos show the destruction of Freedom Square in Kharkiv after an apparent rocket struck an administrative building earlier on Tuesday. https:t.coNkTpU2Be3Z pic.twitter.comcrWrPdisEz
The PoliticsJOEUK team is on the Poland-Ukraine border. We're going to cover the stories that other outlets won't. What stories do you want to hear?
According to the Ukrainian emergency service, more than 2,000 civilians have been killed since the start of the Russian invasion. On Tuesday, five people were killed in a missile strike on a Kyiv TV tower which also hit a Holocaust memorial site.
