Russian tourist in swimming trunks accidentally gives away position of artillery to Ukraine
20220823
https://www.joe.co.uk/life/russian-man-swimming-trunks-gives-away-military-position-ukraine-355267
Putin's criminal campaign in Ukraine has now been running for over six months and the Russian leader shows no signs of pulling out of Crimea or any other territories. Nearly 9,000 of the nation's soldiers have now died in the conflict and at least 5,587 civilians are said to have lost their lives since the fighting began on February 24, 2022.
On this occasion, the man in the sunburnt snap and snug pair of Speedos is thought to have revealed at least two Russian S-400 air defence systems to Ukrainian intelligence.
Much to Ukraine's delight and amusement, what the unsuspecting civilian did not realise was that by taking the photo and sharing it on social media he had just unwittingly given away the position of Russian artillery and air defences.
While some members of the public are still willing to go on holiday amid the ongoing conflict, the Russian invasion has seen tourism in Crimea plummet. The heavily contested region of Ukraine which was annexed by Russia back in 2014 has long been a popular holiday destination, with many Russians spending their summers sitting on the beaches along the cost of the Black Sea.
As you can see, the Twitter account had some fun with the photo, teasing that "maybe they were being too hard on Russian tourists" and should probably be thanking them.
A Russian tourist who posed for a picture on a beach near Crimea while in his swimming trunks inadvertently did the Ukraine troops a favour by accidentally giving away the enemy's military position.
LISTEN: Alex Goode and Sean O'Brien are joined by former England  Lions legend Will Greenwood, and discuss some big autumn internationals
Tweeted by the official account for the Ministry of Defence, officials had the rare pleasure of posting a more light-hearted photo of the man posing next to a number of military vehicles in the city of Yevpatoria.
Maybe we are being too hard on russian tourists Sometimes they can be really helpful. Like this man taking pictures at russian air defense positions near Yevpatoria, in occupied Crimea. Thank you and keep up the good work! pic.twitter.combj5oEyXU0H
