Three killed including child after Russia bombed hospital while women gave birth
20220310
https://www.joe.co.uk/news/three-killed-including-child-after-russia-bombed-hospital-while-women-gave-birth-322251
The airstrike, which Mariupol City Council says "completely destroyed" the building in the southern port city, took place while women were giving birth in the children's and maternity hospital.
VIDEO: Children's hospital in Ukraine hit in air strike.Police in Ukraine have released images showing devastation at a children's hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol.International leaders and Ukraine blame Russia for the attack, calling it barbaric pic.twitter.comHurZMf0fdO
There are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless. The UK is exploring more support for Ukraine to defend against airstrikes and we will hold Putin to account for his terrible crimes. PutinMustFail https:t.coJBuvB78HVC
Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden issued an address to the American people and the global stage, warning that if the world does not respond to "Putin's assault on global peace and stability today" the consequences will be "even greater tomorrow".
If we do not respond to Putins assault on global peace and stability today, the cost to freedom and to the American people will be even greater tomorrow. We will not be part of subsidizing Putins war against the Ukrainian people. pic.twitter.com3PgsHheIiZ
At least three people, including one child, are thought to have been killed in the Russian bombing of a hospital in Mariupol on Wednesday, March 9.
Since the news of the horrific attack on innocent civilians broke, world leaders have issued statements condemning Russia and Vladimir Putin's inhumane actions. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson had this to say:
Ukraine's President Vlodoymyr Zelensky posted raw footage showing the aftermath of the barrage, pleading with global powers to do more, close the airspace and "stop the killings".
Mariupol. Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital.  People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity! How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror? Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity. pic.twitter.comFoaNdbKH5k
As he went on to summarise, the Mariupol hospital bombing is just one of a number of heinous and barbaric attacks on the Ukrainian people, with more than 360 civilians said to have been killed during the conflict.
Among the 17 injured in the attack, two adults and a six-year-old girl are said to have died, according to a statement from the council via Telegram.
