Ukraine reports 300 killed in devastating theatre bombing
20220325
https://www.joe.co.uk/news/ukraine-reports-300-killed-in-devastating-theatre-bombing-325315
The Drama Theatre in the heart of Mariupol has always been the hallmark of the city. A place of meetings, dates, a point of reference. Where are you? Im on Drama. How many times have we heard or said this phrase: on the Drama.
Russian planes bombed the theatre despite the words 'Children" being painted in plain white outside.
Ukraine has reported a monumental loss of 300 people after Russian forces shelled a Mariupol theatre on March 16.
The Drama Theatre was cynically destroyed by the messengers of the Russian world. These fascists of the 21st century were not stopped either by the huge inscription CHILDREN, or by the statements of the people themselves that there were only peaceful people there - women, children, old people. The occupier knew where he was hitting.
They continued: "Until the last, I want to believe that everyone managed to escape. But the words of those who were inside the building at the time of this terrorist act say otherwise.
Now there is no more Drama. In its place, a new point of pain for Mariupol residents appeared, ruins that became the last refuge for hundreds of innocent people.
In a public statement released on March 25 to Telegram, a city official wrote: Unfortunately, we start this day with bad news. From eyewitnesses, information appears that about 300 people died in the Drama Theatre of Mariupol as a result of a bombardment by a Russian aircraft. Until the last, I do not want to believe in this horror."
Sources told The Guardian that the majority of people had found safety under the stage but had been trapped inside once the building caved in. Rescue efforts became increasingly difficult as intense fighting around the area broke out.
Following the news of Russian forces shelling the port city of Mariupol, Ukraine, officials have now confirmed that 300 people were killed. Only 150 people staggered out of the collapsed building, initially thought to be housing over 1,300 people.
We can restore buildings, but we will never get friends, neighbours, relatives and loved ones back. Blessed memory of all the innocent victims of the insane war waged against Ukraine by the aggressor country, the terrorist country Russia.
