US Imposes Sanctions on Nord Stream 2 Measures Expected to Have No Effect on Project
20210823
https://www.marinelink.com/news/us-imposes-sanctions-nord-stream-measures-490054
Biden has sought to repair U.S. relations with Germany, Europe's biggest economy, as he needs the ally's help on everything from the economy to relations with China and Iran.
The sanctions were imposed on ship Ostap Sheremeta, shipowner JSC Nobility and construction company Konstanta, the State Department said in a report to congressional committees. A copy of the report was seen by Reuters.
But opponents of the $11 billion project to bring Arctic Russian gas under the Baltic Sea to Germany said the pipeline would likely be completed despite the sanctions.
NordStream2, led by Russian state energy company Gazprom and its Western partners, is almost complete with only 9 miles 15 km left to construct, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday.
The Biden administration on Friday slapped sanctions on a Russian ship and two companies involved in theNordStream2 gas pipeline, but opponents of the nearly-completed project said the measures would not stop it.
Reporting by Timothy Gardner Susan Heavey and Tim Ahmann editing by Chris Reese, Kirsten Donovan and Cynthia Osterman
"These sanctions do nothing to haltNordStream2," said Daniel Vajdich, president of Yorktown Solutions, which advises the Ukrainian energy industry on the matter.
But in May the U.S. State Department waived two sanctions that opponents say would have stopped the project. The measures were onNordStream2 AG, the company behind the project, and its chief executive, Matthias Warning, a Putin ally.
Amos Hochstein, the State Department's senior adviser for energy security appointed earlier this month, will focus on measures to "reduce the risks posed by"NordStream2, the report to Congress said.
The sanctions were imposed on ship Ostap Sheremeta, shipowner JSC Nobility and construction company Konstanta -  Image Credit: Peter aus Holtenau
Biden has opposed the pipeline, like the previous two U.S. presidents, because it would bypass Ukraine, putting at risk lucrative gas transit fees and potentially undermining its struggle against Russian aggression.
"The only thing that can stop NS2 from becoming operational is lifting the waivers and sanctioning ...NordStreamAG, which they refuse to do," Vajdich said.
ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington-based nonpartisan research group, estimated it could be completed by Sept. 3.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement that the administration has now sanctioned seven entities and identified 16 of their vessels as blocked property under sanctions laws passed by Congress.
Germany will also contribute at least $175 million to a new $1 billion "Green Fund for Ukraine" aimed at improving the country's energy independence.
Under the July agreement, Germany will use "all available leverage" to extend by 10 years the Russia-Ukraine gas transit agreement that expires in 2024.
Last month the United States and Germany unveiled an agreement under which Berlin pledged to impose costs on Russia should it use energy as a weapon against Ukraine and other central European countries. The pact did not detail specific Russian actions that would trigger such a move.
U.S. President Joe Biden separately issued an executive order allowing for sanctions to be imposed on certain Russian pipelines.
