Germany to Postpone Closure of Last Three Nuclear Power Plants  WSJ
20220817
https://sputniknews.com/20220816/germany-to-postpone-closure-of-last-three-nuclear-power-plants---wsj-1099676029.html
Scholz last week said for the first time that it could make sense to keep Germanys last three nuclear reactors online.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has repeatedly said that Russia has never used gas supplies to punish anyone, but sells energy solely in its own interests, to increase the welfare of Russians and on a commercial basis.
The three officials who spoke to the WSJ said the extension of the NPPs' life would only be made for several months.
The power plants in question are Isar 2 in the southern state of Bavaria, Neckarwestheim 2 in Baden-Wurttemberg and Emsland in Lower Saxony. They are operated, respectively, by E.On SE, EnBW AG, and RWE AG.
After the start of Russia's special military operation to denazify and demilitarize Ukraine, the West has stepped up sanctions pressure on Russia, which has led to an increase in prices for energy and food in Europe and the United States.
However, even if the life of the three German NPPs is extended, this will not be a panacea for Germanys looming energy crisis this winter as the country is mainly missing natural gas, primarily used for heating and manufacturing.
The decision, which has to be formally adopted by the cabinet of Chancellor Olaf Scholz and would possibly require a vote in Parliament, could be weeks off, but already now the German government says two key conditions have been met that allow a temporary extension of the life of the three remaining NPPs, currently expected to close December 31: the possibility of a gas shortage and the confidence that a longer operation of reactors would pose no safety concern, according to the officials.
The European Union has been seeking to diversify energy imports and reduce dependence on Russia after Moscow started its special military operation in Ukraine.
The German government has also outlined measures to reduce gas and power consumption in the country over the next two years. The measures, in particular, include lowering the temperature in public buildings. According to Germany's energy regulator, gas consumption will have to be cut by 20 percent if Germany wants to avoid a gas shortfall during this coming winter and next winter.
