Indias ExFM Buying Cheaper Crude From Russia in Delhis Interest US Cant Determine Our Policy
20220318
https://sputniknews.com/20220318/indias-ex-fm-buying-cheaper-crude-from-russia-in-delhis-interest-us-cant-determine-our-policy-1093968179.html
Let's stay in touch no matter what! Follow our Telegram channel to get all the latest news: https:t.mesputniknewsus
At the same time, New Delhi has also rejected "unilateral" sanctions imposed by the US, EU, and other allies against Russia, and has been looking for ways to sustain its energy and defence ties with Moscow.
Yashwant Sinha: India has a role and responsibility in bringing the military crisis to an end and bringing back peace to that region. India is Russia's time-tested friend and it should advise Moscow on the situation. And as India's friend, it is Russia's duty to listen to New Delhi's advice.
"The Ukraine conflict has major economic implications. Its impact on energy and commodity prices is already visible. The disruption of the global supply chain is expected to be significant. India has substantial dealings with both Russia and Ukraine", the Indian FM said.
At the same time, it is India's duty to explain to its friends why it prefers being neutral in the current situation.
Yashwant Sinha: No. India has to look after its interests. If India's interests are served by not joining the western powers against Russia, then the stand taken by the government of India can't be faulted.
Sputnik caught up with Yashwant Sinha, who previously served as India's finance and foreign minister. Sinha is presently the vice chairman of the Indian opposition group Trinamool Congress.
Sputnik: The US and the West blame Russia for the security crisis in Ukraine. Russia, on the other hand, accuses the US-led NATO of disregarding its security concerns over a period of time. One of Russia's major concerns has been NATO's continuous eastward expansion in five waves since the end of the Cold War. So, how do you view the current events in Ukraine?
Sputnik: Russian President Vladimir Putin says that the West has been trying to weaken Russia and doesn't want a strong Russia. Is a strong Russia in India's interest?
"But also think about where you want to stand when history books are written at this moment in time. Support for the Russian leadership is support for an invasion that obviously is having a devastating impact", Psaki remarked.
India, meanwhile, has "expressed deep concern" over the situation in Ukraine and demanded an "immediate cessation of violence" from both sides.
Sputnik: And do you back the idea of a rupee-rouble trading mechanism be set up to settle payments between India and Russia, with China's yuan as a reference currency?
While White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said that India's decision this week to take up Russia's offer of cheaper crude won't "violate" the western sanctions, she advised New Delhi against supporting Moscow.
Yashwant Sinha: India is right in taking up these offers. We must do what serves our national interest in the best manner.
"We have reiterated at the highest levels of our leadership to all parties concerned that there is no other choice but the path of diplomacy and dialogue", India's Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said in a statement this week.
Yashwant Sinha: Well, there have been issues between the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO with regards to Ukraine. There were some issues between Moscow and NATO over Crimea as well. I would rather prefer that the issues between NATO and Russia be resolved through dialogue rather than military means.
Sputnik: The US and its western allies have been encouraging countries across the globe to cut trade ties with Russia. Should India follow their lead and take a stand against Russia?
Yashwant Sinha: First and foremost, a strong Russia is in Russia's interest. And a friendly Russia is surely in India's interest.
Yashwant Sinha: Yes, I do believe that we can carry our trade in our own currencies. But I don't think that the yuan should be made a reference currency. Any such arrangement should be done based on just the rupee and rouble.
A major question posed by Russia's actions military operation is that if China ever indulges in similar actions against India, how would we want the world to look at those?
However, at the same time, the complex issue for India relates to navigating the emerging global order. While Russia, indeed, is India's friend, one can't really say the same about China.
India's abstention from the United Nations UN resolutions which labelled Moscow as the "aggressor" in Ukraine as well as its refusal to draw down its energy or commercial ties with Russia amid western economic sanctions have been attracting veiled warnings from Washington.
