Russian Onyx Missiles Destroy Warehouse With US and European Weapons Ammo Near Odessa  MoD
20220501
https://sputniknews.com/20220501/russian-onyx-missiles-destroy-warehouse-with-us-and-european-weapons-ammo-near-odessa---mod-1095179207.html
Earlier, Polish Prime Minister's Chancellery, Michal Dworczyk, said that Poland ranks second after the United States in the amount of weaponry supplied to Ukraine amid Russia's military operation. Prior to that, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki claimed that Warsaw is supplying Kiev with a variety of weapons, including anti-aircraft and anti-armour equipment as well as heavy weapons and ammunition, to enable it to stand up against Russia. He said Poland's military assistance to Ukraine is now exceeding $1.6 billion.
Russia has repeatedly denounced the continuous flow of weapons to Ukraine from the West, saying that it adds fuel to the fire and derails the negotiation process. Moscow has also stressed that foreign convoys with US or NATO weapons passing through the territory of Ukraine are considered legitimate targets.
On 24 February, Russia launched its special military operation in Ukraine after the Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics DPR and LPR appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian attacks. Russia said that the aim of its special operation is to demilitarize and "de-Nazify" Ukraine. According to Russian President Vladimir Putin, the goal is to protect the people of Donbass, "who have been subjected to abuse, genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years."In response to Russias operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow and have been pumping Ukraine with weapons.
Since Russia launched its special military operation in Ukraine, the United States, its NATO allies, and the European Union, have increased weapons supplies to Ukraine.
A strike by Russian Onyx missiles on a military airfield near Odessa destroyed a warehouse with weapons and ammunition delivered to Ukraine from the United States and Europe, Major General Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the Russian Defence Ministry, said.
On Thursday, President Joe Biden asked US Congress for $33 billion in emergency supplemental funding to support Ukraine, including $20 billion for military assistance. The request comes on top of about $4 billion in military aid the Biden administration has already committed to Ukraine, $3.4 billion of which came after Russia launched its military operation in late February.
Germany approved arms deliveries to Ukraine at the end of February. Germany has since provided Kiev with about 2,500 anti-aircraft missiles, 900 anti-tank missile launchers and 3,000 rockets, 100 machine guns, 15 anti-structure rocket launchers and 50 rockets, about 100,000 hand grenades, 2,000 mines, 5,300 units of explosives, and 16 million rounds of various calibres. Germany is yet to supply Kiev with heavy weaponry such as tanks, artillery, and other armoured vehicles. The German government also authorized deliveries of outdated German arms from the Netherlands and Estonia.
