Russian MoD Kiev Preparing Provocation at Zaporozhye NPP During UN Secretary Generals Visit
20220818
https://sputniknews.com/20220818/russian-mod-kiev-preparing-provocation-at-zaporozhye-npp-during-un-secretary-generals-visit-1099717943.html
Commenting on the remarks, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova, for her part, stressed that it is not just a provocation, this is what we have called nuclear blackmail.
Earlier this month, Ivan Nechaev, deputy director of the Information and Press Department of the Russian Foreign Ministry, warned of catastrophic consequences from Kievs shelling of the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant NPP.
The station came under fire again on August 5-6, and a major disaster was averted thanks only to the skillful and prompt actions of the NPP's employees, as well as the Russian forces providing comprehensive protection to the facility, she said.
The developments unfold amid Russias ongoing special operation to demilitarize and de-Nazify Ukraine, which was launched on February 24 following a request from the Donbass republics to protect them from Kievs atrocities.
According to him, to prepare the provocation, the command of a Ukrainian operational-tactical group is deploying radiation monitoring posts in the Zaporozhye area by August 19, also organizing military units training in conditions of radiation contamination of the area, the official said.
According to the Russian MoD, the Ukrainian side, together with their US handlers, tries to play the card and cause, in their opinion, a minor accident at the Zaporozhye NPP, disrupting its normal and safe operation and pointing the finger at Russia".
This followed Volodymyr Rogov, a member of the main council of the regional administration, telling Sputnik that no one was hurt after Ukrainian forces launched missile and artillery attacks on Wednesday on the city of Energodar, where the Zaporozhye NPP is situated.
He added that on August 19, units of the 44th Artillery Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine plan to launch artillery strikes on the territory of the Zaporozhye NPP from firing positions located in the city of Nikopol.
He spoke after Zakharova told reporters that the Russian side has long been calling on the international community to condemn the incessant strikes which the Kiev regime has been inflicting on the Zaporozhye NPP, including attacks using increasingly destructive weapons systems.
The MoD underlined that the goal of Ukraines provocation at the Zaporozhye ZNPP is to create a 18-mile  30-km exclusion, accuse Russia of nuclear terrorism and prompt the deployment of international observers to the area.
The Russian Ministry of Defense MoD has stated that Kiev is preparing a provocation at the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant NPP during the UN Secretary General's visit to Ukraine on Friday.
The blame for the consequences of the strikes will be laid on the Russian Armed Forces, Konashenkov said.
