KCRA Today High fire danger continues water rescues increase protection against COVID for younger kids
20220523
https://www.kcra.com/article/northern-california-news-traffic-weather-morning-update-may-23-2022/40077033
Pfizer says 3 COVID shots protect children under 5. Here's what to know about the vaccine  The news comes after months of anxious waiting by parents desperate to vaccinate their babies, toddlers and preschoolers, especially as COVID-19 cases once again are rising. The 18 million tots under 5 are the only group in the U.S. not yet eligible for COVID-19 vaccination. Read more here.
Here you'll find what you missed overnight, what's happening throughout the day, the forecast and how your commute is shaping up.
Quail Fire: Forward progress stopped as fire burns 135 acres near Vacaville, 85 contained  Forward progress has been stopped for a grass fire burning near Vacaville, Cal Fire said in a Sunday morning update. Read more here.
Water rescues begin to peak as Sacramento heats up  The classic trademarks of peak water rescue season have begun, as temperatures rise and thousands begin to head to Sacramento lakes and rivers, according to the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District. Read more here.
Meteorologist Melanie Hunter says the red flag warning in Northern California is in place today and tomorrow, with northwest winds anywhere from 15 to 25 mph, and gusts from 25 to 35 mph. Mondays temperatures will also be warm to hot, further drying out the areas already dry fuels. Fires that spark in this time could rapidly spread with the winds. By noon, the Valley will be in the upper 80s, peaking in the mid- to upper-90s by the evening.
High fire danger across NorCal as red flag warning goes into effect Monday, Tuesday  Triple digits, dry north winds and low afternoon humidity levels will make for an increased risk of fire danger across Northern California this week. Read more here.
Runaway bull injures 6 people at popular NorCal rodeo  Video from the Redding Rodeo shows the bull bucking its rider and jumping the fence during the final section of the bull riding event on Friday night. Read more here.
Russian soldier sentenced to life in prison in Ukraine conflict's first war crimes trial  The soldier, Vadim Shishimarin, had pleaded guilty to shooting a 62-year-old civilian to death on the fourth day of the conflict in late February. Read more here.
KCRA 3 is rounding up all the information you need to know to get a head start on your day.
