Pope Francis will consecrate Ukraine and Russia to the Immaculate Heart of Mary on March 25
20220320
https://www.americamagazine.org/faith/2022/03/20/ukraine-mary-prayer-peace-242637
We are close to this martyred people. Let us embrace them with affection and with concrete commitment and with prayer, and please let us not get accustomed to war and violence!
We welcome any information that will help us improve the factual accuracy of this piece. Thank you.
According to the United Nations, more than one million Ukrainian children have been made refugees during this war that started on Feb. 24. BBC today reported UNICEF as stating that in these days one Ukrainian child becomes a refugee almost every second. According to Ukrainian sources, 112 children have been killed so far in the hostilities.
In this context, he recalled that in this past week missiles and bombs have fallen on civilians, elderly people, children and pregnant mothers across Ukraine.
Gerard OConnell is Americas Vatican correspondent and author of The Election of Pope Francis: An Inside Story of the Conclave That Changed History. He has been covering the Vatican since 1985.
He told the crowd in St. Peters and a vastly greater global audience: Yesterday I went to visit the injured children who are here in Rome one lacked an arm, another was injured to the head. Innocent children! He was referring to a visit he made to the Vatican owned Bambino Ges, pediatric hospital in Rome, where 19 children from Ukraine are currently being treated, some with pathologies such as cancer, others with injuries from the bomb blasts. A total of 50 Ukrainian children have been treated by doctors in this hospital, and its secondary branch, over the past three weeks.
We dont have comments turned on everywhere anymore. We have recently relaunched the commenting experience at Americaand are aimingfor a more focused commenting experience with better moderation by opening comments on a select number of articles each day.
I invite every community and every one of the faithful to join with me next Friday, March 25, the solemnity of the Annunciation, in making this solemn act of consecration of humanity.
But we still want your feedback.You can join the conversation about this article with us in social media onTwitter or Facebook, or in oneof ourFacebook discussion groups for various topics.
If you have a message for the author, we will do our best to pass it along. Note that if the article is from a wire service such as Catholic News Service, Religion News Service, or the Associated Press, we will not have direct contact information for the author. We cannot guarantee a response from any author.
I feel great pain for those who dont even have the possibility to escape, Francis added. Many grandparents, sick and poor, separated from their own family members, many children and fragile persons remain to die under the bombs without being able to get aid and without being able to find safety, not even in the air-raid shelters.
After a period of silence, he told the crowd: Theres not lacking the closeness of the pastors. In these tragic days they are living the Gospel of charity and of fraternity. He revealed that he had spoken to some of them by phone in recent days. I heard from some of them in these days by telephone, and how they are close to the People of God. Addressing these Ukrainian pastors, he added: Thank you dear brothers and sisters for this witness and for the concrete support you are giving with courage to many desperate people! The crowd applauded.
Pope Francis again denounced Russias violent aggression against Ukraine as a senseless massacre for which there is no justification.
Francis next mentioned the apostolic nuncio to Ukraine, the 47-year-old Archbishop Visvaldas Kulbokas, who was born in Lithuania. He said, I am also thinking of him who was just made nuncio in mid-2021, and who from the beginning of the war has remained in Kyiv, together with his collaborators, and with his presence he makes me present every day to the martyred Ukrainian people.
If we decide to open comments on this article, we will email you to let you know.
Aware of the vast outpouring of solidarity across Europe for the Ukrainian refugees, but also aware that this conflict might not finish soon, and the refugees may not be able to return home for a long time, Francis said: Let us not grow tired of receiving them with generosity, not just now in the emergency but also in the weeks and months to come. He reminded them that as you know, in the first moments we do everything to receive them, but then habit cools the heart a little and we forget them.
Francis told the crowd: I am thinking of the millions of Ukrainian refugees who had to flee their homes leaving everything behind. He was referring to the fact that already 3.5 million Ukrainians have become refugees and fled to other countries, while 6.5 million have been internally displaced in the country during the war that is in its fourth week. Ukraine, the second largest country in Europe after Russia, has a total population of 40 million people, but today a quarter of its population have been forced to leave their homes.
Pope Francis has again denounced Russias violent aggression against Ukraine as a senseless massacre for which there is no justification. He implored all the international actors to truly commit themselves to bring an end to this repugnant war.
We open comments only on select articles so that we can provide a focused and well-moderated discussion on interesting topics. If you think this article provides the opportunity for such a discussion, please let us know what you'd like to talk about, or what interesting question you think readers might want to respond to.
He urged them not to let their hearts grow cold: Think of these women, and of these children. Significantly he sought to protect these women from human traffickers, by reminding everybody that they are without work, separated from their husbands and they will be sought by the vultures of this society. He pleaded with the general public: Let us protect them, please!
We welcome and read all letters to the editorbut, due to the volume received, cannot guarantee a response.
All this is inhuman, Francis said. Indeed, it is even sacrilegious, because it goes against the sacredness of human life, above all against defenseless human life, which is to be respected and protected, not eliminated and which comes before whatever strategy. Let us not forget, this is cruelty, inhuman and sacrilegious.
Pope Francis concluded his emotion-packed appeal by inviting people to join him in prayer next Friday. I invite every community and every one of the faithful to join with me next Friday, March 25, the solemnity of the Annunciation, in making this solemn act of consecration of humanity, and especially of Russia and Ukraine to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, so that she, the Queen of Peace, may obtain peace for the world.
Speaking with passion but without naming Russia, he told thousands of pilgrims from many countries gathered in St. Peters Square on Sunday, March 20, that Sadly the violent aggression against Ukraine does not slow down. He denounced it as a senseless massacre where every day is repeated atrocities and said, There is no justification for this!
In order to be considered for publication, letters should be brief around 200 words or less andinclude the authors name and geographic location. Letters may be edited for length and clarity.
At that point he invited everyone present to pray with him. Let us pray in silence for those who suffer!
