1st ship carrying Ukrainian grain leaves the port of Odesa since war with Russia began
20220801
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-war-russia-20220801-b2sa4o7zmrdm5l3bvypx2y6uta-story.html
Finally, life begins to move forward and there are some changes in a positive direction, she said. In general, the port should live its own life because Odesa is a port city. We live here. We want everything to work for us, everything to bustle.
A white dove flies over a Ukrainian airborne combat vehicle at an exhibition of captured Ukrainian tanks and weapons in Lisichansk, which is under the control of the Russian-backed Luhansk People's Republic in eastern Ukraine on July 12, 2022.
Rescue workers clear rubble from a destroyed house after a Russian attack in a residential neighborhood in downtown Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 9, 2022.
Yulia Paievska, a Ukrainian volunteer medic held captive by the Russian military until her release around three weeks ago in a prisoner exchange, visits her friend Yuriy Hudymenko, a wounded Ukrainian soldier, at the Kyiv hospital where she has been recovering on July 6, 2022. Paievska was already well known in Ukraine when she was captured, but the trauma she describes has made her a symbol of bravery and sacrifice.
More ships are expected toleave from Ukraines portsthrough the safe corridors. At Odesa, 16 more vessels, all blocked since Russias invasion on Feb. 24, were waiting their turn, with others to follow, Ukrainian authorities said.
11-year-old boys Maksym and Andrii salute to Ukrainian soldiers while holding plastic guns as they play at the self-made checkpoint on the highway in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, on July 20, 2022.
Butsome shipping companiesare not yet rushing to export food across the Black Sea as they assess the danger of mines and the risk of Russian rockets hitting grain warehouses and ports.
The resumption of the grain shipments came as fighting raged elsewhere in Ukraine, with Russia pressing its offensive in the east whileUkraine tries to retake territoryin the Russian-occupied south.
Both sides have blamed each other for the blast at the prison, which is in Russian-controlled territory. Ukrainian officials maintain the explosion was caused by a bomb set off inside the building.
A grave digger uses his shovel to throw dirt on the coffin of 40-year-old Volodymyr Miroshnychenko who was killed on the frontlines of Marinka, during his funeral procession at a cemetery in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
Ukraine and Russia are major global suppliers of wheat, barley, corn and sunflower oil, with the fertile Black Sea region long known as the breadbasket of Europe. The holdup of shipments because of the war has worsened rising food prices worldwide and threatened hunger and political instability in developing nations.
Volodymyr Tarasov, injured by glass shards from his kitchen window after a missile strike in his apartment building's courtyard, makes a phone call from his damaged living room, in Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine, on July 7, 2022.
Pensioner Valerii Ilchenko, 70, who lives alone and has refused to evacuate, walks to his apartment after filling out his daily crossword in Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine, on July 6, 2022. Now a widower, Ilchenko says he has no intention of leaving. "I don't have anywhere to go and don't want to either. What would I do there? Here at least I can sit on the bench, I can watch TV," he says in an interview in his single-room apartment.
Mourners grieve at the funeral for a fallen soldier, Artemiy Dymyd, in Lviv, Ukraine, on June 30, 2022.
Ukrainian soldier Denys Bevz kisses his bride, Nadiia, at a church in Kyiv, Ukraine, on July 9, 2022. Bevz, who has been fighting in the region around Kherson, took a seven-day leave from the front to get married.
Ukrainian servicemen fire at Russian positions from a U.S.- supplied M777 howitzer in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, on July 14, 2022.
The first grain ship since Russian aggression has left port, Ukrainian Minister of Infrastructure Oleksandr Kubrakov declared on Twitter.
As part of the agreements, safe corridors through the mined waters outside Ukraines ports were established.
 Ukraines human rights ombudsman said he had written to his Russian counterpart suggesting a joint visit to the Olenivka prison, where dozens of Ukrainian POWs were killed in an explosion Friday. Dmitry Lubets said the Russian side indicated it would consider it.
Ukraines presidential office said at least three civilians were killed and 16 wounded by Russian shelling in the Donetsk region over the past 24 hours. Donetsk Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko repeated a call for all residents to evacuate, emphasizing the need to remove about 52,000 children still there.
Russia and Ukraine signed agreements in Istanbul with Turkey and the U.N. on July 22, clearing the way for Ukraine to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural products that have been stuck in Black Sea ports because of Russias invasion of Ukraine more than five months ago. The deals also allow Russia to export grain and fertilizer.
A journalist watches as the bulk carrier Razoni starts its way from the port in Odesa, Ukraine, Monday, Aug. 1, 2022.
Ukrainian authorities have been calling on civilians in that region, which was overrun by Russian troops early in the war, to evacuate ahead of a planned counteroffensive.
Two civilians were killed and two seriously wounded when Russian forces fired missiles at a bus evacuating people from a village in the southern Kherson region, according to Oleksandr Vilkul, head of the military administration in the city of Kryvyi Rih.
A damaged car in the aftermath of a missile strike in Konstantinovka, in Donetsk Oblast, eastern Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
A medical worker takes care of people injured during Russian shelling on Thursday at an intensive care of a hospital in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 15, 2022. Russian missiles struck the city of Vinnytsia in central Ukraine on Thursday, killing at least 23 people and injuring more than 100 others, Ukrainian officials said.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who proposed the grain deal in April, said the Razoni was loaded with two commodities in short supply: corn and hope.
Tatyana and her son, Roman, who were injured during shelling, talk about the war at the Regional Traumatology Hospital in Donetsk, in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in eastern Ukraine on July 12, 2022.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sounded a cautious note. Calling the shipment the first positive signal that there is a chance to stop the spread of a food crisis in the world, he also urged international partners to closely monitor Moscows compliance with the deal.
The mother of 40-year-old Volodymyr Miroshnychenko, who was killed on the frontlines of Marinka, mourns during his funeral procession at a cemetery in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
We cannot have the illusions that Russia will simply refrain from trying to disrupt Ukrainian exports, Zelenskyy said.
Hearing the ship sound its horn as it left port delighted Olena Vitalievna, an Odesa resident.
A local man clears rubble from his house, which was destroyed after a Russian attack on a residential neighborhood in downtown Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 11, 2022. The top official in the Kharkiv region said then that Russian forces had launched three missile strikes on the city targeting a school, a residential building and warehouse facilities.
Viktor Kolesnik cries over the body of his wife, Natalia Kolesnik, who was killed during a Russian attack on a residential neighborhood in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 7, 2022.
 In Washington, President Joe Biden approved an additional $550 million in military aid to Ukraine, including more ammunition for howitzers and for the new American-supplied multiple rocket launchers that are making a difference on the battlefield. The package brings total U.S. military assistance to Ukraine to approximately $8.7 billion since the start of the Biden administration.
Lebanon, the corns destination, is in the grip of a severe financial crisis. A 2020explosion at its main port in Beirutshattered its capital city and destroyed grain silos. Lebanon imports mostly wheat from Ukraine but also buys its corn for making cooking oil and animal feed.
The International Committee of the Red Cross has also requested access to the prison, but so far has been turned down.
Under the agreements, ships going in and out of Ukrainian ports will be subject to inspection to make sure that incoming vessels are not carrying weapons and that outgoing ones are bearing only grain, fertilizer or related food items, not any other commodities.
A Ukrainian serviceman of the Khartia battalion goes to his post at the frontline near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 12, 2022.
Iryna Shulimova, 59, weeps upon seeing what remains of an apartment complex after a Russian missile strike in Chasiv Yar, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, on July 10, 2022. At least 15 people were killed and more than 20 people may still be trapped in the rubble, officials said.
The Sierra Leone-flagged cargo ship Razoni sounded its horn as it departed with over 26,000 tons of corn destined for Lebanon.
People who haven't evacuated their homes wait in line for humanitarian food aid from the city council of Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine, on July 7, 2022. Some residents have stayed because they are retirees with limited funds or are from low-income families and fear they would not be able to support themselves away from home.
The Razoni was scheduled to dock early Wednesday in Istanbul, where teams of Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and U.N. officials were set to board it for inspection.
Ukrainian soldiers fire a U.S.-supplied M777 howitzer at Russian positions in the Donetsk region of Ukraine on June 21, 2022. Some officials are concerned that pulling too many Ukrainian artillery specialists off the frontlines for training could weaken Ukrainian defenses.
Unlocking ports will provide at least $1 billion in foreign exchange revenue to the economy and an opportunity for the agricultural sector to plan for next year, he said.
Rescue workers clear rubble at a destroyed school after a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 4, 2022. The Ukrainian military says that Russian forces are trying to press deeper into eastern Ukraine after capturing a key stronghold.
A baby stroller lies by a road after a deadly Russian missile attack in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 14, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen of the Khartia battalion listen to a pep speech at the frontline near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 12, 2022.
An apartment building is seen here after a Russian attack in Saltivka district in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 5, 2022.
In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov hailed the ships departure as very positive, saying it would help test the efficiency of the mechanisms that were agreed to during the talks in Istanbul.
The first ship carrying Ukrainian grain set out Monday from the port of Odesa under an internationally brokered deal to unblock the embattled countrys agricultural exports and ease the growing global food crisis.
Hope for millions of people around the world who depend on the smooth running of Ukraines ports to feed their families, he said.
The departure of the first vessel doesnt solve the food crisis its just the first step that could also be the last if Russia decides to continue attacks in the south, said Volodymyr Sidenko, an expert with the Kyiv-based Razumkov Center think tank.
Damage from shelling is seen in Bakhmut, in eastern Ukraine, on July 8, 2022. Residents who have stayed behind in Sloviansk and nearby areas, now in the crosshairs of the next Russian offensive, are far from united, and many are influenced by the anti-Ukrainian propaganda spread by Russian TV in the separatist areas.
Relatives and friends attend the funeral ceremony for Liza, 4-year-old girl killed by Russian attack, in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 17, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen react after they identify a body of their friend Artem Pogorelets killed by Russian shelling at Barabashovo market in Kharkiv, Ukraine, July 21, 2022.
A Ukrainian serviceman stands guard at the frontline near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 12, 2022.
