Connecticut Ukrainian If Ukraine falls its the ending of the democratic world
20220226
http://www.courant.com/news/connecticut/hc-news-hartford-ukrainians-students-20220226-d2mgneuhavcbjfe255qwrxsooe-story.html
Its a poignant moment for these students because theyre anxious and terrified for their families back home. We wanted to be the adoptive family for these kids in Hartford and serve as an emotional shelter for the Ukrainian community, Kuzma said. Its kind of sad they didnt know theres a really vibrant Ukrainian community in Connecticut. The idea was to make the connection between these talented young students and give them a flavor of hospitality.
Oleh Atamaniuk, one of the speakers from Westminster School, said his hometown of Kolomyya, in Western Ukraine, was bombed four times in the past 48 hours.
The three student speakers have agreed with Ukraine Global Scholars to work in their country for several years after graduation. Kulchytska plans to enter the nonprofit space, while Antoniuk and Atamaniuk have their eyes on politics.
Protestors hold a placard at a small demonstration held by Ukrainians, Russians, and Kenyans against Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in front of the Russian embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, on Saturday. As Kyiv residents flee explosions and Russian troops close in on Ukraine's capital, Ukranians around the world hold rallies in support of their homeland. AP Photo
Alex Kuzma, a Wethersfield resident who serves as the chief development officer of the Ukrainian Catholic University Foundation, said events such as the one Friday help to expose young people to opportunities and help strengthen cohesion among Connecticuts growing Ukrainian community.
The event, which was cosponsored by the Ukrainian Catholic University Foundation and Ukraine Global Scholars, drew a crowd of Ukrainians from across central Connecticut, some arriving teary-eyed, clad in traditional Ukrainian garb. The crowd heard from three student speakers who shared their stories about how they completed rigorous preparatory programs with Ukraine Global Scholars and earned scholarships to some of New Englands most prestigious colleges and high schools.
Oleksii Antoniuk, a Yale University student and president of Yale Ukrainian students group, took the stage first, followed by Kulchytska, who is studying economics and philosophy at Wesleyan, and Atamaniuk of Westminster School.
Its just horrible. Its the biggest conflict since World War II, Atamaniuk said. I try to keep in touch with my family to make sure theyre OK. Russia is attacking, and theyre trying to make sure they surrender Kyiv in the next 24 hours, but the Ukrainian army is fantastic. Theyre so brave, and theyre one of the best armies in the world.
Kulchytska, a sophomore studying at Wesleyan University, spoke at the Ukrainian National Home late Friday, saying she urged Westerners not to underestimate the conflict started by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Antoniuk expressed gratitude for the opportunity that Ukraine Global Scholars provided him. I would have never been able to afford a $60,000 a year tuition Antoniuk said. A lot of Ukrainians dont think its possible to get a Western education, but with these programs it is.
Putin, he has sort of senile insanity, and I think it was an irrational step that Russians didnt even agree with. Ukrainians will resist, he said. We just need a bit more supplies and a bit more weapons to ensure that we can fight the Russians, and more support from the West.
On the topic of war, Antoniuk shared sentiments similar to those of the other students.
In an event sponsored by the Ukrainian Catholic University Foundation and Ukraine Global Scholars, Ukrainians from across central Connecticut gathered Friday at the Ukrainian National Home on Wethersfield Avenue in Hartford. Courtesy photo
Kulchytska and Hartford Ukrainians gathered at the Ukrainian National Home on Wethersfield Avenue for an event originally intended to promote academic development for young people but that evolved into a show of solidarity for Ukrainians facing a war at home.
This is about democracy, Kulchytska said. Right now this is just the logical sequence in the next steps of Putins conquest that the world has been ignoring for eight years. The world should understand that Ukraine is not the main goal. If Ukraine falls, its the ending of the democratic world.
For Wesleyan student Yulia Kulchytska, the invasion of her Ukrainian homeland by Russia is nothing short of an attempt to end democracy across the globe.
