Fall of Mariupol to Russians appears at hand as Ukraine moves to abandon steel plant
20220517
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-russia-20220517-z6opccdktvcblagcksyvzp6ahe-story.html
Ukrainian National Guard soldiers inspect a basement during a reconnaissance mission on May 14, 2022, in a recently retaken village on the outskirts of Kharkiv in east Ukraine.
Ukraine needs Ukrainian heroes to be alive. Its our principle, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in announcing that troops had begun leaving the mill and its labyrinth of tunnels and bunkers.
A soldier of Ukraine's special operations unit checks a forest road to install anti-tank mines on the Russian troops' potential way in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, late Tuesday, June 14, 2022.
A woman walks near a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine, on June 1, 2022.
An unexploded ordnance is seen outside a kindergarten school where seven people had been sheltering in the basement for more than two months, in Lysychansk, eastern Ukraine, on May 14, 2022.
A column of Ukrainian armored vehicles and soldiers travel near the front lines in the Donetsk region on June 1, 2022.
First lady Jill Biden and Olena Zelenskyy, spouse of Ukrainian's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, join a group of children at School 6 in making tissue-paper bears to give as Mother's Day gifts in Uzhhorod, Ukraine, May 8, 2022.
Russian Ambassador to Poland Sergey Andreev is covered with red paint in Warsaw, Poland, May 9, 2022. Protesters opposed to Russia's war in Ukraine had thrown red paint on the Russian ambassador as he arrived at a cemetery in Warsaw to pay respects to Red Army soldiers who died during World War II.
Ukrainian servicemen sit in a bus after they were evacuated from the besieged Mariupol's Azovstal steel plant, near a remand prison in Olyonivka, in a territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic's control, eastern Ukraine May 17, 2022.
Maksym, 3, is photographed with his brother, Dmytro, 16, on top of a destroyed Russian tank, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on May 8, 2022.
In other developments, the chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Court prosecutor, Karim Khan, said he sent a team of 42 investigators, forensic experts and support personnel to Ukraine to look into suspected war crimes. Ukraine have accused Russian forces of torturing and killing civilians.
A patient is carried on a stretcher to board a Doctors Without Borders medical evacuation train in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, May 29, 2022.
Anna Shevchenko, 35, reacts next to her home in Irpin, near Kyiv, May 3, 2022. The house, built by Shevchenko's grandparents, was nearly destroyed by bombing in late March during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In her beloved flowerbed, some roses, lilies, peonies and daffodils survived. "It is new life. So I tried to save my flowers," she said.
A woman, fleeing from an area near the front line in Donetsk, prepares to board a bus in Kurakhove, eastern Ukraine, May 23, 2022. In the Donbas region, people continue to flee from towns and villages coming under heavy bombardment.
While the focus of the fighting has shifted eastward in the Donbas, that, too, has turned into a slog.
A Ukrainian soldier keeps an eye on Russian positions about a mile away from Vuhledar, in eastern Ukraine, on May 31, 2022.
But because the Azovstal defenders incredible resistance tied down Russian troops, Ukraine can also claim that it came out on top.
Cars pass by destroyed Russian tanks in a recent battle against Ukrainians in the village of Dmytrivka, close to Kyiv, Ukraine, May 23, 2022.
Relatives and friends attend the funeral of Ukrainian serviceman Vitaliy Nejenits in Kharkiv cemetery, eastern Ukraine, May 27, 2022.
The Yavoriv area, which is just a short drive from the Polish border, has been the target of previous Russian strikes apparently aimed at slowing the flow of weapons and other supplies coming from Western countries. A Russian strike in March also killed 35 people at Yaroviv military training base.
I dont think it will make a significant difference because the Russians have already pulled the bulk of their forces out, OBrien said. So maybe its a symbolic moment, but I dont think it will make any difference to Ukrainian resistance.
Oleksiy Polyakov, right, and Roman Voitko check the remains of a destroyed Russian helicopter lie in a field in the village of Malaya Rohan, Kharkiv region, Ukraine, May 16, 2022.
A nurse tends to a patient after he underwent surgery for injuries to his leg and abdomen caused by a mine explosion in Severodonetsk, at Kostyantynivka hospital, in Kostyantynivka, eastern Ukraine, May 23, 2022.
During the siege, Russian forces launched lethal airstrikes on a maternity hospital and a theater where civilians had taken shelter.Close to 600 people may have been killed at the theater.
Retired French Vice Adm. Michel Olhagaray, a former head of Frances center for higher military studies, said Azovstals fall would be more of a symbolic boost for Russian President Vladimir Putin than a military one, since factually, Mariupol had already fallen.
Olga Chernenko, 51, holds her dog Casper, inside her home ruined by attacks in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, May 26, 2022. Chernenko says she walks past her burned-down house often because that's where she lived for 48 years, almost her whole life, and that she hopes Russian President Vladimir Putin will be punished for what he did.
A Ukrainian serviceman patrols a village near the frontline in the Donetsk oblast region, eastern Ukraine, June 2, 2022.
An elderly Ukrainian woman sits in a bus during an evacuation of civilians in Soledar, Donetsk region, Ukraine, May 24, 2022.
Residents carry their food given out by police officers, in Lysychansk, Ukraine, June 11, 2022.
People pay their respects during the funeral ceremony for Ukrainian serviceman Ruslan Borovyk killed by the Russian troops in a battle in St. Michael Cathedral in Kyiv, Ukraine, on May 4, 2022.
Vehicles on fire at an oil depot after missiles struck the facility in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Makiivka, about 94 miles east of Donetsk, eastern Ukraine, on May 4, 2022.
Yana Stepanenko, 11, is carried by a doctor at a public hospital in Lviv, Ukraine on May 13, 2022. Yana and her mother, Natasha, 43, were injured April 8 during shelling at the train station of the eastern city of Kramatorsk. They were planning to catch an evacuation train heading west.
A woman walks past the Memorial Wall of Fallen Defenders of Ukraine in Russian-Ukrainian War in Kyiv, Ukraine, May 23, 2022.
And it would give Russia a victory after repeated setbacks on the battlefield and diplomatic front, beginning with the abortive attempt to storm Kyiv, the capital.
Two couples kiss during their reunion after three months of war-related separation at the Kharkiv train station in eastern Ukraine, May 27, 2022.
A woman kneels at activist and soldier Roman Ratushnyi's coffin during his memorial service in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 18, 2022. Ratushnyi died in a battle near Izyum, where Russian and Ukrainian troops are fighting for control of the area.
Children stand in front of a building destroyed by attacks in Chernihiv, Ukraine, June 19, 2022.
A local resident gathers up belongings from his heavily damaged house after a Russian strike in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, May 25, 2022. Two rockets struck the eastern Ukrainian town of Pokrovsk, in the Donetsk region early Wednesday morning, causing at least four injuries.
Residents remove belongings from a house destroyed by Russian shelling in Irpin, Ukraine on May 21, 2022.
A woman covers her ears from the sound of mortar fire as people queue to collect pensions from a postal delivery van that reached the frontline despite the ongoing conflict in Mayaky, eastern Ukraine, on May 6, 2022.
A Ukrainian policeman stands inside a school sport hall, where, according to residents, Russian soldiers were based in the village of Vilkhivka, after it was retaken by Ukrainian Army, near the eastern city of Kharkiv on May 13, 2022, on the 79th day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Over the past few days, Sweden and Finland announced plans to apply for NATO membership, and Ukraine reported that Moscows forces had retreated from around the northeastern city of Kharkiv in the face of counterattacks and had taken heavy losses in an Ukrainian assault on a pontoon bridge in the Donbas.
A soldier pays his last tribute to volunteer soldier Oleksandr Makhov, 36, a well-known Ukrainian journalist, killed by Russian troops, during his funeral at St Michael cathedral in Kyiv, Ukraine, May 9, 2022.
An aerial view shows a crater on the field of the Chernihiv Stadium on May 28, 2022, in Chernihiv, Ukraine. Chernihiv, northeast of Kyiv, was an early target of Russia's offensive after its Feb. 24 invasion.
A child stands next to a damaged car at a building destroyed during attacks in Irpin, on the outskirts Kyiv, Ukraine, May 30, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen carry the coffin of Army Col. Oleksander Makhachek during his funeral in Zhytomyr, Ukraine, on June 3, 2022.
The Russian bombardment killed over 20,000 civilians, according to the Ukrainian side, and left the remaining inhabitants  perhaps one-quarter of the southern port citys prewar population of 430,000  with little food, water, heat or medicine.
A Ukrainian soldier stands on a self-propelled artillery vehicle Gvozdika, in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, June 17, 2022.
Fresh graves are seen at a cemetery in Mariupol on June 2, 2022, amid the ongoing Russian military action in Ukraine.
In this image released by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office on May 1, 2022, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, center right, and U.S. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi shake hands during their meeting in Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 30, 2022. Pelosi is the highest-ranking American leader to visit Ukraine since the start of the war, and her visit marks a major show of continuing support for the country's struggle against Russia.
Two national guard soldiers drink a shot to honor the memory of two late soldiers in Kharkiv cemetery, eastern Ukraine on May 22, 2022.
Soldiers of the Ukrainian Army's Carpathian Sich Battalion don their gear at an underground base in the Kharkiv region of Ukraine while they wait for artillery fire on their position to subside on May 11, 2022. The volunteer unit is deployed along a line of villages and trenched farmland in the Kharkiv region, tasked with holding back Russian forces pushing down from their stronghold in the occupied Ukrainian city of Izium.
An inside view of a house destroyed by shelling in an empty settlement in Pylypchatyne, eastern Ukraine, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Yana Skakova and her son, Yehor, sit in an evacuation train at the station in Pokrovsk in eastern Ukraine on May 28, 2022.
A man throws debris from the window of a residential apartment block damaged by a Russian missile strike, on May 6, 2022 in Kramatorsk, Ukraine. The city has been a target of missile strikes as Russia focuses on gaining ground in Ukraine's surrounding Donbas region.
Russian Sgt. Vadim Shishimarin listens to his translator during a court hearing in Kyiv, Ukraine, May 23, 2022. The 21-year-old soldier facing the first war crimes trial since the start of the war in Ukraine pleaded guilty on May 18 to killing an unarmed civilian.
A girl rides a scooter near buildings destroyed during attacks in Irpin in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 2, 2022.
The governor of the Lviv region, Maksym Kozytskyy, said Russian strikes targeted railroad and military facilities around Yavoriv, west of the city.
A man stands at a building destroyed during attacks in Borodyanka on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 4, 2022.
A man pets a dog in the city subway of Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine May 19, 2022. the subway is being used as a temporary bomb shelter.
McQuillan and Yuras Karmanau reported from Lviv, Ukraine. Mstyslav Chernov and Andrea Rosa in Kharkiv, Elena Becatoros in Odesa and other AP staffers around the world contributed.
An elderly woman who has been evacuated from the Lysychansk area cries moments before departing by train to western Ukraine from the Pokrovsk railway station, June 10, 2022.
An unexploded ordnance penetrates a road in Severodonetsk, Ukraine, on May 7, 2022, amid the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar expressed hope that the fighters would be exchanged for Russian prisoners of war. But Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of the lower house of the Russian parliament, said without evidence that there were war criminals among the defenders and that they should not be exchanged but tried.
Women attend a Mass at St. Volodymyr's Cathedral during Orthodox Pentecost in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 12, 2022. The Orthodox Church celebrates Pentecost on the fifth Sunday after Easter.
The withdrawal could also work to Moscows benefit by taking the worlds attention off the suffering in Mariupol.
Ukrainian soldiers ride in a truck to a resting place after fighting on the front line for two months near Kramatorsk in  eastern Ukraine on April 30, 2022.
Two women sit inside a van as they are evacuated in Bakhmut, eastern Ukraine, May 24, 2022. The town of Bakhmut has been coming under increasing artillery strikes, particularly over the last week, as Russian forces try to press forward to encircle the city of Sieverodonetsk to the northeast.
Mykola Holovko sits near his son amid their destroyed home after salvaging what they could from the wreckage in Druzhkivka, Ukraine, on June 5, 2022. Holovko survived the missile strike that landed across the street from his home, but one of his neighbors died in the attack and another was injured.
Ukrainians who fled the fighting in the front-line city of Orihiv arrive in the southeastern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia on Monday, May 2, 2022. Russian forces pummeled targets in eastern and southern Ukraine on Monday, continuing a two-week offensive that has struggled to claim much new ground even as they suffer heavy casualties.
Natalia Pototska, 43, cries as her grandson Matviy looks on in a car at a center for displaced people in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, May 2, 2022.
The mother of Oleksandr Mozheiko, 31, an Irpin Territorial Defense soldier killed by Russian army, cries at his grave at the cemetery of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, on May 1, 2022.
The capture of Mariupol would make it the biggest city to be taken by Moscows forces yet and would give the Kremlin a badly needed victory, though the landscape has largely been reduced to rubble.
Soldiers hold flares as they attend the funeral of activist and soldier Roman Ratushnyi in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 18, 2022. Ratushnyi died in a battle near Izyum, where Russian and Ukrainian troops are fighting for control of the area.
Russian soldiers guard an area next to a field of wheat as foreign journalists work in the Zaporizhzhia region in an area under Russian military control, southeastern Ukraine, June 14, 2022. The Zaporizhzhia region has been under control of the Russian forces since the early days of the Russian military action in Ukraine. This photo was taken during a trip organized by the Russian Ministry of Defense.
Russian MiG-29SMT jet fighters forming the symbol "Z" in support of Russian military action in Ukraine, fly over Red Square during the general rehearsal of the Victory Day military parade in central Moscow on May 7, 2022.
Gaining full control of Mariupol would give Russia an unbroken land bridge to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014, and deprive Ukraine of a vital port. It could also free up Russian forces to fight elsewhere in the Donbas, the eastern industrial heartland that the Kremlin is bent on capturing.
A woman and child who evacuated from Mariupol are comforted by a friend after arriving in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, May 3, 2022. On a fleet of city buses, flanked by white United Nations and Red Cross vehicles, just over 150 women and children who sheltered for weeks in the belly of Mariupol's sprawling steelworks, amid the horror of an incessant Russian bombing campaign, arrived on Tuesday at the parking lot of a home goods store in the relative safety of Ukrainian-controlled territory.
Ukrainian soldiers attend the funeral of soldiers Melnyk Andriy, Shufryn Andriy and Ankratov Oleksandra in Lviv, Ukraine, on May 14, 2022.
French President Emmanuel Macron, left, shakes hands with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the Mariyinsky Palace in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 16, 2022.
Iryna Martsyniuk, 50, stands at her damaged house in Velyka Kostromka, Ukraine on May 19, 2022. Martsyniuk and her three young children were at home when the Russian attack occurred and they were unharmed.
The soldiers who left the plant were given pat-down searches, loaded onto buses accompanied by Russian military vehicles, and taken to two towns controlled by Moscow-backed separatists. More than 50 of the fighters were seriously wounded, according to both sides.
A woman walks past a building destroyed in Russian shelling in Borodyanka, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 21, 2022.
The Russian victory, though, is mostly symbolic, said Phillips OBrien, professor of strategic studies at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
Voytenko Ivan Petrovich stands inside his damaged home in the village of Velyka Danylivka, near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on May 14, 2022.
Residents carry out furniture from houses ruined by shelling in Borodyanka, Ukraine, May 24, 2022.
Employees of the Donetsk People's Republic Emergency Situations Ministry clear rubble on May 12, 2022, at the side of the damaged Mariupol theater building during heavy fighting in Mariupol, Ukraine, in territory under the government of the breakaway Donetsk People's Republic.
Ukrainian soldiers from the 95th Air Assault Brigade load a weapon onto an armored vehicle near the city of Kramatorsk, Ukraine, May 25, 2022.
Russias main federal investigative body said it intends to interrogate the troops to identify the nationalists and determine whether they were involved in crimes against civilians. Also, Russias top prosecutor asked the countrys Supreme Court to designate Ukraines Azov Regiment, whose members have been holding out at Azovstal, a terrorist organization. The regiment has links to the far right.
A military truck with the letter Z, which has become a symbol of the Russian military, drives past a Russian soldier standing in the road at the entrance of Mariupol with a Soviet style symbolic monument of a metallurgist, on the territory which is under the Government of the Donetsk People's Republic control, eastern Ukraine, June 12, 2022. This photo was taken during a trip organized by the Russian Ministry of Defense.
A Ukrainian national guard soldier walks through an underground bunker near a frontline position on May 7, 2022 in Zelenodolsk, Ukraine.
A local resident injured in a Russian strike rests in a hospital in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, May 25, 2022. Two rockets struck the eastern Ukrainian town of Pokrovsk, in the Donetsk region early Wednesday morning, causing at least four injuries.
Strikes have also occasionally hit other areas of the country. The western city of Lviv was rocked by loud explosions early Tuesday. Witnesses counted at least eight blasts. The sky west of the city, which was under an overnight curfew, was lit up by an orange glow.
Russia called it a surrender. The Ukrainians avoided using that word and instead said that its garrison had completed its mission and that there was no way to rescue its members militarily in the otherwise Russian-held city.
People walk in the sunshine near St. Andrew's Church in Kyiv, Ukraine as the city hosts events to celebrate Kyiv Day on May 28, 2022.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy inspects damaged buildings as he visits the Kharkiv region in Ukraine. Zelenskyy described the situation in the east as "indescribably difficult." The photo was released by the Ukrainian presidential press office on May 29, 2022.
People with children wait after arriving from the Ukrainian city of Mariupol at a center for displaced people in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, May 3, 2022.
Maxim Miller is held by his mother, Olena, as he clutches a mobile phone in a tunnel beneath the train station during an air raid alert on May 7, 2022 in Lviv, Ukraine. Originally from Odessa, the family has been in Poland but is now trying to return to their home.
Ukrainian bomb disposal experts prepare for a controlled explosion of unexploded missiles, artillery shells and mines retrieved on June 3, 2022, in Borodianka, Ukraine.
More than 260 Ukrainian fighters  some of them seriously wounded and taken out on stretchers  left the ruins of the Azovstal plant on Monday and turned themselves over to the Russian side in a deal negotiated by the warring parties. Ukrainian authorities said they were working to extract the remaining soldiers from the sprawling steel mill. They would not say how many were still there.
A negotiated withdrawal could save lives on the Russian side, too, sparing its troops from what almost certainly would be a bloody battle to finish off the defenders inside the plant, which sprawls over 4 square miles.
A young girl walks by a crater in front of a damaged apartment building after a strike in the city of Slovyansk in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on May 31, 2022.
Villagers queue to buy cigarettes and bread from a peddler in the village of Staryi Saltiv, Ukraine on May 20, 2022.
Nyna Provontsova, 65, reacts during a conversation with social worker Zhanna Protsenko in the town of Orikhiv, near Zaporizhzhia, eastern Ukraine, on May 11, 2022, amid the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy displayed on a screen as he addresses the audience from Kyiv on a screen during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, May 23, 2022.
Mariupol appeared on the verge of falling to the Russians on Tuesday as Ukraine moved to abandon the steel plant where hundreds of its fighters had held out for months under relentless bombardment in the last bastion of resistance in the devastated city.
The operation to abandon the steel plant signaled the beginning of the end of a nearly three-month siege that turned Mariupol into a worldwide symbol of both defiance and suffering.
Artur Serdyuk surveys the ruins of his home, destroyed in a Russian strike on the small village of Malotaranivka, near Kramatorsk, Ukraine on May 7, 2022.
Nila Zelinska holds a doll belonging to her granddaughter, she was able to find in her destroyed house in Potashnya outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, May 31, 2022.
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, left, and French President Emmanuel Macron watch debris as they visit Irpin, outside Kyiv, June 16, 2022.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak likened the Ukrainian defenders to the vastly outnumbered Spartans who held out against Persian forces in ancient Greece. 83 days of Mariupol defense will go down in history as the Thermopylae of the XXI century, he tweeted.
Both sides will be able take pride or boast about a victory  victories of different kinds, he said.
A column of Ukrainian armored vehicles and soldiers travel under the cover of a tree line near the cities of Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk in the Donetsk region of Ukraine on June 1, 2022.
Oleg flies a drone while testing it on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 8, 2022. Drones are been extensively used by Russian and Ukrainian troops on the war.
A residential area is shown from the air that was destroyed by Russian shelling in Irpin, near Kyiv, Ukraine on May 21, 2022.
An elderly woman with a cat on her shoulder tries to clean her yard of debris after a missile strike killing one in the city of Droujkivka, in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas, on June 5, 2022.
