Missile kills at least 50 at crowded Ukrainian train station
20220408
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-russia-ukraine-20220408-j7en5uqq7be3roebvnjmdesvmi-story.html
A Ukrainian soldier sits on tires next to a building destroyed by Russian bombing in Chernihiv on April 23, 2022.
In his nightly video address, Zelenskyy warned that more horrors could yet be revealed. Already, he said atrocities worse than the ones in Bucha had surfaced in Borodyanka, another settlement outside the capital.
The lifeless body of a man lies in the staircase of a building in Bucha, Ukraine, April 3, 2022. Associated Press journalists in Bucha, a small city northwest of Kyiv, saw the bodies of at least nine people in civilian clothes who appeared to have been killed at close range. At least two had their hands tied behind their backs.
A volunteer smokes next to sandbags used for protection, at a Ukrainian volunteer center in Mykolaiv, southern Ukraine on March 28, 2022. Ukrainian volunteers have set up a center to supply army and civilians with clothes, food, medicines and makeshift bulletproof vests.
Mariya Ol'hovs'ka, 33, mourns the death of her father, Valerii Ol'hovs'kyi, 72, on April 1, 2022. He was killed by a Russian missile on March 30 near his house, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine. Maria and her family buried her father in the garden of their home as they could not bury him in the village cemetery due to fighting between the Ukrainian and Russian armies.
A woman stands in a damaged kitchen in the eastern Ukraine city of Kharkiv on April 2, 2022, as Ukraine said Russian forces were making a "rapid retreat" from northern areas around the capital Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv.
A Ukrainian sapper prepares to detonate a Russian 250-kilogram air bomb in the village of Kolonshchyna, Ukraine, April 21, 2022.
Russian soldiers patrol on April 12, 2022, at the Mariupol drama theater hit March 16 by an airstrike, in Mariupol, as Russian troops intensify a campaign to take the strategic port city. This picture was taken during a trip organized by the Russian military.
A man pushes his bike through debris and destroyed Russian military vehicles on a street on April 6, 2022 in Bucha, Ukraine.
People shelter and live in an underground metro station in Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine, on April 30, 2022.
Relatives cry at the mass grave of civilians killed during Russian occupation in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 8, 2022.
Motorcycles, decorated with a russian flag and a flag with the letter "Z," which has become a symbol of support for Russian military action in Ukraine, are parked before a traditional parade marking the opening of the motorcycle season in central Moscow on April 30, 2022.
Photos from the station in Kramatorsk showed the dead covered with tarps on the ground and the remnants of a rocket with the words For the children painted on it in Russian. About 4,000 civilians were in and around the station at the time of the strike, the office of Ukraines prosecutor-general said, adding that most were women and children heeding calls to leave the area before Russia launches a full-scale offensive in the countrys east.
The governor of Luhansk, Serhiy Haidai, said Russia was concentrating equipment and troops and increasing shelling and bombing to aid their advance.
The Donbas, which includes both the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, is bracing for a coming onslaught.
Alla Prohonenko, 53, touches a photo of her father Volodymyr Prohonenko during his funeral in Irpin, cemetery on the outskirts of Kyiv, on April 21, 2022. Proponenko died during the Russian occupation.
Emergency workers carry debris from a multistory building destroyed in a Russian air attack in Borodyanka, Ukraine, close to Kyiv, April 9, 2022.
Valentyna Volynets, 59, drinks tea made by her neighbour on a makeshift fire in a public garden near their building in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, on Monday, April 18, 2022. Citizens of Bucha are still without electricity, water and gas after more than 43 days since the Russian invasion began.
An injured man smokes following a Russian bombing of a factory in Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine, on April 19, 2022. Russian forces attacked along a broad front in eastern Ukraine on Tuesday as part of a full-scale ground offensive to take control of the country's eastern industrial heartland in what Ukrainian officials called a "new phase of the war."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, left, welcomes Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson in Kyiv, Ukraine, April 9, 2022.
A woman walks as smoke rises in the air in the background after shelling in Odessa, Ukraine, April 3, 2022.
Ninety percent of the civilians died from gunshots and not from shelling, he said Thursday on Ukrainian television.
Relatives attend the funeral of Illya Shklyaruk, 25, an Irpin citizen involved in evacuations of his neighbours from the town and killed inside his car by a gun shot by Russian Army on March 8, at the cemetery of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv,  April 25, 2022.
Family members mourn during the funeral service for fallen soldier Kobryn Oleg, 39, at Saints Peter and Paul Garrison Church on April 23, 2022, in Lviv, Ukraine.
One analyst said only Russia would have a reason to attack civilian railway infrastructure in the Donbas, and that Ukraine would not deliberately kill its own civilians in a war of survival.
Emergency responders on the outskirts of Kharkiv, Ukraine, close to Russian occupied territory where bombing has been heavy, on Thursday, April 7, 2022.
Ukrainians wait for a food distribution organised by the Red Cross in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, on April 18, 2022.
Ukainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks to the media in the town of Bucha, northwest of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, April 4, 2022.
The towns mayor, Anatoliy Fedoruk, said investigators found at least three sites of mass shootings of civilians and were still finding bodies in yards, parks and city squares.
An interior ministry sapper collects unexploded shells, grenades and other devices in Hostomel, close to Kyiv, Ukraine, April 18, 2022.
A Ukranian soldier stands on the canon of a burnt Russian tank on the outskirts of Kyiv, March 31, 2022.
Without the strength or courage to stand up to us on the battlefield, Russian troops are cynically destroying the civilian population, Zelenskyy said on social media. This is an evil without limits. And if it is not punished, then it will never stop.
Firefighters work inside a building destroyed by a Russian bomb in Chernihiv on April 22, 2022.
A resident looks for belongings in an apartment building destroyed during fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces in Borodyanka, Ukraine, April 5, 2022.
Elizabeth, 12, holds her cat as she takes shelter with her family inside the basement of a residential building during a Russian attack in Lyman, Ukraine, April 26, 2022. Russia pounded eastern and southern Ukraine on Tuesday as the U.S. promised to "keep moving heaven and earth" to get Kyiv the weapons it needs to repel the new offensive, despite Moscow's warnings that such support could trigger a wider war.
A firefighter sits on a swing next to a building destroyed by a Russian bomb in Chernihiv on April 22, 2022.
In anticipation of intensified attacks by Russian forces, hundreds of Ukrainians fled villages in the Mykolaiv and Kherson regions that were either under attack or occupied.
Ukrainian soldiers carry the body of a civilian killed by Russian forces over the destroyed bridge in Irpin, not far from the capital of Kyiv, Ukraine, on March 31, 2022.
Morozova, 69, said only Russian television and radio was available. The Russians handed out humanitarian aid, she said, and filmed the distribution.
Zelenskyy had mentioned the S-300s by name when he spoke to U.S. lawmakers by video in March, appealing for anti-air systems that would allow Ukraine to close the skies to Russian warplanes and missiles.
Ukrainian officials have pleaded with Western powers to send more arms  andfurther punish Russia with sanctions in order to stop the offensive.NATO nationsagreed Thursday to increase their supply of arms, and Slovakian Prime Minister Eduard Heger announced on a trip to Ukraine on Friday that his country has donated its Soviet-era S-300 air defense system to Ukraine.
A Ukrainian serviceman walks amid the rubble of a building heavily damaged by multiple Russian bombardments near a frontline in Kharkiv, Ukraine, April 25, 2022.
Heger accompanied von der Leyen, the EU Commission president, and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on a trip to Kyiv, part of efforts to signal the EUs support for Ukraine.
Firefighters try to put out a fire following an explosion in Kyiv, Ukraine on April 28, 2022. Russia mounted attacks across a wide area of Ukraine on Thursday, bombarding Kyiv during a visit by the head of the United Nations.
Volunteers assemble sandbags to protect a monument in Kyiv on March 29, 2022, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The prosecutor-general also expressed concern about the death toll in Borodyanka, where the process of retrieving bodies from shelled and collapsed buildings has just begun. Twenty-six bodies were found Thursday from the ruins of just two buildings, Venediktova said.
Women wave farewell to relatives as their train prepares to leave the Slovyansk central station, in the Donbas region on April 12, 2022, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.  Ukrainian leaders of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions in the Donbas have asked civilians to evacuate west before an anticipated Russian offensive of the eastern region.
Ira Gavriluk holds her cat as she walks next to the bodies of her husband, brother, and another man, who were killed outside her home in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022. Russia is facing a fresh wave of condemnation after evidence emerged of what appeared to be deliberate killings of civilians in Ukraine.
A Ukrainian serviceman walks next to a fighting vehicle, outside Kyiv, Ukraine, April 2, 2022. As Russian forces pull back from Ukraine's capital region, retreating troops are creating a "catastrophic" situation for civilians by leaving mines around homes, abandoned equipment and "even the bodies of those killed," President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Saturday.
An emergency worker is helped by locals to carry a man to an ambulance following a Russian bombardment in Kharkiv, Ukraine, April 27, 2022.
Mourners grieve during funerals for six people in Andriivka, a village northwest of Kyiv that was occupied by Russian forces for more than a month, on April 16, 2022.
Natalya, whose husband and nephew were killed by Russian forces, cries in her garden in Bucha, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Smoke rises from the scene of a missile strike in Lviv, Ukraine, on April 18, 2022. Russia pummeled Ukraine on Monday with one of the broadest barrages of missile attacks in weeks, claiming that it hit hundreds of targets in preparation for an anticipated eastern offensive.
What does this mean? This means that they killed civilians, shot them, said Venediktova, whose office is investigating the deaths, and other mass casualties involving civilians, as possible war crimes.
A man carries a coffin next to plastic bags with corpses of civilians as police conduct investigations in Bucha, before sending the copses to the morgue, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 6, 2022.
In one of those towns, Bucha, journalists and returning Ukrainians have found scores of bodies lying in the streets, some with their hands bound and others burned.
Bronk said Russias use of the missile that hit the station has been documented during the current war and he pointed to other occasions that Russian authorities have tried to deflect blame by claiming their forces no longer use an older weapon to kind of muddy the waters and try and create doubt.
Vova, 10, looks at the body of his mother, Maryna, lying in a coffin as his father, Ivan Drahun, prays during her funeral in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 20, 2022. Vova's mother died while they sheltered in a cold basement for more than a month during the Russian military's occupation.
In the courtyard of their house, Vlad Tanyuk, 6, stands near the grave of his mother Ira Tanyuk, who died because of starvation and stress due to the war, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Ukrainian soldiers receive medical treatment on April 30, 2022, as they arrive at an abandoned building to rest after fighting on the front line for two months near Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine.
An apartment building burns after a rocket barrage that struck central Kharkiv, Ukraine, April 17, 2022. Police officials said that five people were killed and 13 wounded in the afternoon attack, which set apartment buildings and a market on fire.
A liquor store owner looks at the damage to his shop caused by an explosion in Kyiv, Ukraine on April 29, 2022. Russia struck the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv shortly after a meeting between President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres on Thursday evening.
And what will happen when the world learns the whole truth about what the Russian troops did in Mariupol? Zelenskyy said late Thursday, referring to the besieged southern port that has seen some of the greatest suffering during Russias invasion.
Residents cross a river next to a destroyed bridge in the village of Rusaniv, in the Kyiv region on April 16, 2022.
Ukrainian soldiers inspect trenches used by Russian soldiers during the occupation of villages on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 1, 2022.
Ukrainian soldiers wait out shelling in a shelter near Lysychansk in the Luhansk region on April 12, 2022.
Russia expelled 45 Polish diplomats on Friday, retaliation for Polands March decision to expel the same number of Russians it said were spies with diplomatic cover  part of a series of expulsions of Russian diplomats from Western countries.
Widow Oleksandra Rurak, 25, visits the grave of her soldier husband, Volodymyr Rurak, with her 18-month-old daughter, Tetiana, after he was killed in action, at the Lychakiv cemetery, in Lviv, western Ukraine, April 5, 2022.
Civilians shelter inside a tunnel during an air raid siren alert in Lviv, Ukraine, April 30, 2022.
Damaged apartment buildings after shelling on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, in territory under control of the separatist government of the Donetsk People's Republic, on March 29, 2022.
A Ukrainian soldier and a stray dog during a clearing-out operation of remaining Russian forces in Irpin, Ukraine, on March 29, 2022.
Residents walk with their bicycles in front of a damaged church, in Lukashivka, in northern Ukraine, April 22, 2022. A single metal cross remains inside the Orthodox church of shattered brick and blackened stone. Residents said Russian soldiers used the church for storing ammunition, and Ukrainian forces shelled the building to make the Russians leave.
An Orthodox believer helps her daughter to kiss a photo of a priest, founder of All Saints church during the Easter celebration in Bahmut, eastern Ukraine, April 24, 2022.
Soldiers walk amid destroyed Russian tanks in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 3, 2022. Ukrainian troops are finding brutalized bodies and widespread destruction in the suburbs of Kyiv, sparking new calls for a war crimes investigation and sanctions against Russia.
Damaged and burned vehicles are seen at a destroyed part of the Illich Iron  Steel Works Metallurgical Plant, as smoke rises from the Metallurgical Combine Azovstal during heavy fighting, in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol, Ukraine, April 18, 2022. Mariupol, a strategic port on the Sea of Azov, has been besieged by Russian troops and forces from self-proclaimed separatist areas in eastern Ukraine for more than six weeks.
Britains Defense Minister Ben Wallace denounced the attack as a war crime and European Union Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called it atrocious.
Anna reported from Bucha, Ukraine. Associated Press journalists around the world contributed to this report.
People crowd around a pick up supplies from a truck distributing aid in Borodyanka, Ukraine, April, 5, 2022. As many as 200 people are missing and presumed dead under the rubble of this small town that has been devastated by Russian airstrikes, the acting mayor said April 5.
Daria, right, from the Sumy region in Ukraine, blows soap bubbles as her brother, Dawid, tries to catch them while waiting for the train to Gdynia, northern Poland, at the station in Przemysl, southeastern Poland, April 5, 2022.
The Ukrainian military is desperately trying to reinforce units in the area  and the railway stations in that area in Ukrainian-held territory are critical for movement of equipment and people, said Justin Bronk, a research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute in London.
The bodies of four people who died during the Russian occupation await burial during funerals in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, April 20, 2022.
We sense the end of preparations for that massive breakthrough, for that great battle which will happen here around us, he said in a televised address.
Ukrainian servicemen carry a body after Russian shelling at the railway station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine, April 8, 2022.
Halyna Falko, 52, talks while looking at the destruction caused after a Russian attack inside her house near Brovary, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 28, 2022.
A soldier comforts Larysa Kolesnyk, 82, after being evacuated from Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 30, 2022.
Cemetery workers unload bodies of civilians killed in and around Bucha before they are transported to the morgue at a cemetery on April 7, 2022 in Bucha, Ukraine.
A car drives past a burnt Russian tank  on a road west of Kyiv, on April 7, 2022, during Russia's military invasion launched on Ukraine.
Parishioners attend the Palm Sunday service at the Church of St. Andrew in Bucha, Ukraine, April 17, 2022.
A view inside the Mariupol theater damaged during fighting in Mariupol, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Residents reach for food distributed by soldiers from the Azov Battalion, a Ukrainian paramilitary group, in Bucha, a recently liberated town northwest of Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 2, 2022. In a potentially stunning reversal, Russian troops were in retreat from areas surrounding Kyiv.
The killings were revealed after Russian forces pulled back from the capital after failing to take the city in the face of stiff Ukrainian resistance. Russian troops are now regrouping and have set their sights on the Donbas, a mostly Russian-speaking, industrial region in eastern Ukraine where Moscow-backed rebels have been fighting Ukrainian forces for eight years and control some areas.
Ihor L welcomes Lyudmila who has returned from neighboring Poland on a night train on a platform of Kiev-Pasazhyrsky train station in Kyiv on April 17, 2022.
From left to right, Oksana Gavrielutca 41, sits at the back of a bus with her children Oleg 18, Diana 17 and Vlad 5 after they flee from Snigiriovka village, in Mikolaiv district, Ukraine, on April 7, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen walk among debris of damaged buildings after a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, April 16, 2022.
An elderly woman sits on a train at a train station in Pokrovsk, Ukraine, Monday, April 25, 2022, before departing to flee from the war in Severodonetsk and nearby towns. Russia unleashed a string of attacks against Ukrainian rail and fuel installations, striking crucial infrastructure far from the front line of its eastern offensive.
Galyna Bondar mourns next to the grave of her son, Oleksandr, 32, after burying him in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on April 16, 2022.
A man rides his bicycle next to a destroyed Russian tank in Chernihiv, Ukraine, on April 21, 2022.
A woman waves goodbye to her husband April 9, 2022, from a bus a day after a rocket attack at a train station in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk. At least 52 people were killed in the rocket attack, including five children, at the station being used for civilian evacuations, according to Donetsk's governor.
A woman in Bucha, Ukraine, stays close as volunteers load her son's body onto a truck for delivery to forensic investigators on April 12, 2022. President Vladimir Putin of Russia said recently that atrocities documented in Bucha were "fake."
Military experts dismissed that, saying Russia has already used the same type of missile during the war and has the only logical motive for attacking a rail station at this stage of the war.
Vlad, 6, walks with his father Ivan, 40, on April 8, 2022, inside the basement where they lived during the war in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine. Vlad's mother died while hiding out in a basement for more than a month during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Close relatives of journalist Maks Levin cry near his coffin during his funeral on April 4, 2022, in Kyiv, Ukraine. Levin, who was a contributor to LB.ua and Reuters, among other news organizations, went missing on March 13 and was found dead on April 1 near the village of Huta Mezhyhirska, north of Kyiv.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and other leaders accused Russias military of deliberately attacking the station in a city in Ukraines contested Donbas region. Russia, in turn, blamed Ukraine, saying its forces dont use the kind of missile that hit the station  a contention military experts dismissed.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks about Russia's cruel attacks on civilians via a remote feed during a U.N. Security Council meeting on April 5, 2022, at U.N. headquarters.
A man rides a bicycle as a tail of a missile sticks out of the ground in the city of Chuhuiv, Kharkiv region, April 8, 2022.
Security Service of Ukraine servicemen enter a building during an operation to arrest suspected Russian collaborators in Kharkiv, Ukraine, April 14, 2022.
Flowers are placed on a Ukrainian military armored vehicle destroyed during fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces outside Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 1, 2022.
Later, Slovak Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad said the U.S. would deploy a Patriot air defense system to Slovakia for as long as needed, a precondition to give the S-300 long-range air missile system to Ukraine.
They are waiting for a big battle. We saw shells that did not explode. It was horrifying, said Marina Morozova, who fled Kherson with her husband. The city was the first major one to fall to the Russians and is the scene of continued fighting as Ukrainians work to re-take it.
A boy looks at a destroyed Russian tank on April 1, 2022, after recent battles in Bucha, close to Kyiv, Ukraine.
Ukrainian evacuees queue as they wait for transportation at the Medyka border crossing after they crossed into southeastern Poland on March 29, 2022.
Policemen work to identify civilians who were killed during the Russian occupation in Bucha, Ukraine, on the outskirts of Kyiv, before sending the bodies to the morgue, April 6, 2022.
Internally displaced people from Mariupol and nearby towns arrive at a refugee center fleeing from the Russian attacks, in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, April 21, 2022. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began.
A car is shown damaged by the shrapnel of an explosion in Irpin, in the outskirt of Kyiv, Ukraine on April 30, 2022.
There are almost no words for it, said von der Leyen, who is on a visit to Ukraine. The cynical behavior by Russia has almost no benchmark anymore.
Ukrainian Iryna caresses dogs as she asks for money to support a centre for abandoned dogs next to a poster that reads in Ukrainian: "Heroes don't die", in Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, April 25, 2022. Iryna is a volunteer who helps in a shelter where dozen of abandoned dogs have been moved in.
A day before Ukrainian Easter Sunday, a priest blesses worshippers and their food baskets outside the Bernardine Monastery in Lviv, Ukraine, on April 23, 2022.
Russian military vehicles move in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol, Ukraine, April 23, 2022.
A woman cries as relatives and activists take part in a rally demanding international leaders to organize a humanitarian corridor for evacuation of Ukrainian military and civilians from Mariupol, amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in central Kyiv, Ukraine, April 30, 2022.
Ukrainian authorities and Western officials have repeatedly accused Russian forces of war crimes in the six-week war that has also forced more than 4 million of Ukrainians to flee the country. Some of the most horrific evidence of atrocities has come from towns around Ukraines capital that President Vladimir Putins troops pulled back from in recent days.
Oleksandr, 26 kisses his soon Egor, 2, and his wife Alyona, 26, as they meet at the train station after more than two months separated for the war in Kyiv, Ukraine on April 23, 2022.
Destroyed houses are shown in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 30, 2022.
People look at a crater of an explosion in a village of Horodnya, Chernihiv region, Ukraine, April 14, 2022.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, the regional governor of Donetsk, which lies in the Donbas, said that 50 people were killed, including five children, and many dozens more were wounded.
Three dug graves are ready for the next funerals at the cemetery in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, April 19, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
Olena Koptyl, 63, enters the basement of her destroyed home in the aftermath of the battle between Russian and Ukrainian troops on the outskirts of Chernihiv, northern Ukraine, April 23, 2022.
He suggested that Russia specifically chose the missile type because the Ukrainian army also has it, as a pre-planned measure to allow them to trot out this same old line of We dont use that system, its an old system and just muddy the waters continually.'
A gas station burns after Russian attacks in the city of Kharkiv, March 30, 2022, amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
On Friday, workers pulled corpses from a mass grave near a church in the town under spitting rain, lining up black body bags in rows in the mud. The office of Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova, who was visiting the town, said about 67 people were buried in the grave.
A missile hit a train station where thousands of people had gathered to fleein eastern Ukraine, killing at least 50 on Friday, Ukrainian authorities said, as workers unearthed bodies from a mass grave in a town that has become the center of war crimes allegations against Russian troops.
Tanya Nedashkivs'ka, 57, mourns the death of her husband, killed in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the countrys forces do not use the type of missile that hit the station.
Mourners attend a memorial service for Taras Bobanych, 33, deputy commander of the Ukrainian nationalist group Right Sector, who died during the conflict with Russia, at the Saints Peter and Paul Garrison Church in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on April 13, 2022.
Even with 30 to 40 surgeons working to treat the wounded, the local hospital was struggling to cope, Mayor Oleksandr Goncharenko said.
The train station hit in Fridays missile strike is located in government-controlled territory, but Russia insisted they werent behind the attack. Moscow-backed separatists, who also operate in the region and work closely with Russian regular troops, also blamed Ukraine for the strike.
Gravedigger Alexander, digs a grave at the cemetery of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, on April 27, 2022.
The partially destroyed Mariupol drama theater, hit in March by an airstrike, is seen in Mariupol April 12, 2022. This picture was taken during a trip organized by the Russian military.
Bodies lie on a street in Bucha, northwest of Kyiv, as Ukraine said Russian forces were making a "rapid retreat" from northern areas around Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv on April 2, 2022.
