Russia takes aim at crowded urban areas in Ukraine President Biden says Putin will pay a price for invasion
20220301
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-russia-ukraine-war-20220301-6bn3wucycjeploha3yvwoan25u-story.html
Displaced Ukrainians onboard a Poland bound train in Lviv, western Ukraine on March 13, 2022.
A group of people, who have fled Ukraine, arrive at the border crossing in Medyka, Poland on March 13, 2022.
The lifeless body of a man lies in the staircase of a building in Bucha, Ukraine, April 3, 2022. Associated Press journalists in Bucha, a small city northwest of Kyiv, saw the bodies of at least nine people in civilian clothes who appeared to have been killed at close range. At least two had their hands tied behind their backs.
The first talks between Russia and Ukraine since the invasion were held Monday, but ended with only an agreement to talk again. On Tuesday, Zelenskyy said Russia should stop bombing first.
A volunteer smokes next to sandbags used for protection, at a Ukrainian volunteer center in Mykolaiv, southern Ukraine on March 28, 2022. Ukrainian volunteers have set up a center to supply army and civilians with clothes, food, medicines and makeshift bulletproof vests.
The U.N. human rights office said it has recorded 136 civilian deaths. The real toll is believed to be far higher.
Neighbors try to extinguish the fire of a house destroyed after a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 24, 2022.
A Ukrainian Army soldier inspects fragments of a downed aircraft in Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb. 25, 2022. It was unclear what aircraft crashed and what brought it down amid the Russian invasion in Ukraine.
Mariya Ol'hovs'ka, 33, mourns the death of her father, Valerii Ol'hovs'kyi, 72, on April 1, 2022. He was killed by a Russian missile on March 30 near his house, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine. Maria and her family buried her father in the garden of their home as they could not bury him in the village cemetery due to fighting between the Ukrainian and Russian armies.
But it also shows you that the Russians feel pretty comfortable being out in the open in these concentrations because they feel that theyre not going to come under air attack or rocket or missile attack, the official said.
A woman stands in a damaged kitchen in the eastern Ukraine city of Kharkiv on April 2, 2022, as Ukraine said Russian forces were making a "rapid retreat" from northern areas around the capital Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv.
A man hurries away from a building that had just been struck by Russian bombardment in the Moskovskyi district in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on March 25, 2022.
Evacuees cross a destroyed bridge as they flee the city of Irpin, northwest of Kyiv, on March 7, 2022.
Ukrainian firefighters extinguish a blaze at a warehouse after a bombing in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 17, 2022.
Ukrainian emergency service personnel carry a body of a victim out of the damaged City Hall building following shelling in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 1, 2022.
A child watches from a train carriage, waiting to leave to western Ukraine at the railway station in Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine on Feb. 27, 2022. The U.N. refugee agency says nearly 120,000 people have so far fled Ukraine into neighboring countries in the wake of the Russian invasion. The number was going up fast as Ukrainians grabbed their belongings and rushed to escape from a deadly Russian onslaught.
A refugee fleeing the conflict from neighbouring Ukraine sits on a bus, at the Romanian-Ukrainian border, in Siret, Romania, March 8, 2022.
A woman and child peer out of window of a bus window as they leave Sievierodonetsk, the Luhansk region, eastern Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022.
A senior U.S. defense official said that Russias military progress  including by the massive convoy  has slowed, plagued by logistical and supply problems. Some Russian military columns have run out of gas and food, the official said, and morale has suffered as a result.
Ukrainian soldiers take positions outside a military facility as two cars burn, in a street in Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb. 26, 2022.
Isachenkov and Litvinova reported from Moscow. Mstyslav Chernov in Mariupol, Ukraine Sergei Grits in Odesa, Ukraine Robert Burns, Zeke Miller and Eric Tucker in Washington Francesca Ebel, Josef Federman and Andrew Drake in Kyiv Lorne Cook in Brussels and other AP journalists from around the world contributed to this report.
In an emotional appeal to the European Parliament later, Zelenskyy said: We are fighting also to be equal members of Europe. I believe that today we are showing everybody that is what we are.
A woman walks as smoke rises in the air in the background after shelling in Odessa, Ukraine, April 3, 2022.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks to the U.S. Congress by video to plead for support as his country is besieged by Russian forces, at the Capitol in Washington, March 16, 2022.
A woman walks past building damaged by shelling, in Kharkiv, Ukraine on March 13, 2022.
Displaced Ukrainians queue to board a Poland bound train in Lviv, western Ukraine on March 13, 2022.
Members of civil defense prepare Molotov cocktails in a yard in Kyiv, Ukraine on Feb. 27, 2022. A Ukrainian official says street fighting has broken out in Ukraine's second-largest city of Kharkiv. Russian troops also put increasing pressure on strategic ports in the country's south following a wave of attacks on airfields and fuel facilities elsewhere that appeared to mark a new phase of Russia's invasion.
Ukrainians cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing Irpin, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 8, 2022.
People put up plastic sheets to cover the broken windows of their apartments after parts of a Russian missile, shot down by Ukrainian air defense, landed on an apartment block, according to authorities, in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 17, 2022.
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion. Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an invasion or war.
People examine the damage after shelling of a shopping center, in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 21, 2022. Eight people were killed in the attack.
Ukrainian servicemen sit atop armored personnel carriers driving on a road in the Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday announced a military operation in Ukraine and warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to "consequences you have never seen."
A Ukranian soldier stands on the canon of a burnt Russian tank on the outskirts of Kyiv, March 31, 2022.
Many military experts worry that Russia may be shifting tactics. Moscows strategy in Chechnya and Syria was to use artillery and air bombardments to pulverize cities and crush fighters resolve.
People sleep in the improvised bomb shelter in a sports center, which can accommodate up to 2000 people, in Mariupol, Ukraine, late Feb. 27, 2022. Explosions and gunfire that have disrupted life since the invasion began last week appeared to subside around Kyiv overnight, as Ukrainian and Russian delegations prepared to meet Monday, Feb. 28, 2022 on Ukraine's border with Belarus.
A volunteer of the Ukrainian Territorial Defense Forces assists a woman to cross the street in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 16, 2022. Both Russia and Ukraine projected optimism ahead of another scheduled round of talks Wednesday, even as Moscow's forces rained fire on Kyiv and other major cities in a bid to crush the resistance that has frustrated Kremlin hopes for a lightning victory.
A man sits outside his destroyed building after bombings on the eastern Ukraine town of Chuguiv on Feb. 24, 2022, as Russian armed forces invade Ukraine.
Ukrainian soldiers carry the body of a civilian killed by Russian forces over the destroyed bridge in Irpin, not far from the capital of Kyiv, Ukraine, on March 31, 2022.
Where are the children? What kind of military factories do they work at? What tanks are they going at? Zelenskyy said.
Ukrainian authorities said five people were killed in the attack on the TV tower, which is near central Kyiv and a short walk from numerous apartment buildings. A TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
As for dialogue, I think yes, but stop bombarding people first and start negotiating afterwards, he told CNN.
A firefighter looks at a fragment of a Ukrainian Tochka-U missile on a street in Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, March 14, 2022.
A woman runs as she flees with her family across a destroyed bridge in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on March 2. 2022.
Ukrainian volunteers tear cloth into strips to make camouflage nets in Lviv, western Ukraine, Feb. 28, 2022. The Russian military assault on Ukraine went into its fifth day after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his nuclear forces put on increased alert, ratcheting up tensions yet further.
An elderly woman is helped by policemen after she was rescued by firefighters from inside her apartment after bombing in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 15, 2022.
Russian forces escalated their attacks on crowded urban areas Tuesday in what Ukraines leader called a blatant campaign of terror, while U.S. President Joe Biden vowed to make his Russian counterpart pay a price for the invasion.
An armed man stands by the remains of a Russian military vehicle in Bucha, close to the capital Kyiv, Ukraine on March 1, 2022.
Volunteers assemble sandbags to protect a monument in Kyiv on March 29, 2022, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Relatives and friends attend a funeral ceremony for four of the Ukrainian military servicemen, who were killed during an airstrike in a military base in Yarokiv, in a church in Lviv, Ukraine, March 15, 2022. At least 35 people were killed and many wounded in Sunday's Russian missile strike on a military training base near Ukraine's western border with NATO member Poland.
An explosion is seen in an apartment building after Russian's army tank fires in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 11, 2022.
Biden devoted the first 12 minutes of his Tuesday evening address to Ukraine, with lawmakers of both parties repeatedly rising to their feet and applauding as he praised the bravery of Ukraines people and condemned Putins assault.
We are joining with our European allies to find and seize your yachts, your luxury apartments, your private jets, he said. We are coming for your ill-begotten gains.
Moscow made new threats of escalation, days after raising the specter of nuclear war. A top Kremlin official warned that the Wests economic war against Russia could turn into a real one.
People cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing the town of Irpin close to Kyiv, Ukraine, March 7, 2022.
A child sleeps in an armchair as others stand around in a shelter during Russian shelling, in Mariupol, Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022.
Ira Gavriluk holds her cat as she walks next to the bodies of her husband, brother, and another man, who were killed outside her home in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022. Russia is facing a fresh wave of condemnation after evidence emerged of what appeared to be deliberate killings of civilians in Ukraine.
People who were evacuated from areas around the Ukrainian capital, wait on a bus after arriving at a triage point in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 9, 2022.
A Ukrainian serviceman walks next to a fighting vehicle, outside Kyiv, Ukraine, April 2, 2022. As Russian forces pull back from Ukraine's capital region, retreating troops are creating a "catastrophic" situation for civilians by leaving mines around homes, abandoned equipment and "even the bodies of those killed," President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Saturday.
A Ukrainian serviceman holds a rifle in a trench at the front line east of Kharkiv March 31, 2022.
Antonina, 84, sits in a wheelchair after being evacuated along with her twelve dogs from Irpin, at a triage point in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 11, 2022.
Mariya, a local resident, looks for personal items in the rubble of her house, which was destroyed during fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the village of Yasnohorodka, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 30, 2022.
An injured man is wheeled on a stretcher at a local hospital in Novoiavorisk, western Ukraine on March 13, 2022.
A Ukrainian firefighter drags a hose inside a large food products storage facility which was destroyed by an airstrike in the early morning hours on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on March 13, 2022.
Natalya, whose husband and nephew were killed by Russian forces, cries in her garden in Bucha, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
The immense convoy, with vehicles packed together along narrow roads, would seemingly be a big fat target for Ukrainian forces, the senior Western intelligence official said on condition of anonymity.
A cloud of smoke raises after an explosion in Lviv, western Ukraine, March 18, 2022. The mayor of Lviv says missiles struck near the city's airport early Friday.
As Biden spoke, a 40-mile convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles advanced slowly on Kyiv, the capital city of nearly 3 million people, in what the West feared was a bid byPutinto topple the government and install a Kremlin-friendly regime.
In the courtyard of their house, Vlad Tanyuk, 6, stands near the grave of his mother Ira Tanyuk, who died because of starvation and stress due to the war, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Refugees try to stay warm after fleeing the Russian invasion of Ukraine, at the Medyka border crossing in Poland, March 1, 2022.  All day long, as trains and buses bring people fleeing Ukraine to the safety of Polish border towns, they carry not just Ukrainian fleeing a homeland under attack but large numbers of other citizens who had made Ukraine their home and whose fates too are now uncertain.
Passengers depart the railway station after disembarking trains from the east on March 11, 2022 in Lviv, Ukraine. More than two million people have fled Ukraine following Russia's large-scale assault on the country, with hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians passing through Lviv on their way to Poland.
Ukrainians rest at an exhibition hall, turned into a refugee center in Nadarzyn, near Warsaw, Poland, on March 23, 2022. The United Nations says more than 3.5 million people  mainly women and children  have fled Ukraine in the four weeks since Russian tanks rolled across the border and Moscow began bombarding towns and cities.
An armored personnel carrier burns and damaged light utility vehicles stand abandoned after fighting in Kharkiv, Ukraine on Feb. 27, 2022. The city authorities said that Ukrainian forces engaged in fighting with Russian troops that entered the country's second-largest city on Sunday.
Ukrainian soldiers inspect trenches used by Russian soldiers during the occupation of villages on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 1, 2022.
Kateryna Suharokova holds her newborn son Makar in the basement of a maternity hospital converted into a medical ward and used as a bomb shelter in Mariupol, Ukraine, Feb. 28, 2022. In makeshift shelters and underground railway platforms across Ukraine, families trying to protect the young and old and make conditions bearable amid the bullets, missiles and shells outside.
Firefighters work on a fire on a building after bombings on the eastern Ukraine town of Chuguiv on Feb. 24, 2022, as Russian armed forces are trying to invade Ukraine from several directions, using rocket systems and helicopters to attack Ukrainian position in the south, the border guard service said.
A view of smoke from inside a damaged gym following shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 2, 2022. Russian forces have escalated their attacks on crowded cities in what Ukraine's leader called a blatant campaign of terror.
People walk past a crater from the explosion in Mira Avenue Avenue of Peace in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 13, 2022.
Nadia kisses her 10-year-old granddaughter Zlata Moiseinko, suffering from a chronic heart condition, as she receives treatment at a schoolhouse that has been converted into a field hospital in Mostyska, western Ukraine, March 24, 2022. The United Nations children's agency says Russia's invasion has displaced half of Ukraine's children, one of the largest such displacements since World War II.
A volunteer holds a baby while people wait with their belongings at the Tiszabecs-Tiszaujlak border crossing as they flee Ukraine on Feb. 27, 2022 in Tiszabecs, Hungary. Refugees from Ukraine have fled into neighboring countries such as Hungary, forming long queues at border crossings, after Russia began a large-scale attack on Ukraine earlier this week.
Natalya mourns the death of her brother Sergiy Muravyts'kyi, 61, who was killed during a Russian attack in the village of Mriya, which means Dream in Ukrainian, during a ceremony before his cremation at the Baikove cemetery, Kyiv, Ukraine, March 24, 2022.
The bombardment blew out windows and walls of buildings that ring the massive square, which was piled high with debris and dust. Inside one building, chunks of plaster were scattered, and doors, ripped from their hinges, lay across hallways.
Ukrainians charge their electronic devices at a refugee shelter in Nadarzyn, near Warsaw, Poland, March 17, 2022. Poland has admitted some 1.95 million refugees fleeing war and Russian aggression on Ukraine.
Ukainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks to the press in the town of Bucha, northwest of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, on April 4, 2022.
A Ukrainian Territorial Defense Forces member holds an NLAW anti-tank weapon, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 9, 2022. Authorities announced a new ceasefire on Wednesday to allow civilians to escape from towns around the capital, Kyiv, as well as the southern cities of Mariupol, Enerhodar and Volnovakha, Izyum in the east and Sumy in the northeast. Previous attempts to establish safe evacuation corridors have largely failed due to attacks by Russian forces.
Damaged apartment buildings after shelling on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, in territory under control of the separatist government of the Donetsk People's Republic, on March 29, 2022.
A Ukrainian soldier and a stray dog during a clearing-out operation of remaining Russian forces in Irpin, Ukraine, on March 29, 2022.
A picture of Russian President Vladimir Putin hangs at a target practice range in Lviv, western Ukraine, March 17, 2022.
Elderly residents hide in a basement for shelter, with no electricity, water or food in the center of the town of Irpin, some 25 km 16 miles northwest of Kyiv, March 11, 2022. Kyiv northwest suburbs such as Irpin and Bucha have been enduring Russian shellfire and bombardments for over a week.
A refugee fleeing the conflict from neighboring Ukraine holds her baby as she sits in a tent at the Romanian-Ukrainian border, in Siret, Romania, Feb. 26, 2022. Romania, which shares around 600 kilometers 372 miles of borders with Ukraine to the north, is seeing an influx of refugees from the country as many flee Russia's attacks.
Dead bodies are placed into a mass grave on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, March 9, 2022 as people cannot bury their dead because of the heavy shelling by Russian forces.
Soldiers walk amid destroyed Russian tanks in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 3, 2022. Ukrainian troops are finding brutalized bodies and widespread destruction in the suburbs of Kyiv, sparking new calls for a war crimes investigation and sanctions against Russia.
A refugee fleeing the war from neighboring Ukraine peers from a tent after crossing the border, at the Romanian-Ukrainian border, in Siret, Romania, March 14, 2022.
A child is carried on a stroller across an improvised path while fleeing Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 9, 2022.
Biden used his first State of the Union address to highlight the resolve of a reinvigorated Western alliance that has worked to rearm the Ukrainian military and adopt tough sanctions, which he said have left Russian President Vladimir Putin isolated in the world more than he has ever been.
A Polish border guard assists refugees from Ukraine as they arrive to Poland at the Korczowa border crossing, Poland, Feb. 26, 2022.
A serviceman carries the photo of Capt. Andrei Paliy, a deputy commander of Russia's Black Sea Fleet, during a farewell ceremony in Sevastopol, Crimea, March 23, 2022. Paliy was killed in action during fighting with Ukrainian forces in the Sea of Azov port of Mariupol.
Ukrainian soldiers try to pull the dead body of a Russian soldier from a destroyed Russian tank in the village of Dmytrivka close to Kyiv on April 2, 2022. At least 10 Russian tanks were destroyed in the fighting two days earlier in Dmytrivka.
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry an injured pregnant woman from the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say.
It is a nightmare, and it seizes you from the inside very strongly. This cannot be explained with words, said Kharkiv resident Ekaterina Babenko, taking shelter in a basement with neighbors for a fifth straight day. We have small children, elderly people, and frankly speaking it is very frightening.
A woman walks outside the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 9, 2022.
Medical workers move a patient in a basement of a maternity hospital converted into a medical ward and used as a bomb shelter in Mariupol, Ukraine on March 1, 2022. Russian strikes on the key southern port city of Mariupol seriously wounded several people.
Ukrainian servicemen guard a checkpoint on a main road in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 7, 2022.
A volunteer of the Ukrainian Territorial Defense Forces stands next to his APC in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 16, 2022. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg made it clear Tuesday that the 30-nation military alliance is set to radically change its security stance in Europe in response to Russia's war on Ukraine.
In Kharkiv, with a population of about 1.5 million, at least six people were killed when the regions Soviet-era administrative building on Freedom Square was hit with what was believed to be a missile.
A woman holds her baby as she gets on a bus leaving Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022. Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine on Thursday, hitting cities and bases with airstrikes or shelling, as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee.
Halyna Falko, 52, talks while looking at the destruction caused after a Russian attack inside her house near Brovary, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 28, 2022.
A soldier comforts Larysa Kolesnyk, 82, after being evacuated from Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 30, 2022.
Smoke is seen near damaged radar arrays and other equipment at a Ukrainian military facility outside Mariupol, Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022.
Ludmila, left, says goodbye to her granddaughter Kristina, who with her son Yaric, leave the train station in Odesa, southern Ukraine, on March 22, 2022. The U.N. refugee agency says more than 3.5 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia's invasion.
A father puts his hand on the window as he says goodbye to his daughter in front of an evacuation train at the central train station in Odessa on March 7, 2022.
Ambassadors and diplomats leave the room while Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov on screen addresses with a pre-recorded video message the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, Switzerland, March 1, 2022. The diplomats got up and left the room when Sergei Lavrov's pre-recorded video message began to play, in protest against Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
The body of a Russian soldier lies near destroyed Russian vehicles the day after fighting with Ukrainian soldiers on a highway outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Feb. 25, 2022.
A view inside the Mariupol theater damaged during fighting in Mariupol, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Another Russian airstrike hit a residential area in the city of Zhytomyr, the towns mayor said. Ukraines emergency services said Tuesdays strike killed at least two people, set three homes on fire and broke the windows in a nearby hospital. About 85 miles 140 kilometers west of Kyiv, Zhytomyr is the home of the elite 95th Air Assault Brigade, which may have been the intended target.
A woman holds a small girl at a border crossing, up as refugees flee a Russian invasion, in Medyka, Poland, March 3, 2022. The U.N. refugee agency said Thursday at least 1 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia's invasion a week ago, an exodus without precedent in this century for its speed.
A Ukrainian serviceman guards the area as Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko, right, speaks during a press conference next to his brother, former heavyweight boxing world champion Wladimir Klitschko, in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 23, 2022.
Anti- tank barricades are placed on a street as preparation for a possible Russian offensive, in Odesa, Ukraine, March 24, 2022.
A man who injured by shelling near his home is treated at a hospital in Brovary, north of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 10, 2022.
As the fighting in Ukraine raged, the death toll remained unclear. One senior Western intelligence official estimated that more than 5,000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed. Ukraine gave no overall estimate of troop losses.
Firefighters extinguish fires in an apartment building after being hit by shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 15, 2022.
Military volunteers gather to receive weapons at a weapons storage facility in Fastiv, Ukraine, Feb. 25, 2022.
Residents embrace after salvaging some belongings from an apartment complex in the Obolon district of Kyiv, Ukraine, that was struck by artillery shells on March 14, 2022. Two people were killed and nine wounded in the attack.
Zelenskyy pronounced the attack on the square frank, undisguised terror and a war crime. This is state terrorism of the Russian Federation, he said.
Ambulance paramedics treat an elderly woman wounded by shelling before transferring her to a maternity hospital converted into a medical ward in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 2, 2022.
Residents reach for food distributed by soldiers from the Azov Battalion, a Ukrainian paramilitary group, in Bucha, a recently liberated town northwest of Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 2, 2022. In a potentially stunning reversal, Russian troops were in retreat from areas surrounding Kyiv.
The invading forces also pressed their assault on other towns and cities, including the strategic ports of Odesa and Mariupol in the south.
A destroyed tank is seen after battles between Ukrainian and Russian forces on a main road near Brovary, north of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 10, 2022.
Throughout our history weve learned this lesson  when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos, Biden said. They keep moving. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising.
People look at the gutted remains of Russian military vehicles on a road in the town of Bucha, close to the capital Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, March 1, 2022.
The attack on Freedom Square  Ukraines largest plaza, and the nucleus of public life in the city  was seen by many Ukrainians as brazen evidence that the Russian invasion wasnt just about hitting military targets but also about breaking their spirit.
Ukrainians crowd under a destroyed bridge as they try to flee crossing the Irpin river in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine,  March 8, 2022. Demands for ways to safely evacuate civilians have surged along with intensifying shelling by Russian forces, who have made significant advances in southern Ukraine but stalled in some other regions. Efforts to put in place cease-fires along humanitarian corridors have repeatedly failed amid Russian shelling.
Overall, the Russian military has been stalled by fierce resistance on the ground and a surprising inability to completely dominate Ukraines airspace.
People fleeing from the conflict drive cars heading to the Ukrainian and Romania border near Cernivtsi, in Ukraine on March 1, 2022.
Biden trumpeted the toll global measures had taken on the Russian economy already, including a stock market plunge and currency devaluation.
A Ukrainian police officer runs while holding a child as the artillery echoes nearby, while fleeing Irpin on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 7, 2022.
Flowers are placed on a Ukrainian military armored vehicle destroyed during fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces outside Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 1, 2022.
A Ukrainian man in camouflage stands next to snow covered body bags in the yard of a morgue in Mykolaiv, a city on the shores of the Black Sea that has been under Russian attack for days on March 11, 2022.
Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed after the bloodshed on the central square in Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city, and the deadly bombing of a TV tower in the capital.
A Ukrainian soldier wanders down the railway to inspect something, past the bodies of dead Russian soldiers, where fighting took place with Russian forces on the outskirts of Irpin, Ukraine on March 1, 2022.
A boy looks at a destroyed Russian tank on April 1, 2022, after recent battles in Bucha, close to Kyiv, Ukraine.
Ukrainian evacuees queue as they wait for transportation at the Medyka border crossing after they crossed into southeastern Poland on March 29, 2022.
Ukrainian soldiers try to save the father of a family of four -- the only one at that moment who still had a pulse -- moments after being hit by a mortar while trying to flee Irpin, near Kyiv, Ukraine, on March 6, 2022.
Cluster bombs shoot smaller bombletsover a large area, many of which fail to explode until long after theyve been dropped. If their use is confirmed, that would represent a new level of brutality in the war and could lead to further isolation of Russia.
Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraines east in recent days. Residents also reported the use of such weapons in Kharkiv and Kiyanka village. The Kremlin denied using cluster bombs.
Damaged radar, a vehicle and equipment are seen at a Ukrainian military facility outside Mariupol, Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022.
Natalya Vakula, 44, rests in a hospital in Brovary, on the outskirts of Kyiv, while recovering from injuries to her leg after a Russian attack in Chernihiv, Ukraine, March 26, 2022.
People who fled the war in Ukraine rest inside the old train station building that has been converted for a temporary refugee shelter on March 11, 2022 in Krakow, Poland. More than half of the 2.3 million Ukrainians fleeing war have crossed into neighboring Poland since Russia began a large-scale armed invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022.
People with their belongings in a city subway that they have used as a bomb shelter in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 24, 2022.
Bodies lie on a street in Bucha, northwest of Kyiv, as Ukraine said Russian forces were making a "rapid retreat" from northern areas around Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv on April 2, 2022.
A couple embrace prior to the woman boarding a train carriage leaving for western Ukraine, at the railway station in Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine, Feb. 27, 2022. The U.N. refugee agency says nearly 120,000 people have so far fled Ukraine into neighboring countries in the wake of the Russian invasion. The number was going up fast as Ukrainians grabbed their belongings and rushed to escape from a deadly Russian onslaught.
In his speech, Biden announced that the U.S. was joining several other countries in closing its airspace to Russian planes. He also warned the countrys oligarchs that the Department of Justice was assembling a task force to investigate any crimes they committed.
A man removes a destroyed curtain inside a school damaged among other residential buildings in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 18, 2022.
Ukrainian civilians receive weapons training, in the outskirts of Lviv, western Ukraine, March 7, 2022. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has entered its 12th day following what Ukrainian authorities described as increased shelling of encircled cities and another failed attempt to evacuate civilians from the port of Mariupol.
Day 6 of the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II found Russiaincreasingly isolated, beset by the sanctions that have thrown its economy into turmoil and left the country practically friendless, apart from a few nations like China, Belarus and North Korea.
Relatives and friends mourn the body of senior police sergeant Roman Rushchyshyn in the village of Soposhyn, outskirts of Lviv, western Ukraine, March 10, 2022, in Lviv. Rushchyshyn, a member of the Lviv Special Police Patrol Battalion, was killed in the Luhansk Region.
Inside view of the regional administration building, heavily damaged after a Russian attack earlier this month in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 24, 2022.
Volunteer fighters transport rifles across a river under a destroyed bridge to reinforce Ukrainian troops in Irpin, Ukraine on March 1, 2022.
Natali Sevriukova reacts next to her house following a rocket attack the city of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Feb. 25, 2022.
A refugee child fleeing the conflict from neighboring Ukraine sits in a bus at the Romanian-Ukrainian border, in Siret, Romania on Feb. 28, 2022. The European Union's commissioner for home affairs Ylva Johansson visited Romania's northern border crossing in Siret Monday where thousands of refugees are entering from neighboring Ukraine as they flee the conflict with Russia.
A Ukrainian military official said Belarusian troops joined the war Tuesday in the Chernihiv region in the north, without providing details. But just before that, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said his country had no plans to join the fight.
Police officers inspect the damage after an apparent Russian strike in Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022.
A woman reacts as she waits for a train trying to leave Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb. 24, 2022.
Serhii, father of teenager Iliya, cries on his son's lifeless body lying on a stretcher at a maternity hospital converted into a medical ward in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 2, 2022.
Children Vlada, left, Katrin and Danilo look out from a window of an unheated train carriage of an emergency evacuation train which is travelling from Kharkov to Lviv, as it stopped in the Kyiv railway station in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 3, 2022.
Residents leave Kyiv following pre-offensive missile strikes of the Russian armed forces and Belarus on Feb. 24, 2022. Overnight, Russia began a large-scale attack on Ukraine, with explosions reported in multiple cities and far outside the restive eastern regions held by Russian-backed rebels.
A gas station burns after Russian attacks in the city of Kharkiv, March 30, 2022, amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said 16 children had been killed around Ukraine on Monday, and he mocked Russias claim that it is going after only military targets.
Zelenskyys office also reported a missile attack on the site of the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial, near the tower. A spokesman for the memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941, was damaged, but the extent would not be clear until daylight.
People are under the ruins. We have pulled out bodies, said Yevhen Vasylenko, an emergency official.
Roughly 660,000 peoplehave fled Ukraine, and countless others have taken shelter underground. Bomb damage has left hundreds of thousands of families without drinking water, U.N. humanitarian coordinator Martin Griffiths said.
The Slovenian Foreign Ministry said its consulate in Kharkiv, located in another large building on the square, was destroyed in the attack.
Residents prepare tea as they sit in a basement being used as a bomb shelter in Irpin, outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on March 13, 2022.
Tanya Nedashkivs'ka, 57, mourns the death of her husband, killed in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
Britains Defense Ministry said it had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days. It also said three cities  Kharkiv, Kherson and Mariupol  were encircled by Russian forces.
A Ukrainian serviceman takes a photograph of a damaged church after shelling in a residential district in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 10, 2022.
Ukrainian soldiers hold a position that was the site of a battle the day before with Russian forces on a highway leading into Kharkiv, Ukraine, Feb. 25, 2022.
A Ukrainian firefighter sprays water inside a house destroyed by shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine, March 23, 2022. The Kyiv city administration says Russian forces shelled the Ukrainian capital overnight and early Wednesday morning, in the districts of Sviatoshynskyi and Shevchenkivskyi, damaging buildings.
The bombing came after Russia announced it would target transmission facilities used by Ukraines intelligence agency. It urged people living near such places to leave their homes.
