Russia claims to have taken full control of Mariupol
20220520
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-russia-20220520-kqevfx64fngfromezqdnvd7apq-story.html
The Azovstal defenders thwarted the enemys plans to seize eastern Ukraine, drew away enormous numbers of enemy forces, and changed the course of the war, Podolyak said.
Ukrainian National Guard soldiers inspect a basement during a reconnaissance mission on May 14, 2022, in a recently retaken village on the outskirts of Kharkiv in east Ukraine.
Military analysts say the citys capture at this point holds more symbolic importance than anything else, since Mariupol is already effectively under Moscows control and most of the Russian forces that were tied down by the drawn-out fighting have already left.
A soldier of Ukraine's special operations unit checks a forest road to install anti-tank mines on the Russian troops' potential way in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, late Tuesday, June 14, 2022.
A woman walks near a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine, on June 1, 2022.
An unexploded ordnance is seen outside a kindergarten school where seven people had been sheltering in the basement for more than two months, in Lysychansk, eastern Ukraine, on May 14, 2022.
A column of Ukrainian armored vehicles and soldiers travel near the front lines in the Donetsk region on June 1, 2022.
First lady Jill Biden and Olena Zelenskyy, spouse of Ukrainian's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, join a group of children at School 6 in making tissue-paper bears to give as Mother's Day gifts in Uzhhorod, Ukraine, May 8, 2022.
The steelworks had been the site of fierce fighting for weeks. The dwindling group of outgunned fighters had held out in the plant, drawing Russian airstrikes, artillery and tank fire before their government ordered them to abandon its defense and save their lives.
Russian Ambassador to Poland Sergey Andreev is covered with red paint in Warsaw, Poland, May 9, 2022. Protesters opposed to Russia's war in Ukraine had thrown red paint on the Russian ambassador as he arrived at a cemetery in Warsaw to pay respects to Red Army soldiers who died during World War II.
Maksym, 3, is photographed with his brother, Dmytro, 16, on top of a destroyed Russian tank, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on May 8, 2022.
A patient is carried on a stretcher to board a Doctors Without Borders medical evacuation train in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, May 29, 2022.
Anna Shevchenko, 35, reacts next to her home in Irpin, near Kyiv, May 3, 2022. The house, built by Shevchenko's grandparents, was nearly destroyed by bombing in late March during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In her beloved flowerbed, some roses, lilies, peonies and daffodils survived. "It is new life. So I tried to save my flowers," she said.
A woman, fleeing from an area near the front line in Donetsk, prepares to board a bus in Kurakhove, eastern Ukraine, May 23, 2022. In the Donbas region, people continue to flee from towns and villages coming under heavy bombardment.
A Ukrainian soldier keeps an eye on Russian positions about a mile away from Vuhledar, in eastern Ukraine, on May 31, 2022.
Cars pass by destroyed Russian tanks in a recent battle against Ukrainians in the village of Dmytrivka, close to Kyiv, Ukraine, May 23, 2022.
Relatives and friends attend the funeral of Ukrainian serviceman Vitaliy Nejenits in Kharkiv cemetery, eastern Ukraine, May 27, 2022.
Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar said Mariupols defenders gave Ukraine critically important time to form reserves and regroup forces and receive help from partners. And they fulfilled all their tasks.
A nurse tends to a patient after he underwent surgery for injuries to his leg and abdomen caused by a mine explosion in Severodonetsk, at Kostyantynivka hospital, in Kostyantynivka, eastern Ukraine, May 23, 2022.
A week later, about 300 people were reported killed in a bombing of a theater where civilians were taking shelter, although the real death toll could be closer to 600. Officials had written the word CHILDREN in Russian on the pavement outside to try to forestall an aerial attack.
Olga Chernenko, 51, holds her dog Casper, inside her home ruined by attacks in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, May 26, 2022. Chernenko says she walks past her burned-down house often because that's where she lived for 48 years, almost her whole life, and that she hopes Russian President Vladimir Putin will be punished for what he did.
A Ukrainian serviceman patrols a village near the frontline in the Donetsk oblast region, eastern Ukraine, June 2, 2022.
The Azovstal complex covers 4 square miles and is threaded with about 15 miles of tunnels and bunkers. Earlier in May, hundreds of civilians were evacuated from the plant during humanitarian cease-fires.
Russia claimed to have captured Mariupol on Friday in what would be its biggest victory yet in its war with Ukraine, following a nearly three-month siege that reduced much of the strategic port city to a smoking ruin, with over 20,000 civilians feared dead.
An elderly Ukrainian woman sits in a bus during an evacuation of civilians in Soledar, Donetsk region, Ukraine, May 24, 2022.
Residents carry their food given out by police officers, in Lysychansk, Ukraine, June 11, 2022.
People pay their respects during the funeral ceremony for Ukrainian serviceman Ruslan Borovyk killed by the Russian troops in a battle in St. Michael Cathedral in Kyiv, Ukraine, on May 4, 2022.
Vehicles on fire at an oil depot after missiles struck the facility in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Makiivka, about 94 miles east of Donetsk, eastern Ukraine, on May 4, 2022.
Yana Stepanenko, 11, is carried by a doctor at a public hospital in Lviv, Ukraine on May 13, 2022. Yana and her mother, Natasha, 43, were injured April 8 during shelling at the train station of the eastern city of Kramatorsk. They were planning to catch an evacuation train heading west.
A woman walks past the Memorial Wall of Fallen Defenders of Ukraine in Russian-Ukrainian War in Kyiv, Ukraine, May 23, 2022.
Two couples kiss during their reunion after three months of war-related separation at the Kharkiv train station in eastern Ukraine, May 27, 2022.
A woman kneels at activist and soldier Roman Ratushnyi's coffin during his memorial service in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 18, 2022. Ratushnyi died in a battle near Izyum, where Russian and Ukrainian troops are fighting for control of the area.
Children stand in front of a building destroyed by attacks in Chernihiv, Ukraine, June 19, 2022.
A local resident gathers up belongings from his heavily damaged house after a Russian strike in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, May 25, 2022. Two rockets struck the eastern Ukrainian town of Pokrovsk, in the Donetsk region early Wednesday morning, causing at least four injuries.
Residents remove belongings from a house destroyed by Russian shelling in Irpin, Ukraine on May 21, 2022.
A woman covers her ears from the sound of mortar fire as people queue to collect pensions from a postal delivery van that reached the frontline despite the ongoing conflict in Mayaky, eastern Ukraine, on May 6, 2022.
The city endured some of the worst suffering of the war. An estimated 100,000 people remained from a prewar population of 450,000, many trapped without food, water, heat or electricity. Constant bombardment has left behind shattered and charred buildings in row after row of destroyed apartment blocks and ruined neighborhoods.
A Ukrainian policeman stands inside a school sport hall, where, according to residents, Russian soldiers were based in the village of Vilkhivka, after it was retaken by Ukrainian Army, near the eastern city of Kharkiv on May 13, 2022, on the 79th day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
A soldier pays his last tribute to volunteer soldier Oleksandr Makhov, 36, a well-known Ukrainian journalist, killed by Russian troops, during his funeral at St Michael cathedral in Kyiv, Ukraine, May 9, 2022.
An aerial view shows a crater on the field of the Chernihiv Stadium on May 28, 2022, in Chernihiv, Ukraine. Chernihiv, northeast of Kyiv, was an early target of Russia's offensive after its Feb. 24 invasion.
A child stands next to a damaged car at a building destroyed during attacks in Irpin, on the outskirts Kyiv, Ukraine, May 30, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen carry the coffin of Army Col. Oleksander Makhachek during his funeral in Zhytomyr, Ukraine, on June 3, 2022.
A Ukrainian soldier stands on a self-propelled artillery vehicle Gvozdika, in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, June 17, 2022.
A maternity hospital was hit with a lethal Russian airstrike on March 9, producing searing images of pregnant women being evacuated from the facility.
One civilian evacuee from Azovstal, who made it to the Ukrainian controlled city of Zaporizhzhia on May 3, said she went to sleep at the plant every night afraid she wouldnt wake up. You cant imagine how scary it is when you sit in the bomb shelter, in a damp and wet basement, and it is bouncing and shaking, said Elina Tsybulchenko, 54.
Fresh graves are seen at a cemetery in Mariupol on June 2, 2022, amid the ongoing Russian military action in Ukraine.
In this image released by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office on May 1, 2022, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, center right, and U.S. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi shake hands during their meeting in Kyiv, Ukraine, on April 30, 2022. Pelosi is the highest-ranking American leader to visit Ukraine since the start of the war, and her visit marks a major show of continuing support for the country's struggle against Russia.
Two national guard soldiers drink a shot to honor the memory of two late soldiers in Kharkiv cemetery, eastern Ukraine on May 22, 2022.
Soldiers of the Ukrainian Army's Carpathian Sich Battalion don their gear at an underground base in the Kharkiv region of Ukraine while they wait for artillery fire on their position to subside on May 11, 2022. The volunteer unit is deployed along a line of villages and trenched farmland in the Kharkiv region, tasked with holding back Russian forces pushing down from their stronghold in the occupied Ukrainian city of Izium.
An inside view of a house destroyed by shelling in an empty settlement in Pylypchatyne, eastern Ukraine, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Yana Skakova and her son, Yehor, sit in an evacuation train at the station in Pokrovsk in eastern Ukraine on May 28, 2022.
A man throws debris from the window of a residential apartment block damaged by a Russian missile strike, on May 6, 2022 in Kramatorsk, Ukraine. The city has been a target of missile strikes as Russia focuses on gaining ground in Ukraine's surrounding Donbas region.
Iryna Martsyniuk, 50, stands next to her house, heavily damaged after a Russian bombing in Velyka Kostromka village, Ukraine, May 19, 2022.
Russian Sgt. Vadim Shishimarin listens to his translator during a court hearing in Kyiv, Ukraine, May 23, 2022. The 21-year-old soldier facing the first war crimes trial since the start of the war in Ukraine pleaded guilty on May 18 to killing an unarmed civilian.
Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko accused the Russians of hiding their military crimes in the mass graves and labeled it the new Babi Yar  recalling the ravine in Kyiv where the Nazis massacred nearly 34,000 Ukrainian Jews during World War II.
A girl rides a scooter near buildings destroyed during attacks in Irpin in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 2, 2022.
After continued bombardment, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on May 16 the evacuation of his forces from the bunkers and tunnels beneath Azovstal was done to save the lives of the fighters.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelenskyy, described the defense of Mariupol as the Thermopylae of the 21st century  a reference to one of historys most glorious defeats, in which 300 Spartans held off a much larger Persian force in 480 B.C. before finally succumbing.
A man stands at a building destroyed during attacks in Borodyanka on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 4, 2022.
A man pets a dog in the city subway of Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine May 19, 2022. the subway is being used as a temporary bomb shelter.
Russia had sought control of Mariupol, on the coast of the Sea of Azov, to complete a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014, and free up troops to join the growing battle for control of the wider industrial Donbas region, home to an 8-year-old Moscow-backed separatist rebellion. It would also deprive Ukraine of a vital port.
An elderly woman who has been evacuated from the Lysychansk area cries moments before departing by train to western Ukraine from the Pokrovsk railway station, June 10, 2022.
An unexploded ordnance penetrates a road in Severodonetsk, Ukraine, on May 7, 2022, amid the Russian invasion.
The complete takeover of Mariupol gives Putin a badly needed military victory in the war he began on Feb. 24  a conflict that was supposed to have been a quick and easy victory for the Kremlin but instead has seen the failure to take the capital of Kyiv, a pullback of its forces to refocus on battles in eastern Ukraine and even the sinking of Russias flagship of its Black Sea fleet, the Moskva.
Women attend a Mass at St. Volodymyr's Cathedral during Orthodox Pentecost in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 12, 2022. The Orthodox Church celebrates Pentecost on the fifth Sunday after Easter.
Ukrainian soldiers ride in a truck to a resting place after fighting on the front line for two months near Kramatorsk in  eastern Ukraine on April 30, 2022.
Two women sit inside a van as they are evacuated in Bakhmut, eastern Ukraine, May 24, 2022. The town of Bakhmut has been coming under increasing artillery strikes, particularly over the last week, as Russian forces try to press forward to encircle the city of Sieverodonetsk to the northeast.
Mykola Holovko sits near his son amid their destroyed home after salvaging what they could from the wreckage in Druzhkivka, Ukraine, on June 5, 2022. Holovko survived the missile strike that landed across the street from his home, but one of his neighbors died in the attack and another was injured.
Ukrainians who fled the fighting in the front-line city of Orihiv arrive in the southeastern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia on Monday, May 2, 2022. Russian forces pummeled targets in eastern and southern Ukraine on Monday, continuing a two-week offensive that has struggled to claim much new ground even as they suffer heavy casualties.
Natalia Pototska, 43, cries as her grandson Matviy looks on in a car at a center for displaced people in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, May 2, 2022.
The mother of Oleksandr Mozheiko, 31, an Irpin Territorial Defense soldier killed by Russian army, cries at his grave at the cemetery of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, on May 1, 2022.
Soldiers hold flares as they attend the funeral of activist and soldier Roman Ratushnyi in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 18, 2022. Ratushnyi died in a battle near Izyum, where Russian and Ukrainian troops are fighting for control of the area.
While Russia described the troops leaving the steel plant as a mass surrender, the Ukrainians called it a fulfilled mission.
Russian soldiers guard an area next to a field of wheat as foreign journalists work in the Zaporizhzhia region in an area under Russian military control, southeastern Ukraine, June 14, 2022. The Zaporizhzhia region has been under control of the Russian forces since the early days of the Russian military action in Ukraine. This photo was taken during a trip organized by the Russian Ministry of Defense.
Russias state news agency RIA Novosti quoted the ministry as saying that a total of 2,439 Ukrainian fighters who had been holed up at Azovstal had laid down their arms and surrendered since Monday, including over 500 on Friday.
Russian MiG-29SMT jet fighters forming the symbol "Z" in support of Russian military action in Ukraine, fly over Red Square during the general rehearsal of the Victory Day military parade in central Moscow on May 7, 2022.
A woman and child who evacuated from Mariupol are comforted by a friend after arriving in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, May 3, 2022. On a fleet of city buses, flanked by white United Nations and Red Cross vehicles, just over 150 women and children who sheltered for weeks in the belly of Mariupol's sprawling steelworks, amid the horror of an incessant Russian bombing campaign, arrived on Tuesday at the parking lot of a home goods store in the relative safety of Ukrainian-controlled territory.
Ukrainian soldiers attend the funeral of soldiers Melnyk Andriy, Shufryn Andriy and Ankratov Oleksandra in Lviv, Ukraine, on May 14, 2022.
French President Emmanuel Macron, left, shakes hands with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the Mariyinsky Palace in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 16, 2022.
It was not the first time Moscow has claimed to have captured Mariupol. At a joint appearance with his defense minister on April 21, Putin declared that the completion of combat work to liberate Mariupol is a success. Even though die-hard Ukrainian forces were still inside the Azovstal plant at that point, Putin ordered the military to seal off the complex so that not even a fly comes through.
Iryna Martsyniuk, 50, stands at her damaged house in Velyka Kostromka, Ukraine on May 19, 2022. Martsyniuk and her three young children were at home when the Russian attack occurred and they were unharmed.
A woman walks past a building destroyed in Russian shelling in Borodyanka, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 21, 2022.
Voytenko Ivan Petrovich stands inside his damaged home in the village of Velyka Danylivka, near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on May 14, 2022.
Residents carry out furniture from houses ruined by shelling in Borodyanka, Ukraine, May 24, 2022.
Employees of the Donetsk People's Republic Emergency Situations Ministry clear rubble on May 12, 2022, at the side of the damaged Mariupol theater building during heavy fighting in Mariupol, Ukraine, in territory under the government of the breakaway Donetsk People's Republic.
Ukrainian soldiers from the 95th Air Assault Brigade load a weapon onto an armored vehicle near the city of Kramatorsk, Ukraine, May 25, 2022.
A military truck with the letter Z, which has become a symbol of the Russian military, drives past a Russian soldier standing in the road at the entrance of Mariupol with a Soviet style symbolic monument of a metallurgist, on the territory which is under the Government of the Donetsk People's Republic control, eastern Ukraine, June 12, 2022. This photo was taken during a trip organized by the Russian Ministry of Defense.
A Ukrainian national guard soldier walks through an underground bunker near a frontline position on May 7, 2022 in Zelenodolsk, Ukraine.
A local resident injured in a Russian strike rests in a hospital in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, May 25, 2022. Two rockets struck the eastern Ukrainian town of Pokrovsk, in the Donetsk region early Wednesday morning, causing at least four injuries.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu reported to President Vladimir Putin the complete liberation of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol  the last stronghold of Ukrainian resistance  and the city as a whole, spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
People walk in the sunshine near St. Andrew's Church in Kyiv, Ukraine as the city hosts events to celebrate Kyiv Day on May 28, 2022.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy inspects damaged buildings as he visits the Kharkiv region in Ukraine. Zelenskyy described the situation in the east as "indescribably difficult." The photo was released by the Ukrainian presidential press office on May 29, 2022.
People with children wait after arriving from the Ukrainian city of Mariupol at a center for displaced people in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, May 3, 2022.
Maxim Miller is held by his mother, Olena, as he clutches a mobile phone in a tunnel beneath the train station during an air raid alert on May 7, 2022 in Lviv, Ukraine. Originally from Odessa, the family has been in Poland but is now trying to return to their home.
Ukrainian bomb disposal experts prepare for a controlled explosion of unexploded missiles, artillery shells and mines retrieved on June 3, 2022, in Borodianka, Ukraine.
A Ukrainian serviceman inspects a school damaged during a battle between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the village of Vilkhivka, on the outskirts of Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine, May 20, 2022.
A young girl walks by a crater in front of a damaged apartment building after a strike in the city of Slovyansk in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on May 31, 2022.
Villagers queue to buy cigarettes and bread from a peddler in the village of Staryi Saltiv, Ukraine on May 20, 2022.
Nyna Provontsova, 65, reacts during a conversation with social worker Zhanna Protsenko in the town of Orikhiv, near Zaporizhzhia, eastern Ukraine, on May 11, 2022, amid the Russian invasion.
McQuillan reported from Lviv. Stashevskyi reported from Kyiv. Associated Press journalists Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Andrea Rosa in Kharkiv, Jamey Keaten in Geneva and other AP staffers around the world contributed.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy displayed on a screen as he addresses the audience from Kyiv on a screen during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, May 23, 2022.
Artur Serdyuk surveys the ruins of his home, destroyed in a Russian strike on the small village of Malotaranivka, near Kramatorsk, Ukraine on May 7, 2022.
Nila Zelinska holds a doll belonging to her granddaughter, she was able to find in her destroyed house in Potashnya outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, May 31, 2022.
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, left, and French President Emmanuel Macron watch debris as they visit Irpin, outside Kyiv, June 16, 2022.
Long traffic jams of cars snaked out of the city, filled with evacuees fleeing past checkpoints of Russian soldiers with heavy weapons who didnt have time to search inside each vehicle in the convoys.
A column of Ukrainian armored vehicles and soldiers travel under the cover of a tree line near the cities of Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk in the Donetsk region of Ukraine on June 1, 2022.
Oleg flies a drone while testing it on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 8, 2022. Drones are been extensively used by Russian and Ukrainian troops on the war.
A residential area is shown from the air that was destroyed by Russian shelling in Irpin, near Kyiv, Ukraine on May 21, 2022.
An elderly woman with a cat on her shoulder tries to clean her yard of debris after a missile strike killing one in the city of Droujkivka, in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas, on June 5, 2022.
Satellite images in April showed what appeared to be mass graves near Mariupol, where local officials accused Russia of concealing the slaughter by burying up to 9,000 civilians. The imagery showed rows of graves stretching away from an existing cemetery in the town of Manhush, outside the port city.
