Russia attacks Kyiv area for the first time in weeks
20220728
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-russia-ukraine-war-20220728-j6ebl5f74rbenmhjedr4tcuad4-story.html
A white dove flies over a Ukrainian airborne combat vehicle at an exhibition of captured Ukrainian tanks and weapons in Lisichansk, which is under the control of the Russian-backed Luhansk People's Republic in eastern Ukraine on July 12, 2022.
Rescue workers clear rubble from a destroyed house after a Russian attack in a residential neighborhood in downtown Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 9, 2022.
Yulia Paievska, a Ukrainian volunteer medic held captive by the Russian military until her release around three weeks ago in a prisoner exchange, visits her friend Yuriy Hudymenko, a wounded Ukrainian soldier, at the Kyiv hospital where she has been recovering on July 6, 2022. Paievska was already well known in Ukraine when she was captured, but the trauma she describes has made her a symbol of bravery and sacrifice.
11-year-old boys Maksym and Andrii salute to Ukrainian soldiers while holding plastic guns as they play at the self-made checkpoint on the highway in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, on July 20, 2022.
A grave digger uses his shovel to throw dirt on the coffin of 40-year-old Volodymyr Miroshnychenko who was killed on the frontlines of Marinka, during his funeral procession at a cemetery in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
Elsewhere around the country, five people were killed and 25 wounded in a Russian rocket attack on the city of Kropvynytskyi, about 250 kilometers 150 miles southeast of Kyiv, according to the deputy governor of Ukraines Kirovohrad region, Andriy Raikovich. He said the attack hit hangars at an air academy, damaging civilian planes.
Volodymyr Tarasov, injured by glass shards from his kitchen window after a missile strike in his apartment building's courtyard, makes a phone call from his damaged living room, in Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine, on July 7, 2022.
Military analysts believe Russian forces are focusing their efforts on capturing the cities of Bakhmut and Siversk in Donetsk province.
Pensioner Valerii Ilchenko, 70, who lives alone and has refused to evacuate, walks to his apartment after filling out his daily crossword in Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine, on July 6, 2022. Now a widower, Ilchenko says he has no intention of leaving. "I don't have anywhere to go and don't want to either. What would I do there? Here at least I can sit on the bench, I can watch TV," he says in an interview in his single-room apartment.
Mourners grieve at the funeral for a fallen soldier, Artemiy Dymyd, in Lviv, Ukraine, on June 30, 2022.
Ukrainian soldier Denys Bevz kisses his bride, Nadiia, at a church in Kyiv, Ukraine, on July 9, 2022. Bevz, who has been fighting in the region around Kherson, took a seven-day leave from the front to get married.
Ukrainian emergency authorities said two civilians were killed in a Russian bombardment of the town of Toretsk. A missile struck a residential building there early Thursday morning, destroying two floors, officials said.
Zelenskyy instituted the Day of Statehood to remind Ukrainians about the countrys history as an independent state. The commemoration honors Prince Vladimir, who made Christianity the official religion of the medieval state of Kyivan Rus more than 1,000 years ago.
Russia, with the help of missiles, is mounting revenge for the widespread popular resistance, which the Ukrainians were able to organize precisely because of their statehood, Kuleba told Ukrainian television. Ukraine has already broken Russias plans and will continue to defend itself.
You could say that for us, every day is a statehood day, the president said in a Day of Statehood address.
Ukrainian servicemen fire at Russian positions from a U.S.- supplied M777 howitzer in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, on July 14, 2022.
Russian troops withdrew from the Kyiv and Chernihiv regions months ago after failing to capture either. The renewed strikes come a day after the leader of pro-Kremlin separatists in the east, Denis Pushilin, urged Russian forces to liberate Russian cities founded by the Russian people  Kyiv, Chernihiv, Poltava, Odesa, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, Lutsk.
Russia attacked the Kyiv region with six missiles launched from the Black Sea, hitting a military unit in the village of Liutizh on the outskirts of the capital, according to Oleksii Hromov, a senior official with Ukraines General Staff.
Chernihiv regional Gov. Vyacheslav Chaus reported that the Russians also fired missiles from the territory of Belarus at the village of Honcharivska. The Chernihiv region had not been targeted in weeks.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian military kept up a counterattack in the Kherson region, knocking out of commissiona key bridgeover the Dnieper River on Wednesday.
The British military said Ukraine has used its new, Western-supplied long-range artillery to damage at least three of the bridges across the Dnieper that Russia relies on to supply its forces.
A damaged car in the aftermath of a missile strike in Konstantinovka, in Donetsk Oblast, eastern Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
A medical worker takes care of people injured during Russian shelling on Thursday at an intensive care of a hospital in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 15, 2022. Russian missiles struck the city of Vinnytsia in central Ukraine on Thursday, killing at least 23 people and injuring more than 100 others, Ukrainian officials said.
Tatyana and her son, Roman, who were injured during shelling, talk about the war at the Regional Traumatology Hospital in Donetsk, in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in eastern Ukraine on July 12, 2022.
The Kremlin also lays claim to the heritage of the Kyivan Rus. In 2016, Putin erected a monument to Prince Vladimir near the Kremlin.
Fighting in recent weeks has focused on Donetsk province. It has intensified in recent days as Russian forces appeared to emerge from a reported operational pause after capturing neighboring Luhansk province.
The mother of 40-year-old Volodymyr Miroshnychenko, who was killed on the frontlines of Marinka, mourns during his funeral procession at a cemetery in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, July 15, 2022.
A local man clears rubble from his house, which was destroyed after a Russian attack on a residential neighborhood in downtown Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 11, 2022. The top official in the Kharkiv region said then that Russian forces had launched three missile strikes on the city targeting a school, a residential building and warehouse facilities.
Viktor Kolesnik cries over the body of his wife, Natalia Kolesnik, who was killed during a Russian attack on a residential neighborhood in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 7, 2022.
Fifteen people were wounded in the Russian strikes, five of them civilians, Kyiv regional Gov. Oleksiy Kuleba said.
We fight every day so that everyone on the planet can finally understand: We are not a colony or enclave or protectorate, not a province, an eyalet, or a crown land, not a part of foreign empires, not a part of a country, not a federal republic, not an autonomy, not a province, but a free, independent, sovereign, indivisible and independent state, Zelenskyy said.
Ukrainian officials, meanwhile, announced a counteroffensive to take back the occupied Kherson region in the countrys south, territory seized by Russian President Vladimir Putins forces early in the war.
He said that the attack ruined one building and damaged two others, and that Ukrainian forces shot down one of the missiles in the town of Bucha.
A Ukrainian serviceman of the Khartia battalion goes to his post at the frontline near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 12, 2022.
Iryna Shulimova, 59, weeps upon seeing what remains of an apartment complex after a Russian missile strike in Chasiv Yar, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, on July 10, 2022. At least 15 people were killed and more than 20 people may still be trapped in the rubble, officials said.
People who haven't evacuated their homes wait in line for humanitarian food aid from the city council of Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine, on July 7, 2022. Some residents have stayed because they are retirees with limited funds or are from low-income families and fear they would not be able to support themselves away from home.
The southern city of Mykolaiv was fired on as well, with one person reported injured.
Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of Ukraines National Security and Defense Council, said the Russians are concentrating maximum forces in the direction of Kherson, warning: A very large-scale movement of their troops has begun.
Ukrainian soldiers fire a U.S.-supplied M777 howitzer at Russian positions in the Donetsk region of Ukraine on June 21, 2022. Some officials are concerned that pulling too many Ukrainian artillery specialists off the frontlines for training could weaken Ukrainian defenses.
Ukraines presidential office said Thursday morning that Russian shelling of cities and villages over the past 24 hours killed at least five civilians, all of them in the eastern Donetsk province, and wounded nine.
Missile terror again. We will not give up.  We will not be intimidated, Donetsk regional Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said on Telegram.
Rescue workers clear rubble at a destroyed school after a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 4, 2022. The Ukrainian military says that Russian forces are trying to press deeper into eastern Ukraine after capturing a key stronghold.
A baby stroller lies by a road after a deadly Russian missile attack in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 14, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen of the Khartia battalion listen to a pep speech at the frontline near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 12, 2022.
An apartment building is seen here after a Russian attack in Saltivka district in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 5, 2022.
Damage from shelling is seen in Bakhmut, in eastern Ukraine, on July 8, 2022. Residents who have stayed behind in Sloviansk and nearby areas, now in the crosshairs of the next Russian offensive, are far from united, and many are influenced by the anti-Ukrainian propaganda spread by Russian TV in the separatist areas.
Kuleba linked the assaults to the Day of Statehood, a commemoration that President Volodymyr Zelenskyy instituted last year and Ukraine marked for the time on Thursday.
Russian forces launched a missile attack on the Kyiv area for the first time in weeks Thursday and pounded the northern Chernihiv region as well, in what Ukraine said was revenge for standing up to the Kremlin.
Ukrainian self-propelled artillery shoots towards Russian forces at a frontline in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, July 27, 2022.
Relatives and friends attend the funeral ceremony for Liza, 4-year-old girl killed by Russian attack, in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 17, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen react after they identify a body of their friend Artem Pogorelets killed by Russian shelling at Barabashovo market in Kharkiv, Ukraine, July 21, 2022.
A Ukrainian serviceman stands guard at the frontline near Kharkiv, Ukraine, on July 12, 2022.
Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, also came under a barrage of shelling overnight, according to the mayor. Authorities said a police officer was killed in Russian shelling of a power plant in the Kharkiv region.
Ukrainian media quoted Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich as saying the operation to liberate Kherson is underway, with Kyivs forces planning to isolate Russian troops and leave them with three options  retreat, if possible, surrender or be destroyed.
