Vladimir Putin orders Russian troop replenishment in face of Ukraine losses
20220825
http://www.courant.com/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-russia-ukraine-war-20220825-m2slulpepzgqjm7nrkaatqlz7q-story.html
Iryna Shulimova, 59, weeps at the scene in the aftermath of a Russian rocket that hit an apartment residential block, in Chasiv Yar, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, July 10, 2022. At least 15 people were killed and more than 20 people may still be trapped in the rubble, officials said Sunday.
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, left, and French President Emmanuel Macron examine debris as they visit Irpin, outside Kyiv, Ukraine, June 16, 2022. The leaders of France, Germany, Italy and Romania arrived in Kyiv, in a show of collective European support for the Ukrainian people as they resist Russia's invasion. Ukrainians are already effectively using heavy howitzers and advanced rocket systems sent by the U.S. and other Western allies, and more is on the way.
Women stand in their robes outside after leaving their building to get a better look at smoke rising after Russian attacks in Odesa, Ukraine, April 3, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen sit in a bus after they were evacuated from the besieged Mariupol's Azovstal steel plant, near a remand prison in Olyonivka, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, May 17, 2022.
Witnesses said some of the victims, including at least one child, burned to death in train cars or passing automobiles.
Aleksander, 41, presses his palms against the window as he says goodbye to his daughter Anna, 5, on a train to Lviv at the Kyiv station, Ukraine, March 4. 2022. Aleksander has to stay behind to fight in the war while his family leaves the country to seek refuge in a neighboring country.
A draft wont help that, so there will be no increase in the number of draftees, the state RIA Novosti news agency quoted Leonkov as saying.
The attack served as a painful reminder of Russias continued ability to inflict large-scale suffering. Wednesdays national holiday celebrated Ukraines 1991 declaration of independence from the Soviet Union.
Russian rockets launched against Ukraine from Russia's Belgorod region are pictured at dawn in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Aug. 15, 2022.
Elena Holovko sits among debris outside her house damaged after a missile strike in Druzhkivka, eastern Ukraine, June 5, 2022.
Ukrainian soldiers help a man in a wheelchair as people try to flee crossing the Irpin river in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 5, 2022.
A baby stroller lies by a road after a deadly Russian missile attack in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, July 14, 2022.
An injured man smokes following a Russian bombing of a factory in Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine, on April 19, 2022, killing at least one person and injuring three others. Russian forces attacked along a broad front in eastern Ukraine on Tuesday as part of a full-scale ground offensive to take control of the country's eastern industrial heartland in what Ukrainian officials called a "new phase of the war."
Dead bodies are placed into a mass grave on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, March 9, 2022, as people cannot bury their dead because of the heavy shelling by Russian forces.
A picture of Russian President Vladimir Putin hangs at a target practice range in Lviv in western Ukraine, March 17, 2022.
In Moscow on Thursday, Dmitry Medvedev, the secretary of Russias Security Council, said Western hopes for a Ukrainian victory are futile and emphasized that the Kremlin will press home what it calls the special military operation, leaving just two possible outcomes.
Russias Defense Ministry said its forces used an Iskander missile to strike a military train carrying Ukrainian troops and equipment to the front line in eastern Ukraine. The ministry claimed more than 200 reservists were destroyed on their way to the combat zone.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a major buildup of his countrys military forces Thursday in an apparent effort to replenish troops that have suffered heavy losses in six months of bloody warfare and prepare for a long, grinding fight ahead in Ukraine.
Nelia Fedorova, left, is embraced by her daughter, Yelyzaveta Gavenko, 11, the day after they were wounded in a rocket attack which also killed Fedorova's husband, Oleksii, in Kramatorsk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 13, 2022. The family had previously evacuated to central Ukraine but returned to their home at the end of June after Nelia and Oleksii had trouble finding work. The strike killed three people and wounded 13 others, according to the mayor. The attack came less than a day after 11 other rockets were fired at the city as Russia's invasion continues.
A resident looks for belongings in the ruins of an apartment building destroyed during fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces in Borodyanka, Ukraine, April 5, 2022.
Danyk Rak, 12, holds a cat standing on the debris of his house destroyed by Russian forces' shelling in the village of Novoselivka, near Chernihiv, Ukraine, April 13, 2022. Danyk's family home was destroyed and his mother seriously wounded as Russian forces bombarded Kyiv's suburbs and surrounding towns in a failed effort to seize the capital.
A ruined tank remains on a road in Lypivka, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, June 14, 2022. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is spreading a deadly litter of mines, bombs and other explosive devices that will endanger civilian lives and limbs long after the fighting stops.
An explosion is seen in an apartment building after Russian's army tank fires in Mariupol, Ukraine, March 11, 2022.
Women attend a Mass at St. Volodymyr's Cathedral during Orthodox Pentecost in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 12, 2022.
Nadiya Trubchaninova, 70, cries while holding the coffin of her son Vadym, 48, who was killed by Russian soldiers March 30 in Bucha, during his funeral in the cemetery of Mykulychi, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 16, 2022. After nine days since the discovery of Vadym's corpse, finally Nadiya could have a proper funeral for him. This is not where Nadiya Trubchaninova thought she would find herself at 70 years of age, hitchhiking daily from her village to the shattered town of Bucha trying to bring her son's body home for burial.
Ukrainian servicemen shoot with SPG-9 recoilless gun during training in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, July 19, 2022.
Ukrainian serviceman "Piter" rests on his bed near mortar shells at the frontline in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, July 22, 2022.
Everything sank into dust, said Olena Budnyk, a 65-year-old Chaplyne resident. There was a dust storm. We couldnt see anything. We didnt know where to run.
Following attacks in which civilians have died, the Russian government has repeatedly claimed that its forces aim only at legitimate military targets. Hours before the bloodshed at the train station, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu insisted the military was doing its best to spare civilians, even at the cost of slowing down its offensive in Ukraine.
Putins decree did not specify whether the expansion would be accomplished by widening the draft, recruiting more volunteers, or both. But some Russian military analysts predicted heavier reliance on volunteers because of the Kremlins concerns about a potential domestic backlash from an expanded draft.
The damaged line in Thursdays incident apparently carried outgoing electricity, not affecting a separate line used to power vital cooling systems for the plants reactors.
The deputy head of the Ukrainian presidential office, Kyrylo Tymoshenko, did not say whether all of the 25 people killed were civilians. If they were, it would amount to one of the deadliest attacks on civilians in weeks. Thirty-one people were reported wounded.
While the incident apparently didnt affect the reactors cooling systems  whose loss could lead to a meltdown  it stoked fears of disaster.
Refugees fleeing the Russian invasion of Ukraine are given food and drinks at a train station in Budapest, Hungary, on March 6, 2022. Soaring needs and wealthy countries' focus on Ukraine have left aid agencies with too little money to address the world's other crises, forcing them to cut programs.
Danyk Rak, 12, and his mother Liudmila Koval in the village of Voznesenske, near Chernihiv, Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 13, 2022. Danyk's family home was destroyed and his mother seriously wounded as Russian forces bombarded Kyiv's suburbs and surrounding towns in a failed effort to seize the capital.
 The death toll from a Russian rocket attack on a train station and the surrounding area on Ukraines Independence Day climbed to 25, Ukrainian authorities said. Russia said it targeted a military train and claimed to have killed more than 200 Ukrainian reservists in the attack Wednesday.
A woman uses her phone as she walks past a billboard with a portrait of a Russian soldier and the words "Glory to the heroes of Russia" in St. Petersburg, Russia, on Aug. 20, 2022. Six months after Russia sent troops into Ukraine, there's little sign of the conflict on Moscow's streets and the capital's residents seem unconcerned about the economic and political sanctions by Western countries.
An Orthodox priest, Andrii, prays near the coffins of unidentified civilians killed by Russian troops during Russian occupation in Bucha near Kyiv, Ukraine, on Aug. 17, 2022. Twenty one unidentified bodies exhumed from a mass grave were buried in Bucha on Wednesday.
An elderly woman who has been evacuated from the Lysychansk area cries moments before departing by train to western Ukraine from the Pokrovsk railway station, June 10, 2022.
Elsewhere on the battle front, the deadly strike on the train station in Chaplyne, a town of about 3,500 in the central Dnipropetrovsk region, came as Ukraine was bracing for attacks tied to the national holiday and the wars six-month mark, both of which fell on Wednesday.
 Fueling fears of a nuclear catastrophe, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in the middle of the fighting in southern Ukraine was cut off from the electrical grid after fires damaged the last working transmission line, causing a blackout across the region, according to Ukrainian authorities. The plant was later reconnected to the grid, a local Russian-installed official said.
A drone carries a big national flag in front of Ukraine's the Motherland Monument in Kyiv, Ukraine, Aug. 24, 2022.
Ukrainian servicemen fire at Russian positions from a U.S.- supplied M777 howitzer in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, on July 14, 2022.
Relatives and friends attend the funeral ceremony for Liza, a 4-year-old girl killed by a Russian attack, in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, on July 17, 2022. Wearing a blue denim jacket with flowers, Liza was among 23 people killed, including two boys ages 7 and 8, in Thursday's missile strike in Vinnytsia. Her mother, Iryna Dmytrieva, was among the scores injured.
Soldiers hold flares as they attend the funeral of activist and soldier Roman Ratushnyi in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 18, 2022. Ratushnyi died in a battle near Izyum, where Russian and Ukrainian troops are fighting for control of the area.
The move to increase the number of troops by 137,000, or 13, to 1.15 million by the end of the year came amid chilling developments on the ground in Ukraine:
Western estimates of Russian dead in the Ukraine war have ranged from more than 15,000 to over 20,000  more than the Soviet Union lost during its 10-year war in Afghanistan. The Pentagon said last week that as many as 80,000 Russian troops have been killed or wounded, eroding Moscows ability to conduct big offensives.
Russian soldiers guard an area next to a field of wheat as foreign journalists work in the Zaporizhzhia region in an area under Russian military control, southeastern Ukraine, June 14, 2022. The Zaporizhzhia region has been under control of the Russian forces since the early days of the Russian military action in Ukraine. This photo was taken during a trip organized by the Russian Ministry of Defense.
Russian troops guard an entrance of the Kakhovka Hydroelectric Station, a run-of-river power plant on the Dnieper River in Kherson region, south Ukraine, on May 20, 2022.
Ira Gavriluk holds her cat as she walks next to the bodies of her husband, brother, and another man, who were killed outside her home in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, April 4, 2022.
A person walks on the debris of a burning house, destroyed after a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, March 24, 2022.
66-year-old Volodymyr, injured from a strike, sits on a chair in his damaged apartment, in Kramatorsk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, July 7, 2022.
People throw sand on the coffin with the remains of activist and soldier Roman Ratushnyi during his funeral in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 18, 2022. Ratushnyi died in a battle near Izyum, where Russian and Ukrainian troops are fighting for control of the area.
A Ukrainian police officer Ruslan Huseinov runs while holding a child as the artillery echoes nearby, while fleeing Irpin on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 7, 2022. Six months after Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine and with no end to the conflict in sight.
A man stands looking at a building destroyed during attacks, in Borodyanka, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 4, 2022.
Tatiana Marinchenko touches the face of her husband, Ukrainian soldier Oleg Marinchenko, while joined by his father, Ivan Marinchenko, second from right, and her daughter, Ira Kalinichenko, left, at Marinchenko's funeral in Kyiv, Ukraine on Aug. 23, 2022. Marinchenko was killed Aug. 19, 2022 in a mortar attack in the Kherson region, while working as a medic and chaplain with the Ukrainian military.
Fears of a Chernobyl-like disaster have been mounting in Ukraine because of fighting around the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia plant. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling the site.
A Ukrainian family wait in a convoy of civilians fleeing Russian-occupied territory into Ukrainian-controlled in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Aug. 14, 2022. Five months after Russian forces took over the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, all that stands between the world and nuclear disaster are dedicated Ukrainian operators working at gunpoint.
Ukrainian servicemen react after they identify a body of their friend Artem Pogorelets killed by Russian shelling at Barabashovo market in Kharkiv, Ukraine, July 21, 2022.
A man who fled from a small village near Polohy rests upon his arrival to a reception center for displaced people in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, on May 8, 2022.
Zaporizhzhias Russian-installed regional governor, Yevgeny Balitsky, claimed on the Telegram messaging app that Ukrainian forces had attacked, causing the fire that damaged the transmission lines. Ukraines nuclear energy agency, Energoatom, blamed actions of the invaders.
Natali Sevriukova reacts next to her house following a rocket attack the city of Kyiv, Ukraine, Feb. 25, 2022.
In April, a Russian missile attack on a train station in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk killed more than 50 people as crowds of mostly women and children sought to flee the fighting. The attack was denounced as a war crime.
A military truck with the letter Z, which has become a symbol of the Russian military, drives past a Russian soldier standing in the road at the entrance of Mariupol with a Soviet style symbolic monument of a metallurgist, on the territory which is under the Government of the Donetsk People's Republic control, eastern Ukraine, June 12, 2022. This photo was taken during a trip organized by the Russian Ministry of Defense.
Families of Ukrainian prisoners of war during a protest in Kyiv, Ukraine, on Aug. 4, 2022. Russia and its proxies in eastern Ukraine would be committing war crimes if they go ahead with show trials of prisoners of war, the United Nations said on Aug 23, 2022, urging Moscow to allow independent observers access to detainees.
A woman holds the flag of Ukraine while looking into one of the destroyed Russian military vehicles on display on the country's National Flag Day, Aug. 23, 2022, in Kyiv, Ukraine.
The dead included an 11-year-old boy found under the rubble of a house and a 6-year-old killed in a car fire near the train station, authorities said.
Ukrainian children play near a destroyed Russian military vehicle displayed for the country's upcoming Independence Day on Aug. 24, in central Kyiv, Ukraine, on Aug. 21, 2022. Thousands of Ukrainians have swarmed a display of captured Russian tanks placed in central Kyiv days before Ukraine commemorates its 1991 independence from the Soviet Union.
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry an injured pregnant woman from the maternity hospital that was damaged by shelling in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022.
A woman brandishes the Ukrainian flag on top of a destroyed Russian tank in Kyiv, Ukraine, June 10, 2022. With war raging on fronts to the east and south, the summer of 2022 is proving bitter for the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.
Another Russian military expert, Alexei Leonkov, noted that training on complex modern weapons normally takes three years. And draftees serve only one year.
A soldier with the 112 Brigade of the Territorial Defense of the Armed Forces of Ukraine says goodbye to a woman who was working as a cook at a base south of Kyiv, Ukraine, Aug. 20, 2022.
Nila Zelinska holds a doll belonging to her granddaughter, she was able to find in her destroyed house in Potashnya outskirts Kyiv, Ukraine, May 31, 2022. Zelinska just returned to her home town after escaping war to find out she is homeless.
Tetyana Kvitnytska, deputy head of the Dnipropetrovsk regional health department, said those hurt in the train station attack suffered head injuries, broken limbs, burns and shrapnel wounds.
A boy reaches out to touch the wreckage of a Russian truck while visiting a display of destroyed and captured military vehicles in Kyiv on Aug. 22, 2022. Ukraine celebrates Independence Day on Aug. 24, to commemorate the day in 1991 when the Ukrainian parliament voted to separate from the Soviet Union.
One is reaching all goals of the special military operation and Kyivs recognition of this outcome, Medvedev said on his messaging app channel. The second is a military coup in Ukraine followed by the recognition of results of the special operation.
The move will boost Russias armed forces overall to 2.04 million, including the 1.15 million troops.
The Kremlin has said that only volunteer contract soldiers take part in the Ukraine war. But it may be difficult to find more willing soldiers, and military analysts said the planned troop levels may still be insufficient to sustain operations.
Ukrainian women hug in front of a building destroyed during a missile strike in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Aug. 18, 2022.
Retired Russian Col. Retired Viktor Murakhovsky said in comments carried by the Moscow-based RBC online news outlet that the Kremlin will probably try to keep relying on volunteers, and he predicted that will account for the bulk of the increase.
A woman holds the flag of Ukraine while looking over a row of destroyed Russian military vehicles on display at Maidan Square in Kyiv, Ukraine, Aug. 23, 2022. Kyiv authorities have banned mass gatherings in the capital through Thursday for fear of Russian missile attacks. Independence Day, like the six-month mark in the war, falls on Wednesday.
Oleg flies a drone while testing it on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, June 8, 2022. Drones are been extensively used by Russian and Ukrainian troops on the war.
Ukrainian volunteers tear cloth into strips to make camouflage nets in Lviv, western Ukraine, Feb. 28, 2022. Volunteerism has seized the city. Until the missiles struck within walking distance of the cathedrals and cafes downtown on Friday, March 18, Ukraine's cultural capital was a city that could feel distant from the war.
