Putin Needs EU Gas Revenues to Finance his Economy
20220530
https://wallstreetrebel.com/wsr/articles/putin_needs_eu_gas_revenues_to_finance_his_economy/2022-05-30-08-05-54.html
The negotiation position of Russian President Vladimir Putin is "not as strong as he portrays," and Europe has leverage against him, according to billionaire investor George Soros. Europe has power against him.
When CNBC tried to contact Russian government representatives on Wednesday, they were not immediately available for comment.
Due to the fact that Russia believes Finland is not paying for the gas in rubles, it has recently turned off gas supplies to Finland. The decision was made after Helsinki declared its intention to join NATO, a military alliance that Putin opposed.
Bulgaria and Poland are among the countries that have ceased receiving gas supplies from Russia over the past few weeks. In the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Moscow announced that countries deemed to be "unfriendly" would be required to pay for Russian gas in rubles. This policy allows the Kremlin to prop up its own currency by increasing the demand for rubles.
"Russia went into the winter before last with record-high stocks of around 72.6 billion cubic meters and aims for an even higher underground storage target for winter 2022 of 72.7 billion cubic meters," Izbicki added via email. "Russia went into the winter before last with record-high stocks of around 72.6 billion cubic meters." "Even though we do not have sight into Russian underground storage, it appears feasible that Russia might reach this aim as early as this summer,"
Because the European Union, which comprises 27 countries, receives approximately 40 percent of its natural gas supply from Russia, it would be challenging for the bloc to stop purchasing the commodity overnight.
Because of this, together with the recent reductions in supplies to Poland, Bulgaria, and Finland and international sanctions, it is inevitable that Russia is already exporting less gas to Europe.
In addition, he stated that for Europe to use its bargaining strength effectively, "urgent preparations" are required. He stated that the political fallout of a sudden cessation would be complicated to accept without it. "Then Europe should impose a heavy tax on gas imports to prevent a decrease in the price passed on to the customer."
He went on to say that Russia's gas storage is not flexible and that the country does not have the infrastructure necessary to reroute gas from Europe to other regions, such as Asia, because there are not enough pipelines.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine, European nations have been frantically searching for energy sources that are not dependent on Russian gas. For instance, the European Union EU and the United States US inked an agreement in March to assure that the region would receive at least 15 billion cubic meters more of liquefied natural gas this year than in previous years.
"He was responsible for that throughout the previous season. Instead of giving Europe gas, he decided to store the gas. This caused a shortage, which drove prices up and made him a lot of money but, his bargaining position is not as strong as he pretends to be, as stated in the article that Soros published on Monday.
According to billionaire investor George Soros, Russian President Vladimir Putin's negotiating position is "not as strong as he portrays," and Europe has leverage against him. Europe has leverage over him.
It is anticipated that the storage capacity in Russia will be exhausted by July. The only market he has access to is Europe. If Putin cannot supply Europe with gas, he will be forced to stop production at the wells in Siberia from which it originates. There are around 12,000 wells involved. In the letter, Soros explained that "it takes time to shut them down, and once they are taken down, it is difficult to reactivate them because of the age of the technology."
George Soros on Russia, China and the Fight of Our Lives: Remarks Delivered at Davos
An associate at Energy Aspects named Leon Izbicki agrees that Russia's gas stockpile is getting dangerously close to being completely depleted.
But George Soros believes that the European Union EU is also a very significant market for the Kremlin. Vladimir Putin needs the cash from the sale of gas to finance his economy.
In a letter that he sent to Mario Draghi, the Prime Minister of Italy, George Soros stated that Putin was "clearly blackmailing Europe" by threatening to withhold gas supplies or doing so. Soros made this statement in the letter.
Izbicki stated that they anticipate gas flows to Europe to be approximately 98 billion cubic meters this year, which is a significant decrease from the 141 billion cubic meters transported there in 2017.
