Russian Cyberattacks The US Allies Ready to Respond
20220217
https://wallstreetrebel.com/wsr/articles/russian_cyberattacks_the_us_allies_ready_to_respond/2022-02-17-16-33-13.html
In the words of one European ambassador, "there is no specific blueprint for what to do in the case of a cyberattack." "It will depend on the specifics of the situation."
According to two officials, many Russians believed to be responsible for earlier intrusions have already been included on sanctions blacklists, but more could be added in the future.
According to the officials, this is partly because it might take time to determine who is responsible for an attack, particularly in the case of distributed denial of service DDOS operations. The method by which DDOS assaults work is by directing a flood of internet traffic from a large number of sources towards a server or another target.
According to US and European officials on Tuesday, the US and its allies are prepared to respond to Russian cyberattacks amid escalating tensions over Ukraine, with the scope of retaliatory actions or sanctions depending on the severity of the hacks. According to officials, the severity of the hacks will determine the scope of retaliatory actions or sanctions.
Officials in the United States claimed that "the president has stated that we will respond to Russian activities short of a military invasion." "However, the outcome will be determined by the severity of the cyberattacks. There are so many different ranges that it's difficult to get into specifics."
A senior official said that Russia's hacks and other "misbehavior" are "part of their playbook," highlighting the Western determination to employ collective action to hold Moscow accountable for its actions.
President Joe Biden told reporters hours after Ukraine revealed that its military ministry and two banks had been hacked. The US worked closely with NATO members and other partners to strengthen cyber defenses.
Officials from the United States and Europe have been negotiating in recent weeks about fine-tuning the sanctions that would be imposed in the event of a physical invasion - and their impact on Russia and the countries that would carry out the invasion - rather than about developing a menu of options for cyberattacks, according to one European official.
Reuters reached out to Russia's Federal Security Service for comment but did not receive a response immediately.
As Russian troops continue to gather near their borders, Ukrainian officials keep a close eye out for Kremlin-led cyberattacks to instill fear and destabilize Ukraine from within.
Attacks that are more forceful and harmful are more likely to elicit a fiercer response. According to one of the European officials, certain countries - including France - typically prefer not to publicly assign blame for cyberattacks because they are uncomfortable doing so.
While officials in the United States, Europe, and Canada have drawn out a comprehensive package of sanctions if the Russian military invades Ukraine, there is no specific plan for responding to cyberattacks, according to the sources.
According to a European official, cyberattacks have been a long-standing component of Russian policy. Moscow has employed them in previous military confrontations with Georgia and Ukraine, among other countries.
The attacks, which Western security experts suspect were carried out by Russia, were not unexpected, according to officials from the United States and Europe who spoke on condition of anonymity.
According to one cyber expert who is aware of Western preparations, the response might include steps other than penalties, such as physical or cyberattacks on the implicated systems.
