Roanokes official relationship with Russian city to continue
20220206
https://roanoke.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/roanokes-official-relationship-with-russian-city-to-continue/article_5bb465dc-9e6c-11ec-adf6-073a966e585a.html
Councilman Bill Bestpitch called on the council to adopt the pro-Ukraine resolution with additional language to include support for the local sister cities group maintaining ties with all of Roanokes sister cities. His suggestions carried the day.
After Russia invaded Ukraine late last month, Gov. Glenn Youngkin asked Roanoke to break it off with Pskov, a city of about 200,000 people in northwest Russia. The Roanoke Valley sister cities group, a nonprofit organization, disagreed. Mayor Sherman Lea sent Youngkin a letter describing continued ties as important, but stressed the position that he rejected the invasion as unacceptable and stood with the Ukrainian people.
The sculpture commemorating one of Roanokes seven Sister Cities, Pskov, Russia, is located in Century Square downtown.
With a projected increase of nearly $20 million in additional tax revenue for the upcoming fiscal year, county officials are looking for ways 
There will be a new tax to pay come July 1 for smokers who buy their cigarettes in Montgomery Countys unincorporated areas.
The Roanoke City Council voted Monday to continue the sister city relationship with Pskov, Russia, despite that nations brutal invasion of Ukraine.
Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.
A representative of the Pskov government, reached by The Roanoke Times last week, also called for the relationship to continue.
Council members resolved to support the Roanoke Valley Sister Cities organization and endorsed the organization maintaining its partnerships with all seven sister cities.
Another resolution called on the local sister city organization to suspend the sister cities partnership with Pskov. Copies were not made available to those in the audience.
That wrapped up a period of several days during which the citys nearly 30-year sister city relationship with Pskov appeared to hang in the balance.
Two draft resolutions were placed on the table. One condemned the invasion and declared support for Ukraine with the words, all people of Ukraine no matter their background deserve a chance to live in peace and freedom.
In the meantime, council members received extensive feedback from the public and some heard calls for breaking ties.
