Welsh leader calls for solidarity as Russia invades Ukraine
20220224
https://www.countytimes.co.uk/news/19949045.welsh-leader-calls-solidarity-russia-invades-ukraine/
We need to unleash hard-hitting economic sanctions right now. There must be no delay and we cannot waver.
Putins maniacal ambitions will stop at nothing. The blood of every innocent Ukrainian who perishes in this entirely unprovoked and illegal invasion is on his hands.
We cannot allow Europe, or the world, to return to an age where large authoritarian states can use military action to force smaller democratic states to do their bidding. This type of system only leads to chaos, destruction and great suffering.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ms Dodds added: We in Wales must show we stand in solidarity with the Ukrainian people in their fight to remain free. Should we not, we could see our security and economic stability threatened like never before.
If this type of violent order is allowed to re-establish itself, where is next? Where does it end? Moldova, Georgia and the Baltics would immediately be placed under increased threat.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine and that Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack.
We must remain resolute, and in the age of weaponised disinformation by states such as Russia, ensure we keep our eyes on our guiding principles of democracy, freedom and cooperation.
Earlier, US President Joe Biden said Putin had chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering. He added the world would hold Russia accountable.
Wales must also be prepared to take in Ukrainian refugees and provide humanitarian aid to those in need.
In a televised speech at 5.55am Moscow time 2.55am GMT, Mr Putin announced a military operation in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region. This area is home to many Russian-speaking Ukrainians and parts of it has been occupied and run by Russian-backed rebels since 2014.
He said a major nuclear power attacking a neighbouring country and threatening reprisals on any state that could come to its rescue is the greatest violation of international law and a violation of the basic principles of human co-existence.
Mr Putin said Russia was intervening as an act of self-defence. Russia did not want to occupy Ukraine, he said, but would demilitarise and de-Nazify the country.
Within the UK, we urgently need the Conservative government in Westminster to urgently clean up Russian money-laundering operations in the UK, not least in London and in their own party.
Jane Dodds, the Welsh Lib Dem leader and Member of the Senedd, has previously submitted a statement of opinion to the Senedd in support of Ukraine which has been supported by four Plaid Cymru, four Conservative and two Labour MSs.
He urged Ukrainian soldiers in the combat zone to lay down their weapons and go home, but said clashes were inevitable and only a question of time.
THE leader of the Welsh Liberal Democrats has called on Wales to stand in solidarity with Ukraine amid the ongoing invasion by the Russian regime.
The Russian regimes invasion of Ukraine is a terrible human tragedy is now unfolding before our very eyes. We must stand with the people of Ukraine.
Russia launched a large-scale military attack on Ukraine this morning on the orders of President Vladimir Putin.
The international community must now stand together with the people of Ukraine against such unprovoked aggression. StandWithUkraine
After years of hybrid warfare, threats and provocations, which tragically have seen over 13,000 casualties in the last few years, a full-scale Russian invasion into Ukraine is now underway.
The liberal values that have underpinned European peace security for generations, namely the respect for a rules-based international order, the right to national self-determination, international law and democracy are now directly under threat. This should deeply worry any liberal or democrat.
Russias invasion may seem like a far-flung conflict for many in Wales, but we must be unwavering in our support for the freedom of Ukraine or come to face the consequences in the future.
These are among the darkest hours for Europe since World War Two, said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell.
As the world wakes up to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, there has been widespread condemnation.
