Here Are All The Latest News And Developments From The Ukraine War March 15
20220315
https://www.blacklistednews.com/article/82158/here-are-all-the-latest-news-and-developments-from-the-ukraine-war-march.html
Ukraine Presidential adviser says Russian forces are not trying to take Kyiv at the moment additionally,
Here is a snapshot of the latest market-moving news out of Ukraine from the last few hours, courtesy of Newsquawk:
Russian Kremlin says that work is continuing between the Russian and Ukraine delegations, does not wish to predict the outcome of talks but it is a positive that talks are continuing.
US Treasury official said Russian sovereign bond default would make it difficult for Russia to find future lenders, increase Moscows borrowing costs and drain resources, while the official sees limited exposure in the US financial system to Russian sovereign bonds and noted that falling prices of Russian sovereign bonds suggests investors see a high probability of a default and are preparing for alternative payment outcomes.
CNBCs Kayla Tausche tweeted that NATO leaders are discussing holding an extraordinary meeting in Brussels late next week which US President Biden and other heads of state would attend, according to officials, but added it is not yet final.
UK Ministry of Defence said it hadnt seen evidence to support Russian accusations of Ukraine intending to use chemical and biological weapons, while it added that Russia could be planning to use such weapons in a false-flag operation.
Yamal-Europe pipeline has suspended flows, via Reuters citing Gascade data preliminary bids for eastward flows to Poland have emerged subsequently, gas flows via the Yamal pipeline have reversed and flow eastwards to Poland from Germany, according to Gascade data.
Ukrainian air force claimed that a Russian drone crossed into Poland before returning to Ukraine and was shot down by air defences.
North Korea could conduct a nuclear test before or after the May 10th inauguration day for the incoming South Korean President, according to DongA.
Mykolayiv Governor says the situation in the region is calmer as Russia forces have been pushed back slightly from the regional capital.
Majority of US GOP Senators vowed to not support a new nuclear deal with Iran, according to Sputnik.
US State Department said the US added 11 members of Russias Defense Enterprise to the anti-Moscow sanctions list, according to Sputnik.
Ukrainian presidential adviser said Russias territorial claims are unacceptable and Ukraine is ready to continue negotiations on remaining issues, while the adviser added that a peace agreement could be signed within 1-2 weeks at the earliest and May at the latest, according to CCTV.
Ukrainian Presidents office confirms that the Czech, Polish and Slovenian PMs are to visit Kyiv on Tuesday.
Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov says an agreement on the revival of the Iranian Nuclear deal is on the finishing straight. Meeting with the Iranian Foreign Minister in Moscow
Equinor EQNR NO is to stop trading in Russian oil and oil products, while it will not enter any new trades or engage in the transport of oil and oil products from Russia, but noted will receive for oil cargoes in March as part of pre-invasion commitments.
Pakistans Foreign Minister rejects the statement from the Indian Defence Minister on the "mistaken missile launch", stating that it is "incomplete".
Russian forces have taken full control of Kherson, Ukraine, according to Sputnik citing the MoD.
US President Biden said they will make sure Ukraine has weapons to defend against the invading Russian force, while they will send money and food and aid to save Ukrainian lives.
