You Said it
20220419
https://www.timesdaily.com/opinion/you_said_it/you-said-it/article_2b9e3704-ac61-5aaf-83d6-7035eaa61019.html
Speaking as a registered nurse for many years, if I had to do it all over again I would have chosen a different career other than nursing. If you ask me why, Ill tell you. You do more paperwork than nursing care, the pay is terrible, the benefits are not what they used to be, and one mistake can cost you everything you have ever worked for.
After the initial selected subscription period your subscription rate will auto renew at $12.00 per month.
Hillary Clinton and Peppermint Patty were recently texting each other talking about what movies they would watch while they were in COVID quarantine. I think theyll both be watching that new blockbuster hit Uncle Joe: How to Destroy a Democracy in 14 Short Months.
Message to Joe Biden: If you are indeed the leader of the free world, stop cowering to Russia. Stand up, man.
This is in response to the caller upset about Gov. Kay Iveys ad about Joe Biden. Its obvious this caller is not from the South as they do not understand southern humor. Bless their heart.
Dear God, have mercy on us. Shine your light on every dark corner of the Earth. Not only on the supreme, but on America, too, Lord. Jesus, we need you father and were acknowledging you this morning. Thank you again for listening, God.
We Americans are so fortunate that we have a wonderful country. We have a place to sleep at night, we dont have to worry about enemy planes bombarding us, and, most of all, we dont have Donald Trump as president any longer.
I read in the paper where Dolly Parton didnt want to be in the Hall of Fame and she didnt want a statue of her anywhere. They didnt respect her opinion. They are keeping her in the hall of fame. Parton is my favorite person. Shes my favorite singer. They should honor her wishes.
Think about this. President Joe Biden has got the Russians working with Iran to get a nuclear deal as Russia invades Ukraine and Iran fires missiles at our consulate in Iraq. In 1994, the Russians were involved in another nuclear deal. That deal persuaded Ukraine to remove their nuclear weapons with the understanding that Russia would never invade Ukraine. These deals with thugs never work out too well, do they?
In 2008 I voted for Joe Biden for president over Barack Obama, but Obama won. Obama said there isnt going to be anymore of that behind door stuff going on. Everything I do is going to be on CSPAN. I said, boy thats nice, so I voted for him because I thought it was time for a Black president. But it was a lie. Everything he did was behind closed doors.
