Presidents from countries on Russias doorstep visit Ukraine
20220414
https://www.niagara-gazette.com/news/presidents-from-countries-on-russias-doorstep-visit-ukraine/article_ec381043-34bf-544e-a737-4d0d965fc8d3.html
We know this history. We know what Russian occupation means. We know what Russian terrorism means," Duda said. He added that both those who committed war crimes and those who gave the orders should be held accountable.
Elsewhere, in one of the most crucial battles of the war, Russia said more than 1,000 Ukrainian troops had surrendered in the besieged southern port of Mariupol, where Ukrainian forces have been holding out in pockets of the city. A Ukrainian official denied the claim, which could not be verified.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj.-Gen. Igor Konashenkov said 1,026 troops from the Ukrainian 36th Marine Brigade surrendered at a metals factory in the city. But Vadym Denysenko, adviser to Ukraines interior minister, rejected the claim, telling Current Time TV that the battle over the seaport is still ongoing today.
And in the Odesa region, Gov. Maksym Marchenko said Ukrainian forces struck the guided-missile cruiser Moskva  the flagship of Russias Black Sea Fleet  with two missiles and caused serious damage. The Russian Defense Ministry confirmed the ship was damaged but not that it was hit by Ukraine  it said ammunition on board detonated as a result of a fire, the causes of which were being established. The entire crew was evacuated, it added. The cruiser usually has about 500 officers and crew.
A day after he called Russia's actions in Ukraine a genocide, U.S. President Joe Biden approved $800 million in new military assistance to Ukraine, saying weapons from the West have sustained Ukraine's fight so far and we cannot rest now. The munitions include artillery systems, armored personnel carriers and helicopters.
The visit by the presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia was a strong show of solidarity from the countries on NATOs eastern flank, three of them like Ukraine once part of the Soviet Union. The leaders traveled by train to the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, to meet with their counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy, and visited Borodyanka, one of the nearby towns where evidence of atrocities was found after Russian troops withdrew to focus on the country's east.
KYIV, Ukraine  The presidents of four countries on Russias doorstep visited Ukraine on Wednesday and underscored their support for the embattled country, where they saw heavily damaged buildings and demanded accountability for what they called war crimes carried out by Russian forces.
The fight for Europes future is happening here, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda said, calling for tougher sanctions, including against Russias oil and gas shipments and all the countrys banks.
Russia invaded on Feb. 24 with the goal, according to Western officials, of taking Kyiv, toppling the government and installing a Moscow-friendly one. But the ground advance slowly stalled and Russia lost potentially thousands of fighters. The conflict has killed untold numbers of Ukrainian civilians and forced millions more to flee. It also has rattled the world economy, threatened global food supplies and shattered Europe's post-Cold War balance.
Appearing alongside Zelenskyy in an ornate room in Kyivs historic Mariinskyi Palace on Wednesday, Nauseda, Estonian President Alar Karis, Polands Andrzej Duda and Egils Levits of Latvia reiterated their commitment to supporting Ukraine politically and with military aid.
In his daily late-night address, Zelenskyy noted that the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Karim Khan, visited the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where more than 400 bodies were found, on Wednesday as an ICC investigation gets underway. Evidence of mass killings of civilians was found there after the Russian retreat.
If someone sends aircraft, if someone sends troops to shell residential districts, kill civilians, murder them, this is not war," he said. "This is cruelty, this is banditry, this is terrorism.
