What we know about the East Greenwich chemical leak so far
20220812
https://www.courierpostonline.com/story/news/local/2022/08/11/east-greenwich-nj-chemical-leak/65400258007/
At 11:28 p.m. Wednesday, Gloucester County OEM reported "a large gas release from the trailer" and issued a shelter in place for East Greenwich, Paulsboro, Gibbstown and areas across the Delaware River neighboring the area of the truck stop. The shelter in place was lifted around 1:30 a.m. Thursday.
Camden County on Thursday released a statement saying the odor had traveled as far as 50 miles from the site of the leak, including into Burlington County.
Gloucester County 911 communications reported receiving hundreds of calls beginning around 3:07 p.m. Wednesday from people "complaining of a natural gas odor throughout Gloucester County."
Numerous emergency departments responded to the truck stop around 3:27 p.m. and began to mitigate the chemical venting, according to Gloucester County OEM. The trailer company, TransChem, sent personnel to offload the chemical from the leaking trailer, OEM officials said.
EAST GREENWICH TWP. - A rotten egg smell permeated South Jersey's air Wednesday afternoon and officials warn the aroma could linger for several more days.
Gloucester County OEM has opened a call center at 856-384-6800 for residents with questions or concerns regarding the chemical leak. TransChem also established hotlines for environmental and health concerns at 856-807-5388 and those wanting to files insurance claims at 855-476-7817.
As of Thursday night, Gloucester County OEM said it did not have an "anticipated completion timeframe from the environmental company as their assessment and efforts continue" to fully neutralize the leak.
According to Camden County officials, the Camden County Hazmat team and Hazmat agencies from the Cherry Hill, Bellmawr and Gloucester City fire departments all responded to the scene and continue to offer assistance.
Gloucester County OEM officials on Wednesday said a tractor trailer carrying 7,000 gallons of the chemical Lubrizol-1389, a lubricant additive used for engine protection, experienced a gas leak while parked in the Travel Center Truck Stop on Berkley Road in East Greenwich Township.
The Gloucester County Office of Emergency Management said the chemical leak that prompted the odor is "generally harmless."
Gloucester County officials released a question-and-answer sheet for residents Friday addressing concerns from the chemical leak. Among them was an assurance to residents that it is safe to be outside and that the odor should not affect pets.
"This odor may affect each person differently, and some may experience mild symptoms such as eye and skin irritation, sore throat, headache and vomiting," Gloucester County OEM said in a statement, adding, "If you experience anything beyond mild symptoms, seek medical attention."
According to officials, hazmat technicians monitored and tested the air quality at the immediate incident scene and surrounding areas and results found no risk to area residents.
A South Jersey native, Anthony Coppola has handled a variety of beats at The Daily Journal, Courier-Post and Burlington County Times, including award-winning work in sports and business coverage. Coppola, who joined the staff in 2008, now focuses on public safety enterprise reporting.
