Zelenskyy calls Mariupol terror a war crime Russia uses first hypersonic missile March 19 recap
20220319
https://www.courierpostonline.com/story/news/politics/2022/03/19/ukraine-russia-invasion-putin-updates/7099086001/
Women and children represent nearly all of the refugees who have left Ukraine since Feb. 24. UNICEF said that increases the proportion of potential trafficking victims.
Nika Aleksejeva, a Latvia-based researcher with the Digital Forensic Research Lab at the Atlantic Council, a Washington-based think tank, warned Graham's comments fuel a Kremlin narrative that portrays the U.S. as a violent and lawless sponsor of terrorism out to get Russia.
He says Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in the center and southeast of the country.
We do need to find new ways of getting much needed material into Ukraine as quickly as possible, Ernst said after the delegation met with leaders from Poland, Ukraine and Germany.
Some were suffering oncological, neurological and other problems before the war and fled in the early days. Others are being treated for wounds incurred as a result of the invasion.
He said more than 9,000 people were able to leave besieged Mariupol in the past day, and in all more than 180,000 people have been able to flee to safety through humanitarian corridors.
The cosmonauts are Oleg Artemyev, Denis Matveev and Sergey Korsakov. They docked at the station in their Russian Soyuz spacecraft at 3:12 p.m. EDT and are scheduled to stay aboard the station until September,according to Space.com.
Estimates of Russian deaths vary widely. Yet even conservative figures are in the low thousands. Thats a much faster pace than in previous Russian offensives, threatening support for the war among ordinary Russians. Russia had 64 deaths in five days of fighting during its 2008 war with Georgia. It lost about 15,000 in Afghanistan over 10 years, and more than 11,000 over years of fighting in Chechnya.
Bush posted the video onInstagramwith the caption, "America stands in solidarity with the people of Ukraine as they fight for their freedom and their future."
The pair brought sunflowers to Saints Volodymyr  Olha Catholic Church. Chicago, a sister city of Kyiv, is home to many Ukrainian Americans.
Russia has failed to gain control of the air and is largely relying on stand-off weapons launched from the relative safety of Russian airspace to strike targets within Ukraine, the ministry said on Twitter. Gaining control of the air was one of Russias principal objectives for the opening days of the conflict and their continued failure to do so has significantly blunted their operational progress.
Zelenskyy then asked his audience to picture the stadium filled with the thousands of Russians who have been killed, wounded or maimed in the fighting.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said earlier Saturday that Russian military hit the underground warehouse in Delyatyn on Friday with the hypersonic Kinzhal missile in its first reported combat use. According to Russian officials, the Kinzhal, carried by MiG-31 fighter jets, has a range of up to 1,250 miles flies at 10 times the speed of sound.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the siege of Mariupol will go down in history for what he's calling war crimes by Russia's military.
The strategy would likely involve attacking civilian areas, destroyingcities and blocking off supplies, possibly leading to famine, according to the analysis. The organization later drew parallels toan artificial famine engineered by the Kremlin in the 1930sthat killed millions of Ukrainians  a Soviet attempt to "subjugate the Ukrainian nation."
A bipartisan delegation of U.S. senators visited a refugee center in Poland on Saturday and met with officials from several countries to reinforce U.S. support for providing humanitarian assistance and lethal aid to Ukraines defense against Russias invasion.
"There is currently no military solution to Mariupol, Oleksiy Arestovych, adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said late Friday. That is not only my opinion, that is the opinion of the military.
Former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush visited a Ukrainian church in Chicago this week.
Saturday, PolishPrime Minister Mateus Morawiecki proposed more stringent sanctionson Russia for the invasion of Ukraine. Hesaid that a trade blockade should be added "as soon as possible," and should include trade from Russia's seaports as well as land trade.
Russia's invasionof Ukraine has entered its fourth week without capturingKyivor toppling Ukraine's government, but the bombardment of Ukrainiancities continues  a move western defense experts warn could be a sign of a cruel and intentional strategy.
Shoulder to shoulder, they help and support each other, the Russian president said of the Kremlins forces in a rare public appearance since the start of the war. We have not had unity like this for a long time, he added to cheers from the crowd.
We wont be able to remove the mines from all that territory, so I asked our international partners and colleagues from the European Union and the United States to prepare groups of experts to demine the areas of combat and facilities that came under shelling, Monastyrsky told the AP.
Nearly 6.5 million people have been displaced inside Ukraine, the U.N. migration agency said Friday.
The fall of Mariupol, the scene of some of the wars worst suffering, would mark a major battlefield advance for the Russians, who are largely bogged down outside major cities more than three weeks into the biggest land invasion in Europe since World War II.
In places where there were especially fierce battles, the bodies of Russian soldiers simply pile up along our line of defense. And no one is collecting these bodies, he said. He described as battle near Chornobayivka in the south, where Ukrainian forces held their positions and six times beat back the Russians, who just kept sending their people to slaughter.
There are seven people already on the orbiting lab, according to Space.com: cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov, Matthias Maurer of the European Space Agency, and NASA astronauts Raja Chari, Thomas Marshburn, Kayla Barron and Mark Vande Hei.
Sen. Lindsey Grahams continued calls that Putin be taken out are alarming researchers and academics who warn the South Carolina Republicans commentsare reckless because theycould be interpreted as the U.S. disregardinginternational law and be used to fuel disinformation in Russia.
The assessment was echoed by theAtlantic Council, a Washington-based foreign policy think tank, in a report this week. The group warned that since Russia's "lightning offensive designed to take the capital" had failed, the military appeared to be settling in for an extended campaign "designed to suffocate Ukraine."
Evacuations from besieged cities proceeded Saturday along eight of 10 humanitarian corridors, Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said. She said a total of 6,623 people were evacuated, including 4,128 from Mariupol who were taken northwest to Zaporizhzhia.
At least 847 civilians, including 64 children, have been killed since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, the U.N. Human Rights Office of the High Commissionerreported Saturday, but the agency said the actual figures are much higher. Agents also estimated the violence had leftnearly 1,400 civilians injured,including 78 children.
Former NASA astronautsScott KellyandTerry Virtssuggested on Twitter that the colors were in support of Ukraine, and astronomer Jonathan McDowellspeculated on Twitterthat the colors were meant as an homage to the cosmonauts alma mater, Bauman University, which also has blue and yellow colors.
Russian forces pushed deeper into the besieged and battered port city of Mariupol, where heavy fighting on Saturday shut down a major steel plant and local authorities pleaded for more Western help.
The more than 1.5 million children who have fled Ukraine as refugees face a higher risk for exploitation and trafficking,UNICEF said Saturday.
A JOURNALIST AND A REFUGEE:How one reporter helps cover the war in Ukraine while living through the fallout.
"The U.S. is painted as the great evil in Russia," she said. "One of the disinformation narrative lines is that Ukraine is our brother nation, and Russia is forced to carry out this military operation because theU.S. made Ukraine go away from Russia  that the U.S.is to blame in all these problems that are now between Russia and Ukraine."
Russias number of dead and wounded in Ukraine is nearing the 10 benchmark of diminished combat effectiveness, said Dmitry Gorenburg, a researcher on Russias security at the Virginia-based CNA think tank. The reported battlefield deaths of four Russian generals  out of an estimated 20 in the fight  signal impaired command, he said.
This invasion of Russia into Ukraine is abhorrent and we cannot stand for it, said Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa. The goal is a free and sovereign Ukraine. We want peace, but we want a free and sovereign Ukraine.
Moscow police said more than 200,000 people were in and around the Luzhniki stadium. The event included patriotic songs, including a performance of Made in the U.S.S.R., with the opening lines Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
But Ukraines Air Forces spokesman Yurii Ihnat told Ukrainskaya Pravda on Saturday that it has not been confirmed that the missile was indeed a hypersonic Kinzhal.
Thats almost as many as Russias entire active-duty military of 900,000, and it means controlling substantial Ukrainian territory long term could take more resources than Russia can commit, he said.
When asked about the colors in a live-streamed press conference after the docking, Artemyev indicated they were a coincidence,according to the BBC.
This is a totally deliberate tactic, Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation, filmed outside in Kyiv, with the presidential office in the lamplight behind him.
The situation grew increasingly dire in the port city of Mariupol, where Russian forces pushed deeper Saturday in an area already experiencing what onlookers describe as a humanitarian crisis.
Unless the Russians intend to be completely genocidal  they could flatten all the major cities, and Ukrainians will rise up against Russian occupation  there will be just constant guerrilla war, said Clarke.
Francis has spoken out about the barbarity of the war and especially the death and injury it has caused Ukrainian children.
Even as Russianforces massed on the borderwith Ukraine andthe U.S. government urged Americans to leave the country, Jimmy Hill didn't flee.Instead, he drove even closer to Russian territoryin search of treatment for his life partner, who was sick.
Zelenskyy told Ukrainians the ongoing negotiations with Russia were not simple or pleasant, but they are necessary. He said he discussed the course of the talks with French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday.
He noted that the 200,000 people Putin gathered in and around a Moscow stadium on Friday for a flag-waving rally was about the same number of Russian troops sent into Ukraine three weeks ago.
"There are so many dangerous aspects to his comments," saidAnthony Arend, co-founder of theInstitute for International Law  Politics at Georgetown University."It sets the possible precedent that others will be able to look at the United States and say, 'Well, they're advocating it. Why don't we simply move to a foreign policy that more broadly incorporates assassinations or targeting regime leaders?'"
"In your banks are the funds of the people who unleashed this war," Zelenskyy said. "Help to fight this. So that their funds are frozen."
"Children, elderly people are dying. The city is destroyed and it is wiped off the face of the earth, Mariupol police officer Michail Vershnin said in a video filmed Friday that was authenticated by The Associated Press..
Graham, who tweeted in early March that "the only way this ends is for somebody in Russia to take this guy out," doubled down on his comments Wednesday.
Ernst,a retired lieutenant colonel in the Iowa Army National Guard who served in the Iraq war and sits on the Armed Services Committee, said Russian President Vladimir Putin should be held accountable for the warand for targeting women, children and the elderly.
"He had worked tirelessly to find her treatment and refused to leave her bedside when the invasion began in Ukraine," his family said in a statement Friday about his life partner,Irina Teslenko, who has multiple sclerosis. READ MORE.
This is likely to involve the indiscriminate use of firepower resulting in increased civilian casualties, destruction of Ukrainian infrastructure, and intensify the humanitarian crisis, British Defense attache Mick Smeath said in a statement Saturday.
Saturday, Ukraine and Russia agreed to open 10 humanitarian corridors to assist in the evacuation efforts, according to Ukraine's deputy prime minster.
The Mariupol city council claimed Russian soldiers have forced several thousand city residents to be relocated to Russia. "The occupiers illegally took people out of the Levoberezhny district and a shelter in the building of a sports club, where more than a thousand people mostly women and children were hiding from constant bombing," the council said in a statement, according to the Associated Press.
Clinton shared a video of the visit onTwitterwith the caption, "America stands united with the people of Ukraine in their fight for freedom and against oppression."
Tuesday theE.U. agreed to a fourth sanctions packagethat included restrictions on theKremlin's military-industrialcomplex, an E.U. import ban on those steel products currently under EU safeguard measures and an E.U. export ban on luxury goods.
James Whitney Hill, 67,was killedby Russian artillery fire in Ukraine this week, at least thesecond Americanto die there since the invasion began Feb. 24. Before his death, he touched lives around the world through teaching and storytelling, friends and family told USA TODAY.
To do this to a peaceful city, what the occupiers did, is a terror that will be remembered for centuries to come, he said early Sunday in his nighttime video address to the nation.
AID FOR UKRAINE:Biden calls Putin a 'war criminal' after signing off on $800 million in new military aid: March 16 recap
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Russian forces are blockading Ukraines largest cities to create a humanitarian catastrophe with the aim of persuading Ukrainians to cooperate with them.
Hypersonic missiles are missiles that can move atfive times the speed of sound. The Russian military said these missiles are capable of hitting targets at a range of more than 1,200 miles, or roughly the distance from New York City to Kansas City.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian Interior Minister Denys Monastyrsky says it will take years to defuse the unexploded ordnance once the Russian invasion is over.
The Vatican says Francis travelled the short distance up the hill to the hospital on Saturday afternoon. He met with all the young patients in their rooms before returning back to the Vatican.
Russian forces are besieging Ukrainian cities, relying increasingly on bombarding them from a distance with artillery, missiles and air strikes, according to the Pentagon.
More:Lindsey Graham called for Putin's assassination. Even discussing it brings danger to US, experts say.
WHAT IS THE HOLODOMOR?:A brief history of the deadly famine in Ukraine many call genocide
The British defense ministry said the Ukrainian Air Force and air defense forces are continuing to effectively defend Ukrainian airspace.
A huge number of shells and mines have been fired at Ukraine, and a large part havent exploded. They remain under the rubble and pose a real threat, Monastyrsky said in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv. It will take years, not months, to defuse them.
Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyy urged the Swiss government to freeze the bank accounts of all Russian oligarchs, Swiss public broadcaster SRF reported.
That's on top of the 3.3 million people who have crossed the Ukrainian borders since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, according to the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, which released the updated data in a paper issued Friday.
The Vatican says the Bambino Gesu hospital is currently tending to 19 Ukrainian refugees, and that overall some 50 have passed through in recent weeks.
Vladimir Putin appeared at a huge flag-waving rally at a Moscow stadium Friday and lavished praise on his troops fighting in Ukraine, three weeks into the invasion that has led to heavier-than-expected Russian losses on the battlefield and increasingly authoritarian rule at home.
ANTI-TANK WARFARE:As Russian troops close in on major cities in Ukraine, anti-tank weapons can make a major difference
Several Telegram channels critical of the Kremlin reported that students and employees of state institutions in a number of regions were ordered by their superiors to attend rallies and concerts marking the anniversary. Those reports could not be independently verified.
This comes as more American companies announce the suspension of business in Russia, putting a greater strain on the Russian economy. FridayHalliburton became the latest companyto join that list.
The U.N. migration agency says the fighting hasdisplaced nearly 6.5 million people inside Ukraine, on top of the 3.2 million refugees who have already fled the country. Ukraine says thousands have been killed.
The paper noted that an additional 12 million people are thought to be stranded, unable to leave for security purposes or for lack of resources and information.
Monastyrsky told The Associated Press in an interview on Friday that the country will need Western assistance to carry out the massive undertaking after the war.
Meanwhile, Russia's military isn't even recovering the bodies of its soldiers in some places, Zelenskyy said.
Fighting shut down the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol,Vadym Denysenko, adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said Saturday, while other officials said forces that could help Ukraine defend Mariupol were facing massive resistance.
"It became our turn to pick a color," Artemyev said. "We had accumulated a lot of yellow material so we needed to use it. That's why we had to wear yellow."
Meanwhile in Russia, President Vladimir Putin is reinforcing his control of domestic media, attempting to obscure high casualties amid fierce resistance encountered in his invasion of Ukraine, according to a British Defense Ministry intelligence estimate.
Ukraine has always sought a peaceful solution. Moreover, we are interested in peace now, he said.
In addition to the unexploded Russian ordnance, Ukrainian troops have planted land mines at bridges, airports and other key locations to prevent the Russians from using them.
Researchers tracking only those Russian equipment losses that were photographed or recorded on video say Russia has lost more than 1,500 tanks, trucks, mounted equipment and other heavy gear. Two out of three of those were captured or abandoned, signaling the failings of the Russian troops that let them go.
Russia said it used a hypersonic missile Friday to strike a western Ukraine target, the Interfax news agency reported.
Three Russian cosmonauts on Friday boarded the International Space Station donning spacesuits in the Ukrainian flag's colors. Images of the cosmonauts wearing the striking yellow and blue suits sparked speculation online that the colors were worn in protest of Russias invasion.
"Yeah, I hope he'll be taken out, one way or the other," he told reporters during a Capitol Hill news conference. I don't care how they take him out. I don't care if we send him to the Hague and try him. I just want him to go.
The show of support amid a burst of antiwar protests inside Russia led to allegations in some quarters that the rally  held officially to mark the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea, which was seized from Ukraine  was a manufactured display of patriotism.
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Saturday, March 19.Follow here for the latest updates and news from Sunday, March 20, as Russia's invasion continues.
Zelenskyy spoke to thousands of antiwar protestors in Bern, Switzerland via livestream on Saturday where he called on the Swiss government to take away privileges from those who are involved in the war.
With more than 500 unaccompanied children identified crossing from Ukraine into Romania as of March 17, UNICEF warned that separated children are especially vulnerable to trafficking.
A Ukrainian military official meanwhile confirmed to a Ukrainian newspaper that Russian forces carried out a missile strike Friday on a missile and ammunition warehouse in the Delyatyn settlement of the Ivano-Frankivsk region in western Ukraine.
"The Kinzhal aviation missile system with hypersonic aero ballistic missiles destroyed a large underground warehouse containing missiles and aviation ammunition in the village of Deliatyn in the Ivano-Frankivsk region," the Russian defense ministry said Saturday.
The lawmakers displayed part of a missile that struck close to the Polish border. Ernst said lawmakers didnt visit the border, but did stop in at a refugee center where people rested before resettling elsewhere in Poland or other countries.
In response to the rally, American conservative commentator Sean Hannity suggested on his radio show that Putin was channeling his inner Donald Trump, Business Insider reported. During his Fox News show later in the day, Hannity again accused Putin of making his best attempt to look like Donald Trump at the rally.
The Ukraine military claims to have killed another Russian general  the fifth since the invasion began.
"The war in Ukraine is leading to massive displacement and refugee flows - conditions that could lead to a significant spike in human trafficking and an acute child protection crisis," said Afshan Khan, UNICEF's Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia. "Displaced children are extremely vulnerable to being separated from their families, exploited, and trafficked. They need governments in the region to step up and put measures in place to keep them safe."
The Swiss Bankers Association SBA estimates that Switzerland's secretive banks hold up to $213 billion of Russian wealth.
When it comes to the grinding job of capturing and holding cities, conventional military metrics suggest Russia needs a 5-to-1 advantage in urban fighting, analysts say. Meanwhile, the formula for ruling a restive territory in the face of armed opposition is 20 fighters for every 1,000 people  or 800,000 Russian troops for Ukraines more than 40 million people, said Michael Clarke, former head of the British-based Royal United Services Institute, a defense think tank
Pope Francis has paid a visit to some of the Ukrainian children who escaped the Russian invasion and are currently being treated at the Vaticans pediatric hospital in Rome.
"Fully cutting off Russia's trade would further force Russia to consider whether it would be better to stop this cruel war,"he said.
Its a truly weak man that targets children, elderly, women. Putin is a weak leader, Ernst said. He may be trying to project strength, but he is a weak man when he is going after weak individuals. We need to hold him accountable for the crimes that he is committing in Ukraine. This is abhorrent. It is an illegal war and he needs to held accountable.
