Coveney says Russian naval exercises off Irish coast not welcome as Cabinet to be briefed on Ukraine tensions
20220124
https://www.thesun.ie/news/irish-news/8256412/coveney-russian-naval-exercises-ireland-cabinet-ukraine-tensions/
Speaking ahead of the meeting, he added: We dont have power to prevent this happening. But certainly, Ive made it clear to the Russian ambassador in Ireland that its not welcome.
Mr Coveney responded that at a recent informal meeting of EU defence ministers in Brest, ministers had put their scripts aside and spoke in very blunt terms to each other about the need for unity.
Mr Coveney made it clear to the Russian ambassador how the Government feel about the move.
First of all, a clear message and ask of Russia to defuse tension in the context of their activities on the borders of Ukraine and give reassurance to the rest of the world in terms of their intentions.
Minister Coveney was today meeting his EU counterparts in Brussels which was dominated by escalating tensions over Ukraine.
However,  Russian Ambassador to Ireland Yuri Filatov tonight said the planned tests were standard procedure and in fact a non story.
This isnt the time to increase military activity and tension in the context of whats happening with Ukraine at the moment, and so I think its important that I brief my colleagues on those intentions.
There are two very clear messages that EU foreign ministers will want to get across today.
FOREIGN Affairs Minister Simon Coveney has called Russian naval exercises 240km off the Irish coast as not welcome.
He added: I think there will be a very strong resolve to act in a very decisive and united manner. And I think that will be reinforced today.
It comes as Cabinet will tomorrow be briefed on rising tensions between Ukraine and Russia, Tanaiste Leo Varadkar has said.
Mr Filatov said: The exercises are routine military training conducted on a regular basis for many years.
Separately, the Department of Foreign Affairs has said it has no plans to withdraw any staff or their dependants from the Irish Embassy in Kiev.
This is an important day today for EU foreign ministers to reinforce a message of unity from the European Union in relation to RussianUkraine tension, Mr Coveney added.
He said todays meeting of EU foreign ministers, in which they were joined by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken via video conference, saw calls for Russia to defuse tensions, and to demonstrate EU unity should they invade
Mr Coveney said the EU was ready to impose the most comprehensive and severe range of sanctions and restrictions on Russia in many, many decades should Moscow invade Ukraine.
He went on to say there is no Irish connection here adding his country has no plans to attack Ukraine or anywhere else.
Russia, under the International Law of the Sea, can of course undertake military exercises in international waters, but the fact that theyre choosing to do it on the western borders, if you like, of the EU off the Irish coast, is something that in our view is simply not welcome and not wanted right now, particularly in the coming weeks.
Today, Fine Gael leader Leo Varadkar said he expected to be briefed by Minister Coveney tomorrow and that he would also brief the Cabinet regarding tensions between Russia and te Ukraine.
Secondly, a strong message of unity from the EU that should Russia decide to invade Ukraine militarily, that there would be very severe consequences of that action from an EU perspective in terms of sanction and restrictions that would follow very quickly, that I think would be the most comprehensive that the EU has put together in many decades.
Earlier, Minister Coveney said the planned Russian naval exercises were in international waters, but it is also part of the exclusive economic zone of Ireland.
He was also asked about EU disunity, especially with Germanys decisions not to permit the sale of weapons to Ukraine.
He said the issue had been hugely overblown, adding: These exercises are part of the yearly plan.
