My family are fleeing for their lives in Ukraine Im scared this will be the last time I EVER see them
20220225
https://www.thesun.ie/news/8423444/family-fleeing-lives-ukraine-scared-last-time/
TERRIFIED Ukrainian nationals in the UK are scared that every call with their families could be the last  and are calling for action by Europe to protect their country.
My young cousin is helping fight by posting verifiable videos of what is happening, to show the truth.
There are so many things that you can do to help Ukraine. Why in the name of god Germany, Italy, Cyprus and Hungary are opposing the SWIFT block we do not understand.
We cannot run away. This is our home, this our land. We need much more help. If Ukraine falls then democracy falls and the western civilisation will fall.
Halina  is calling for Boris Johnson to utilise the British army to help her country, and want a no fly zone to be put in place.
We need to throw everything at this now, or the opportunity will be wasted. In days or hours it may become a fully occupied, long resistance war.
My older cousin is racing around trying to help the elderly to make sure that they have supplies that they need.
He is the problem, he is the big driver. We need support from the rest of the world, we need immediate actions.
Putin is a coward, he is a terrorist. We need the British military to go to Ukraine and protect our land.
The 38-year-old, who lives in Canary Wharf, London, is terrified that every call with her young nephews, 13 and 6, could be the last.
They turned all of the lights off in the streets because when Russia is attacking they dont want to have lights on to be a target.
Putins missiles can reach Ukraine, so they can reach other places if he chooses to go that way. We need to stop the madman.
It is going to have to be a multi-pronged attack, with someone close enough and irritated enough to kill him. Or fearless enough to do it.
Imagine that this was London, bombs are flying, buildings are being crushed, and people are being injured and killed.
The Russian soldiers are expecting to be met with flowers, and expecting to be celebrated because they are brainwashed.
She told the Sun: I cant believe what is happening, my brother with his wife and children are there. How can you explain to a six-year-old that you need to find shelter from a missile strike?
The worst thing that could happen is millions of refugees, in a collapsed state in the centre of Europe, as well as the devastating casualties.
Protests and demonstrations have taken place outside of Downing Street by hundreds of Ukrainian nationals in Britain, who are begging the UK for help.
What did a child do to deserve to be targeted by a missile strike? When I spoke to them on video chat this morning I feared that it would be my last time to see and speak to them.
To see it happening again four generations down, we just want to know when this will end. Why cant we be left to be the peaceful country that we are. And why cant for once the world stand with us.
My partners parents live in Kyiv, they are hiding underground. My cousin is pregnant, and will give birth soon.
We just want to be able to simply enjoy our life. But Putin has brainwashed his own army and turned his soldiers into slaves.
Mad tyrant Vladimir Putin launched his latest series of attacks against Ukrainian capital Kyiv in the early hours, with brave defenders digging in for a bloody battle.
He had been on the front line fighting against the Russians in the Luhansk region for two years.
But because they were so passive and turned a blind eye, we are here now. We cannot waste any more time.
Mum-of-two Lesia Scholeys family are trying to help fight the war in any way they can in Lviv, by supporting elderly neighbours or correcting misinformation.
Not a single Ukrainian wants them there. We are an independent free nation and we want our freedom.
That experience was extremely painful, we kept saying to the world that something needs to happen.
It is already a war. A war against democracy. Poland understands it, and I think others will start taking it seriously when it becomes a direct threat to them.
UK Ambassador Ms Simmons and a core of diplomatic staffmoved 340 miles west to Lvivnear the Polish border last week as intelligence warned of an attack but explosions were also reportedon the outskirts of the city.
He is the key problem. He is a megalomaniac dictator. It has been heartening to see Russians joining some of the protests, despite knowing they would be pariahs in their own countries.
But realistically the battle against him is happening right now in Ukraine. Now is the chance to take down his regime.
People need to imagine that it is their families, it is a three hour flight, we need help and it is not far away.
Lesia, 53, who now lives in Surrey, told The Sun: The information on the ground is changing minute by minute. Ukraine needs air cover or they are sitting ducks.
My brother had to go to hospital, he fell and injured himself and now he cannot run. He wont be able to run if he needs to run.
More than 14,000 people have died since 2014 when Russia invaded them. My brothers life is justone of them, people are today dying in their hundreds.
The six year old said why is there so much noise. We are all scared and we need the support of the UK.
The charity is supporting protests taking place outside of Downing Street this week, tonight at 5pm, tomorrow 12 noon, Sunday 2pm.
She may not be able to get to the hospital. It could be destroyed. Can you imagine how terrified they are and how terrified we are?
I have a friend who family is not far from the airstrip that was under heavy bombing near Kyiv. Her family is in a bunker including her 84-year-old mother with a very bad back cellar.
Director of the Ukrainian Institute Dr Olesya Khromeychuk, 38, told how her brother Volodymyr was killed by shrapnel in 2017.
My 13-year-old nephew understands more about what is going on, he is a smart boy, but he is still a child.
So many generations of my family were either sent to labour camps or Siberia for being Ukrainian and standing up for their country.
My brother was killed in 2017, in the Luhansk region. He was on the front line at the time. Russia pretended that they were not there.
There is gunfire in the capital already, people have spent the night in bomb shelters. Kyiv desperately needs a no fly zone over Ukraine.
We will never give up. Realistically it has been 22 years of Putin so how do we get rid of him?
My partner had a panic attack on the phone to his mother when she could hear noises. We cannot eat, we cannot sleep for the worry. I cannot go to work while this is happening.
She said: Its our worst nightmare happening. Nobody wanted to think that this could happen.
A country in the middle of Europe is being shelled, is being attacked and occupied by a lunatic president.
Russian troops are in Kyiv already, shelling began in the middle of the night. Residential areas are being targeted and civilians are being killed as we speak.
