UkraineRussia war LIVE  Monster Putin vows to continue invasion until noble aims met
20220412
https://www.thesun.ie/news/8574210/ukraine-russia-war-latest-putin-ww3/
At least seven people were killed and 22 wounded by shelling in Ukraine's northeastern region of Kharkiv over the past 24 hours, Governor Oleh Synegubov said today, reported Reuters.
The signs will be daubed on the walls of buildings in apartment blocks-local authorities in Russia have the right to place slogans on residentialbuildings.
DEAD Russian soldiers were left rotting in their bunkers yesterday as Ukraines troops overran their positions  but a deadly new onslaught by Putins forces is feared within days.
The UK's foreign office has just announced that another 206 Russian individuals and businesses have been added to the sanctions list.
"Judging from the whole array of data, the occupiers are planning to hold a 'victory carnival' in Mariupol in case their 'special operation' is successful," Andryushchenko has said.
Ukraine says it has arrested fugitive pro-Russian politician Viktor Medvedchuk, who is seen as President Vladimir Putin's closest ally.
He said Kostyantyn Ivashchenko, whom is in charge of Russian troops in Mariupol, was ordered "to clear a part of the city's central district of rubble and dead bodies to ensure that a parade can be held on 9 May".
"They include homes, superyachts and helicopters, and add up to well over 25 billion euros," said a ministerial source.
The rate is ahead of expectations including that of the Bank of England, the channels business correspondent Paul Kelso said.
Explosions in blocks of flats could cause hundreds of civilian victims, the whistleblower, purportedly an FSB insider said.
Asked if the operation in Ukraine would achieve its goals, Putin said, Absolutely. I dont have any doubt at all.
The Ukraine Crisis Appeal will support people in areas currently affected and those potentially affected in the future by the crisis.
Its goals are absolutely clear and noble, Putin said. There is no doubt that the goals will be achieved.
Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, has said that his country would find all Russian's involved in crimes against his civilians  such as rape.
Bodies lay slumped in blown-open dugouts after Ukraine seized control of a ridgeline in the three-day battle for Mala Rohan  where soldiers are confident they can defeatRussia.
Russia has previously called U.S. talk of Russia using chemical weapons a tactic to divert attention away from awkward questions for Washington and accused Ukraine of preparing to use them.
A sudden stop in Russian energy supplies would slow economic growth to 1.9 this year and result in a contraction of 2.2 in 2023, they said.
It was not clear what plant - Azovstal or Illich Iron and Steel Works - Kadyrov meant when he talked about the 1,000 surrendered Ukrainian marines.
Ukraine's security service SBU posted a photo which shows Mr Medvedchuk in handcuffs and wearing Ukrainian military fatigues.
Last night Ben Wallace said: Right now the Ukraine war is an urgent challenge and this PM has led the international response.
Among the troops were 162 officers and 47 were women, the ministry added. More than 100 were wounded.
As Defence Secretary, he has given me his full backing to deliver the aid requested and desperately needed.
Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov said more than 1,000 Ukrainian marines had surrendered in the besieged port city of Mariupol and urged remaining forces holed up in the Azovstal steel mill to surrender.
Germany would face a sharp recession if gas supplies from Russia are suddenly cut off, the country's leading economic institutes said today, and the government said the war in Ukraine poses "substantial risks" for Europe's largest economy.
A United Nations treaty, to which the U.S. is a party, defines genocide as actions taken with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group.
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to open humanitarian corridors today, Ukraine's deputy prime minister has said.
Viktor Medvedchuk, who has been captured by Ukrainian forces, is among those who have seen their assets frozen.
Since Moscows troops moved into its pro-Western neighbour on February 24, Russia has faced a barrage of unprecedented sanctions, including embargoes on its energy exports.
According to the source, the attacks will be against "Z" and "V" war symbols which are to be painted in the coming days on prominent residential buildings.
"Within Azovstal at the moment there are about 200 wounded who cannot receive any medical assistance," Kadyrov said in his post on Telegram.
The security service said in a statement: "You can be a pro-Russian politician and work for the aggressor state for years. You may have been hiding from justice lately. You can even wear a Ukrainian military uniform for camouflage.
Our task is to fulfil and achieve all the goals set, minimising losses. And we will act rhythmically, calmly, according to the plan originally proposed by the General Staff, Putin said on Tuesday during a televised news conference.
According to the aid of Mariupol's mayor, Petro Andryushchenko, Russia may be planning a "Victory Day parade" in the devastated Ukrainian port city, has said on Telegram.
The Russian comments highlight a dispute with the West over policies in the volatile Balkans where Moscow has sought to increase its historic sway. With war raging in Ukraine, there have been fears of tensions soaring in the Balkans as well.
In his nightly video address to the nation on Tuesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky offered to exchange Mr Medvedchuk for Ukrainian "boys and girls who are now in Russian captivity".
The law is seen as part of the Serb drive in Bosnia to gain as much independence as possible.
Bosnia also has a Bosniak-Croat entity, along with joint, central institutions designed to keep the country together after its 1992-95 war.
The embassy in a statement carried by local media reiterated that Moscow does not recognise German diplomat Christian Schmidt as the head of the U.N. Office of the High Representative in Bosnia - and considers his moves illegitimate.
The UK's Ministry of Defence's latest intelligence report says the appointment of General Alexander Dvornikov - who is widely dubbed the 'butcherof Syria' - to head up the conflict for the Russia is seen as an attempt to centralise command.
The other presidents on the trip are: Polish president Andrzej Duda, Lithuania's Gitanas Nauseda, and Latvias Egils Levits.
"There are 33 properties that have been frozen, including a dozen belonging to Roman Abramovich.
"Yes, I called it genocide," he told reporters in Iowa today, shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington.
"In the city of Mariupol... 1,026 Ukrainian servicemen of the 36th marine brigade voluntarily laid down their arms and surrendered," the ministry said in a statement.
A secret service source in Moscow warned the Russian President's sinister plans include a major "false flag" attack in border areas of Russia.
Schmidt on Tuesday suspended the law that the semi-autonomous Bosnian Serb region passed in February, and which declares that the property used by local public authorities belongs to the Republika Srpska entity.
He added: "The good news is that there are no vehicles or people in the city to carry out such events."
"It is all part of the programme of sanctions being brought against the Russian Federation in response to its invasion of Ukraine."
In his latest video message last night, the president said: There is more and more evidence and other official data of the investigation about the terrible crimes of the occupiers in those areas where, unfortunately, they were able to enter.
President Joe Biden said Russia's war in Ukraine amounted to "genocide, accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
Texts cost your chosen donation amount e.g. 5 1 standard message we receive 100. For full TCs visitredcross.org.ukmobile
Ukraine's state railway company said in a separate statement on Wednesday that a train station in central Ukraine had been shelled overnight.
One civilian was killed in Russian shelling of Ukraine's eastern Luhansk region over the past 24 hours, Luhansk Governor Serhiy Gaidai said today.
BREAKING: The rate of inflation shot up to a fresh 30-year high of 7 in March reflecting, for the first time, the immediate effects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.Sky's PKelso has the latest.https:t.coJejtIL1rYa Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.com83YFZVBCiA
"For them and all the rest it would be better to end this pointless resistance and go home to their families."
We have all the resources and opportunities to quickly find alternative solutions, Putin said during a televised government meeting on the development of the Russian Arctic.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said today that Moscow will be looking into alternative markets for its energy exports after Western capitals sanctioned Russia over its military operation in Ukraine.
He earlier wrote on Facebook that Mr Medvedchuk had been arrested after a "special operation" by the SBU.
Estonian president Alar Karis tweeted: We are visiting Ukraine to show strong support to the Ukrainian people, will meet dear friend President Zelensky.
On Tuesday Malyar said authorities were checking unverified reports that Russia may have already used chemical weapons while besieging the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol and that there was a theory that phosphorous munitions had been used.
The ministry said that the soldiers surrendered near the "Mariupol Metallurgical Plant named after Illich", a large steel factory.
The Sun witnessed scenes of carnage following a major battle outside Kharkiv  even as Russian PresidentVladimir Putinvowed to press on with his slaughter in the east.
Freezing property assets mean they cannot be sold or used for rental income, the source explained.
One said: Whatever Putin does, we wont surrender. We have won the battle of Mala Rohan. We are one step closer to winning the war.
Russia's defence ministry said Wednesday more than a thousand Ukrainian soldiers have surrendered in Mariupol, a strategic port city in eastern Ukraine that has been besieged by Moscow's troops for over a month.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 13 April 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.co72z5bPsjSC StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comI3B0nmROkx
"It's become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
He contined: About the inhuman cruelty of the Russian military towards women and children. About multiple rapes.
Russia said today that claims by the United States and Ukraine that Russia could use chemical weapons in Ukraine were disinformation because Moscow destroyed its last chemical stockpiles in 2017.
RUSSIA'S President, Vladimir Putin, spoke in a rare public appearance and has vowed to continue the invasion of Ukraine until "noble" aims are fulfilled.
He added that inflation is expected to exceed 8 per cent at some point this year.
Many of you want to help the five million caught in the chaos  and now you can, by donating to The Suns Ukraine Fund.
And let Viktor Medvedchuk be a good example for you. Even the former oligarch did not escape. Let alone much simpler criminals from the Russian hinterland. We will get everyone.
Ukraine's defence ministry said on Tuesday that it was checking claims that Russia may have used chemical weapons in the southern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol.
This comes after the Mayor of Mariupol sad that there are more than 100,000 residents awaiting to be evacuated from the area - one of the most heavily bombarded cities in Ukraine.
Not all serial rapists reached the level of cruelty that Russian soldiers did. Of course, we will establish the full truth about all these monsters. No matter how much time and effort it would take, we will find everyone.
Ukraine's Deputy Defence Minister Hanna Malyar said on today there was a high risk of Russia using chemical weapons against her country, echoing warnings by President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the week.
In a post on the Telegram messaging app, he said that three trains would be offered today to residents who wanted to leave the region, which he said was under constant shelling and may face a new large offensive by Russian forces.
Ukraine's General Staff, in its morning report otoday, said that Russian forces were proceeding with attacks on Azovstal and the port.
In the unlikely event that the British Red Cross raise more money than can be reasonably and efficiently spent, any surplus funds will be used to help them prepare for and respond to other humanitarian disasters anywhere in the world.
The Russian embassy in Bosnia today criticised the suspension of a Bosnian-Serb property law and warned of potential destabilization in the tense Balkan country unless the decision by the top international official is revoked.
The hit which will cause the "deaths of hundreds of civilians" will be later "blamed on Ukrainians" and "internal enemies.
"If gas supplies were to be cut off, the German economy would undergo a sharp recession," said Stefan Kooths, vice president and research director business cycles and growth at the Kiel Institute for the World Economy.
Biden's comments drew praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who had encouraged Western leaders to use the term 'genocide' to describe Russia's invasion of his country.
PICTURES of women and children fleeing the horror of Ukraines devastated towns and cities have moved Sun readers to tears.
The presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia said they are heading to Kyiv to meet with Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelensky.
"But will it help you escape punishment? Not at all! Shackles are waiting for you and same goes for traitors to Ukraine like you."
According to Sky News, the effects of the Russian invasion of Ukraine is reflected in the 30-year high inflation rate currently at 7 per cent.
There was no comment from Ukrainian officials on the statement made on Kadyrov's Telegram channel.
France has seized more than 20billion-worth of cash and property belonging to Russian oligarchs including Roman Abramovich in response to the Ukraine War.
CHILLING symbols reveal Vladimir Putin plans to kill hundreds of civilians and then blame Ukraine for the war, a whistleblower has claimed.
The incredible figure was confirmed by Economy and Finance Ministry in Paris today, as it confirmed that 12 properties belonging to former Chelsea Football Club owner were among the assets frozen.
In an online post, he said a 2-year-old boy was among those killed in the 53 artillery or rocket strikes he said Russian forces had carried out in the past day in the region.
"Ned Price once again distinguished himself by his idle talk, not substantiated by a single piece of evidence."
On our way to Kyiv, to a city that has suffered terribly due to Russian war since my last visit. Together with Presidents AndrzejDuda, GitanasNauseda  valstsgriba we visit Ukraine to show strong support to  people, will meet dear friend President ZelenskyyUa SlavaUkraini pic.twitter.comNPUqPize1R
He had been under house arrest in the capital of Kyiv on suspicion of treason. However, he escaped soon after Russia began its invasion of Ukraine on 24 February.
There, the Russian leader claimed he had been left with no choice but to launch the invasion in a bid to protect Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine.
But it comes amid rising fears Russia will unleash chemical weapons to turn the tide in its bloodbath invasion after many defeats.
Give as little as 3 or as much as you can afford and every penny will be donated to the Red Cross on the ground helping women, children, the old, the infirm and the wounded.
"Calling things by their names is essential to stand up to evil. We are grateful for US assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities."
As for Russian oil, gas and coal  we can increase their consumption on the domestic market and also increase the supply of energy resources to other parts of the world, where they are really needed, Putin added.
He was visiting a space facility in eastern Russia with Belarusian leader Aleksandr Lukashenko, to mark the 61st anniversary of Yuri Gagarin becoming the first man in space.
This blog has now closed. We've set up a new blog for the Russia-Ukraine war, which can be found here.
