Ukraine news  Panic as Russian missiles pass CRITICALLY close to nuclear power plant as Putins grave health worsens
20220621
https://www.thesun.ie/news/8910728/ukraine-war-russia-news-putin-latest/
The PM warned any attempt to settle the conflict now will only cause enduring instability and give Putin licence to manipulate both sovereign countries and international markets in perpetuity.
Boris met with the G7 today, in order to discuss the world's approach to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
VLADIMIR Putin has called a morbidly obese general out of retirement to lead his troops in Ukraine as he is running out of senior officers, reports claim.
"If he ever becomes free to leave and it makes sense for him to leave Ukraine, then obviously the UK would be only too honoured to host him.
BORIS Johnson and Canada's Justin Trudeau openly mocked Mad Vlad Putin as world leaders gathered in Germany for the G7.
It was filmed in the early hours of Friday morning when Russian troops reportedly launched a missile to intercept an oncoming Ukrainian plane.
"If some hulking guy offended him, he would jump straight at him  scratch him, bite him, pull out clumps of his hair.
With a rebellious streak in him, his childhood best friend Viktor Borisenko recalled Putin was the first to join a fight when one broke out.
Mr Johnson used his first meeting on the fringes of the Summit to warnFrance's President Macronnot to go soft of Ukraine or urge Voldoymer Zelensky into an unfair peace settlement.
"But the most important thing is for us to continue to be united here at the G7. And we are."
The charity have urged world leaders to help as the news of a child being hurt in the destroyed residential block in Kyiv broke.
All rooms are set on the main deck - which has large windows for breath-taking panoramic views.
Russia will begin sending nukes to its ally in the coming months, as the war with Ukraine escalates.
The strike on Kyiv is only one of the attacks in Ukraine as 48cruise missiles were launched on civilian targetsacross the country.
Former boxer and mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, has paid tribute to his fallen comrades as the EU announce Ukraine as been awarded candidate status.
Gold exports were worth 12.6bn to Russia in 2021, and the UK says their importance has increased since the invasion.
The video shows a huge explosion as well as bright flashes shooting down from the crash site.
VLADIMIR PUTIN has been accused of "nuclear terrorism" by leading Ukrainian officials after Russian missiles passed "critically" close to a nuclear power station.
Since the start of the invasion of Ukraine troops have destroyed 4,019 residential homes, 97 medical facilities and 427 educational institutions.
In an effort to prevent Moscow's funding of the war, the UK, US, Canada and Japanwill ban imports of Russian gold.
The hulking veteran reportedly served inRussia's bungled invasion of Afghanistan in the 1980s and has over four decades' experience under his straining belt.
At the start of talks between the leaders of the industrial powers, the PM declared we have to show that were tougher than Putin" as he took off jacket.
Heart-breaking footage shared by mayor Klitschko shows emergency crews rescuing a seven-year-old girl from the rubble.
This comes as the G7 meets to discuss the conflict, with PM Boris Johnson calling on world leaders to support Ukraine.
The Russian despotis now "scraping the barrel" and relying on 20st vodka-swilling General Pavel, 67, to revivehis faltering invasion.
According to the paper, top Ukrainian intelligence official, Major General Kyrylo O. Budanov, said the despot "doesn't have a long life ahead of him.
I think that Volodymyr Zelenskiy has done an absolutely amazing job of leading his country and leading world opinion in an appalling time, Johnson told ITV News.
A number of people have been left dead after Ukraine's north-eastern Kharkiv region had recently been under heavy Russian bombardment.
His newly qualified form teacher, 26-year-old Tamara Chizova, said she was driven to despair by the "disorganised" youngster who would "definitely cause problems", reportsThe Times.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 26 June 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.cok7vGhVBw2Y StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comvVFHH72lXr
Pete Walsh, country director for Save the Children in Ukraine, said: Four months since the escalation of conflict started, children and families in Ukraine are still waking up to aerial bombardments.
"However, it is only one of several challenging objectives Russia will need to achieve to occupy the whole of the Donbas region.
Footage shows a massive cloud of smoke billowing in the air following the missile strike in the city.
With the situation in Ukraine top of the agenda at the annual talks high in the Bavarian mountains,the Kremlin tyrantwas the butt of early jokes for his bizarre photo ops shooting bears and riding topless.
Save the Children charity has said that kids are being caused "unimaginable" physical and emotional harm by the war in Ukraine.
Dramatic video captures the moment a Russian surface-to-air missile system fires on itself in a bizarre malfunction.
"As the G7 gathers in Germany today, this should be a wake-up call to world leaders not to look away. There is still no safe place for children in Ukraine, and leaders must do everything they can to end this conflict."
TheRussiantyrant was branded "sneaky" and a "problem causer" by those who knew him in his younger years - decades before he waged war inUkraine.
Owned byRussianbillionaire Dmitry Pumpyansky, the mighty yacht wasseized back in March amid Western sanctionsoverVladimir Putin's bloodywar in Ukraine.
In newly released information it was revealed that it will take over a decade to remove these mines.
Other reports claim the invading force has lost over 30,000 soldiers since the war began.
He was full of praise for the President, saying he would be happy to host the wartime hero at Downing Street.
Russias brutal invasion of Ukraine has featured a key tactic, laying mines across the country.
In the footage, the missile can be seen shooting into the sky  before turning mid-air and slamming back into where it came from in an enormous explosion.
And the winning bidder will be setting sail amid copious amounts of luxury, with six cabins able to accommodate up to 12 guests.
The stunning 240ft vessel - named The Axioma - has a catalogue of bougie features including six decks, a pool with a swim-up bar and even a cinema.
However, seconds later, the missile was returned to sender after the tracking system went haywire.
Meanwhile, according to the Daily Star, a Kremlin source has claimed the dictator only has "two years left to live" as his health enters a "grave" condition.
"It never occurred to him that the other boy was stronger and might beat him up.
Ukraine are likely to have made a couple of advances in the regions of Mykolaiv and Kharkiv.
Ukraine has been hit by a number of Russian missile attacks today with 14 hitting Kyiv.
In their latest intelligence update the Ministry said: "Most Ukrainian forces have likely withdrawn from their remaining defensive positions in the Donbas city of Sieverodonetsk.
Putin stated that it "can fire ballistic and cruise missiles, both conventional and nuclear types".
Andthe Canadian PMquipped back suggesting they go for a bare chested horseback ride", withBoJoadding: "show our pecks".
"He wasnt the strongest in our class, but in a fight he could beat anyone because he would get into a frenzy and fight to the end."
He is said to be in charge of Putin's special forces in easternUkraineafter the unit's former commander was seriously injured in an artillery strike, a source told theDaily Star.
The Russian leader attacked the Ukrainian capital in the early hours of Sunday morning, striking at least two buildings, according to the city's mayor Vitali Klitschko.
"The immense physical and emotional harm this war is having on children is unimaginable. The number of civilian casualties has surpassed 10,000, including more than 800 children.
The ban will come into effect soon, as the west looks to hit Russia with more sanctions as they continue their brutal invasion of Ukraine.
General Pavel first became a commander of elite troops 25 years ago, but had settled into high-calorie retirement.
We paid a very high price for this chance, he wrote on Telegram. Yes, we still have a lot to do on the way to the European family.
At least five people have been injured including a seven-year-old girl, as Russia launched missiles at several residential buildings, including a nursery.
"Russias capture of the city is a significant achievement within this reduced objective. The settlement was a major industrial centre and it occupies a strategic position on the Siverskyi Donets River.
When asked if Britain would Ukraine in de-mining the nation, Johnson had this to say: Yes, I dont want to get into the technical or military details, but you can take it from what we have already done in supplying equipment to the Ukrainians to help themselves protect that we are certainly talking to them at a technical level to help de-mine Odesa.
VLADIMIR Putin would "fight to the end" during scraps at school as a child, his former classmates and teachers claim.
The Russian gold industry was worth $15.2bn to Russia in 2021 alone, meaning this will deal a potent blow to their economy.
According to his former pals,Putinwould terrorise his school in Leningrads Dzerzhinsky district and would "get into a frenzy" should anyone pick a fight with him.
UK intelligence has reported that the Donetsk militia alone has lost 55 of its original force.
The illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is continuing.  The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 26 June 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.coQgVPxn3T5o StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comxfnhnmsbOi
"These include advancing on the major centre of Kramatorsk and securing the main supply routes to Donetsk city."
But I am sure that Ukraine will do everything necessary, fulfil all the conditions and pass the necessary laws. Because otherwise our state has no future. Indeed, our best defenders are dying for it.
"In April 2022, Russia revised its immediate campaign plan from aiming to occupy the majority of Ukraine, to a more focused offensive in the Donbas.
Kyiv MayorVitaliy Klitschkosaid the attacks were Moscow's attempt to "intimidate" Ukraine, ahead of a meeting of G7 leaders.
The short clip was reportedly shot in theUkrainiancity of Alchevsk in the Luhansk region, which is under the occupation of pro-Russianseparatist forces and is on the front line of thewar in Ukraine.
Ukrainian forces are likely to have withdrawn from the remaining defensive positions in Sieverodonetsk according to the UK's Ministry of Defence.
A superyacht owned by a Russian tycoon boasting an eye-watering 61million price tag is set to be auctioned off after being seized.
He reportedly scoffs five meals a day and washes it down with at least a litre of vodka.
"It is all the more worrying to see this in Kyiv, which has been a place of relative calm for several weeks.
"Children should wake up on a Sunday morning looking forward to spending the day with their families or playing with their friends.
It is now to be auctioned off for a huge sum of cash under the orders of Gibraltar's supreme court, reports YouTube channel ESysman SuperYachts.
Russian missiles rained down on Kyiv in a fresh attack just hours after Vladimir Putin rushed to a sudden late-night meeting in Kremlin.
A video shows one of the targeted buildings in the Shevchenkivskyi district, destroyed as rescue services are battling to rescue civilians.
