Ukraine war latest news Roman Abramovich charged with exporting two USmade planes to Russia WITHOUT licence
20220528
https://www.thesun.ie/news/8839048/ukraine-news-war-russia-putin-health-latest/
The countrys culture and information policy minister, Oleksandr Tkachenko, also hailed all reporters still working in the war-ravaged country as heroes.
"We are working on this with specific states, with specific anti-ship systems, we are working and are gradually receiving them," he said.
Abramovich has been sanctioned in the UK and EU for alleged links to Vladimir Putin and the Kremlin, though he has avoided official sanctions in the US.
Washington and London have defied Putin's warnings against supplying Kyiv with advanced weapons, saying they would send long-range missile systems to Ukraine.
"The UK stands with Ukraine in this fight and is taking a leading role in supplying its heroic troops with the vital weapons they need to defend their country from unprovoked invasion," Mr Wallace said in a statement from the Ministry of Defence MoD.
FORMER Chelsea owner, Roman Abramovich, has been charged with exporting two US-origin planes to Russia without a licence by American authorities.
He tweeted: Eternal memory to our fighters of information front. All journalists today who work 247 are heroes. Our information front is strong thanks to all of you.
The decree signed by President Vladimir Putin said the payments would also be received by families of those who were killed during a "special military operation" in Ukraine's breakaway regions of Donetsk and Lugansk.
"As Russia's tactics change, so must our support to Ukraine. These highly capable multiple-launch rocket systems will enable our Ukrainian friends to better protect themselves against the brutal use of long-range artillery, which Vladimir Putin's forces have used indiscriminately to flatten cities."
Pramila Patten told the UN Security Council yesterday that there is a gap between its resolutions aimed at preventing rape and other sexual attacks for the most vulnerable  women and children.
He also added that in the meantime the most threatening situation has developed in the Zaporizhzhia region, parts of which have already been taken by Russia.
"We have focused enough forces and resources there to beat back attacks on the city," Stryuk said.
President Vladimir Putin warned the West that Russia would strike new targets if the United States started supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles, the TASS news agency reported on Sunday.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said today there are credible reports that Russia is "pilfering" Ukraine's grain exports to sell for its own profit.
If such missiles are supplied, we will strike at those targets which we have not yet been hitting, Putin was quoted as saying in an interview Rossiya-1 state television channel.
Thousands of civilians have been killed and millions forced to flee their homes since President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian troops into Ukraine on February 24.
The letters show that federal prosecutors in the US are now seeking to seize the two aircraft.
Russia has been tight-lipped on the number of its soldiers and members of the National Guard killed in Ukraine and Syria.
The strongest guarantee of their safe passage though would be Ukrainian weaponry, he told reporters.
Investigative journalist Andrei Soldatov, known for his coverage of Russian security agencies, said today that Russian authorities had placed him on a wanted list and frozen his bank accounts.
The Ukrainian president told a news conference that peace talks with Russia stood at level zero.
The UK is to send its first long-range missiles to Ukraine after Russia struck the outskirts of Kyiv for the first time since April.
Serbia and Russia confirmed today that a planned visit by Russia's foreign minister to the Balkan country will not take place, with Moscow accusing the West of preventing the trip by blocking the envoy's plane flight.
The tanks are German-built, meaning Germany would need to approve a move to re-export them to Ukraine, according toPolitico.
Speaking during a virtual roundtable with philanthropies, non-governmental organizations and private sector entities, Blinken said the alleged theft was part of broader Russian actions during its war in Ukraine that have hit Ukraine's ability to export its wheat crop and worsened a global food security crisis.
"Our strongest guarantee of unblocking this or that corridor from ports for the export of grain is to respond with weapons that will be located in the region," he told reporters.
"Our heroes are holding their positions in Severodonetsk. Fierce street fights continue in the city," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video address late Monday.
Street fighting raged Tuesday for control of Ukraine's flashpoint city of Severodonetsk, with the situation changing "every hour", an official said, as Kyiv warned its troops were outnumbered by Russian forces.
Ukraine's Voldymyr Zelensky has warned that Russian troops intend to capture the city of Zaporizhzhia.
Ukraine, Zelensky told a briefing in Kyiv, has been discussing with Britain and Turkey the idea of a third country's navy guaranteeing the passage of Ukrainian grain exports through the Russia-dominated Black Sea.
Soldatov, who co-founded the Agentura.ru website, wrote on Twitter: "My Monday: my accounts in Russian banks are under arrest, plus I'm placed on Russia's wanted list."
Ukraine has been seeking Multiple Rocket Launch Systems MLRS such as the M270 and M142 HIMARS to strike troops and weapons stockpiles at the Russian forces rear.
The US Justice Department ordered the seizure of two aircraft owned by the Russian oligarch today, saying they had been used in violation of sanctions on Russia imposed over its invasion of Ukraine.
If this happens, this move would allow the Russian military to advance closer to the centre of Ukraine.
The department said in court filings that the two aircraft, a Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner and Gulfstream G650ER executive jet, had been flown into Russian territory in earlier this year in violation of US export controls.
As of 3 June, she said, the UN human rights office had received 124 allegations of conflict-related sexual violence  97 against women and girls, 19 against men, seven against boys and one gender unknown. Verification of these cases is ongoing, she said.
Ukraine is not ready to agree to a plan to export its grain by rail across Belarus for shipment via the Baltic Sea to bypass Russia's blockade of its Black Sea ports, President Volodymyr Zelensky said Monday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned Moscow would hit new targets if the West supplies Ukraine with long-range missiles.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky yesterday said there could be as much as 75 million tonnes of grain stuck in Ukraine by this autumn.
In a separate post in the Telegram messaging platform, Soldatov wrote that the case against him had been filed in a manner similar to that of two journalists accused of spreading "fake information" about Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine.
This year's JournalistDay in  is lost of 32 journalists because of war Eternal memory to our fighters of information front.All journalists today who work 247 are heroes.Our information front is strong thanks to all of you. pic.twitter.comRoJsSsJxwa
The British prime minister welcomed Kaja Kallas at Downing Street to discuss the war, and upon her exit from No 10, Ms Kallas told the PA news agency that Mr Johnson seemed in good spirits ahead of the confidence vote, adding: We have been great allies in Nato and we are very grateful for the British troops in Estonia, and also that you have doubled them while the war took place.
"The more long-range weapons you supply, the further we will push away from our territory" the line of Ukrainian forces, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told reporters.
The UN envoy on sexual violence in conflict has warned that sexual violence in Ukraine especially against women and girls remains prevalent and underreported, and the humanitarian crisis is turning into a human trafficking crisis.
Ukraines Voldymyr Zelensky has warned that Russian troops intend to capture the city of Zaporizhzhia.
The families of members of Russia's National Guard who died in Ukraine and Syria will receive a one-time payment of five million rubles 63,000, a Kremlin decree said yesterday.
The US Justice Department ordered the seizure of two aircraft owned by Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich today, saying they had been used in violation of sanctions on Russia imposed over its invasion of Ukraine.
However, he said the strongest guarantee of their safe passage would be with Ukrainian weaponry.
Estonias prime minister has thanked Boris Johnson for his great leadership on the world stage against Russias invasion of Ukraine.
In 2016, Putin created the National Guard, or Rosgvardia, to maintain public order and fight terrorism. The force reports directly to him.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain will send an unspecified number of M270 launchers, which can fire precision-guided rockets up to 50 miles - a longer range than any missile technology currently in use in the war.
Zelensky told reporters that Ukraine had discussed with Britain and Turkey the idea of a navy from a third country guaranteeing safe passage of Ukraine's grain exports through the Black Sea.
In separate comments, Defence Ministry spokesperson Oleksandr Motuzyanyk told a briefing that Russia was not sparing troops or equipment in its push to capture Sievierodonetsk, the largest remaining Ukrainian-controlled city in Luhansk region.
Citing government sources, the Spanish newspaper has claimed that Madrid could also train the Ukrainian military on how to use the tanks.
103 days of full-scale Russia's war on Ukraine. Information on Russian invasion. Losses of the Russian armed forces in Ukraine, June 6. pic.twitter.comHUieynyCUu
The Interior Ministry's website listed Soldatov, who could not be reached by phone, as wanted under an unspecified article of the criminal code.
I also thank you for the great leadership in fighting with Ukraine and giving them all the help they need. I think the UK has been a very leading voice on the world stage so that the moral compass would be correct in this regard, so thank you for that.
"We cannot stand by while Russian long-range artillery flattens cities and kills innocent civilians," the Prime Minister said.
In a charging letter, the US Department of Commerce said Abramovich named his children as the beneficiaries of the "shell entities" that owned the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Gulfstream G650ER aircraft, but that he continued to control them.
Pramila Patten told the UN Security Council today that there is a gap between its resolutions aimed at preventing rape and other sexual attacks for the most vulnerable  women and children.
The families of members of Russia's National Guard who died in Ukraine and Syria will receive a one-time payment of five million rubles 63,000, a Kremlin decree said today.
The announcement followed reports that Serbia's neighbors Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Montenegro had refused to allow Sergey Lavrov's plane to fly through their airspace to reach Serbia.
Ukraine is not ready to agree to a plan to export its grain by rail across Belarus for shipment via the Baltic Sea to bypass Russia's blockade of its Black Sea ports, President Volodymyr Zelensky said today.
Just days ago, Moscow seemed close to taking the strategic industrial hub in the east but Ukrainian forces have managed to hold out.
Ukraine has concentrated enough forces to repel Russian attacks in the frontline eastern city of Sievierodonetsk, but neither side is preparing to withdraw and street fighting rages, mayor Oleksandr Stryuk told Ukrainian television.
Putin did not name the targets Russia planned to pursue if Western countries began supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles.
"A sovereign state has been deprived of its right to conduct foreign policies. The international activities of Serbia on the Russian track have been blocked."
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic earlier today met with Russia's ambassador to Serbia who informed him that Lavrov could not come because the Russian government plane was denied necessary flyover permissions, a statement issued after the meeting said.
Moscow today warned that it would respond to Western supplies of long-range weapons to Ukraine by stepping up efforts to push Kyiv's forces further from its border.
According to the Ukrainian Embassy, here are the latest losses of the Russian armed forces in Ukraine.
Vucic expressed dissatisfaction over the circumstances that prevented the visit and added that "despite all, Serbia will preserve independence and autonomy in political decision-making."
Concerns about a global food crisis also grew as Zelensky warned of tightening grain supplies -- Ukraine is a top producer of the commodity -- due to what Washington described as a Russian strategy of "blackmail".
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky today said there could be as much as 75 million tonnes of grain stuck in Ukraine by this autumn.
The US Justice Department ordered the seizure of two aircraft owned by Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich yesterday, saying they had been used in violation of sanctions on Russia imposed over its invasion of Ukraine.
"We are not yet ready to follow this format and help our 'friendly' neighbours," Zelensky was quoted as saying by Interfax Ukraine.
