Ukraine war LIVE  Evil Putin uses Victory Day speech to spout twisted lies about West plotting to invade Russia
20220509
https://www.thesun.ie/news/8678194/ukraine-russia-war-news-putin-zelensky-victory-day/
At the end of his speech he shouted the words "Glory to our armed force."
Musk took toTwitterand said, "If I die under mysterious circumstances, it's been nice knowin ya."
Ben Wallace the UK Defence Secretary, says Vladimir Putin is trying to intimidate the world with his military parade in Moscow.
Putin has tried to justify the invasion of Ukraine by saying 'the danger was growing everyday and Russia acted'.
But so far a widely anticipated declaration of all-out war on Ukraine has failed to materialise.
Russia's Victory Day parade, which celebrates the Soviet Union's Second World War victory, is under way in Moscow.
VLADIMIR Putin sat watching his meagre military parade with a thick green blanket across his legs as rumours continue to swirl around his health.
A caption appeared onhacked screens saying: The blood of thousands of Ukrainians and hundreds of their children is on your hands. TV and the authorities lie. No to war.
There was no major announcement in President Putins Victory Day speech, as some had anticipated.
He went on to say that Russia had forgotten everything that was important to the victors of World War Two.
"I believe the ongoing and unprovoked conflict in Ukraine does nothing but dishonour those same soldiers."
VLADIMIR Putin has been stunned to discover his lover is pregnant again, it was reported in Moscow yesterday.
A major hack of Russian TV schedules led to millions seeing a message that the blood of Ukrainians was on their hands.
DivorcedPutin- said to be plagued by cancer and Parkinsons disease - wants nothing to mar the pageant showcasing his missiles.
Hundreds of enforcers known as the Wagner Group are said to have been deployed on the countrys eastern front  sparking fresh fears for the safety of civilians.
The only possible reason they are there is to be used as a force that can do what it likes and it wont be seen as the responsibility of the Russian regime.
The parade traditionally sees Russia display its military might with tanks, nuclear missiles and other hardware rumbling through Red Square and warplanes overhead.
Putin was seated wearing a buttoned up black puffer jacket with a victory ribbon tied his chest as he watchedsoldiers and military vehicles roll by in Moscow's famous Red Square.
In a speech at the National Army Museum in London, Wallace said: "Really what President Putin wants is the Russian people and the world to be awed and intimidated by the ongoing memorial to militarism.
Troops in Red Square cheered at the end of Putin's speech and Russia's national anthem was played whilst cannons fired.
According to insiders, the private army - entrusted by Putin - have been drafted in to boost Russias faltering assault.
It warns that there is a high probability of continued missile attacks in the region.
Justin Trudeau, the Canadian Prime Minister, told Reuters news agency Russian President Vladimir Putin was going against the very values that so many people fought and died for.
But he had not planned more and was said to be subdued and withdrawn on hearing she was expecting.
The Russian president was one of the only attendees using the covering as he sat amongst elderly World War 2 veterans while Russian celebrated Victory Day.
But there has been speculation it was due to security reasons and the fear of attacks on aircraft.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has released a video message commemorating victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War.
And leaders of the G7 group said Putins actions brought shame on Russia and the historic sacrifices of its people".
A Russian military expert has said it was no surprise to hear Vladimir Putin linking the current war in Ukraine with World War Two.
The news comes as Volodymyr Zelensky used the eve of Victory Day to say that Russia will "lose" this war as "evil always loses" during his daily address.
Russian military forces are no parading in Moscow's Red Square in front of President Putin.
Rumours persist about theRussianleader's decliningphysical and mental health- with persistent reports he is suffering Parkinson's and is due to undergocancer treatmentin the coming months.
Russias ailing tyrant - who turns 70 in October - is said to already have at least two sons with former Olympic rhythmic gymnastAlina Kabaeva, 38.
But in his address, the Kremlin leader attempted again to justify Russias invasion of Ukraine, saying Nato and Ukraine were creating threats unacceptable to us on Russias borders.
The air display involving his Doomsday nuclear plane was abruptly cancelled at the last minute in Moscow ostensiblybecauseof bad weather,
The celebrations are said to be a third of the size to previous years according to reports.
Speaking to the BBC, Katarzyna Zysk said Putin begun "glorifying the Soviet past and tapping into the Soviet nostalgia which is quite widespread in Russia and has been fuelled by the Russian authorities".
A source told theMirror: The presence of the Wagner Group in large numbers is a worrying development because they are so unaccountable.
But a flypast of theDoomsday planewas abruptly cancelled at the last minute in Moscow, ostensiblybecauseof bad weather.
Soldiers in full dress uniform are carrying Russian and Soviet flags as they march past President Vladimir Putin.
But across his legs was a thick green blanket, which had been left for him on his seat when he first arrived at the viewing platform.
President of Ukraine ZelenskyyUa: We won then. We will win now, too! And Khreshchatyk will see the parade of victory  the victory of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! pic.twitter.com339L7s6Faz
More now on Putin's speech, the Russian tyrant said the war in Ukraine had been necessary because the West was "preparing for the invasion of our land, including Crimea".
Russian news channel General SVR Telegram revealed the claim Alina, dubbed Russias most flexible woman, is pregnant.
ELON Musk concerned fans after he wrote a chilling post on Twitter about dying "under mysterious circumstances."
Sources claimed the president fumed when the news broke as he prepared to show off his war machine at Red Squares Victory Day parade today.
The Russian tyrant said the war in Ukraine had been necessary because the West was preparing for the invasion of our land, including Crimea.
The savage operatives are thought to have one of the worlds worst reputations for war crimes.
She says he repeated false accusations against Nato that they planned a nuclear attack and talked of fighting "the invented Ukrainian Nazis".
The plane had been due to take part in the annual Victory Day military parade on Red Square marking the defeat of Nazi Germany, presided over by theRussian tyrant.
Thousands of Russian troops also march past Putin and his top brass in the annual event.
Western leaders also used the occasion of Victory Day to hit out at Russias actions in Ukraine.
The No to War call came as Russians prepared to watch the annual Victory Day military parade on Red Square presided over by Vladimir Putin.
The hack impacted online viewers of various channels transmitted by MTS mobile operator, NTV Plus, Rostelecom and Wink.
"No, you will not die. The world needs you to reform," one user said in the comments.
Zelensky said the whole free world could see that Ukraine was "the party of good in this war.
This comes just minutes afterMuskfired off a couple of tweets about apparently receiving a chilling message in the Russian media.
Zelensky also said Ukraine would not give "a single piece of our land" to Russia.
VLADIMIR Putin has used today's Victory Day parade spout twisted lies about western plots for the invasion of Russia.
