Urgent warning to Irish drivers as petrol  diesel prices to hit record highs AGAIN
20220514
https://www.thesun.ie/money/8796746/urgent-warning-irish-drivers-petrol-diesel-prices-record-highs/
FUEL prices are on the rise again and are expected to return to 'record highs' within the next week.
The increase is expected to take place over the next seven days as prices slowly creep back towards the 2-per-litre mark, according to Independent.ie.
And petrol has not escaped the rising prices with the national average for a litre of petrol now standing at 1.86.
He said: "About 10 per cent of the worlds oil was previously coming from Russia and now people are unwinding themselves from any supply arrangements with Russian companies.
"In addition to that you have a situation where Russia also supplied about 40 per cent of Europes Gas and the countries who were relying on that gas to generate electricity in particular have in large part switched to oil, so that has increased global demand.
Kevin McPartlan CEO of Fuels for Ireland, an industry group representing fuel retailers, previously told the Irish Sun that the excise duty cuts announced were "misleading".
In March, the Government announced there would be a 20 cent reduction per litre of petrol an 15c per litre of diesel.
McPartlan said: "The level of the excise duty cut that was announced yesterday was misleading.
They said that there was a 15c reduction in the excise duty on diesel and a 20c reduction on the excise duty on petrol, neither of those figures are correct.
But the excise tax will do little for Irish drivers pockets as prices skyrocket again.
Westmeath and Dublin currently boast the highest diesel prices in the country at 1.99 per litre - an eye-watering increase when compared to Aprils national average diesel prices which stood at 1.90 per litre and 1.80 for petrol.
The cost of diesel could reach 2 per litre at garages nationwide soon - wiping out the Governments recent cuts.
So in actual fact, the excise duty on petrol was 16c and on diesel it was 12c."
When they were working out their calculations, they were also including what the impact on the VAT payment of the fuel would be.
"That means theres essentially 10 per cent of what was previously on the market is unavailable so supply is reduced.
The slashed prices will remain in place until August 31 and will cost the Government 320million.
