Utah Ukrainian refugee Theyre hiding under their blankets at this point
20220218
https://www.ksl.com/article/50355863/utah-ukrainian-refugee-theyre-hiding-under-their-blankets-at-this-point
Luda said, "Everyone is preparing for the worst. Everyone is going to stores gathering any supplies that they can. In general, there's not much food and stores, they're running out. There's no bread. Everyone is getting ready to get up and leave to get in their cars, buses, trains, any way possible to get out of this situation."
It's a new life for Luda, Serhii and their three young children. They arrived in Utah last week from Ukraine and are seeking asylum. They asked us not to use their last name for safety reasons. KSL spoke with them with the help of Jace Isom, a former missionary who is fluent in Ukrainian.
The couple feels helpless knowing they can't do much from afar, while their loved ones face dire circumstances.
They're hoping that their family can get out in time and that their faith will sustain them, "That God will help them that God will strengthen those that are going through this and that he will help them pull through," Luda said.
"We feel sorrowful that we are here safe and sound and they are in danger," Luda said. Luda and Serhii are staying in Kaysville for now, but they lived just minutes away from the heart of the Russian attack in Ukraine. They're heartbroken talking to family members and watching the devastation on Ukrainian news.
KAYSVILLE  Shock, horror and disbelief  those are the tough emotions a young Ukrainian family in Utah is feeling. They recently fled their country anticipating the violence of Russia's attack on their country.
Serhii said, "It's very difficult to explain the situation to their children to tell them, 'Everything will be OK,' when they really don't know what the outcome will be. Their kids are very anxious or very concerned about their family members about their grandparents or uncles or aunts or cousins."
Serhii said, "They've been told really just to put on warm clothes get ready for a loss of power, of heating. And they're really just, they're hiding under their blankets at this point."
