West warns Russia is moving troops towards not away from Ukraine
20220216
https://www.ksl.com/article/50349680/us-and-nato-say-russia-is-building-up-troops-near-ukraine-not-withdrawing
Ukraine has asked the U.N. Security Council to discuss a bid by Russia's parliament to recognize self-proclaimed separatists in eastern Ukraine when the body meets on Thursday.
NATO said it could prove Russia's failure to pull back its troops with satellite imagery. "More troops are on their way," said Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
President Joe Biden and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz underscored the "importance of continued transatlantic coordination" on a call on Wednesday, the White House said.
U.S. officials were as yet unable to say who was responsible, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said.
She reiterated U.S. claims that a Russian attack could be preceded by a "false flag" operation and misinformation.
Wednesday is a patriotic holiday in response to the reports Russia could invade on that day. "No one can love our home as we can. And only we, together, can protect our home," he said.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said sanctions against Russian banks would be "unpleasant" but the state would ensure all bank deposits and transactions were secured.
Estonian intelligence is aware of around 10 battle groups of troops moving toward the Ukrainian border, where it estimates about 170,000 soldiers are already deployed, said Mikk Marran, director general of the Estonian Foreign Intelligence Service.
There have been sightings of additional armored vehicles, helicopters and a field hospital moving towards Ukraine's borders, Britain's defense intelligence chief Jim Hockenhull said in a rare public statement.
But NATO military commanders are drawing up plans for new combat units that diplomats said could be deployed in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia.
Britain will double the size of its force in Estonia and send tanks and armored fighting vehicles to the small Baltic republic bordering Russia as part of the NATO deployment.
Russia's defense ministry said its forces were pulling back after exercises in southern and western military districts near Ukraine.
"We continue to see critical units moving toward the border, not away from the border."
It published video that it said showed tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, and self-propelled artillery units leaving the Crimean peninsula, which Moscow seized from Ukraine in 2014.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, who is criss-crossing the country to help bolster Ukrainians' morale, observed drills by his armed forces that included Javelin anti-tank missiles.
People raised flags and played the national anthem to show unity against fears of an invasion.
The risk of Russian aggression against Ukraine would remain high for the rest of February and Russia could still attack Ukraine "with essentially no, or little-to-no, warning," according to a senior Western intelligence official.
Such units  designed to buy time for additional troops to reach the front line if needed  already exist in Poland and the Baltic states.
Blinken will travel to Germany for the Munich Security Conference, which starts on Friday, to coordinate with allies.
World powers are engaged in one of the deepest crises in East-West relations for decades, jostling over post-Cold War influence and energy supplies as Russia wants to stop Ukraine ever joining the NATO military alliance.
Russia sees Ukraine joining NATO as a threat to its security and that it is ready to reroute energy exports to other markets if it were hit by sanctions, which Washington and its allies have threatened if it invades.
MOSCOW  Russia's military build-up near the Ukrainian border is continuing, the United States warned on Wednesday as Estonia said battle groups were approaching ahead of a likely attack to occupy "key terrain," despite Moscow's insistence of a pullback.
Spokesperson Ned Price also said it was "entirely false" that Washington and Kyiv are developing biological or chemical weapons for use in the region.
Moscow's ambassador to Ireland insisted forces in western Russia would be back to their normal positions within three to four weeks.
"There's what Russia says. And then there's what Russia does. And we haven't seen any pullback of its forces," U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in an interview on MSNBC.
The government said a cyberattack that hit the defense ministry was the worst of its kind the country had seen, pointing the finger at Russia, which denied involvement.
The State Department on Wednesday said it was concerned by Putin saying "genocide" was taking place in eastern Ukraine's Donbass region, where conflict between government forces and Moscow-backed separatists has cost 15,000 lives.
Western nations have suggested arms control and confidence-building steps to defuse the standoff, which has prompted them to urge their citizens to leave Ukraine because an attack could come at any time. Russia denies it has any plans to invade.
Moscow has accused Washington of hysterical war propaganda after repeated warnings of a possible attack and reports in some Western media that it would happen on Wednesday as the world powers snipe at each other.
Ukraine also increased the number of border guards on its frontier with Belarus, Russia's ally, where some 9,000 Russian troops are estimated to be involved in military exercises.
"If Russia is successful in Ukraine, it would encourage it to increase pressure on the Baltics in the coming years," he said. "The threat of war has become main policy tool for Putin."
