Water crisis looms for eastern Ukrainian city of Sloviansk
20220808
https://www.kob.com/news/business-money/as-summer-wanes-water-crisis-looms-for-east-ukrainian-city/
I dont want to leave my apartment because someone else might occupy it, she said. I dont want to leave. I will die here.
SLOVIANSK, Ukraine AP  The echo of artillery shells thundering in the distance mingles with the din of people gathered around Sloviansks public water pumps, piercing the uneasy quiet that smothers the nearly deserted streets of this eastern Ukrainian city.
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.
Water she had gathered filled the plastic tubs and buckets stacked on every flat surface in her small bathroom, while empty plastic bottles lined the walls in her hallway. A meat and vegetable soup was cooking on an electric burner for lunch.
Another Sloviansk resident, Ninel Kyslovska, 75, gathered water from a tank at a park on Sunday for marinating cucumbers in the sun that afternoon. She said the scarcity had upended all aspects of her life.
All these wells and pumps will freeze, Goncharenko said, adding that places like Sloviansk and Kramatorsk  which also has no gas  had become hostages of destroyed infrastructure.
Goncharenko said Kramatorsk would drain municipal pipes that run into unheated structures to prevent them from freezing and bursting, and that he was 99 certain that gas wouldnt be restored before winter. Electricity cuts and the lack of heating could also see the fire risk soar as people try to heat and light their homes by other means, he added.
The water infrastructure was destroyed by the constant battles, said Lyubov Mahlii, a 76-year-old widow who gathers 20 liters around five gallons of water twice a day from a public tank near her apartment, dragging the plastic bottles up four flights of stairs on her own.
Speaking from her tidy kitchen after one such trip, Mahlii said she boils some water for at least 15 minutes to make sure its safe for consumption. The remainder is used for bathing, washing clothes and dishes, watering plants and taking care of a stray dog named Chapa.
But Oleksandr Goncharenko, the head of Kramatorsks military administration, said even that comparative luxury was threatened by winter, when the temperature drops to -20 C -4 F.
The members of Sloviansks dwindling population only emerge  a few minutes at a time  to fill up at the pumps that have been the citys only water source for more than two months. Fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces near the key city in the Donetsk region has damaged vital infrastructure that has cut residents off from gas and water for months.
Officials in Kramatorsk plan to build more public wells to supply the remaining population, but Goncharenko warned the water quality couldnt be guaranteed. Such water would likely be sourced from deep underground, he said, which would be too high in calcium and unfit for drinking.
Following the death of her husband, Nikolai, from diabetes four years ago, Mahlii shares her Soviet government-provided apartment with two bright yellow canaries and an assortment of houseplants.
Ukrainian officials are still trying to convince the Donetsk regions remaining residents to evacuate as the wars front line threatens to move westward and the inhospitable winter looms.
Filling her bottles, Kyslovska said she sometimes avoids bathing to save herself a trip to the park, and often washes her clothing in a nearby lake.
Only a fifth of the citys pre-invasion population of 100,000 remains. With heavy fighting raging only miles away as Russian forces continue their push on Donetsk  part of the industrial Donbas region where Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian troops since 2014  residents defy the shelling to make do with the only water source left. And local officials believe things will only get worse once the cold sets in.
The water flows for now, but fears grow that come winter the city only seven miles 12 kilometers from Russian-occupied territory could face a humanitarian crisis once the pipes begin to freeze over.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued a mandatory evacuation order to all residents of the Donetsk region at the end of July, saying remaining would cost lives. But despite that and the terror that accompanies the shriek of falling rockets near the city, with no money to relocate and nowhere to go, Mahlii plans to stay in Sloviansk  no matter what.
She blamed the local government for the lack of running water, complaining that nearby Kramatorsk  just six miles 10 kilometers to the south  still had water flowing from its taps.
SLOVIANSK, Ukraine AP  The echo of artillery shells thundering in the distance mingles with the din of people gathered around Sloviansks public water pumps, piercing the uneasy quiet that smothers the nearly deserted streets of this eastern Ukrainian city.The members of Sloviansks dwindling population only emerge  a few minutes at a time  to fill up at the pumps that have been the citys only water source for more than two months. Fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces near the key city in the Donetsk region has damaged vital infrastructure that has cut residents off from gas and water for months. The water flows for now, but fears grow that come winter the city only seven miles 12 kilometers from Russian-occupied territory could face a humanitarian crisis once the pipes begin to freeze over.The water infrastructure was destroyed by the constant battles, said Lyubov Mahlii, a 76-year-old widow who gathers 20 liters around five gallons of water twice a day from a public tank near her apartment, dragging the plastic bottles up four flights of stairs on her own. When there are bombings and sirens, we keep carrying it, she said on Sunday. Its a great risk for us, but what can we do? Lyubov Mahlii wipes away sweat after dragging a crate of water bottles up the stairs to her fifth floor apartment in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. The 76-year-old widow gathers 20 liters 5.3 gallons of water twice a day from a public tank near her apartment. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanLyubov Mahlii, 76, washes towels in her bathtub with water dragged up four flights of stairs from a public well nearby at her apartment in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Sunday, Aug. 7, 2022. Water she had gathered filled the plastic tubs and buckets stacked on every flat surface in her small bathroom, while empty plastic bottles lined the walls in her hallway. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanLyubov Mahlii, 76, reaches for a photo of her late husband, Nikolai, in her apartment in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. Following the death of her husband from diabetes four years ago, Mahlii shares her Soviet government-provided apartment with two bright yellow canaries and an assortment of houseplants. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanA curtain hangs in the apartment window belonging to Lyubov Mahlii, 76, in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. Following the death of her husband, Nikolai, from diabetes four years ago, Mahlii shares her Soviet government-provided apartment with two bright yellow canaries and an assortment of houseplants. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanA resident pumps water from a well outside an apartment complex in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. The members of Sloviansk's dwindling population only emerge, a few minutes at a time, to fill up at the pumps that have been the city's only water source for more than two months. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanResidents gather to pump water from a well outside an apartment complex in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. Fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces near the key city has damaged vital infrastructure that has cut residents off from gas and water for months. The water continues to flow for now, but fears grow that, come winter, the city only seven miles 12 kilometers from Russian-occupied territory could face a humanitarian crisis once the pipes begin to freeze over. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanResidents gather to pump water from a well outside an apartment complex in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. Only a fifth of the city's pre-invasion population of 100,000 remains. With heavy fighting raging only miles away residents defy the shelling to make do with the only water source left. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanLyubov Mahlii, 76, packs a crate with water bottles she filled up at a public tank to take back to her apartment in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. "When there are bombings and sirens, we keep carrying it," she said. "It's a great risk for us, but what can we do?" AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanLyubov Mahlii, 76, pulls a crate of water bottles up the stairs to her fifth floor apartment after filling them up at a nearby park in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. Mahlii said that she doesn't have the money to relocate to a safer place, and that if she did, she wouldn't have anywhere to go. She hasn't made plans for what she'll do once cold weather arrives, but after 47 years in her apartment, she will face whatever comes from her home. "We are surviving!" she said. "We are surviving by any means." AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanLyubov Mahlii, 76, takes water stored in pots to use for cooking in her apartment in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Sunday, Aug. 7, 2022. Mahlii said she boils some water for at least 15 minutes to make sure it's safe for consumption. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanLyubov Mahlii, 76, whistles to two canaries she shares her apartment with in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Sunday, Aug. 7, 2022. Despite a mandatory evacuation order and the terror that accompanies the shriek of falling rockets, with no money to relocate and nowhere to go, Mahlii plans to stay in Sloviansk, no matter what. "I don't want to leave my apartment because someone else might occupy it," she said. "I don't want to leave, I will die here." AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanA couple embrace after cooling off in a lake in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. While the city's remaining population has adapted to a new way of life without running water, local officials warn that the coming of winter could set the stage for a humanitarian crisis. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanA taxi drives down a road damaged by shrapnel from a May rocket attack in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. The echo of artillery shells thundering in the distance mingles with the din of people gathered around Sloviansk's public water pumps, piercing the uneasy quiet that smothers the nearly deserted streets of this eastern Ukrainian city. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanResidents carry water collected at a nearby well while walking past the charred remains of a car from a May rocket attack in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. The echo of artillery shells thundering in the distance mingles with the din of people gathered around Sloviansk's public water pumps, piercing the uneasy quiet that smothers the nearly deserted streets of this eastern Ukrainian city. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanA bicyclist and a stray dog move past a damaged apartment building from a May rocket attack in Sloviansk, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2022. The echo of artillery shells thundering in the distance mingles with the din of people gathered around Sloviansk's public water pumps, piercing the uneasy quiet that smothers the nearly deserted streets of this eastern Ukrainian city. AP PhotoDavid GoldmanPhoto: ASSOCIATED PRESSDavid GoldmanPreviousNextOnly a fifth of the citys pre-invasion population of 100,000 remains. With heavy fighting raging only miles away as Russian forces continue their push on Donetsk  part of the industrial Donbas region where Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian troops since 2014  residents defy the shelling to make do with the only water source left. And local officials believe things will only get worse once the cold sets in.Locals fill their bottles with hand pumps or from plastic tanks at one of five public wells before hauling them home in bicycle baskets, wheeled carts and even childrens strollers. Speaking from her tidy kitchen after one such trip, Mahlii said she boils some water for at least 15 minutes to make sure its safe for consumption. The remainder is used for bathing, washing clothes and dishes, watering plants and taking care of a stray dog named Chapa. Following the death of her husband, Nikolai, from diabetes four years ago, Mahlii shares her Soviet government-provided apartment with two bright yellow canaries and an assortment of houseplants. Water she had gathered filled the plastic tubs and buckets stacked on every flat surface in her small bathroom, while empty plastic bottles lined the walls in her hallway. A meat and vegetable soup was cooking on an electric burner for lunch.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued a mandatory evacuation order to all residents of the Donetsk region at the end of July, saying remaining would cost lives. But despite that and the terror that accompanies the shriek of falling rockets near the city, with no money to relocate and nowhere to go, Mahlii plans to stay in Sloviansk  no matter what.I dont want to leave my apartment because someone else might occupy it, she said. I dont want to leave. I will die here. Another Sloviansk resident, Ninel Kyslovska, 75, gathered water from a tank at a park on Sunday for marinating cucumbers in the sun that afternoon. She said the scarcity had upended all aspects of her life. Without water, you wont get anywhere. I have to carry 60, 80, 100 liters of water a day and its still not enough, she said. Bread and water are sacred and they just took it from people. Such actions must be punished, maybe not by us, but hopefully by Gods judgment.Filling her bottles, Kyslovska said she sometimes avoids bathing to save herself a trip to the park, and often washes her clothing in a nearby lake.She blamed the local government for the lack of running water, complaining that nearby Kramatorsk  just six miles 10 kilometers to the south  still had water flowing from its taps. But Oleksandr Goncharenko, the head of Kramatorsks military administration, said even that comparative luxury was threatened by winter, when the temperature drops to -20 C -4 F.All these wells and pumps will freeze, Goncharenko said, adding that places like Sloviansk and Kramatorsk  which also has no gas  had become hostages of destroyed infrastructure. Goncharenko said Kramatorsk would drain municipal pipes that run into unheated structures to prevent them from freezing and bursting, and that he was 99 certain that gas wouldnt be restored before winter. Electricity cuts and the lack of heating could also see the fire risk soar as people try to heat and light their homes by other means, he added. Ukrainian officials are still trying to convince the Donetsk regions remaining residents to evacuate as the wars front line threatens to move westward and the inhospitable winter looms.Officials in Kramatorsk plan to build more public wells to supply the remaining population, but Goncharenko warned the water quality couldnt be guaranteed. Such water would likely be sourced from deep underground, he said, which would be too high in calcium and unfit for drinking.Mahlii hasnt made plans for what shell do once cold weather arrives, but after 47 years in her Sloviansk apartment, she will face whatever comes from her home. We are surviving! she said. We are surviving by any means.Follow APs coverage of the war in Ukraine at https:apnews.comhubrussia-ukraine
Mahlii hasnt made plans for what shell do once cold weather arrives, but after 47 years in her Sloviansk apartment, she will face whatever comes from her home.
When there are bombings and sirens, we keep carrying it, she said on Sunday. Its a great risk for us, but what can we do?
Without water, you wont get anywhere. I have to carry 60, 80, 100 liters of water a day and its still not enough, she said. Bread and water are sacred and they just took it from people. Such actions must be punished, maybe not by us, but hopefully by Gods judgment.
Locals fill their bottles with hand pumps or from plastic tanks at one of five public wells before hauling them home in bicycle baskets, wheeled carts and even childrens strollers.
