UK ambassador to Ukraine feeling comfortable on return to Kyiv
20220501
https://www.gazetteseries.co.uk/news/20107049.uk-ambassador-ukraine-feeling-comfortable-return-kyiv/
It was a long drive but worth going the distance. So good to be in Kyiv again. pic.twitter.comFsQe0xnEIz
The UKs ambassador to Ukraine has said she feels comfortable returning to Kyiv despite Russian threats against diplomats in the Ukrainian capital.
Her return comes after Moscow threatened a proportional response against Britain for backing Ukrainian strikes behind Russian lines, hinting at possible strikes at British sites in Kyiv.
She told the paper: Im not minimising the risk. Im not discounting it. You have to take it into account, but Im still here.
In an interview with The Observer, Ms Simmons said that while she was well aware of the risk of returning to the capital, it absolutely feels like the right place to be.
But Prime Minister Boris Johnson told a press conference during a visit to India in April that staff would begin returning to Kyiv thanks to Ukraine repelling Moscows troops from around the city.
Melinda Simmons arrived in Kyiv late on Friday, following the announcement last month that Britain would be reopening its embassy in the city in a show of support for Ukraines fight against the Russian invasion.
The United Kingdom and our allies will not watch passively as Putin carries on this onslaught.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
I am here with a heightened level of security protection and bearing in mind that potential risk, but for now I feel comfortable working under those circumstances.
He said: The extraordinary fortitude and success of President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people in resisting Russian forces in Kyiv means that I can today announce shortly we will reopen our embassy in Ukraines capital city.
Britain moved embassy staff to the western city of Lviv shortly before Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his long-expected invasion of Ukraine in February.
I want to pay tribute to those British diplomats who remained elsewhere in the region throughout this period.
