Ukraine repels Russian attacks as Mariupol plant battle rages
20220505
https://www.gazetteseries.co.uk/news/20116724.ukraine-repels-russian-attacks-mariupol-plant-battle-rages/
Russian forces intensified airstrikes against transportation infrastructure in western Ukraine on Wednesday but remain unable to interdict western aid shipments to Ukraine, it added.
The European Unions top official called on the 27-nation bloc on Wednesday to ban Russian oil imports, a crucial source of revenue.
About 100 of them were evacuated over the weekend  the first time some saw daylight in months.
Meanwhile, Belarus, which Russia used as a staging ground for its invasion, announced the start of military exercises on Wednesday.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Air raid sirens sounded in cities across the country on Wednesday night, while Russian attacks were reported near Kyiv, in Cherkasy and Dnipro in central Ukraine, and in Zaporizhzhia in the south east.
After 10 weeks of war, Ukrainian and Russian forces are fighting village by village as Moscow struggles to gain momentum in the eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas.
With the support of aircraft, the enemy resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant, the Ukrainian militarys General Staff said on Thursday.
The Russians have pulverised most of Mariupol in a two-month siege that has trapped civilians with little food, water, medicine or heat.
The sirens sounded anew early on Thursday in the western city of Lviv, which has been a gateway for western arms and served as a relative safe haven for people fleeing fighting farther east.
Russia switched its focus to that region  where Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces for years  after a stiffer-than-expected resistance bogged its troops down and thwarted its initial goal of overrunning the capital Kyiv.
Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment that is defending the plant, said in a video posted on Wednesday that the incursions continued for a second day and there are heavy, bloody battles.
The city, and the plant in particular, have come to symbolise the misery inflicted by the war.
It is unclear how many Ukrainian fighters are still inside the plant but the Russians put the number at about 2,000 in recent weeks, with 500 reported to be hurt.
Britains Ministry of Defence said on Thursday it does not believe the drills pose a threat to Ukraine, though is suspects Moscow will use them to fix Ukrainian forces in the north, preventing them from being committed to the battle for the Donbas.
Ukrainian forces said they have made some gains on the border of the southern regions of Kherson and Mykolaiv and repelled 11 Russian attacks in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions that make up the Donbas.
A top Ukrainian official said the country will be ready to act if Belarus joins the fighting.
The Ukrainians say Russian forces have pushed into the plants perimeter and are bombing it from above.
But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other parties, and many previous assurances from the Kremlin have fallen through, with the Ukrainians blaming continued fighting by the Russians.
In Dnipro, authorities said a rail facility was hit  following several earlier attacks on railway stations across the country.
The United Nations announced that more than 300 civilians were evacuated from Mariupol and other nearby communities on Wednesday.
In addition to supplying weapons to Ukraine, Europe and the US have sought to punish Moscow with sanctions, taking aim at the countrys vital energy sector.
Many came with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and we will now support them during this difficult time, including with much-needed psychological support, said Osnat Lubrani, the UN humanitarian co-ordinator for Ukraine.
The Russian government said it would open another evacuation corridor from the plant during certain hours on Thursday through to Saturday.
The proposal needs unanimous approval from EU countries and is likely to be debated fiercely.
The evacuees arrived in Zaporizhzhia, about 140 miles to the north west, where they were receiving humanitarian assistance.
In addition to heavy shelling of the Donbas, Russian forces kept up their bombardment of railway stations and other supply-line targets across the country  part of an effort to disrupt the supply of western arms, which have been critical to Ukraines defence.
Five people have been killed and at least 25 hurt in shelling of cities in the Donbas over the past 24 hours, Ukrainian officials said.
Ukrainian defences have largely stalled Russian advances in eastern Ukraine, it said late on Wednesday.
In the most searing example of how Ukrainian forces have slowed Russias progress, Ukrainian fighters have held out at the sprawling Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol  the last pocket of resistance in a city that is otherwise controlled by Moscows forces.
Mariupols fall would deprive Ukraine of a vital port, allow Russia to establish a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014, and free up troops to fight elsewhere in the Donbas.
Ukraines military said it has recaptured areas in the south and repelled Russian attacks in the east as a battle rages at a steel mill in Mariupol  where Ukrainian troops are holed up in tunnels and bunkers fending off a Russian onslaught.
Hungary and Slovakia have already said they wont take part in any oil sanctions but they could be granted an exemption.
An assessment by the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War said Russian forces are struggling to gain traction.
