Albaneses trip to NATO and Ukraine was no holiday
20220705
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/albanese-s-trip-to-nato-and-ukraine-was-no-holiday-20220705-p5azaq.html
China has reacted angrily. The comparison was provocative since, unlike Putin, China has not started any shooting wars.
Bevan Shields sends an exclusive newsletter to subscribers each week. Sign up to receive his Note from the Editor.
But Albanese was right to raise the issue of Chinas economic coercion firmly at NATO, just as Morrison was right to raise it at the G7 in Britain last year. European powers must understand just as Australia is helping European security, they must protect democracy in other regions.
Albaneses visit to Ukraine on Sunday, where he toured towns such as Bucha and Irpin, the site of alleged Russian atrocities, sent a personal message of solidarity to the Ukrainian people in their hour of need.
Albanese has done a solid job on the global stage but now it is time for his focus to shift back home.
As the war grinds into its fifth month, some of Ukraines allies are growing tired of the mounting costs in money and material of standing up to Putin.
By announcing $100 million more in military aid and promising support for as long as it takes for Ukraine to emerge victorious, he has put Putin on notice that the world will not give in to his bullying.
The new parliament will hold its first sitting in three weeks and the prime minister must work out a modus vivendi with the expanded crossbench, especially on climate and energy policy and a federal integrity commission. He has to start work on his economic response to rising inflation and interest rates. He must help those affected by the Sydney floods.
Albanese had no choice but to attend the meetings of NATO in Madrid and G7 meetings in the Bavarian Alps in Germany last week and stand shoulder-to-shoulder with key democratic allies in the fight against Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine.
While Ukraine is on the other side of the world, this trip was not just about Europe, however. Albanese also used this meeting to enlist the support of NATO and the G7 in the growing strategic competition with China in our own region.
Albanese also used his trip to announce that after a decade of recalcitrance under the Coalition, Australia was back in the game of global action on climate change.
His visit to Paris ended the diplomatic spat with French President Emmanuel Macron, caused by the clumsy cancellation of the French submarine deal.
While Albanese made exactly the right call by travelling to Europe, he must not waste time now that he has returned. He has plenty on his plate here in Australia.
While Albanese was largely continuing the previous governments policies on Ukraine and China, in other areas his trip was about tidying up Morrisons mess.
Some conservative pundits have even drawn comparisons between Albaneses travel and Scott Morrisons trip to Hawaii during the 2019 bushfires.
Some in the Coalition have tried to score political points by claiming that Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has been travelling too much in his first two months in office.
The message is important in its own right and it could also help stalled negotiations toward a free trade agreement with the European Union.
The criticisms are nonsense. Prime Minister Anthony Albaneses eight-day trip to Europe over the past week was no holiday  he visited a war zone  and used every day to promote vital Australian interests.
In Madrid, Albanese specifically compared Putins attempt to recreate the Russian Empire with Chinas moves to undermine the Western alliance in the Indo-Pacific and around the world.
As the leader of the largest non-NATO supplier of aid to Ukraine, Albaneses presence sent a message that Ukraines cause was that of democracies around the world.
