As it happened Second retiring Coalition senator attacks government Russia approaches India about SWIFT alternative for ruble payments Hundreds of millions into voters pockets as Treasurer flags fuel excise cut
20220329
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/national/australia-news-live-hundreds-of-millions-into-voters-pockets-as-treasurer-flags-fuel-excise-cut-tax-offset-before-federal-election-russia-ukraine-peace-talks-make-some-progress-20220329-p5a95x.html
Members of the NSW Nurses and Midwives Association from 170 hospitals will descend on Macquarie Street and in regional city centres for the second time in seven weeks in defiance of an order issued by the Industrial Relations Commission last Friday. The action will last 24 hours at 161 hospitals.
Thousands of nurses stopped work in February in the first statewide strike in a decade. Credit:Renee Nowytarger
The plan involves rupee-rouble-denominated payments using Russias messaging system SPFS, the people said, asking not to be identified discussing confidential deliberations.
That is an absolute disgrace the government holding up its own bill to avoid implementing a very sensible recommendation of the Royal Commission.
It is with overwhelming sadness I announce the passing of my beloved friend and mentor Ernie Carroll, the post said.
Independent senator Rex Patrick blasted the government on Wednesday for initially leaving the bill off a list of 20 pieces of legislation to be pushed through on the final day of Senate sitting before the election.
But it has delayed bringing on the bill for Senate debate over multiple sittings, finally adding it to the list on Wednesday after Senator Patrick signalled he would move a procedural motion to have it debated.
Labor, which supports the bill being passed despite having concerns about some details, is expected to vote for the 247 nursing amendment, as will the Greens and Centre Alliance senator Stirling Griff.
The taskforce, named Wilmot, will involve hundreds of investigators, intelligence officers and protective officers, and will coordinate responses to all electoral-related crime during the federal election.
Labor MP Andrew Leigh has taken out a protection order after receiving alleged threats, while two people have been charged over alleged online threats to Labor senator Kristina Keneally.
If the bill passes the Senate with amendments, it will be returned to the House of Representatives where the government has the numbers to overrule the changes.
Ernie Carroll, the creator of beloved Hey Hey Its Saturday character, Ossie Ostrich has died, aged 92.
The government would not have time for a second attempt at passing the bill through the Senate, which will be devoted to estimates hearing for the rest of this sitting period, before the May election.
The AFP supports political expression and freedom of speech. However, when it leads to disruption, harassment, intimidation, threatening behaviour and damage to property, it can reach the threshold of a criminal offence, the federal agency said in a statement today.
This Parliament is about to come to the end without having taken any serious action in relation to the Aged Care Royal Commission recommendations.
The memorial has just started. You can follow our live coverage led by Roy Ward here.
The government stopped the progression of their own bill because they were of the view that I had the numbers in the Senate to pass my amendment to finally help people in aged care by having a nurse available 247, Senator Patrick said in the chamber.
He was a man of few words with a quiet countenance but when he did speak he imparted great wisdom... I loved him very much. Rest in peace Ern. Forever in my heart.
The Australian Federal Police will boost the security of parliamentarians with a new taskforce that will investigate threats to elected officials and candidates.
Retiring Coalition senator Sam McMahon says the alleged bullying faced by Kimberley Kitching was not confined to Labor and should not be used as a partisan football.
Under the proposal, roubles will be deposited into an Indian bank and converted into rupees and the same system will work in reverse, one of the people said. Undecided elements include whether the exchange rate will be fixed or floating.
Russia also wants India to link its Unified Payments Interface with their MIR payments system for seamless use of cards issued by Indian and Russian banks after Visa Inc. and Mastercard Inc. suspended operations, one of the people said.
India is keen to continue bilateral trade due to its dependency on Russian weapons and the prospect of buying cheaper oil as global prices surge. Prime Minister Narendra Modis government has been pushing back against pressure from Western nations by arguing that arms purchases from Russia are needed to counter Chinas growing military assertiveness.
Indias government is considering a proposal from Russia to use a system developed by the Russian central bank for bilateral payments, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
Cricketing legends, music royalty and more than 50,000 fans have amassed to farewell cricketer Shane Warne on in a celebration of his life that will culminate in the unveiling of a Melbourne Cricket Ground stand renamed after the great leg-spinner.
New South Wales hospital patients have been warned to expect disruption and delays when thousands of nurses walk off the job for 24 hours on Thursday, as the number of healthcare workers off work due to COVID-19 surges to 4300, placing further pressure on the health system.
This alleged behaviour towards Kimberley Kitching should not become a partisan football  for it is not constrained to any one side of politics, Senator McMahon said.
The ASX 200 closed 0.7 higher at 7514.5, its highest since January, with a big tech boost offsetting a decline from energy and mining stocks.
She also became the second Coalition senator to deliver a veiled spray to the government during their farewell speech in as many days, following fiery comments by Liberal Concetta Fierravanti-Wells.
The Morrison government has bowed to pressure to bring a key aged care bill to a vote in the Senate, setting up a debate on an amendment to put nurses into aged care homes around the clock.
The government needs to pass the bill to roll out its new funding model for the sector, which is supposed to start in October, and implement part of its response to the Aged Care Royal Commission, including pre-employment screenings for aged care workers and a serious incident response scheme for home care.
Daryl Somers announced Mr Carrolls death on the shows Facebook page on Wednesday evening, and expressed his gratitude for Mr Carrolls guidance during the early stages of his career.
No final decision has been taken and the matter will probably be discussed when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov arrives in India for a two-day visit on Thursday.
The Northern Territory Country Liberal senator said she was haunted by the death of the late Labor senator, saying the allegedly bullied Ms Kitching couldve easily been me.
The country recorded 34 deaths and 66,974 new cases of COVID-19, with South Australia recording its second-highest daily case load since the beginning of the pandemic.
Speaking under parliamentary privilege, Senator McMahon said her decision to resign was due to a former staff member  who she said terrorised my office  and the partys decision to place him in office on the essential council, which she said left her seeking professional help.
Ernie was a pioneer of television starting back in the 50s, coming from a radio background to GTV9 when television was in its infancy.
