ASX set for falls as Ukraine Fed keep Wall Street on edge
20220214
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/business/markets/asx-set-for-falls-as-ukraine-fed-keep-wall-street-on-edge-20220215-p59wgj.html
The crisis in Ukraine is yet another concern for investors as they try to figure out how rising inflation and looming interest rate hikes will impact investments and the economy. Inflation stands at a four-decade high and the Federal Reserve is planning to raise interest rates to help cool inflation.
Investors are also reviewing the latest round of corporate earnings, in part to get a better understanding of how companies are dealing with high inflation. Some of the more notable companies reporting earnings this week include Airbnb on Tuesday, DoorDash on Wednesday and Walmart on Thursday.
Crude oil prices remained relatively stable while natural gas prices rose 5.3 per cent. Russia is a major energy producer. Any military action that disrupts supplies could send shockwaves through energy markets and global industry.
Investors will also get more updates on inflation and how that might be impacting spending. The Labor Department will release its January report for prices at the wholesale level on Tuesday and the Commerce Department will release its January retail sales report on Wednesday.
Nations are still searching for a diplomatic solution to the situation and Russias top diplomat advised Russian President Vladimir Putin to continue a dialogue with the U.S. and its allies. A potential escalation of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine weighed heavily on European markets, which fell sharply.
Health care companies and banks were among the biggest weights dragging Wall Street lower. Pfizer shed 1.9 per cent and Citigroup fell 1 per cent.
Gains from big technology companies helped temper losses elsewhere in the market. Chipmaker Nvidia rose 1.3 per cent.
The broader market stumbled late Friday after the White House told Americans to leave Ukraine within 48 hours over concerns that Russia could invade that country soon. Other governments including Russia pulled diplomats and their citizens out of the country.
The SP 500 fell by 0.3 per cent, the Dow Jones declined by 0.5 per cent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq finished flat. The Australian sharemarket is set to open sharply lower, with futures at 7.59am AEDT pointing to a decline of 64 points, or 0.9 per cent.
The Market Recap newsletter is a wrap of the days trading. Get it each weekday afternoon.
Bond yields rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.02 per cent from 1.94 per cent late Friday.
The central bank is expected to start raising its benchmark interest rate in March and Wall Street expects as many as seven rate hikes this year.
Stocks closed lower on Wall Street on Monday in New York as investors watch the developing situation in Ukraine as Russia amasses troops on the border.
