Atrocity leaders condemn Russian air strikes on Mariupol maternity hospital
20220309
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/this-is-an-atrocity-leaders-condemn-russian-strikes-on-maternity-hospital-20220310-p5a3ac.html
It said their assessment was that an utterly horrific attack on the capital of Kyiv could come as Russian forces overcome the logistical issues suspected of delaying their attacks.
Video footage of what appeared to be the charred and smoking remains of the hospital showed cars on fire in the wreckage, the buildings windows completely blown out. A man was pushing a child through the rubble on a stretcher, while others helped the injured from the building.
Multiple attempts to evacuate hundreds of thousands of people from Mariupol, a port city in the south-east, have stalled over the past week amid repeated Russian shelling.
In Washington, British Foreign Minister Liz Truss said, in a press conference alongside US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken, that the incident was reckless and abhorrent.
That resistance is stiffer than many expected  and Western nations are rushing now to bolster their force. Ukraines president has pleaded repeatedly for warplanes to counter Russias significant air power, but Western countries have disagreed over how best to do that amid concerns it could raise the risk of the war expanding beyond Ukraine.
Now is not the time to let up  Putin must fail, she said. If we do not do enough now, other aggressors around the world will be emboldened.
Flagging greater sanctions aimed at Moscow, Truss said that by letting up its efforts in helping Ukraine, the UK would be sending a message that sovereign nations can be trampled on.
The Ukrainian military, meanwhile, is building up defences in cities in the north, south and east, and forces around Kyiv are holding the line against the Russian offensive.
Western officials have also warned of their serious concern that Putin could use chemical weapons in Ukraine to commit further atrocities during the invasion, news agency PA Media reported.
There were safety concerns about the spent fuel that is stored at the site and that must be kept cool. But the UN nuclear watchdog agency said it saw no critical impact on safety from the loss of power.
People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity! he posted on Instagram. How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror? Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity.
An injured pregnant woman is carried away from the maternity hospital, which was damaged by Russian forces on Thursday AEDT.
On multiple days, women and children rushed out of homes that had been without power, water or heating and towards buses, but were then forced to turn around after the breaking of declared ceasefires.
Regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko later said at least 17 people were wounded in the attack, including women in labour.
A lot of dead and wounded women. We dont know about children and newborns yet.
Zelensky used the atrocity to repeat his calls for NATO and the US to impose a no-fly zone over the country, which President Joe Biden and European nations have so far rejected.
Ukrainian authorities say the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, has been knocked off the power grid. Emergency generators are supplying backup power.
A man in the city of Dnipro told The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age that his mother usually works in the hospital.
Russia, which denies targeting civilians during its 14-day war on its neighbour, had said it would hold fire to let civilians flee Mariupol and other besieged cities. But the city council said the hospital was hit more than once.
The Russian occupying forces have dropped several bombs on the childrens hospital. The destruction is colossal, it said in an online post, adding that it did not yet know any casualty figures.
According to an official readout distributed by Downing Street, both leaders condemned the horrifying attack on a maternity hospital in Mariupol and the failure by Russian forces to respect ceasefire agreements in humanitarian corridors. Johnson has promised tough new sanctions to punish the Putin regime for its action and vowed to provide the military equipment Ukraine needed to defend itself.
She is not there now ... its terrible, he said, showing the Herald and The Age vision of the attack on his phone.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Dnipro: Russian air strikes have destroyed a maternity hospital in the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol, local officials say, prompting widespread condemnation from world leaders towards Russias reckless actions.
An official said: I think we have good reason to be concerned about possible use of non-conventional weapons, partly because of what we have seen happen in other theatres.
The Red Cross said it was trying to contact its team in Mariupol, but it was difficult to establish communication because they were mostly underground.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said there were few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the direct strike on a hospital had caused colossal damage and left women and children trapped under rubble.
The UK is exploring more support for Ukraine to defend against airstrikes, and we will hold Russian President Vladimir Putin to account for his terrible crimes, Mr Johnson tweeted.
For example, what weve seen in Syria, partly because weve seen a bit of setting the scene for that in the false flag claims that are coming out, and other indications as well.
Renewed efforts to evacuate civilians from besieged and bombarded Ukrainian cities were under way on Wednesday as authorities sought to rescue people from increasingly dire conditions.
In a phone call with Zelensky on Thursday morning Australian time, Johnson said it was yet further evidence that Putin was acting with careless disregard for International Humanitarian Law.
A six-year-old girl named Tania, who had already lost her mother in an attack, also died of dehydration in the rubble of her destroyed home in recent days, according to the local council.
