Australia news LIVE Peter Gutwein resigns as Premier of Tasmania Ukraine accuses Russia of civilian massacre
20220403
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/national/australia-news-live-pm-prepared-to-sign-statutory-declaration-denying-race-allegations-ukraine-accuses-russia-of-civilian-massacre-20220404-p5aaij.html
Well keep bringing you the latest updates throughout the rest of the afternoon and evening.
Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today. If you missed them, here are todays major headlines so far:
He leaves politics with a world-best response to COVID and a Tasmanian economy thriving with jobs at a record high.
Speaking in Lismore, which has been hit by flooding twice since February, NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet said: Our overriding priority is to get people into safe housing, and we are looking at every possible avenue to do that.
Erosion and damage to the shoreline at Queenscliff, Manly Beach following massive ocean swells and the storm weather events.Credit:James Alcock
As Prime Minister and beforehand as Treasurer, I have always respected the way Peter has demonstrated strength and compassion in his leadership, delivering jobs and lifting communities. He is a great Tasmanian leader.
As much support as we can get from the federal government would be great. Ultimately, were not going to wait.
The state member for Lismore Janelle Saffin said she has asked for $50,000 for grants for people returning to damaged homes.
I thank Peter for everything he has done for the Liberal Party, Tasmania and Australia  and on behalf of his federal colleagues, I wish him and his wife Mandy, and children Finn and Millie, all the best for the next chapter in their life together.
The benchmark SPASX 200 closed 0.3 per cent higher, up 19.9 points to 7513.7, just 75 points below Januarys high of 7589.
Ukrainian investigators looking into possible war crimes committed by Russian forces said they found 410 bodies in Bucha, including some displaying signs of torture.
Peter Gutwein leaves public life with gratitude and great respect, Mr Morrison said in a statement.
The grants will be available to people with homes that have been declared damaged or destroyed, who are unable to access insurance or natural disaster relief.
Thanks for joining us today. Here are the major headlines from the afternoon and evening:
There are many businesses that dont have power but we are moving in the right direction, he said.
Mr Gutwein said his wife had set aside career ambitions to raise their children largely in his absence and it was now his turn to give some time back.
Russia on Sunday denied its forces were responsible for the deaths of civilians in the town of Bucha and said Ukraine had staged a performance for Western media.
Mr Perrottet said the government is also working to get funds out the door as quickly as possible, including for businesses affected by flooding.
Lithium, rare earths, and iron ore miners provided strong support for the Australian stock exchange on Monday, while an opportunistic takeover bid between funds managers grabbed attention and saw target Pendal jumping as much as 24 per cent during the day.
NSW Police have provided an update on a landslide that left two people dead and two others critically injured on a popular walking track in Sydneys Blue Mountains this afternoon.
As Treasurer since 2014, Peter along with former Premier Will Hodgman was the architect of Tasmanias economic revival.
Mr Beazley, who served as deputy prime minister between 1995 and 1996, opposition leader between 1996 and 2001 and again between 2005 and 2006, and Australias ambassador to the US between 2010 and 2016, was appointed governor of WA in 2018.
However, public life demands a great deal from all of us. Peter has come to the realisation that he has given it his all. Not only a public figure, Peter is a husband and father as well and he knows where he has to be.
To Tasmanians, thank you for your support. Together we took the small state through a pandemic, we created one of the safest places on the planet to live and, importantly, one of the best economies and strongest job markets in the country, he said.
During a press conference last month, Mr Gutwein revealed he was a victim of childhood sexual assault at the hands of a school teacher when he was 16.
Its really comforting to see that we are getting close to where the market was in January, before it fell, senior client advisor at Shaw and Partners, Adam Dawes, said.
WAs Premier Mark McGowan has announced that Chris Dawson will take over from Kim Beazley as the states new governor, when Mr Beazleys four-year term ends in May.
Mr Gutwein told reporters he had nothing left in the tank and was looking forward to reading, gardening and spending time with family in his home in Launceston.
As Premier since 2020, he led Tasmania through a once-in-a-century pandemic. Peter did not put a foot wrong.
Mr Macron told France Inter radio that there were very clear clues indicating that Russian forces were responsible for war crimes in Ukraine.
Its not good enough ... we know weve just got to provide the financial support to get businesses back on their feet as quickly as possible. We will be working on that, thats come through loud and clear.
French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday that more sanctions on Russia were needed after Ukraine accused Russian forces of the killings of civilians in the Ukrainian town of Bucha.
Ive got a cabinet that Ive had a really strong relationship with, theyre good friends and colleagues and Ive worked with many of them for a long period of time, he said.
And so its obviously with some sadness that I leave but I know that the foundations have been laid, the path that has been laid out is one that a new leader will be able to make their own.
There is no doubt, when you look at the last few years it has been incredibly tough. With the bushfires and drought, floods, floods again, a pandemic, Mr Perrottet said.
The Prime Minister has thanked outgoing Tasmanian premier Peter Gutwein for leading the state through the COVID-19 pandemic after he took over as leader in January 2020.
Tasmanian Premier Peter Gutwein says the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state earlier this year left him completely drained and played a role in his departure from politics.
The states Liberal party will begin the process to choose a replacement for Mr Gutwein as Liberal leader and premier this week.
The NSW government has announced that people returning to homes in parts of NSW that have been impacted by flooding in recent weeks will have access to cash grants of up to $20,000.
Mr Gutwein, who has been a member of the Tasmanian House of Assembly since 2002, said he did not have a job lined up after politics.
I cannot wait to get back and spend some time in Launceston to be frank, the longest Ive spent in my house here in Launceston, in the last couple of years, was the seven days I had in isolation, he said.
NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet provided an update from Lismore, in northern NSW, which has been flooded twice since late February.
That would require the federal government to be involved as well ... I want the federal government to step up some more, Ms Saffin said.
It will be available to people in Hawkesbury, Ballina, Byron, Clarence Valley, Kyogle, Lismore, Richmond Valley and Tweed local government areas.
