Biden speaks to Putin as thousands of Ukrainians rally against Russian threat
20220212
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/biden-speaks-to-putin-as-thousands-of-ukrainians-rally-against-russian-threat-20220213-p59vz4.html
The best friend of our enemies is panic in our country. And all this information is just provoking panic and cant help us, he said. I cant agree or disagree with what hasnt happened yet. So far, there is no full-scale war in Ukraine.
Zelensky has admitted a Russian attack could happen at any time, but he has pushed back against what he called excessive amounts of information about a major looming war.
US National Security Council sources said that while the call was professional and substantive, it produced no fundamental change to the situation on the Ukraine border and nothing new was brought to the table.
Zelensky has consistently voiced his frustration with dire assessments of a war that are taking their toll on the economy and piling pressure on the national currency.
A spokesperson for Macron said the Russian President had earlier said nothing during their 90-minute call to suggest Putin was moving plans for an invasion forward.
We have to be ready each day. It did not begin yesterday. It began in 2014, so, we are ready and this is why we are here, he said in reference to Russias annexation of Crimea and Moscows support of anti-Kyiv separatists in the east.
An anti-war rally in Kyiv on Saturday as US President Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin spoke by phone.Credit:Getty Images
We are nevertheless extremely vigilant and alert to the Russian military posture in order to avoid the worst, the spokesperson for Macron said.
Separately, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, during a 35-minute call with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov, stressed that the path for diplomatic engagement remained open.
We have strengthened the defence of Kyiv. We have gone through the war and due preparation. Therefore, we are ready to meet enemies and not with flowers, but with Stingers, Javelins and NLAW. Welcome to hell! Zaluzhny said, referring to anti-rocket and anti-aircraft weapons received from the West.
Our view is that we do not believe he has made any kind of final decision, or we dont know that he has made any final decision, US national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters, referring to Putin.
Biden warned Putin that any move to invade Ukraine would be met with a strong response that would impose severe costs on Moscow, the White House said.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky has told people not to panic, pushing back against what he said was a glut of bleak war predictions in the media.
Biden conducted the call from Camp David, telling his Russian counterpart that the US would keep diplomatic channels open but that it was equally prepared for other scenarios.
Even so, Ukrainians filed through the centre of Kyiv in a column, chanting Glory to Ukraine and carrying Ukrainian flags and banners with slogans like Ukrainians will resist and Invaders must die.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
France immediately changed its guidance to nationals, recommending they avoid all travel to Ukraine. Australia, the US, the UK, New Zealand and a host of other countries have advised nationals to leave Ukraine as soon as possible.
Presidents Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin spoke via telephone just hours after Putin held a similar call with French President Emmanuel Macron.
A feverish round of diplomatic talks took place on Saturday after the US warned of an imminent Russian attack on Ukraine  a claim Moscow dismissed as propaganda.
On Friday, the White House said there was a credible prospect of Russian military action before the end of the Winter Olympics in Beijing on February 20.
In a separate statement, the head of Ukrainian armed forces Valery Zaluzhny and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said Russia would not Kyiv, Odessa, Kharkiv or any other Ukrainian city.
Moscow has repeatedly denied reports of a planned invasion, despite a buildup of almost 130,000 troops on the Ukraine border, including in neighbouring Belarus, a Russian ally to the north.
The closely watched call between Biden and Putin lasted just over an hour, according to the White House.
The flurry of calls between Paris, Moscow and Washington on Saturday coincided with a rally in Kyiv that saw thousands of Ukrainians turn out to protest against any Russian action.
The military says Ukrainian intelligence and the army have control of the situation on the borders and Kyiv is co-ordinating its actions with allies.
