Biden warns of global food shortages fuelled by Ukraine war as US strike energy deal with Europe
20220325
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/north-america/biden-warns-of-global-food-shortages-fuelled-by-ukraine-war-as-us-strike-energy-deal-with-europe-20220326-p5a852.html
Biden meets with Duda, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawieck and others in Warsaw on Saturday Sunday AEDT. While there, he will also meet with Ukrainian refugees displaced by the Russian invasion and give a significant address to wrap up his trip to Europe, according to White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan.
His first stop was to meet soldiers from the US Armys 82nd Airborne Division stationed at Rzeszow airport, where he shared pizza and chatted with several military personnel.
The White House has set up a team of experts to plan a United States response should Russia use chemical, biological or nuclear weapons of mass destruction in Ukraine. It has also vowed to take on 100,000 Ukrainian refugees, although the details are still being worked out.
The bad news is theyre the breadbasket of the world, Ukraine and Russia, but we in the United States are going to do our part because we are the third-largest producer of wheat in the world in the world and our Canadian friends are going to do the same thing.
Washington: Joe Biden has amplified warnings of looming global food shortages as the Ukraine war upends wheat supplies and forces the West to find ways to overcome potentially devastating shortfalls.
A Ukrainian soldier inspects a destroyed Russian military vehicle after a recent battle in Kharkiv.  The graffiti on the car says No to war.Credit:AP
The Presidents spoke after touching down in Rzeszow  about 100km from Polands border with Ukraine  on a trip intended to highlight the refugee crisis sparked by Putins incursion.
While Ukranian forces have launched several counter-offensives to stave off some of Russias military might, the West is worried that an increasingly frustrated Putin may turn to chemical weapons.
Russia and Ukraine are part of the so-called breadbasket of the world because they are home to fertile farmlands that supply food to countries across Europe, Asia and Africa.
If the war is prolonged, countries that rely on affordable wheat exports from the two nations could face shortages in coming months. Biden said to offset the drop in supplies, the US would seek to boost production of its own wheat and also provide more financial aid.
This assistance is something unprecedented, because within a couple of weeks, more than 2 million people have come to our country, Duda said. We have never experienced anything like that throughout our history.
As the war enters its second month, the US President went to Poland on Friday Saturday AEDT to meet with Polish President Andrzej Duda, highlight the refugee crisis sparked by Russias violent incursion, and thank American troops who are bolstering NATOs eastern flank.
Polish soldiers stand guard as they wait for President Andrzej Duda to arrive at Rzeszow Airport after his meeting with US President Joe Biden.Credit:Getty Images
Were prepared to provide another $US1 billion for those who fled and those who are affected around the world as a consequence of the negative impact of this war on food security, Biden said.
As Russia continued its bombardment of Ukraine, Biden addressed growing concerns about the broader implications of Russias invasion: global food security.
It is not yet clear which other nations would assist in the initiative. The task force will also work to improve clean energy and generate more renewables in the longer term, for instance, by accelerating the adoption of energy-efficient technologies such as smart thermostats, and investing in equipment that make the switch from fossil fuels.
Under the plan, the US and other nations will boost liquified natural gas exports to Europe by 15 billion cubic metres this year, with expected further increases in years to come.
Earlier, he and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced a joint task force designed to negate Europes dependence on Russian oil and gas, which is a key source of income for Russian President Vladimir Putin and is effectively helping to fund his war.
A man recovers items from a burning shop following a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on Friday.Credit:AP
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
I dont want to sound philosophical here, but you are in midst of a fight between democracy and an oligarch, he told the troops, describing them as the finest fighting force in the history of the world.
Bidens visit was a significant moment in a war that has shown little sign of abating.
This initiative focuses on two core issues, one helping Europe to reduce its dependency on Russian gas as quickly as possible and secondly, reducing Europes demand for gas overall, Biden said at a joint news conference with Von der Leyen in Brussels.
He later attended a briefing on Ukraines humanitarian crisis, which has so far led to more than 3.6 million people fleeing since the war began. The bulk of refugees have escaped to Poland and may end up staying there.
US President Joe Biden poses for a photo during a visit to the 82nd Airborne Division in Jasionka, Poland. Credit:AP
The suffering thats taking place now is at your doorstep, Biden told Polish officials during a briefing on the humanitarian response. Youre the ones that are risking your lives, and in some cases all you know, to try to help.
Speaking briefly in Rzeszow, Duda thanked the US for its assistance so far, adding that the number of people fleeing to Poland presents a huge challenge.
Ukrainian authorities said on Friday that 300 people were killed in a Russian airstrike last week on a Mariupol theatre that was being used as a shelter, fuelling allegations by the West that Putins forces have committed war crimes.
