Daughter of Putin ally killed in car bomb attack
20220821
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/daughter-of-putin-ally-killed-in-car-bomb-attack-20220821-p5bbl0.html
Our hearts are longing not just for revenge and retaliation. It would be too petty, not in Russia style, Dugin wrote. We need only victory.
Moscow: The daughter of an ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue who advocates Russia absorbing Ukraine was killed in a suspected car bomb attack outside Moscow, Russian state investigators said.
The FSB said a Ukrainian citizen, Natalya Vovk, carried out the killing and then fled to Estonia.
Investigators, who described Darya Dugina as a journalist and political expert, said they had opened a murder case and would be carrying out forensic examinations to try to determine exactly what had happened.
In a statement in March, the US Treasury said Dugina, the chief editor of the United World International website, which has suggested Ukraine would perish if admitted to the NATO military alliance, had been put on a US sanctions list. The UK had also sanction her, calling her a high-profile contributor of disinformation about Russias war in Ukraine.
I confirm that Ukraine, of course, had nothing to do with this because we are not a criminal state, like the Russian Federation, and moreover we are not a terrorist state, said Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak, speaking on Ukrainian television.
Darya Dugina, daughter of prominent ideologue Alexander Dugin, was killed after a suspected explosive device detonated on the Toyota Land Cruiser she was travelling in, investigators from the Moscow region said in a statement on Sunday.
They said they were considering all versions when it came to working out who was responsible for the crime.
Her father is a philosopher, writer and political theorist who ardently supports Russian President Vladimir Putins decision to send troops into Ukraine.
In a statement, Dugin described his daughter as a rising star who was treacherously killed by enemies of Russia.
Daryas father, has long advocated the unification of Russian-speaking and other territories in a vast new Russian empire.
In a photo taken from video released by Investigative Committee of Russia on Sunday, investigators at the site of an explosion of a car driven by Daria Dugina outside Moscow. Credit:AP
Father and daughter had been attending a festival outside Moscow and Dugin had decided to switch cars at the last minute, Russian government newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta reported.
The head of Russias Investigative Committee ordered the institutions central branch to take over the investigation.
Dugin is believed to be an ally of Putin and to have influenced the Russian presidents views. Some Russia watchers assert that his sway is significant and others call it minimal. Dugin was sanctioned by the US in 2015 for his alleged involvement in Moscows annexation of Crimea.
In a letter extending condolences to Dugin and his wife, Putin denounced the cruel and treacherous killing and added that Dugina honestly served people and the fatherland, proving what it means to be a patriot of Russia with her deeds.
The investigation believes that the crime was planned in advance and was of a contractual nature, it added.
Russias TASS state news agency quoted Andrei Krasnov, someone who knew Dugina, as saying the vehicle belonged to her father and that he was probably the intended target.
Russias Federal Security Service, or FSB, the main successor to the KGB, said Duginas killing was prepared and perpetrated by the Ukrainian special services.
An explosive device was placed on the underside of the car on the drivers side, the committee said in a statement. Darya Dugina, who was behind the wheel, died at the scene.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Investigators were considering all versions when it came to working out who was responsible, it said.
He appeared to blame internal power struggles between various political factions in Russia for the killing, and suggested the incident was the Karmic payback for supporters of Russias actions in Ukraine like Dugina and her father.
Ukraine has denied responsibility for the death of Darya Dugina, 29, in a car bomb attack.
Maria Zakharova, Russias Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said that if the investigations trail led to Ukraine, then it would point to a policy of state terrorism being pursued by Kyiv.
TV footage accompanying the statement showed investigators collecting debris and fragments from the spot where the explosion happened on Saturday evening Moscow time.
Darya Dugina, who also went by the surname Platonova and was reported by Russian state media to be 30 years old, broadly supported her fathers ideas and appeared on state TV in her own right to offer support for Russias actions in Ukraine.
He wants that empire to include Ukraine where Russian forces are currently carrying out what Moscow calls a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine.
