Defying Putins barbarism Odesa opera house reopens
20220619
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/odesa-opera-house-reopens-defying-putin-s-barbarism-20220619-p5aute.html
Odesa: In a nation at war, and a city aching for some semblance of normality, the Odesa Opera reopened for the first time since the Russian invasion began, asserting civilisation against the barbarism unleashed from Moscow.
All this Putin wants to place under the increasingly brutal clampdown of his rule, in the name of a Russian imperium. He wants to silence the polyglot murmuring of Odesa, a city defined by its openness, whose music is its mingling.
When, I asked, would that be? Unfortunately, she said, it will go on for some time. It makes us depressed just how crazy Putin seems to be. But, she continued, Juliet gave her a particular inspiration. It is Shakespeare, it is youth, and it is pure love.
We got permission to perform from the military 10 days ago, and today is pure happiness, Chernukho-Volich said. At the start of the war the explosions and sirens terrified me, as if I had plunged into some unreality, a World War II movie, but humans get used to everything. It is difficult, yet we want to believe in the victory of civilisation.
It is important to show that Odesa is alive, that Ukraine is alive, that we want to live and create, while the way of the Russian occupiers is killing and death, Gennadiy Trukhanov, the mayor of Odesa, said. If Mr Putin dared to strike the opera, the hatred he would face throughout the world is unimaginable.
In case of sirens, proceed to the shelter within the theatre, said Ilona Trach, the theatre official who presented the program on Friday night Ukraine time. You are the soul of this opera house, and we think its very important to demonstrate after 115 days of silence that we are able to perform.
But that hatred is perhaps the inevitable result of Putins unprovoked war: Tell a nation it does not exist and it will cohere as never before in defiant resolve to safeguard its existence.
The audience applauds at the end of the Odesa Operas first performance since the Russian invasion of Ukraine.Credit:Laetitia VanconThe New York Times
No, the mayor said. I would not support that. Odesa is the intercultural capital of Ukraine. I am worried by the growth of hatred of all things Russian.
Trukhanov, long viewed as having pro-Russian sympathies, has pivoted to become an outspoken defender of Ukraine and his city since the war began. Waving away accusations of association with organised crime, he said he was saddened to see Russia destroying its claim to be a cultural nation.
Could Putin strike central Odesa? Anyone capable of Bucha, of Mariupol, of what is happening down the road in Mykolaiv, is capable of anything, he said. That is what we have learned.
The theatre  a rococo palace of gold braid, red Lyonnais velvet, chandeliers and mirrors  was about one-third full as a result of security restrictions. Viacheslav Chernukho-Volich, the Operas chief conductor, led a performance that included a duet from Romeo and Juliet, and arias from Tosca, Turandot and from Odesa-born composer Kostiantyn Dankevych.
Now he performs in an opera house first designed by a St Petersburg, Russia, architect and rebuilt after a fire by Viennese architects, with its facade adorned with a bust of Alexander Pushkin and he lives in a city founded by a Russian empress and substantially laid out by a French duke, home over the years to traders of every faith and creed, drawn from the Mediterranean and from across the steppes of Central Asia.
If the cobble-stoned, tree-lined boulevards of the city suggest calm, it is a fragile quiet that could be broken at any time. But then Odesa  its history a procession of triumph and trauma as borders shifted, the Holocaust enveloped it and cycles of boom and bust followed one another  has always lived for the moment.
Odesa has been generally quiet in the past few weeks, but just 100 kilometres to the east  in the port city of Mykolaiv, where President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine paid a visit on Saturday Sunday AEST  Russian shelling forms a daily onslaught. That Russian President Vladimir Putin covets Odesa  as a port critical to Ukraines economy, as a city long part of the Russian and then Soviet empires and as a cultural symbol  is no secret.
The performance in the magnificent Opera Theatre, opened in 1810 on the plateau above the now shuttered Black Sea port, began with an impassioned rendering of the Ukrainian national anthem. Images of wheat swaying in the wind formed the backdrop, a reminder of the grain from its fertile hinterland that long made Odesa rich but now sits in silos as war rages and global food shortages grow.
The audience stands and sings along as the Odesa Opera performs Ukraines national anthem after reopening.Credit:Laetitia VanconThe New York Times
Audience members at the Opera Theatre, which, for security reasons, limited attendance to 300 people, a third of its capacity.Credit:Laetitia VanconThe New York Times
Chernukho-Volich worked in Moscow for several years, but in 2014, when Putin annexed Crimea and instigated a separatist war in Ukraines eastern Donbas region, he said he had an epiphany: the imperial idea was inseparable from Russia, and any politician, like Putin, prepared to unleash its elixir would at once thrive at home and threaten the world. He left.
The music seemed a defiant miracle of culture and beauty, the ultimate rebuke to the Russian savagery at Bucha and Mariupol, places that have become synonyms of the gratuitous destruction unleashed by Putin in a war reflecting his obsession that Ukraine is a fictive nation.
In some ways the opening of the Opera, in a city hit just two months ago by a rocket attack that killed eight people, captured two facets of Ukraine as the war grinds on and front lines move slowly, if at all: a country where something superficially resembling normal life has been restored in wide areas even as fighting is intense in the east and parts of the south.
For now, however, the show goes on in irrepressible Odesa, even as cultural tensions rise. Trukhanov is under pressure to rename Pushkin Street, near the City Hall. The brilliant Russian playwright and novelist lived in Odesa in 1823.
Sandbags at the entrance to the 212-year-old Odesa Opera Theatre, which reopened for the first time since the Russian invasion.Credit:Laetitia VanconThe New York Times
Odesa is its own nationality, said Grigory Barats, a member of the Odesa Jewish community largely dispersed by the Russian invasion. Attending the concert, he said he was thinking of his 96-year-old mother in New York City who once worked at the theatre.
A Ukrainian soldier waits at the entrance to the 212-year-old Opera Theater.Credit:Laetitia VanconThe New York Times
The applause at the end of the performance was sustained, punctuated by cries of Bravo! Backstage, Marina Najmytenko, a soprano who played Juliet, brimmed with pride and emotion. It is art that is going to help us survive and to preserve our essence so that we win this war, she said.
