Dozens of civilians die as Russian forces target key cities
20220302
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/putin-s-assault-on-ukraine-intensifies-20220302-p5a12w.html
London: Russia intensified its missile strikes over several of Ukraines major cities on Wednesday, killing dozens of civilians in the hours after US President Joe Biden used his State of the Union address to warn Vladimir Putin he had no idea whats coming unless he withdrew his troops.
A 50-kilometre-long Russian military convoy was less than 20 kilometres north of Kyiv on Wednesday evening AEDT, readying to advance on the capital after dramatically increasing strikes on urban areas over the previous two days.
Its necessary to at least stop bombing people, just stop the bombing and then sit down at the negotiating table, he told Reuters and CNN earlier in a joint interview in a heavily guarded government compound in Kyiv.
Ukrainians in the southern port city of Mariupol were bracing for more heavy shelling after Russia cut off the citys electricity supply and bombarded residents.
Biden also announced the closure of US airspace to all Russian flights, saying that Moscow would be weaker by the end of its war against Ukraine. Straying from the prepared speech, Biden added: He Putin has no idea whats coming.
Referring to Russias attack on a television tower near Babyn Yar - the site of a World War II massacre of Jews - Zelensky said: This strike proves that for many people in Russia our Kyiv is absolutely foreign.
At least 660,000 people, mostly women and children, have fled Ukraine for neighbouring countries to the west in the first five days of Russias invasion, according to the UN refugee agency.
Russian rockets and cruise missiles landed in residential areas of Kharkiv in east Ukraine on Wednesday, with reports that at least 21 people were killed and 112 wounded in the shelling. Dozens of residents there, including children, were killed when a Russian strategic bomber fired 16 guided missiles toward a residential area on Monday, Ukraines Defence Ministry said.
The West fears that as Putin grows more and more frustrated, Russia will resort to the indiscriminate bombardment of Kyiv.
New ceasefire talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials will take place on Wednesday US time after talks held on Monday at the Belarus border failed. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraines foreign minister, said Kyiv was ready to talk but would not bow to Russian ultimatums.
In his first annual speech to both chambers of Congress, Biden took aim at Putin, saying he had badly miscalculated how events would unfold and that now Russias economy is reeling and Putin alone is to blame.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Wang acknowledged for the first time the conflict was a war rather than a special military operation, as described by Russia.
He thought he could roll into Ukraine and the world would roll over. Instead, he met a wall of strength he never imagined. He met the Ukrainian people, he said.
In Zhytomyr, west of Kyiv, four people including a child, were reportedly killed by a Russian cruise missile on Tuesday. The United Nations said that at least 536 civilians, including 13 children, had been killed since the invasion began.
It is estimated that more than 400 Russian missiles have been fired on Ukraine since the start of the invasion, while 80 per cent of the 190,000 troops previously massed near the borders have been deployed.
In Kherson, north of Crimea on the Black Sea, where officials had on Tuesday reported Russian checkpoints encircling the city, Putins forces took control of the railway station and the port early on Wednesday AEDT, local media reported. By evening, the Russian Defence Ministry was saying they had successfully captured the city.
While he may make gains on the battlefield  he will pay a continuing high price over the long run.
A few hours later, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky released a video on social media from his bunker saying nearly 6000 Russians had been killed in the first six days of Moscows invasion, and that the Kremlin would not be able to take his country with bombs and air strikes.
Following Prime Minister Scott Morrisons promise that Australia would provide defensive military assistance to Ukraine, a RAAF C-17A Globemaster III departed Richmond airforce base near Sydney for Europe on Wednesday, carrying critical military equipment and medical supplies.
Moscow has demanded formal recognition of its annexation of Crimea in 2014 and wants the full neutrality and demilitarisation of Ukraine. Ukraine wants all Russian troops to leave the country without concession.
The UN General Assembly is set to reprimand Russia for invading Ukraine and demand that Moscow stop fighting and withdraw its military forces, a move aimed at diplomatically isolating Russia at the world body.
In a nuanced change of language, China said it was deeply grieved about the harm to civilians in Ukraine, according to a read-out of the call between the countrys foreign minister, Wang Yi, and his Ukrainian counterpart.
They dont know a thing about Kyiv, about our history. But they all have orders to erase our history, erase our country, erase us all, he added.
