Hostages at Chernobyl as experts warn energy supply could cause European chaos
20220225
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/hostages-at-chernobyl-as-experts-warn-energy-supply-could-cause-european-chaos-20220225-p59zqp.html
Ms Kapetas said Europe would be bracing for an extraordinarily messy scenario, given the varying level of gas dependency among countries across the continent. But one certainty was the Ukraine invasion will spur Europes efforts to decouple from Russian oil and gas.
Hours after the invasion began, Russian forces seized control of the now-unused Chernobyl plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle, presidential adviser Myhailo Podolyak told The Associated Press.
Chernobyl is right on the border between Russia and Ukraine so its the obvious place to go through, said Professor Irwin, who chairs the nuclear engineering panel of Engineers Australia.
The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.
There are no operating reactors left and the last was shut down in 2000. Unit 4, the one which exploded, is now covered with a giant concrete structure over the whole reactor and its safe there under that, Professor Irwin said.
Russian troops are holding hostages at the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear facility as experts warn Ukraines crucial energy networks could be wielded as a strategic weapon to create chaos across Europe.
The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometres north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.
Associate Professor Matthew Sussex, a Russian foreign and security policy expert at Australian National University, said Russia would not have to strike the nuclear reactors or fuel stores directly to cause a disaster  even damaging the control set-up could lead to a reactor meltdown.
That said, I think the Russians will be well, well aware of that and well aware that if they did anything like that, it would have extreme consequences.
Benchmark European gas prices have already risen 30 per cent this week on the threat of war and energy prices for households and industry would skyrocket if supply is cut off.
Russian troops took the decommissioned Chernobyl facility less than a day into the invasion of Ukraine, with US and UK intelligence agencies reporting that soldiers were holding civilian staff hostage.
Europe draws more than 30 per cent of its gas supply from Russia, for electricity generation and heating. Gas enters the continent via Ukraine, through a pipeline carrying supply from Gazprom, a state-owned energy supplier and Russias largest private company by revenue.
Associate Professor Sussex said it would make sense if Russia tried to capture other nuclear facilities for strategic purposes.
Professor Irwin said Ukraines four operating reactors are located in the far west and south of the country and not currently in the firing line.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Some Ukrainian reactors are quite old Soviet technology, and so they do need careful monitoring, he said.
Theres nothing Russia can do to cause a major release of radiation at Chernobyl, he said.
There is a psychological aspect to wanting Ukrainians to know that Russian troops are all over the place, he said. If youre in control of them, you can turn it off anytime you like.
Australian Strategic Policy Institute national security editor Anastasia Kapetas said it was unclear if Russian President Vladmir Putin would turn the gas tap off and lose the Gazprom revenue stream while he was waging war.
Global markets will say oil and gas is too volatile and it will speed up the transition away from fossil fuels, which is already being driven by climate change.
The White House condemned Russias unlawful and dangerous hostage taking, saying it could upend the routine work that maintains and protects the nuclear waste facilities.
Australian National University honorary associate professor and nuclear engineer Tony Irwin said Russias capture of the Chernobyl site appeared to be a strategic move that did not risk a release of radioactive material.
Half of Ukraines electricity comes from four nuclear plants spread across the country, although the site of the 1986 nuclear accident is no longer an active energy producer. Experts do not believe Russia would try to damage the facilities on purpose due to the catastrophic radioactive fallout that could spread across Europe and into Russia.
He said Russia might not need to gain control of every nuclear facility to disrupt the grid, and they may not need troops to do it  targeted cyberattacks could be enough.
It hasnt been heavily analysed yet, but in the short term Russia can probably weather that storm, Ms Kapetas said. Its very unlikely China would pick up the entire market Russia has in Europe if that happens.
