India bans wheat exports as supply crunch looms during RussiaUkraine war
20220514
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/asia/india-bans-wheat-exports-as-supply-crunch-looms-during-russia-ukraine-war-20220514-p5alck.html
Global buyers were banking on India for wheat supplies after exports from the Black Sea region plunged since Russia invaded Ukraine in late February.
Indonesia has halted palm oil exports, while Serbia and Kazakhstan imposed quotas on grain shipments.
Governments around the world are seeking to ensure local food supplies with agriculture prices surging.
An unusually early, record-shattering heat wave in India has reduced wheat yields, adding to the pressure on food prices. Credit:AP
The government said its wheat purchases for the countrys food aid program, the worlds largest, will be less than half of last years level.
Delhi: India prohibited wheat exports that the world was counting on to alleviate supply constraints sparked by the war in Ukraine, saying that the nations food security is under threat.
Exports will still be allowed to countries that require wheat for food security needs and based on the requests of their governments, Indias Directorate General of Foreign Trade said in a notification dated May 13.
The decision to halt wheat exports highlights Indias concerns about high inflation, adding to a spate of food protectionism since the war started.
Importing nations had looked to India for supplies, with top buyer Egypt recently approving the South Asian nation as an origin for wheat imports.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Curbing exports would be a hit to Indias ambition to cash in on the rally in global wheat prices after the war upended trade flows out of the critical Black Sea breadbasket region.
Bloomberg News reported earlier this month that a record-shattering heat wave has damaged wheat yields across the South Asian nation, prompting the government to consider export restrictions. The food ministry had said it didnt see a need to control exports, even as the government cut estimates for Indias wheat production.
The ban on shipments will likely hurt farmers and traders who have stockpiled the grain in anticipation of higher prices on the domestic market.
Shipments with irrevocable letters of credit that have already been issued will still be allowed, according to the latest notification. Traders have already contracted to export 4 million tons of wheat so far in 2022-23, the food ministry said on May 4.
