Lviv Dnipro shelled in Russian airstrikes civilian casualties reported
20220417
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/mariupol-s-final-stand-ukrainian-fighters-defy-russian-orders-to-surrender-20220418-p5ae2s.html
Lviv Regional Governor Maksym Kozytskyy said there were four Russian missile strikes, three of which hit military infrastructure facilities and one pf which struck a tire shop. He said emergency teams were putting out fires caused by the strikes.
After failing to overcome Ukrainian resistance in the north, the Russian military has refocused its ground offensive on Donbas, while launching long-distance strikes at targets elsewhere, including the capital, Kyiv.
The next week will be difficult, he said in a post on his Facebook page. It may be the last time we have a chance to save you.
The barrage slammed into apartment buildings and left the streets scattered with broken glass and other debris.
This is nothing but deliberate terror: mortars, artillery against ordinary residential quarters, against ordinary civilians, he said.
The city still has not fallen, he told ABCs This Week program, adding that Ukrainian soldiers continued to control some parts of the south-eastern city.
Lviv and the rest of western Ukraine has been less affected by the fighting than other parts of the country, and is considered to be a relatively safe haven.
The relentless bombardment and street fighting in Mariupol have left much of the city pulverised, leaving an estimated 21,000 people dead.
He said intercepted communications indicated there were about 400 foreign mercenaries along with the Ukrainian troops at the Azovstal steel mill, a claim that could not be independently verified.
A Russian military convoy near Mariupol on Saturday. Mariupol, a strategic port on the Sea of Azov, has been resisting Russian troops for almost seven weeks.Credit:AP
After the humiliating loss of its flagship Black Sea ship to a Ukrainian missile attack, Russias military had vowed on Friday to step up strikes on the capital.
A body of a civilian lies next to a damaged car in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol.Credit:AP
An elderly local resident speaks to a journalist near a destroyed part of the Illich iron and steelworks in Mariupol on Saturday.Credit:AP
Oleksandr Kamyshin, the chairman of the Ukrainian rail service, said the strikes hit near railway facilities. He said train traffic has resumed with some delays and he vowed to restore the damaged network.
Explosions were reported in Kramatorsk, the eastern city where rockets earlier this month killed at least 57 people at a train station crowded with civilians trying to evacuate ahead of the Russian offensive.
Residents, some pushing bicycles, picked their way around destroyed tanks and civilian vehicles while Russian soldiers checked the documents of motorists.
Russia also claimed to have destroyed Ukrainian air defence radar equipment in the east, near Sievierodonetsk, as well as several ammunition depots elsewhere.
On Saturday, Russia said it had control of urban areas, with some Ukrainian fighters remaining in the Azovstal steelworks overlooking the Sea of Azov.
Serhiy Gaidai, the governor of the neighbouring region of Luhansk, which has seen heavy fighting, repeated a plea for people to evacuate.
The Kremlin said on Sunday that it had attacked an ammunition plant near Kyiv with precision-guided missiles, the third such strike in as many days.
Tunnels at the sprawling Azovstal steel mill have allowed the defenders to hide and resist.
In his nightly address to the nation, Zelensky called on the West to send more heavy weapons to help save the city.
In a reminder that no part of Ukraine is safe, Russian forces carried out missile strikes on Sunday near Kyiv and in Kharkiv, the countrys second city.
Like Mariupol, the north-eastern city of Kharkiv has been a target of attacks since the early days of the invasion and has seen conditions deteriorate ahead of the eastern offensive.
All those who will continue resistance will be destroyed, Major General Igor Konashenkov, the Russian Defence Ministrys spokesman, said in announcing the latest ultimatum.
Ukrainian authorities condemned Russian artillery attacks on cities in the north-east and the continuing siege of the southern port city of Mariupol, of which Moscow said it had taken almost full control, following almost two months of bloody fighting.
Capturing Mariupol, the main port in the Donbas region, would be a strategic prize for Russia, linking territory held by pro-Russian separatists in the east with the Crimea region Moscow annexed in 2014.
Some 100,000 people out of a prewar population of 450,000 remained trapped in the city on Sunday without food, water, heat or electricity in a siege that has made Mariupol the scene of the some of the worst suffering of the war.
Kyiv: Six people have been killed and another 11, including a child, were wounded by Russian strikes in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, according to Mayor Andriy Sadovyi.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
At least five people were killed and 13 wounded in Russian shelling of Kharkiv on Sunday, regional officials said.
Authorities in Dnipro in central Ukraine also reported multiple explosions as Russian forces claimed near full control of the strategic southern port city of Mariupol following almost two months of bloody fighting.
Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer, who met with Putin in Moscow last week  the first European leader to do so since the invasion February 24  said the Russian president was in his own war logic on Ukraine.
Plumes of thick black smoke could be seen rising over the city on Monday morning, Kyiv time, from multiple explosions believed to be caused by missiles.
President Zelensky said the fall of Mariupol could scuttle any attempt at a negotiated peace.
It would be Russias biggest victory after two months of costly fighting and could help reassure the Russian public amid a worsening economic situation resulting from Western sanctions.
The destruction of all our guys in Mariupol  what they are doing now  can put an end to any format of negotiations, Zelensky said in an interview with Ukrainian journalists.
On the streets of Mariupol, small groups of bodies were lined up under colourful blankets, surrounded by shredded trees and scorched buildings.
Ukrainian servicemen run for cover as explosions are heard during a Russian attack in Kharkiv on Sunday.Credit:AP
Eighteen people have been killed and more than 100 wounded in shelling in the past four days in the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky said.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said troops in the pulverised port of Mariupol were still fighting on Sunday, despite a Russian demand to surrender by dawn.
In an interview on NBCs Meet the Press on US TV, Nehammer said he thinks Putin believes he is winning the war, and we have to look in his eyes and we have to confront him with that, what we see in Ukraine.
Ukrainian Deputy Defence Minister Hanna Malyar described Mariupol as a shield defending Ukraine as Russian troops prepare for the battle in the Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists already control some territory.
