Macron Merkel and Putin in talks as Europes gas prices climb
20211011
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/macron-merkel-and-putin-in-talks-as-europe-s-gas-prices-climb-20211012-p58z87.html
Get a note direct from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Britains Treasury minister, Lord Agnew of Oulton, told Parliament that spiralling energy costs were nothing to do with supply shortages, but were due to a geopolitical move by Russia to put pressure on Europe to clear the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
France, Spain, Romania, Greece and the Czech Republic have called for EU joint procurement of emergency gas supplies from Russia but those plans are at a very early stage.
We continue to have a need for Russian gas and we will probably need more than that contracted. That is why Spain proposes, quite rightly, that the negotiation be done not country by country, but as a whole, as has been done with vaccines, Borrell told the newspaper El Pais.
Vladimir Chishov, the Kremlins ambassador to the EU, earlier suggested Europe could have more gas if it stopped treating Russia as an adversary.
Critics say that the pipeline exacerbates European dependence on Russian gas and robs Ukraine of transit fees.
French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with his Russian and German counterpart on the subject of Ukraine.Credit:AP
Josep Borrell, the EUs chief diplomat, said on Monday that Spain was among the member states pushing for joint procurement and common gas storage.
Record-breaking gas prices hit a new high last week, before falling after Putin suggested the Russian state-owned company Gazprom could increase supplies.
During the phone call on Monday, Putin accused the Kiev authorities of stubbornly evading fulfilling agreements reached at peace talks. Merkel, Macron and Putin also agreed to consider organising a summit, the Kremlin said in a statement.
The EU yesterday imposed sanctions on eight more officials accused of targeting opponents of Russias seizure of Crimea.
EU sources said the idea that the bloc could buy emergency gas reserves from Russia was among several being looked at. The common purchase of gas reserves would be similar to the joint procurement strategy for buying coronavirus vaccines at a better price by negotiating as a bloc.
The meeting would take place in the Normandy Four system, which usually brings together officials from Moscow and Kiev under the mediation of Paris and Berlin.
The French president and German chancellor ordered their foreign ministers to work with their Russian counterparts to set up a meeting to discuss the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
France and Germany have been mediating between Kiev and pro-Moscow separatists since 2015. Ukraine is locked in conflict with Russia-supported fighters in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions that erupted after Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula in 2014.
His deputy prime minister earlier said that supplies could be expedited if German regulators approved Nord Stream.
London: Emmanuel Macron and Angela Merkel held talks with Vladimir Putin over Ukraine on Monday Tuesday AEDT, as it emerged the EU could buy emergency gas supplies from Russia in an effort to drive down energy prices.
