Moral outrage Biden doubles down on call for Putins fall from power
20220328
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/north-america/moral-outrage-biden-doubles-down-on-call-for-putin-s-fall-from-power-20220329-p5a8rj.html
French President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday said he wouldnt use those terms, because I continue to speak to President Putin, because what do we want to do collectively? We want to stop the war that Russia launched in Ukraine, without waging war and without escalation.
Biden originally said Putin could not remain in power at the end of a speech in Warsaw on the weekend that was intended to rally democracies for a long global struggle against autocracy, but instead it stirred controversy in the US and rattled some allies in Western Europe.
Some said Bidens provocative rhetoric was strange given his otherwise cautious approach, such as refusing to facilitate the transfer of Polish fighter jets to Ukraines military.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres responded to Bidens comment by saying: We need military de-escalation and rhetoric de-escalation.
If were so worried about provoking him that we couldnt even send MiGs into Ukraine, how is this any different? Republican congressman Michael McCaul told CNNs State of the Union on Sunday. In fact, I would say its more provocative than sending MiGs into Ukraine.
Biden said he was not concerned that his comments would escalate tensions over the war in Ukraine.
I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man, he said on Monday, Washington time. I wasnt articulating a policy change.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky remains exasperated with the pace of military assistance, accusing Western leaders of cowardice and repeating his request for tanks and fighter jets.
This is just stating a simple fact, that this kind of behaviour is totally unacceptable, he said.
Although the White House insisted after the speech that Biden was not calling for regime change, Republicans questioned why he decided to go off-script when dealing with a combustible conflict.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Biden said he was not walking anything back by clarifying the remark. Asked whether the remark would spur a negative response from Putin, he added: I dont care what he thinks. ... Hes going to do what hes going to do.
Speaking at a news conference in Jerusalem, Blinken said Biden meant that Putin cannot be empowered to wage war or engage in aggression against Ukraine or anyone else.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken was forced to continue clarifying Bidens speech during a trip through the Middle East, as the administration seeks a renewed nuclear agreement with Iran.
Washington: US President Joe Biden says that he is not walking anything back after his weekend comment that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power, although he insists he is not calling for regime change in Moscow.
The US has been rushing weapons such as anti-tank missiles into Ukraine, and is considering providing anti-ship missiles to make it harder for Russia to mount an amphibious offensive along the Black Sea coast.
