NSW to dump 75 million in Russian assets to protest invasion
20220227
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/politics/nsw/nsw-to-dump-75-million-in-russian-assets-in-protest-against-invasion-20220227-p5a02t.html
NSW Labor has been calling for immediate divestment of Russian assets across all government investments since October last year and will question Mr Kean about the NSW Generations Fund during the first session of budget estimates on Monday.
Assets commonly excluded by investment managers, in line with ESG principles include coal, tobacco and munitions. Industry analysts say similar pressures are likely to emerge for funds across the globe in relation to Russian assets.
Divesting is a good idea, even if at a loss because that will actually have the effect of reducing the value of shares in Russia.
Mr Kean said he was awaiting advice after informing Treasury Secretary Paul Grimes of the intention on Friday.
NSW has hundreds of millions of dollars invested in international and domestic markets through its $15 billion NSW Generations Fund, including 12 per cent in emerging markets. Of this, 0.5 per cent - or $75 million - is held in Russian debt and equities.
ESG advisory expert Mary Delahunty said she questioned how the Russian economy met NSW Treasury Corps principles of stewardship to integrate ESG factors into investment decision-making.
Analysts last year warned the fund could place taxpayer dollars at risk after the government borrowed more than $10 billion to bolster the fund despite the states rising deficit, which was set at $19.5 billion in December. More spending and disruption due to the Omicron outbreak could push the figure higher.
Investment in so-called emerging markets like Russia, Saudi Arabia and Cayman Islands emerged in documents obtained by NSW Labor under parliamentary order last year.
NSW Treasurer Matt Kean has condemned Russian President Vladimir Putin for the violence in Ukraine.Credit:Kate Geraghty
Mr Bartos said it would be a positive outcome if NSW could start a sell-off of Russian assets and companies and in our own tiny way assist in reducing the value of shares.
The Ukrainian flag is carried along Elizabeth Street in Sydney during a Stop War in Ukraine rally on Saturday.Credit:Steven Siewert
Former NSW parliamentary budget officer Stephen Bartos said governments should feel a sense of urgency about moving away from investments in Russia, both financially and ethically.
At the same time, the government is reviewing all state-managed funds, worth $112 billion, to ensure environmental, social and governance ESG principles.
AMP chief economist Shane Oliver said many funds would have some exposure to Russia within their portfolio.
Experts said the $75 million investment posed a greater risk to NSW after ratings agencies cut Russias credit rating to junk status, meaning it is riskier and below investment grade.
Vladimir Putins illegal invasion has put at risk global security, and he is personally responsible for consequences of this war, he said.
Our Breaking News Alert will notify you of significant breaking news when it happens. Get it here.
It is important at this time for liberal democracies to stand with Ukraine and stand up for our values.
That is entirely within the mandate of the Generations Fund to do that. This genuinely is one of those cases where doing the right thing and being a prudent risk manager are one and the same, he said.
The NSW government will dump $75 million worth of Russian assets from a state investment fund to protest against President Vladimir Putins brutal invasion of Ukraine.
One would be forgiven for thinking that would have naturally excluded Russian investment, given the fund was created in 2018, and we had already seen a Russian incursion in Crimea in 2014.
Treasurer Matt Kean said NSW will sell all holdings of Russian assets from its NSW Generations Fund, acknowledging the plight of Ukraine and the Russian people protesting the violence.
The fund was set up in 2018 using $10 billion from the sale of WestConnex to repay debt and guard against intergenerational budgetary pressures.
Putins debt should not be in the NSW investment portfolio with his army currently marching into Ukraine, he said. NSW should no longer try to profit from this regime run by warmongers.
Its the principle that matters here. If a national decision has been taken to penalise Russia, it stands to reason state investment in Russia would be reconsidered as well.
Responsible investment advisor Pru Bennett will head the governments review into the states investment funds. Mr Kean said the review, to be completed this year, would address social and environmental risks that could become long-term financial risks.
Opposition treasury spokesman Daniel Mookhey said the NSW government needed to act swiftly, as the world accelerated moves to throw Russia out of the global financial system.
The move follows the federal governments decision to impose financial sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs in Putins inner circle and 339 members of the Russian parliament.
