Putin offers fasttrack citizenship to all Ukrainians
20220712
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/putin-offers-fast-track-citizenship-to-all-ukrainians-20220712-p5b0vt.html
I was sitting and talking to my wife, he said. I didnt understand what happened.
In late May, three months after Russia invaded Ukraine, it offered to residents of the Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. More than 1.5 million Ukrainians have fled the country for Russia since Moscows invasion, according to an estimate by the United Nations.
The strikes came two days after a Russian rocket attack struck apartment buildings in eastern Ukraine. The death toll in that attack on the town of Chasiv Yar rose to 30 on Monday. Nine people have been rescued from the rubble but more are still believed trapped, emergency officials said.
Only civilian structures  a shopping centre and houses of peaceful Kharkiv residents  came under the fire of the Russians. Several shells hit the yards of private houses. Garages and cars were also destroyed. Several fires broke out, Syniehubov wrote.
Russia is using the simplified procedure for issuing passports to tighten the noose around the necks of residents of the temporarily occupied territories of our state, forcing them to participate in the criminal activities of the occupying administrations and the Russian army of aggression, Ukraines Foreign Ministry added in a statement.
The passport announcement came hours after Russian shelling of Ukraines second-largest city on Monday killed at least six people and injured 31, prosecutors and local officials said. Russian troops launched three missile strikes on Kharkiv, in an attack one official described as absolute terrorism.
Kharkiv resident Alexander Peresolin said the attacks came without warning, with a blast so fierce he lost consciousness. Neighbours carried him to the basement, where he regained consciousness.
Russian attacks continued in eastern Ukraine, with Luhansk regional Governor Serhiy Haidai saying that Russian forces carried out five missile strikes and four rounds of shelling, hitting settlements on the border with the Donetsk region.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Klueba said Putins signing of the passport decree, which also applies to stateless residents in Ukraine, was an example of his predatory appetites.
Russias Defence Ministry said the attacks struck at the points of deployment for Ukraines nationalist battalions. Kharkiv regional Governor Oleh Syniehubov said on Telegram that the shelling came from multiple rocket launchers, and those wounded and hospitalised included children aged between 4 and 16.
Rescue workers put out the fire of a destroyed car after a Russian attack in a residential area in Kharkiv.Credit:AP
Until recently, only residents of the separatist eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions, southern Zaporizhzhia and the Kherson regions, large parts of which are now under Russian control, were eligible to apply for Russian passports using the simplified procedure.
Kharkiv: Russian President Vladimir Putin has expanded a fast-track procedure for granting Russian citizenship to all Ukrainians, not just those in Russian-occupied areas, in another effort to strengthen Moscows influence over the country, Ukraine says.
The attack on Sunday AEST destroyed three buildings in a residential quarter used mostly by people who work in factories. Russias Defence Ministry insisted on Monday that the Chasiv Yar target was a Ukrainian territorial defence brigade, and that more than 300 nationalists were killed. The town is also the hometown of Ukraines president.
The move appears to be part of Putins political influence strategy, which has also involved introduction of the Russian ruble in occupied territories, and could eventually result in the annexation of more of Ukraine into the Russian Federation. Russia already annexed its neighbours Crimean Peninsula in 2014.
Putin set the stage for such moves even before Russias February 24 invasion of Ukraine, writing an essay last summer claiming that Russians and Ukrainians are one people, and attempting to diminish the legitimacy of Ukraine as an independent nation. Reports have surfaced of Russian authorities confiscating Ukrainian passports from some citizens.
Earlier, he said one missile destroyed a school, another hit a residential building, while the third landed near warehouse facilities.
Between 2019, when the procedure was introduced for the residents of Donetsk and Luhansk, and this year, more than 720,000 people living in the rebel-held areas in the two regions  about 18 per cent of the population  have received Russian passports.
The Luhansk and Donetsk regions make up Ukraines eastern industrial heartland known as the Donbas, where separatist rebels have fought Ukrainian forces since 2014. Earlier this month, Russia captured the last major stronghold of Ukrainian resistance in Luhansk, the city of Lysychansk.
