Russia continues strikes on Kyiv suburbs as Zelensky calls on Putin to meet
20220313
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/rockets-slam-into-ukrainian-coke-plant-as-russian-attack-intensifies-20220314-p5a4cb.html
A woman whose leg had to be amputated after she suffered gunshot wounds in a village currently under the control of the Russian military, lies in an intensive care unit at a hospital in Brovary, north of Kyiv, Ukraine.Credit:AP
If you do not close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian missiles fall on your territory. NATO territory. On the homes of citizens of NATO countries, Zelensky said, urging Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet with him directly, a request that has gone unanswered by the Kremlin.
The Kremlin earlier said Western supply lines into Ukraine were legitimate targets for its forces to attack.
A town councillor for Brovary east of Kyiv was killed in fighting there, and officials reported strikes on Bucha and Hostomel, which have seen some of the worst fighting in the Kremlins attempt to take the capital, and in Irpin where award-winning US journalist Brent Renaud, 50, was shot and killed.
The Avdiyivka coke plant that was hit by Russian rockets. The coke plant is one of Europes largest.Credit:Kate Geraghty
Unfortunately, everything repeats itself. Deja vu ... Today, the orcs Russian soldiers fired on Europes largest coke chemical plant, my native Avdiyivka coke plant, he wrote.
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry an injured pregnant woman from the maternity hospital that was damaged by shelling in Mariupol, Ukraine, on Wednesday.Credit:AP
The attack so close to a NATO member-country raised the spectre that the alliance could be drawn into the fight and was heavy with symbolism in a conflict that has revived old Cold War rivalries and threatened to rewrite the current global security order.
And in a sign of expanding links between the Ukraine war and a broader geopolitical struggle, Russia has reportedly turned to China for military aid in the weeks since it unleashed its attack.
With Ukrainian forces stretched across the country trying to hold back the Russian invasion, Ukrainian forces are battling to hold the line against the Russian-backed separatists in the countrys east.
Talks are set to begin between Beijing and Washington in Rome on Monday night AEDT as the US ramps up pressure on China to use its influence over Russia to end the war.
Kyiv: Russia stepped up its attacks on Ukraine on Monday, targeting previously spared regions in the west of the country, including around the capital Kyiv, while also intensifying its offensive in the east.
A fourth round of talks between Russia and Ukraine is to be held via video link from at 10.30am Kyiv time 7.30pm AEDT to discuss getting aid to cities and towns under fire, among other issues, Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak said.
The Washington Post and The Financial Times reported on Monday that anonymous US officials confirmed the request had been made and that the Biden administration was communicating directly, privately to Beijing, that there will absolutely be consequences if China agrees.
The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age were in Avdiyivka on Friday and Saturday and could hear constant firing between Ukrainian and separatist fighters.
Those targeted include Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich, Alexey Miller, chief executive officer of gas giant Gazprom, and Bank Rossiya chairman Dmitri Lebedev. The measures reinforced Australias commitment to sanction people of economic and strategic significance to Russia, Senator Payne said.
But general staff of Ukraines armed forces claimed Russian troops had not made major advances over the previous 24 hours despite expanding strikes to the west. They accused Russian forces of setting up firing positions and military equipment in churches and other civilian infrastructure so that Ukrainian forces cant fire back. The accusation could not be immediately verified, though Associated Press reporters have seen Russian armoured vehicles in residential areas.
Avdiyivka coke plant burning after a rocket attack in a photo provided by the Ukrainian Attorney-Generals office on Telegram.
Ukrainian government official Musa Magomedov wrote on Telegram on Sunday night Monday AEDT he didnt have a single decent word to describe what is happening in Avdiyivka.
In another worrying sign, Russian missiles also hit a large Ukrainian base near the border with NATO-member Poland, killing 35 people and wounding 134, according to Ukrainian officials. Russian officials say the death toll was much higher. The facility served as a crucial hub for co-operation between Ukraine and the NATO countries supporting its defence. Russia claimed the site was used to train foreign fighters.
In addition to military equipment, the US official quoted by the New York Times said Russia had also asked China for additional economic assistance to help counteract the battering its economy has taken from broad Western sanctions.
Multiple houses in the village of Kamyanka were shelled on Saturday morning, and the local administration had to organise an evacuation of residents on Sunday.
Journalist Brent Renaud in New York in 2015. Renaud, an American journalist, was killed in a suburb of Kyiv, Ukraine, on Sunday. Credit:AP
Britains Defence Ministry said Russias navy has established a distant blockade of Ukraine in the Black Sea, effectively isolating the country from international maritime trade.
Meanwhile a pregnant woman, who was photographed being rushed to an ambulance on a stretcher last week in images that circled the world epitomising the horror of an attack on humanitys most innocent, has died. The woman was rushed to another hospital, yet closer to the frontline, where doctors could not save her. Medics delivered the baby via cesarean section, but it showed no signs of life, the surgeon said.
An artillery strike hit a nine-storey building in the Obolonsky district of northern Kyiv, destroying apartments on several floors and igniting a fire, and the Kyiv city administration said the Antonov aircraft factory in Kyiv has also been shelled.
Also on Monday, Australia announced fresh sanctions on 33 Russian oligarchs, prominent business people and their immediate family members, Minister for Foreign Affairs Marise Payne said in a statement.
The Washington Post said the unidentified US officials did not state the kind of weaponry that had been requested or how China had responded. CNN reported that Russia was seeking drones among other equipment.
Get a note direct from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, centre, hands out a state medal to a wounded soldier during his visit to a hospital in Kyiv, Ukraine.Credit:Ukrainian Presidential Press Office
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called it a black day, and again urged NATO leaders to establish a no-fly zone over the country, a plea that the West has said could escalate the war to a nuclear confrontation.
The attack near the Polish border came as five rockets hit a plant making chemical coke, fueld used for heating and cooking, in Avdiyivka, near Donetsk in eastern Ukraine. Heating supplies to the neighbouring town were cut, the Ukraine general prosecutors office said.
Another journalist travelling in a car with Renaud was wounded as the pair came under Russian attack. Renaud, from Little Rock, Arkansas, was gathering material for a report about the global refugee crisis for TIME Studios when his vehicle was hit at a checkpoint just outside Kyiv.
