Russia strikes childrens hospital in Mariupol Ukrainian officials say
20220309
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/mariupol-workers-to-start-digging-mass-graves-kyiv-air-sirens-ring-20220309-p5a38y.html
Natalia Mudrenko, a senior member of Ukraines UN Mission, told the Security Council that the people of Mariupol have been effectively taken hostage by the siege. Her voice shook with emotion as she described how a six-year-old died shortly after her mother was killed by Russian shelling. She was alone in the last moments of her life, she said.
On those outskirts, police officers and soldiers helped elderly residents from their homes on Tuesday. People crowded together under a destroyed bridge before crossing a river on slippery wooden boards as they tried to escape Irpin, a town of 60,000 that has been targeted by Russian shelling.
That corridor was to reopen for 12 hours on Wednesday, with the buses that took people south-west to the city of Poltava the day before returning to pick up more refugees, regional administration chief Dmytro Zhyvytskyy said.
Days of shelling have largely cut residents of the southern city of Mariupol off from the outside world and forced them to scavenge for food and water.
Russian forces are placing military equipment on farms and amid residential buildings in the northern city of Chernihiv, Ukraines general staff said. In the south, Russians dressed in civilian clothes were advancing on the city of Mykolaiv, a Black Sea shipbuilding centre of a 500,000 people, it said.
Russia, which denies targeting civilians, had said it would hold fire to let civilians flee Mariupol and other besieged cities on Wednesday. But the city council said the hospital had been hit more than once.
That resistance is stiffer than many expected  and Western nations are rushing now to bolster their force. Ukraines president has pleaded repeatedly for warplanes to counter Russias significant air power, but Western countries have disagreed over how best to do that amid concerns it could raise the risk of the war expanding beyond Ukraine.
When Russia says that it is not waging war against civilians, I call out the names of these murdered children first.
People rest in a subway station being used as a bomb shelter in Kyiv, Ukraine.Credit:AP
Poland late on Tuesday offered to give the US 28 MiG-29 fighter planes for Ukraines use. US officials said that proposal was untenable, but they would continue to consult with Poland and other NATO allies.
Mariupol, which nearly half of the population of 430,000 is hoping to flee, has been surrounded by Russian forces for days. Corpses lie in the streets, and people break into stores in search of food and melt snow for water. Thousands huddle in basements, sheltering from the Russian shells pounding this strategic port on the Azov Sea.
In the south, Russian troops have advanced deep along Ukraines coastline in an effort to establish a land bridge to Crimea, which Moscow seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Eight-year-old Alice, who died on the streets of Okhtyrka while her grandfather tried to protect her. Or Polina from Kyiv, who died in the shelling with her parents. 14-year-old Arseniy was hit in the head by wreckage, and could not be saved because an ambulance could not get to him on time because of intense fires.
Theft has become widespread in the city as beleaguered residents search for food, clothes, even furniture. Some residents are reduced to scooping water from streams. Authorities say they plan to start digging mass graves for the dead.
Russia is artificially creating a humanitarian crisis in the Kyiv region, frustrating the evacuation of people and continuing shelling and bombing small communities, he said.
The Ukrainian military, meanwhile, is building up defences in cities in the north, south and east, and forces around Kyiv are holding the line against the Russian offensive.
Firefighters work on a chemical warehouse that was hit by Russian shelling on the eastern frontline near Kalynivka village, in Kyiv, Ukraine, On March 8.Credit:Getty Images
With the electricity out, many people rely on their car radios for information, picking up news from stations broadcast from areas controlled by Russian forces or Russian-backed separatists.
There were safety concerns about the spent fuel that is stored at the site and that must be kept cool. But the UN nuclear watchdog agency said it saw no critical impact on safety from the loss of power.
Lviv: Ukraine accused Russia on Thursday AEDT of bombing a childrens hospital in the besieged port of Mariupol during a supposed ceasefire to enable some of the hundreds of thousands of civilians trapped in the city to escape.
Why shouldnt I cry? resident Goma Janna demanded as she wept by the light of an oil lamp below ground, surrounded by women and children. I want my home, I want my job. Im so sad about people and about the city, the children.
Despite assurances from Kremlin-backed propaganda outlets, who call this a special operation - it is, in fact, the mass murder of Ukrainian civilians, she wrote.
The Russian occupying forces have dropped several bombs on the childrens hospital. The destruction is colossal, it said in an online post, adding that it did not yet know any casualty figures. The report could not immediately be verified.
Amid the bombardments, authorities have tried repeatedly to evacuate civilians, but many attempts have been thwarted by Russian shelling.
Ukrainian authorities say the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, has been knocked off the power grid. Emergency generators are supplying backup power.
Thousands of people are thought to have been killed, both civilians and soldiers, in two weeks of fighting since President Vladimir Putins forces invaded. The UN estimates that more than 2 million people have fled the country, the biggest exodus of refugees in Europe since the end of World War II.
A series of air raid alerts Wednesday morning urged residents of the capital to go to bomb shelters amid fears of incoming missiles. Associated Press reporters later heard explosions.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Ukraines first lady, Olena Zelenska, issued an open letter to the worlds media as her testimony of the horrors wrought by the Russian invasion of her country.
On Tuesday, an attempt to evacuate civilians and deliver badly needed food, water and medicine failed, with Ukrainian officials saying Russian forces fired on the convoy before it reached the city.
We dont have electricity, we dont have anything to eat, we dont have medicine. Weve got nothing, she said, looking skyward.
An elderly woman sits on a bench wrapped in a blanket in a subway station turned into a shelter in Kyiv, Ukraine.Credit:AP
Authorities announced another ceasefire to allow civilians to escape from Mariupol, Sumy in the north-east, Enerhodar in the south, Volnovakha in the south-east, Izyum in the east, and several towns in the region around the capital, Kyiv.
One evacuation did appear successful on Tuesday, with Ukrainian authorities saying 5000 civilians, including 1700 foreign students, had managed to escape from Sumy, an embattled north-eastern city of 250,000 people.
Such alerts are common, though irregular, keeping people on edge. Kyiv has been relatively quiet in recent days, though Russian artillery has pounded the outskirts of the city.
An intensified push by Russian forces could mean an ugly next few weeks, Burns told a congressional committee, warning that Putin was likely to grind down the Ukrainian military with no regard for civilian casualties.
In addition to material support for Ukraine, Western countries have sought to pressure Russia through a series of punishing sanctions. On Tuesday, President Joe Biden upped the ante further, saying said that the US would ban all Russian oil imports, even if it meant rising costs for Americans.
Energy exports have kept a steady stream of cash flowing to Russia despite otherwise severe restrictions that have largely cut its economy off from the world. McDonalds, Starbucks, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and General Electric all announced that they were temporarily suspending business in the country, furthering that isolation.
Ludmila Amelkina, who was walking along an alley strewn with rubble and walls pocked by gunfire, said the destruction had been devastating.
Kyiv regional administration head Oleksiy Kuleba said the crisis for civilians was growing in the capital, with the situation particularly critical in the citys suburbs.
Priority was being given to pregnant women, women with children, the elderly and the disabled.
People queue to receive hot food in an improvised bomb shelter in Mariupol, Ukraine on March 7. Credit:AP
The crisis is likely to get worse as Russian forces step up their bombardment of cities throughout the country in response to stronger than expected resistance from Ukrainian forces. Russian losses have been far in excess of what Putin and his generals expected, CIA Director William Burns said on Tuesday.
Olena Zelenska, wife of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, attends an online school lesson in Kyiv, Ukraine, in 2020.Credit:PPOAP
Renewed efforts to evacuate civilians from besieged and bombarded Ukrainian cities were under way on Wednesday as authorities sought to rescue people from increasingly dire conditions.
Britains Defence Ministry said on Wednesday that fighting continued north-west of Kyiv. The cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol are being heavily shelled and remain encircled by Russian forces.
Previous attempts to establish safe evacuation corridors have largely failed due to attacks by Russian forces. But air raid sirens repeatedly went off in the capital and explosions could be heard there, raising tensions in the rattled city.
