What the Russian invasion means for the global economy  and why the EU should welcome Ukraine
20220225
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/what-the-russian-invasion-means-for-the-global-economy-and-why-the-eu-should-welcome-ukraine-20220224-p59zen.html
Previous chancellors Gerhard Schroder and Angela Merkel had been cosying up to Russia, motivated by its gas resources, for years. Schroder has been nominated to be on the board of Russian state-owned gas giant Gazprom.
Tim Harcourt is industry professor and chief economist at the Institute for Public Policy and Governance at the University of Technology Sydney. He hosts The Airport Economist television program on www.ausbiz.com.au
Russia may like to intimidate but it doesnt have the economic strength of a united West, whose support for Ukraine could make it far harder to destabilise.
There may not be an immediate military solution, or a neat diplomatic fix, but the economic dimensions to the crisis may be more in favour of Ukraine than at first meets the eye.
How will it affect Australia? Not much directly, as if anything Australia is a competitor to Russia with gas and a competitor to both Russia and Ukraine with wheat. The higher prices may boost some exporters in the short run but they would soon be overrun by the adverse impact of global economic disruption.
Europe is particularly vulnerable to a supply shock as it is especially reliant on Russian oil and gas. More than 20 per cent of Germanys gas emanates from Russia, hence why German Chancellor Olaf Scholz made a pretty gutsy call to call a halt production of the Nord Stream gas pipeline.
But is there an alternative to sanctions, especially as Putin may gamble that he has enough reserves to tough them out?
Within hours of Russias invasion of Ukraine, we were confronting the human tragedy: the loss of life and the destruction or seizure of infrastructure. The following economic devastation will also have a great human toll. Yet the economic damage will not be confined to Ukraine and Russia. What is the likely impact on the global economy and how will it affect Australia?
An alternative could be a bolstering Ukraine through trade and infrastructure measures. This might include granting Ukraine membership of the European Union to boost its trade and investment ties to Western Europe, in the way this move benefited Poland. It may be more beneficial to Ukraine than joining NATO. The US, Canada, UK and the Asia Pacific may also chime in, giving Ukraine preferential trade and investment deals, market access for wheat and a favourable supply of natural resources.
The Morning Edition newsletter is our guide to the days most important and interesting stories, analysis and insights. Sign up here.
Second, in addition to oil and gas, Russia is a major global supplier of palladium, important to the global automotive industry, and aluminium. Past US sanctions on Rusal, the major Russian aluminium exporter in 2018, caused a 30 per cent spike in the world price. So there can be immediate inflationary impact.
Could other oil and gas suppliers take the place of Russia? Putin has built strong ties with the Saudis and other oil-producing nations, so this wont be as easy as it appears. Russia also has ties with Iran, and has been shoring up its ties with other non-democratic states in the emerging world as a bulwark against the West.
The biggest risk to Australia is if China decides to follow Russias lead. We saw, at the Beijing Winter Olympics, somewhat of a thaw in the notoriously frosty Sino-Russian relationship, which had been a hangover from the Cold War tensions between the USSR and the Peoples Republic of China. If there was anyone these two Communist superpowers hated more than the West, it was each other. Times are different now, and if Xi Jinping sees the West being divided and weak over Ukraine, as it was over Afghanistan, he may make matters tougher for Taiwan.
There is also a danger if Russia retaliates against Australia with its own trade sanctions. Not that this would be top of mind at the Kremlin. I asked Putin at APEC in 2007 in Sydney: What do you think of Australia  is it what you expected? His reply: I never think of Australia
The crisis threatens not only a deep freeze for German consumers if Putin turns off their gas but, given the central role of German manufacturing to the European supply chain, major global economic implications. This could happen two ways. Russian President Vladimir Putin could cause global disruption by cutting off the gas, or sanctions on Russia from the West could have a similar impact on a world economy already threatened by inflation and COVID-related supply-side shocks.
But how about the Ukrainian economy? Like Australia, and Russia, Ukraine is a big wheat exporter so any invasion could cause a spike in the world wheat price, as occurred during the Crimea crisis of 2014. As the former Soviet Unions bread basket, Ukraine has the worlds most fertile soil and 70 per cent of the worlds supply of chernozem fertile black earths that can deliver high agricultural yields. So the crisis could impact global food supply chains as well as oil and gas.
And perhaps a Lend Lease-style agreement could be arranged to help arm Ukraine, as Franklin D Roosevelt did for Britain before the US entered World War II.
First, the Russian economy matters  mainly because, like Australia, it is a big global supplier of commodities in terms of oil and gas, but also nickel, palladium, coal, copper and wheat.
