World on edge as Putin puts nuclear forces on alert
20220227
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/putin-puts-nuclear-forces-on-alert-on-frantic-day-of-war-and-diplomacy-20220228-p5a05t.html
On Monday Ukraines Interior Ministry said 352 civilians had been killed so far, including 14 children. An additional 1684 people, including 116 children, have been wounded. The ministrys statement did not give any information on casualties among Ukraines armed forces.
The Russian military said on Monday AEDT that some of its troops were killed and some were wounded, admitting for the first time since the invasion that it had suffered casualties.
For the first time ever, the European Union will finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and other equipment to a country that is under attack, said European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. The EU will also ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets, she said.
Cutting Ukraines access to its ports would deal a major blow to the countrys economy. It could also allow Moscow to build a land corridor to Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014 and until now was connected to Russia by a 19-kilometre bridge.
Kyiv: In a dramatic escalation of tensions over Russias invasion of Ukraine, President Vladimir Putin has put Russian nuclear forces on high alert in response to what he called aggressive statements by leading NATO powers.
The practical meaning of Putins order was not immediately clear. Russia and the US typically have land- and submarine-based nuclear forces on alert and prepared for combat at all times, but nuclear-capable bombers and other aircraft are not.
A man carries his one-month-old as he arrives in Poland after crossing the border in Kroscienko on Sunday.Credit:Getty Images
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading NATO members made aggressive statements regarding our country, Putin said in televised comments.
US defence officials would not disclose their current nuclear posture, except to say that the military was prepared at all times to defend its homeland and allies.
It was the first time Russian military officials mentioned casualties on their side. Russia has not released any casualty figures. Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the number of killed and injured Russians exceeded 4000. AP reports that number at 3500 Russian troops.
In cities across Russia, police detained anti-war demonstrators who took part in protests for a third day running.
If Putin is arming or otherwise raising the nuclear combat readiness of his bombers, or if he is ordering more ballistic missile submarines to sea, then the US might feel compelled to respond in kind, said Hans Kristensen, a nuclear analyst at the Federation of American Scientists.
Ukraine was also releasing prisoners with military experience to fight for the country, authorities said.
Locals prepare Molotov cocktails in a backyard in Kyiv ahead of the arrival of Russian forces.Credit:AP
Videos posted on Ukrainian media and social networks showed Russian vehicles moving across Kharkiv and Russian troops roaming the city in small groups. One showed Ukrainian troops firing at the Russians and damaged Russian vehicles abandoned nearby.
Right now, we are encircled, Klitschko told the Associated Press. He said that nine civilians, including one child, had been killed so far. Klitschko imposed a curfew on Sunday, saying that Ukrainian authorities were hunting Russian saboteurs  referring to Russian sympathisers.
The fighting in the south of Ukraine appeared aimed at seizing control of the countrys coastline.
Konashenkovs claims and Ukraines allegations that its forces killed thousands of Russian troops could not be independently verified.
Putin, in giving the nuclear alert directive, cited not only statements by NATO members  who have rushed to reinforce the military alliances members in Eastern Europe  but the hard-hitting financial sanctions imposed by the West against Russia, including against the Russian leader himself.
Putin hasnt disclosed his ultimate plans, but Western officials believe he is determined to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
Ukrainian officials initially rejected talks in Belarus, saying any discussions should take place elsewhere, since Belarus had allowed its territory to be used by Russian troops as a staging ground for the invasion. Zelenskiy on Sunday said on his Telegram channel that he had spoken with Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko but provided no other details.
Zelensky and his generals have remained in the city co-ordinating a resistance that has proven stronger than anticipated.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said there are dead and wounded among our comrades, without offering any numbers, but adding that Russias losses were many times fewer than those of Ukraines forces.
Klitschko himself later backed away from his earlier assessment, saying on his Telegram channel that In the evening, Russian internet publications spread information with reference to me that Kyiv is allegedly surrounded and evacuation of people is impossible ... do not believe lies! Trust information only from official sources.
Until Sunday, Russias troops had remained on the outskirts of Kharkiv, a city of 1.4 million about 20 kilometres south of the border with Russia, while other forces rolled past to press the offensive deeper into Ukraine.
The Kremlins ultimate aims in Ukraine  and what steps might be enough to satisfy Moscow  remained unclear.
The Biden administration has not responded in kind, the New York Times reported, with The White House maintaining the existing US alert status.
Around the same time as Putins nuclear move, Zelenskys office announced that the two sides would meet on the Belarusian border. A precise time was not announced.
Over the weekend, the US pledged an additional $US350 million in military assistance to Ukraine, including anti-tank weapons, body armour and small arms. Germany said it would send missiles and anti-tank weapons.
On Sunday street fighting broke out in Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, and strategic ports in the countrys south came under pressure from the invading forces.
The number of casualties from Europes largest land conflict since World War II remains unclear amid the fog of war.
Unload your weapons, raise your hands so that our servicemen and civilians can understand that you have heard us. This is your ticket home, Moisiuk said in a Facebook video.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
The Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said on Monday morning AEDT that the city was completely encircled by Russians and that no one could be evacuated from the capital. But his spokesperson later tweeted that the mayor has misspoken and the city was not surrounded by Russian troops.
A Russian Defence Ministry spokesman, Major General Igor Konashenkov, said Russian forces had blocked the cities of Kherson on the Black Sea and the port of Berdyansk on the Azov Sea.
Hours after Putins nuclear announcement, the top official in the European Union said the 27-nation bloc would close its airspace to all Russian planes, including commercial aircraft and private jets owned by oligarchs. The EU also announced it would purchase and send more weapons to Ukraine.
The UN refugee agency said on Sunday that about 368,000 Ukrainians had arrived in neighbouring countries since the invasion started on Thursday. The UN has estimated the conflict could produce as many as 4 million refugees.
Ukraines UN ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya, tweeted on Saturday an appeal to the International Committee of the Red Cross to facilitate repatriation of thousands of bodies of Russian soldiers. An accompanying chart claimed 3500 Russian troops had been killed.
The financial pressure contributed to a plunge in the value of the Russian rouble on Monday, with the currency sliding to a record low of less than US1.
In an emergency move, Russias Central Bank raised a key interest rate from 9.5 per cent to an unprecedented 20 per cent on Monday, and authorities told export-focused companies to sell foreign currency.
The directive came just minutes before Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky confirmed a delegation from Kyiv would meet Russian representatives on the Belarusian border for peace talks, and as Russian troops drew closer to the capital, Kyiv, a city of almost 3 million people.
Civilian protests took place across the world, with tens of thousands turning out in Berlin to  in part  pressure the German government to do more to end the conflict.
Ukrainian military deputy commander Lieutenant General Yevhen Moisiuk sounded a defiant note in a message aimed at Russian troops.
For several days there has been an expectation that Russias all-out assault on Kyiv would begin, but the Ukrainians have managed to retain control.
Konashenkov also said that since the start of the attack on Thursday, the Russian military has hit 1067 Ukrainian military facilities, including 27 command posts and communication centres, 38 air defence missile systems and 56 radar stations.
The US, the EU and Britain also agreed to block selected Russian banks from the SWIFT system, which moves money around more than 11,000 banks and other financial institutions worldwide. They also moved to slap restrictions on Russias central bank as Singapores foreign minister announced the city state would impose controls on exports to the country.
Russia has claimed that its troops are targeting only Ukrainian military facilities and said Ukraines civilian population is not in danger.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Putin was resorting to a pattern he used in the weeks before launching the invasion, which is to manufacture threats that dont exist in order to justify further aggression.
The images underscored the determined resistance from Ukrainian forces. Ukrainians have volunteered en masse to defend their country, taking guns distributed by authorities and preparing homemade Molotov cocktails to fight Russian forces.
Ukraines Health Minister reported on Saturday that 198 people, including three children, had been killed and more than 1000 others wounded. It was unclear whether those figures included both military and civilian casualties.
He said the Russian forces also took control of an airbase near Kherson and the Azov Sea city of Henichesk. Ukrainian authorities also reported fighting near Odessa, Mykolaiv and other areas.
The US ambassador to the UN reminded the Security Council that Russia was under no threat and chided Putin for another escalatory and unnecessary step that threatens us all.
Speaking at a meeting with his top officials, Putin told his Defence Minister and the chief of his militarys general staff to put nuclear forces in a special regime of combat duty.
The West is working to equip the outnumbered Ukrainian forces with weapons and ammunition, while punishing Russia with far-reaching sanctions.
A Russian convoy moving in the direction of Kyiv - about 60km away - early Monday.Credit:MaxarAP
Meanwhile, Turkey called Russias invasion of Ukraine a war on Sunday in a rhetorical shift that could pave the way for the NATO member nation to enact an international pact limiting Russian naval passage to the Black Sea. Under the 1936 Montreux Convention, Turkey has control over the Dardanelles and Bosphorus straits that connect the Mediterranean and Black seas and can limit the passage of warships during wartime or if threatened.
