Xi tells Putin his Ukraine invasion is legitimate
20220615
https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/europe/xi-tells-putin-s-ukraine-invasion-legitimate-20220616-p5au2o.html
Beijing: Chinese President Xi Jinping has told Vladimir Putin that his actions on Ukraine were legitimate, reasserting Chinas support for the Russian president on issues of sovereignty and security, according to Moscows official readout of their phone call.
The two heads of state also exchanged views on the Ukraine issue. Xi emphasised that China has always independently assessed the situation on the basis of the historical context and the merits of the issue, and actively promoted world peace and the stability of the global economic order.
Ukraine ignored a Russian ultimatum to surrender the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk overnight, but Kyiv warned that arms deliveries were taking too long.
Beijings readout of the call reported the conversation differently to Moscow, saying Xi noted that Russia is ready to strengthen multilateral coordination with China so as to make constructive efforts in boosting multipolarisation of the world, and establishing a more just and reasonable international order.
Police members inspect a crater caused by a Russian rocket attack in Pokrovsk, Donetsk region, Ukraine, on Wednesday.Credit:AP
The head of Ukraines military said Russia was attacking the north of Luhansk region in the east from nine directions simultaneously on Thursday morning AEST.
China has refused to criticise Russias invasion of Ukraine or even to refer to it in such terms, while accusing NATO and the West of provoking Moscow into attacking.
In February, before the Russian attack, Putin and Xi met in Beijing and oversaw the signing of an agreement pledging that relations between the sides would have no limits. It remains unclear whether Xi knew at the time of Russias plan to invade Ukraine.
China is willing to, together with Russia, continue to support each other on issues concerning core interests and major concerns such as sovereignty and security.
Xi told Putin that he noted the legitimacy of the actions taken by Russia to protect the fundamental national interests in the face of challenges to its security created by external forces.
The fierce struggle for Luhansk region continues, Valeriy Zaluzhny, commander-in-chief of the armed forces, said in an online message. The Russians were using aircraft, rocket-propelled grenades and artillery, he added.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said it was up to Ukraine to make any decisions about territorial concessions. He said the US and allies were working to make sure Kyiv received the help it needed to have a strong hand on the battlefield.
Xi told Putin on Wednesday that China was willing to work with the Russian side to promote the steady and long-term development of bilateral pragmatic co-operation, Xinhua reported.
Meanwhile, Germanys Olaf Scholz, Frances Emmanuel Macron and Italys Mario Draghi are planning to visit Ukraine on Thursday to meet with President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
In that meeting, the two leaders pushed back against US pressure, declaring their opposition to any expansion of NATO and affirming that Taiwan is a part of China.
Xi said all parties should responsibly push for a proper settlement of the Ukraine crisis, according to Beijings readout of the call. He has sought to avoid repercussions from supporting the Russian economy amid international sanctions.
The Kremlin said in its account of the call that Putin outlined his fundamental assessments of the situation in Ukraine.
Residents gather near houses damaged by a Russian rocket attack in Pokrovsk, Donetsk region, Ukraine, on Wednesday.Credit:AP
Moscow and Beijing have increasingly aligned their foreign policies to oppose liberal democratic forces in Asia, Europe and beyond, making a stand for authoritarian rule with tight borders and little regard for free speech, minority rights or opposition politics.
US President Joe Biden called Zelensky and vowed to provide an additional $US1 billion $1.4 billion in military aid. It will be the largest single tranche of weapons and equipment since the war began. The aid will include anti-ship missile launchers, howitzers and more rounds for the High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems  all key weapons systems that Ukraine has urgently requested.
Russia has further tightened its grip on European energy markets by curbing gas shipments by about 60 per cent. Germany said the move was politically motivated to unsettled and drive up prices.
