Putins general hints he WILL invade Moldova  despite Russias crumbling Ukraine war machine
20220510
https://www.thescottishsun.co.uk/news/8757153/putin-general-moldova-ukraine-war/
It came days after dishevelled Putin, 69, was seengripping a table and tapping his footin video that Kremlin watchers claimed showed a drastic decline in his physical state.
Transnistria, also known as Pridnestrovia, is a small breakaway region in the former Soviet republic of Moldova where pro-Russian separatists have been armed and backed by Moscow.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyhas previously warned that attacks on his country were "only the beginning".
And Putin last night stoked further rumours of failing health  as he was seen biting his lips, fidgeting distractedly and appearing unsteady at a church service.
The tyrant - dogged by claims he has Parkinson's or terminal cancer - gurned while clutching a candle near the altar at a midnight mass forOrthodox Easter.
Two generals reportedly died and another was critically injured in Fridays bombing, meaning Moscow has lost nine generals since its invasion began.
Minnekaev said: Control over the south of Ukraine is another way out to Transnistria, where there are cases of Russian-speaking people being oppressed.
Rustam Minnekaev said the tyrants aims expanded further than Ukraine, taking in all of its coastline and beyond.
It comes despite Vladimir Putins war machine getting battered. Russia has lost 873 tanks, 179 aircraft and 21,800 troops in two months of fighting the Ukraine war.
Moldova denies Russia speakers are being oppressed. It is a common claim Russia uses to justify military action on post Soviet states.
It bears similarities to the Russian speaking regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraines east which broke away from Kyiv in 2014.
Ukraines military also said 50 Russian officers were killed in an attack on a command post in Kherson, the Daily Mail reports.
Moldova, with a population of 2.6million, summoned Russias ambassador on Friday after he said Moscow was seeking to create a pathway towards a breakaway region of the country which already hosts Russian troops.
