Ukraine news LATEST Evil Vladimir Putin ramping up attacks on CIVILIANS as tyrant failing on all military objectives
20220820
https://www.thescottishsun.co.uk/news/9261764/ukraine-news-war-russia-vladimir-putin-ww3/
It is reported that Russian military efforts have increased attacks on civilians in the last week.
Sir Tony told the BBC: At the very outset, we said that this was a strategic error by President Putin, and strategic errors lead to strategic consequences. And in this instance, its strategic failure.
Three-quarters of its citizens support the war. It is unacceptable that people who support the war can freely travel around the world, into Lithuania, the EU, said Agne Bilotaite.
While the Russian forces occupied his home, he stole ammunition from them, put bars of soap in their fuel tanks and drained diesel from their vehicles.
Luhansk govennor, Serhiy Gaidai, wrote on Telegram: Luhansk region is right next door. De-occupation is not far away.
Oleg Synegubov, governor of the Kharkiv region, said on Monday: "Some of the dead have signs of violent death, there are bodies with tied hands and traces of torture. The deceased were also found to have mine-explosive injuries, shrapnel and stab wounds."
He said: "Imagine, this land is still full of shells from the Second World War."
Her husband, Maxim Galkin, a comedian, TV Presenter and singer is publicly ant-war and Pugacheva, in line with anti-war sentiments, asked Russian authorities to label her a foreign agent.
The Ministry of Defence released a statement recently, showing an aggressive change in pattern of missile strikes on Ukrainians.
Liz Truss is due to make her first speech to the UN General Assembly as Prime Minister.
This is thought to undermine the morale of the Ukrainian people and government, the MoD said.
The newly released statement reads: "The command of Russias Black Sea Fleet has almost certainly relocated its KILO-class submarines from their home port of Sevastopol in Crimea to Novorossiysk in Krasnodar Krai, southern Russia
These sort of mines were banned by an international convention. One that Russia didn't sign up to.
A pensioner, former electrician and mechanic, Oleksandr, is from the village and fought the Russian forces in a bid to save his village: "Of course, I'm glad that the village has been liberated. I was a partisan here for six months.
On social media, the singer labelled her husband a true incorruptible Russian patriot, who wants an end to our lads dying for illusory aims.
President Volodymyr Zelenskys Armed Forces said have pushed across the Oskil. From yesterday, Ukraine controls the east bank.
The ban was enforced on Monday, with the Lithuanian Interior Minister stating: Russia is an unpredictable and aggressive state.
The British Ministry of Defence released the latest intelligence regarding Russia's invasion of Ukraine this morning.
Over the last few weeks, Ukraine has been gaining land back, and what remains are villages and towns in ruin.
It said: Russia has launched several thousand long-range missiles against Ukraine since 24 February 2022.
Prices will remain high as long as restrictions remain on exports, it has been said.
Though it's not confirmed it was Russian troops, Ukraine said it was further evidence of war crimes committed by Russian forces.
The new PM met many world leaders during the funeral events for the late Queen Elizabeth II.
"This is highly likely due to the recent change in the local security threat level in the face of increased Ukrainian long-range strike capability. In the last two months, the fleet headquarters and its main naval aviation airfield have been attacked.
In the past, Truss warned Moscow to leave "the whole of Ukraine" in reference to its occupation of Crimea, which Putin invaded and annexed in 2014.
We saw that he wanted to weaken Nato. Nato is now much stronger, and we have Finland and Sweden joining.
It is reported that Russian military efforts have increased attacks on civilians in the last week, with the aim to undermine the morale of the Ukrainian people and government, the MoD said.
"I could distinguish people by only their voices. The floor was wet. Nothing to lie on. A few torn tyres, nothing else."
The strike almost his the Pivdennoukrainsk power plant in the Mykolayiv region, about 2000km north of the southern front line.
Good nightgood morning from New York, where Liz Truss has landed for the UN general assembly  her first foreign trip as PM First announcement: the UK will spend at least 2.3 billion more on military aid to Ukraine in 2023 https:t.coqY1xcpUfR2 pic.twitter.comfbniG0gZEb
A Russian security official has stated that Moscows strong ties with Beijing are a top goal.
He described the attack in a telegram post: "At night, a missile fell 300m from the Pivdennoukrainsk nuclear power plant."
However, in the last seven days, Russia has increased its targeting of civilian infrastructure even where it probably perceives no immediate military effect.
Researchers from the United States and Uruguay believe that the price rise could last as long as a year, it has been reported.
Oleksandr was captured by the Russian troops more than once and placed in something called "the pit".
Some farmers in Velyki Prohody didn't make it, but of those that survived the occupation were elderly, rather than children.
The Pit was a basement in nearby Mali Prohody, that served as a prison. But Oleksandr said he soon learned to navigate it.
During the General Assembly, Liz Truss is expected to meet many more. She'll touch down in New York on Tuesday and is expected to reiterate the message that the UK is supporting Ukraine.
According tothe Guardian, Petrakov said: I thought, if they come to Kyiv, I will pick up a weapon and defend my city.
Joe Bidensaid: Dont. Dont. Dont. It would change the face of war unlike anything since World War II.
Countries near to Russia are refusing entry to Russians in act of support to Ukraine.
But Russia has continued to attack, with a missile only just missing a nuclear power plant.
According to Downing Street, the UK was already the second-largest military donor to Ukraine, before the Assembly pledge of 2.3bn.
The telegram post included footage: "Russia endangers the whole world. We have to stop it before its too late."
Ahead of the event, Truss said: "The UK will continue to be right behind you every step of the way."
The secretary of the national Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev, said the strengthening of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation with Beijing as an unconditional priority of Russias foreign policy.
And the head of the British Armed Forces, Admiral Sir Anthony Radakin, has claimed the Kremlin is "failing in military objectives"
Sir Tony continued: He wanted to subjugate Ukraine thats not going to happen. He wanted to take control of the capital we saw that was defeated earlier on. We saw that he wanted to weaken Nato. Nato is now much stronger, and we have Finland and Sweden joining.
Velyki Prohody is a village near Kharkiv, 10 kilometres from the Russian border one of the areas that has become liberated through sheer determination.
Even if Russian travellers carry a valid visa, they will not be admitted into Poland, Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania.
"You ask them: "Give me some toilet paper" and their responses were unkind: "I'll punch you in the face right now."
He explained the place was overcrowded, it was wet and the food given was often rotten.
Patrushev also said that in the current conditions, our countries must show even greater readiness for mutual support and development of cooperation, to Guo Shengkun, a high up official of Chinas Communist Party.
The Russian backed mayor confirmed the details of the shelling that occurred in the separatist region on Monday.
The Ministry of Defence released a statement detailing Putin's aggressive change in the pattern of missile strikes on Ukrainians.
UK Intelligence said it is not known whether Russian military personnel are withstanding the Ukrainian counter attacks.
The West are reportedly concerned that, should Putin feel backed into a corner and worried hell lose, he may choose to use nuclear weapons.
The Ukrainian President has vowed that his military will persist as they push forward to reclaim territory from Russia.
Putin is failing on all of his military strategic objectives. He wanted to subjugate Ukraine thats not going to happen.
An explosives expert checked the area and found a MON-50 anti-personnel mine in the grass near the village.
I am 64 but I felt it was normal to do this. I think I could take two or three enemies out.
This year, people were expected to turn up in person and would not be able address the UN General assembly if they did not.
"Guaranteeing the Black Sea Fleets Crimea basing was likely one of Russian President Vladimir Putins motivations for annexing the peninsula in 2014. Base security has now been directly undermined by Russias continued aggression against Ukraine."
The Ministry of Defence released a statement recently, showing an aggressive change in the pattern of missile strikes on Ukrainians.
Patrushev also said to Guo Shengkun, a high up official of Chinas Communist Party: "in the current conditions, our countries must show even greater readiness for mutual support and development of cooperation."
The manager of Ukraines mens national football team has been accused of discrimination by Russia
A new study has revealed that the war could have a knock on effect to prices, which may rise as much as seven per cent.
Last week, Ukraine uncovered a mass grave of over 440 people in the north-eastern city of Izyum that was recaptured as part of the operation.
Seeing the Russian's leave has led to excitement, and even relief amongst the Ukrainian people.
Admiral Sir Tony Radakin said that the Russian military does not have the resources or the man power to defeat Ukraine.
Now 65, its been reported that though he offeredhis services, he was advised that it may not be the best idea, due to his age and lack of military experience.
Though few would argue Ukraine's "re-capture" of  land is a bad thing, few are returning back.
This attack came just days after an international watchdog warned that shelling at another atomic energy site risked causing a serious incident.
VLADIMIR Putin is ramping up attacks against civilians as he loses grip on his bloody invasion of Ukraine, according to intelligence chiefs.
Many mothers, children and elderly fled the war zones and are yet to return home. Though there's a feeling of excitement, there's concern there will still be attacks and explosives around.
He wanted to take control of the capital we saw that was defeated earlier on.
The US president was asked in an interview about what hed say to Putin if he were planning on using nuclear weapons.
Alexei Kulemzin wrote via Telegram that 13 civilians including two children had been killed in the strike on Donetsks Kuybyshevsky district.
During the interview on 60 Minutes, Biden was asked about the war in Ukraine and made clear that though things are improving, the war was far from won.
