Nofly zone over Ukraine is participation in armed conflict warns Putin
20220305
https://www.donegallive.ie/news/national-news/759256/no-fly-zone-over-ukraine-is-participation-in-armed-conflict-warns-putin.html
The vaguely worded statement did not make clear how long the routes would remain open.
Russia continues to crack down on independent media reporting on the war, also blocking Facebook and Twitter, and more outlets say they are pausing their work inside the country.
Mariupol had become the scene of growing misery amid days of shelling that knocked out power and most phone service and raised the prospect of food and water shortages for hundreds of thousands of people in freezing weather.
Meanwhile, diplomatic efforts continue as US secretary of state Antony Blinken arrived in Poland to meet the prime minister and foreign minister, a day after attending a Nato meeting in Brussels in which the alliance pledged to step up support for eastern flank members.
Deputy head of his office Kyrylo Tymoshenko said: The Russian side is not holding to the ceasefire and has continued firing on Mariupol itself and on its surrounding area.
Speaking at a meeting with female pilots today Saturday March 5, Mr Putin said Russia would view any move in this direction as an intervention that will pose a threat to our service members.
Nato has said a no-fly zone, which would bar all unauthorised aircraft from flying over Ukraine, could provoke widespread war in Europe with nuclear-armed Russia.
And in a warning of a hunger crisis yet to come, the UN World Food Programme says millions of people inside Ukraine, a major global wheat supplier, will need food aid immediately.
Mr Zelensky said: We are doing everything on our part to make the agreement work. This is one of the main tasks for today. Lets see if we can go further in the negotiation process.
The countrys aviation agency, Rosaviatsiya, had recommended that all Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes halt passenger and cargo flights abroad to prevent the aircraft from being impounded.
Russian president Vladimir Putin has said that Moscow would consider any third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as participation in the armed conflict.
That very second, we will view them as participants of the military conflict, and it would not matter what members they are, he said.
Aeroflot, Russias flagship state-owned airline, announced that it plans to halt all international flights, except to Belarus, starting on Tuesday in the wake of Western sanctions imposed on Russia.
The Russian defence ministry said early on Saturday that it had agreed on evacuation routes with Ukrainian forces for Mariupol, a strategic port in the south-east, and the eastern city of Volnovakha.
In a video message to anti-war protesters in several European cities, Mr Zelensky appealed for help, warning: If we fall, you will fall.
Russia breached the deal in Volnovakha as well, deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk told reporters.
The struggle to enforce the ceasefire shows the fragility of efforts to stop fighting across Ukraine as people continue to flee the country by the thousands.
Russian outlet RIA Novosti carried a Russian defence ministry claim that the firing came from inside both communities against Russian positions.
Mr Zelensky was set to brief US senators Saturday by video conference as US congress considers a request for 10 billion dollars 7.5 billion in emergency funding for humanitarian aid and security needs.
His comments came as a ceasefire to evacuate residents from two cities in Ukraine quickly fell apart, with officials saying work to remove civilians had halted amid shelling hours after Russia announced the deal.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has pushed Nato to impose a no-fly zone over his country, warning that all the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you, as Russian forces were battering strategic locations in Ukraine.
Talks with the Russian Federation are ongoing regarding setting up a ceasefire and ensuring a safe humanitarian corridor.
The head of Ukraines security council, Oleksiy Danilov, had urged Russia to create humanitarian corridors to allow children, women and the older adults to flee the fighting, calling them question number one.
But as the United States and other Nato members send weapons for Kyiv and more than one million refugees spill through the continent, the conflict is already drawing in countries far beyond Ukraines borders.
