Taoiseach restates solidarity with Ukraine as he arrives in Kyiv
20220706
https://www.donegallive.ie/news/national-news/853516/taoiseach-restates-solidarity-with-ukraine-as-he-arrives-in-kyiv.html
The bombardment and attacks on civilians are nothing short of war crimes, and I will use my visit to express Irelands support for moves to hold those behind these attacks fully accountable.
He will discuss how Ireland and the EU can support the country and will also witness first-hand the devastation caused by the Russian forces.
Mr Martin will restate Irelands full backing for continuing sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putins regime, for Ukraines path to full EU membership, as well as Irelands commitment to work with the EU on the reconstruction of Ukraine.
Mr Coveney also visited the town of Bucha, on the outskirts of the capital, where suspected killings of civilians prompted global condemnation.
The spirit and resolve of the Ukrainian people has inspired us all, and Ireland will provide every support for Ukraines path to full EU membership, and continue to welcome and support civilians fleeing this war.
Mr Martins trip comes two weeks after President Volodymyr Zelensky invited him to visit Ukraine.
It also comes after Mr Putin on Monday declared victory in seizing the eastern Ukrainian province of Luhansk, with his troops escalating their offensive in neighbouring Donetsk.
Micheal Martin will use the trip to reiterate Irish solidarity with the Ukrainian authorities in the face of the Russian invasion.
Mr Martin has warned previously that the Russian president appeared to be leveraging its natural gas supplies to exert maximum pressure on Europe ahead of the winter period.
Irelands premier pledged his countrys support for the people of Ukraine as he arrived in Kyiv for a visit to the war-torn capital.
The Taoiseach has also been a vocal advocate for Ukraines fast-tracked membership of the EU.
The people of Ireland stand with Ukraine and its people in the face of Russias immoral and unprovoked war of terror, he said.
Ireland has also taken in more than 36,000 Ukrainian refugees since Russia invaded neighbouring Ukraine at the end of February.
In April, Simon Coveney became the first foreign minister of the UN Security Council to visit Kyiv, and met Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and defence minister Oleksii Reznikov.
The Irish State has given 20 million euro in humanitarian support and assistance to the country, as well as health equipment and medical donations worth more than 4.5 million euro.
