The European Union is exposed  Taoiseach says discussion on neutrality may be needed
20220308
https://www.donegallive.ie/news/national-news/761399/the-european-union-is-exposed-taoiseach-says-discussion-on-neutrality-may-be-needed.html
He added: Everybody tried everything to stop Russia going to war. Leading Nato countries did everything they could to say to President Putin, You dont need to go to war.
The Taoiseach said Russia stands condemned in the international court of opinion for its attack on Ukraine.
Not right now, in the middle of a terrible war when we should be concentrating our resources on helping the people of Ukraine in a practical way.
I think we could look at a citizens assembly to discuss these issues in the fullness of time where detailed prepared submissions and perspectives from a wide range of opinion could be articulated.
This crisis does cause a need for further reflection on security architecture within Europe and within the wider world.
Mr Martin responded by saying the actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin have left the EU exposed in terms of security.
Mr Martin said Ireland has a tradition of military neutrality but has never been politically neutral.
Is it not time to re-commit to Irelands position of military neutrality, which does not mean ignoring this crisis?
President Putin has fundamentally changed the multilateral rules-based order by the nature of his unprovoked attack on Ukraine. It would be foolish to ignore that.
During leaders questions, People Before Profit TD Richard Boyd Barrett said there has been a clamour in Government to move Ireland away from its traditional position of military neutrality and closer to Nato and to the project of European militarisation.
Michal Martin has suggested a citizens assembly could be established to discuss Irelands policy of military neutrality.
The Taoiseach made the remarks in the Dil as he faced claims the Ukrainian invasion is bringing Ireland closer to Nato and European militarisation.
But he said now is not the time for a discussion on Irelands military neutrality, but instead to concentrate on measures to help the people of Ukraine.
He said: I find it absolutely extraordinary in the face of the dire consequences of war-mongering and militarism on the part of Putin that there is a thought that somehow more militarism, more arms expenditure and allying more closely with a military alliance is somehow a legitimate response.
