Letters Russias war in Ukraine doesnt compare to Israel and conflict in the Middle East
20220316
https://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/letterstotheeditor/article/Letters-Russia-s-war-in-Ukraine-doesn-t-17004828.php
Russia is a dictatorship and a kleptocracy. A parallel in the Middle East would be Iran, Hezbollah, Hamas and the Palestinian Authority.
It is painful to see the international community boycotting Russia while continuing to pander to the radical Islamists threatening Israel.
Without public outcry, there would have been and will be no substantive changes at all to shipping practices, laws and regulations to prevent those violent things from occurring.
Israel, too, of course, is a democracy. Ukraine and Israel dont start wars. They answer to the will of their people and defend themselves when attacked.
Having grown up in the Bay Area, I can attest to the fact that 50 years ago, a whale stranding was not only quite rare but was also big news, and many of us would flock to the site to check it out. Sadly, it is no longer so rare as the article so ably pointed out.
If a hiker is injured, help would be a long time coming. If a careless hiker accidentally started a fire, wed have a full-blown inferno before anyone even knew about it.
Regarding Slowing ships could save whales lives Front Page, March 15: I would like to commend Tara Duggan for a very informative article about ship strikes on whales. The quote, Its a pretty violent thing when a ship hits a whale, is really jarring for those who might never have thought about what exactly does happen when a ship hits a whale.
Regarding 320-mile trail from Humboldt to S.F. Bay gains momentum Bay Area  Business, March 15: The dramatic photograph accompanying the story about the proposed Great Redwood Trail is of the railroad bridge at the portal of the Island Mountain Tunnel, located in the middle of a stretch of Eel River Canyon wilderness with no paved roads, no public access and no cell service.
When it comes to filling the states coffers, there is no law that counts. Private enterprises have to deal with Byzantine rules established by the state itself, but when it comes to applying them to their own activities, they are all void and null.
Ukraine is a democracy. Its people are free and hardworking. It is the breadbasket of Europe. Half of Israels grain imports are from Ukraine.
Regarding U.S. foreign policy has no moral high ground Letters to the Editor, March 15: Bernie Corace is not the least bit concerned about the growing violence between Ukraine and Russia. He implies an equivalence between Russia and Israel. There is none.
Regarding Student cap law of CEQA removed Front Page, March 15: Once more California legislators have put themselves above the rule of law when they legislated an exemption for UC Berkeley against the ruling of the courts on the environmental review process.
It would be a very good thing if that jarring quote plus the information contained in the article produces some empathy for the plight of these magnificent creatures.
Those of us with a love of oceans, rivers, lakes and streams and the creatures that inhabit those places really appreciate Duggans focus on aquatic issues.
Relatives of Kyrylo Vyshyvany cry by his coffin during a funeral service Tuesday in Lviv, Ukraine. Vyshyvany, Oleh Yaschyshyn, Sergiy Melnyk and Rostyslav Romanchuk died Sunday in a Russian air strike on the nearby International Center for Peacekeeping and Security at the Yavoriv military complex.
If the millions that this trail will cost was instead spent to rehabilitate the existing railroad, thousands of people could enjoy this magnificent scenery instead of a few hundred hikers. And thousands of semi-truck loads could be on the tracks instead of smoking up and down the highway.
