When will gas prices return to normal Heres what experts are saying
20220309
https://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/When-will-gas-prices-return-to-normal-Here-s-16987325.php
In response to concerns about price gouging at gas stations, De Haan said: Stations are raising prices because their cost of replacement is going up, meaning that theyre paying more for their gas. Is that gouging? No. If somebody raises their price beyond $1 gallon higher than anyone else, maybe thats gouging but stations in most cases are simply raising their price because the price that they pay also went up.
Gas prices in Mono County, located in the east central portion of the state near Yosemite National Park, which has had the highest averages in the state for about a year, was at $6.02 Tuesday, said Vazquez.
As gas prices continued to climb Tuesday in California and across the U.S. amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine, will the cost of gas return to normal anytime soon or for the summer travel season?
The Bay Area is also seeing some of the highest prices in the state. Out of the regions nine counties, Marin County had the highest average price Tuesday at $5.62 per gallon, according to the AAA.
On Tuesday, the average price for gas in California was $5.44  10 cents higher than Monday, according to AAA.
As long as this war continues  and any further actions taken against Russia or Russia retaliating against the United States and its allies  it will have a big impact on gas prices, said Aldo Vazquez, a spokesperson for AAA.
I'm a little bit concerned California now could hit the $6-a-gallon average, De Haan said.
During his annoncement Tuesday, President Biden warned U.S. oil and gas companies against profiteering or price gouging at the pump. Russia's aggression is costing us alland it's no time for profiteering or price gouging, he said.
President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced a ban on Russian crude oil imports into the U.S., the White Houses latest attempt to impose additional sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin.
But De Haan of GasBuddy says oil and gas companies are not in charge of raising the price of oil  that falls on the oil market and how often people fill up their tanks, he said.
I expect that it will probably hit more of us in the wallets in the coming weeks as we fill up, said De Haan.
Experts were also monitoring gas prices in California, as the Golden State has the highest average prices in the U.S., according to the American Automobile Association.
For now, experts encouraged travelers to drive more fuel efficiently by driving slower on highways, minimize using air conditioning and finding gas stations with low prices. Heres where and how to look in the Bay Area.
Petroleum experts said its hard to predict if and when gas prices will start to go down, but they anticipated the record-high prices would likely linger in the coming weeks as Russia continues its assault on Ukraine.
The price board at a gas station is shown next to a California Street sign in San Francisco, Calif. on Monday, March 7, 2022. According to petroleum-industry experts, gas prices are likely to get worse before it gets better for many Californians and most states across the country.
Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at Gas Buddy, in a Tuesday video update on gas prices, said high prices at the pump will likely stick around for months unless something changes the course of Russias war on Ukraine.
On Tuesday, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, jumped to roughly $130 per barrel, according to the New York Times.
The cost of crude oil has been on the rise even before Russia invaded Ukraine in February, said Vazquez, tapping out at about $90 per barrel. As soon as the invasion began, we saw it spiked up to $100, and it's been going up steadily, he said.
According to petroleum-industry experts, its going to get worse before it gets better for many Californians and most states across the country.
Russia is overall a small producer of oil to the U.S. but this is a global commodity, said De Haan. Everyone feels the effects of it.
While Russia isnt a big crude oil producer for the U.S., experts say the effects will be felt across the country because the global oil market is interconnected.
