With Bay Area gas prices set to rise heres where to find the cheapest gallon right now
20220504
https://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/With-Bay-Area-gas-prices-set-to-rise-here-s-17147436.php
In response to Russia invading Ukraine, President Joe Biden in March announced a ban on Russian oil, gas and coal, although the U.S. received only about 3 of crude oil from Russia in 2021, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Drivers in California continue to pay the highest prices for gas in the country, according to the American Automobile Association.
Prices began rising in California and the U.S. after Russia, the worlds third-largest producer of petroleum and other oil in 2020, invaded Ukraine in February.
In the Bay Area, gas stations in San Francisco and San Mateo, Napa and Sonoma counties had some of the states most expensive gas as of Wednesday, according to data by AAA.
Average gas prices on Wednesday, according to AAA data, were $5.91 in San Mateo County with $5.79 in Santa Clara County $5.80 in Alameda County $5.68 in Solano County $5.87 in Sonoma County and $5.86 in Marin County.
Summer is likely to be bumpy as it doesnt look like the Kremlin will be giving up its war on Ukraine anytime soon, he added.
Gas prices are seen at a Acro gas station in San Francisco, California Friday, March 18, 2022. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has put gas prices on the rise nationwide in recent days while Californians, who already pay more on average at the pump than the rest of the nation. Prices are expected to increase with a planned gas tax hike that takes effect in July.
In the Bay Area, drivers are seeing some of the states highest average prices, and will soon pay even more for a gallon of gas as the states gas tax is scheduled to increase by about 3 cents on July 1.
The lowest average prices on Wednesday were in Contra Costa County at $5.77, according to the AAA.
But its still unclear when prices will start to go down. De Haan predicted that until theres a positive ending to the Russia war on Ukraine, prices will remain high.
Demand is still ahead of supply, which has kept oil elevated, said Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis for GasBuddy.
De Haan said California drivers have seen some relief at the pump compared to a month ago when average gas prices were at $5.85. The current average is at $5.75 per gallon, according to AAA.
Since then, the price of crude oil has risen from $90 per barrel to more than $100.
And there hasnt been meaningful long-term improvement in the supply situation with sanctions on Russia still effectively keeping some of their oil off the global market, he added.
Napa County and San Francisco had the highest prices in the Bay Area, according to the AAA. The average price for a gallon of regular gas was running at $5.93 and $5.91 on Wednesday, respectively, compared to a year ago, when they were at $4.23 and $4.16.
