The US Imposes New Export Controls on Russia and Regions of Ukraine UK and EU Assessing Measures
20220301
https://www.natlawreview.com/article/us-imposes-new-export-controls-russia-and-regions-ukraine-uk-and-eu-assessing
Under  746.8a3 of the EAR, a license is required to reexport, export from abroad, and transfer in-country to or within any destination any foreign-made item subject to the EAR under the Russia-Military End User Russia-MEU FDP rule  734.9g, other than EAR99-designated food or medicine or ECCN 5A992.c and 5D992.c items, unless they are destined for Russian government end-users or Russian state-owned enterprises SOEs. The Russia-MEU FDP rule is described below.
This alert summarizes the new license requirements foreigndirect product FDP rules scope of Russian military end use and end user control Entity List additions export controls on the Crimea Region of Ukraine, as well as the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic together, the Covered Regions of Ukraine and country list classification regarding Russia.
BIS will review export license applications under this rule with a policy of denial. However, BIS will perform case-by-case reviews to determine whether the transaction involving the following applications of items would benefit the Russian government or defense sector: safety of flight, maritime safety, humanitarian needs, government space cooperation, items destined to specified Western subsidiaries and joint ventures operating in Russia,1 civil telecommunications infrastructure provided by companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 countries, and government-togovernment activities.
BIS transferred forty-five Russian entities from the Military End-User List to the Entity List and expanded the corresponding license requirement to all items subject to the EAR. BIS also added two new Russian entitiesthe International Center for Quantum Optics and Quantum Technologies LLC, and SP Kvant both denoted with an asterisk in the below listto the Entity List for obtaining or attempting to obtain U.S.-origin items in support of nuclear activities for Russia. These entities are now subject to license requirements that apply to all items subject to the EAR except for EAR99-designated food and medicine, as well as ECCN 5A992.c and 5D992 items not for Russian government end users or Russian SOEs. All forty-seven of the following entities are military end users under  744.21b of the EAR.
On February 25, 2022, the Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security BIS unveiled extensive new export control regulations on Russia and Russian-aligned regions of Ukraine as part of the Biden Administrations economic sanctions package in response to the RussiaUkraine conflict. This alert is the second installment of the Biden Administrations response to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. See also our alert on the US, UK and EU Targeted and Territorial Sanctions.
Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation including the national armed services army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard, as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations of the Russian Federation
The European Commission has announced its intent to implement a technical compliance denial, which effectively operates as a ban, on imports of goods originating from the Covered Regions of Ukraine into the European Union. The European Commission also plans to impose restrictions on the direct and indirect provision of financing, insurance, and reinsurance of goods originating from the Covered Regions of Ukraine. Additionally, the European Commission will likely prohibit entities within its jurisdiction from selling, supplying, transferring, or exporting tourism services, as well as goods and technology within the key sectors e.g., items related to transport telecommunications energy oil and gas and minerals as described in Annex II of the Council Regulation 2022262, to the Covered Regions of Ukraine.
Section 734.9f is the Russia FDP Rule. For purposes of this rule, a foreign-made item located outside the United States is subject to the EAR if: 1 it is not EAR99 2 it is either the direct product of U.S.-origin technology or software specified in any product group D or E ECCN in CCL Categories 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9, or the output of a plant or major component of a plant that itself is the direct product of such U.S.-origin technology or software and 3 there is knowledge that the item is destined to Russia, or will be incorporated into or used in the production or development of any non-EAR99 part, component, or equipment produced in or destined to Russia.2 Foreign-made items subject to the EAR under the Russia FDP Rule will be subject to the new  746.8a2 license requirement and eligible for limited exceptions described in  746.8c1-7 as discussed in the previous Part.
License Exception TSU for software updates for civil end users provided those civil end users are subsidiaries or joint ventures of companies headquartered in the United States or a country or countries from Country Groups A:5 or A:6,  740.13c
None of these entities qualify for a license exception when they are parties to a transaction, except JSC Central Research Institute of Machine Building JSC TsNIIMash and JSC Rocket and Space Centre  Progress, which are eligible for a U.S. Government authorization under License Exception GOV  740.11b2, e.
BIS adds Russia to Country Group D:5 to harmonize the arms embargo-related provisions in the EAR with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controlss regulation of arms embargoes in 22 C.F.R.  126.1 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ITAR 22 C.F.R. parts 120-130. Per  742.4b1ii of the EAR, items classified under 9x515 or 600 series ECCNs will be reviewed with a policy of denial consistent with U.S. arms embargo policies in  126.1 of the ITAR when they are destined to a Country Group D:5 country.
Under  746.8a1 of the Export Administration Regulations EAR 15 C.F.R. parts 730-774, a license is required to export, reexport, or transfer in-country to or within Russia any item subject to the EAR and described in any Export Control Classification Number ECCN in Categories 3 through 9 of the CCL. Deemed exports and deemed reexports are excluded from this license requirement. Notably, the scope of this new license requirement captures items that previously did not require a license to send to Russia, including the parts and components used in civil aircraft controlled under ECCN 9A991.d. The Biden Administrations objective is to restrict Russias access to items that it cannot independently produce.
Section 734.9g the Russia-MEU FDP Rule targets Russian military end-users. For purposes of this rule, a foreign-made item located outside the United States is subject to the EAR if 1 it is either the direct product of technology or software regardless of origin specified in any product group D or E ECCN in any CCL category or the output of a plant or major component of a plant that itself is the direct product of such U.S.-origin technology or software and 2 there is knowledge that i the item will be incorporated into or used in the production or development of any part, component, or equipment produced, purchased, or ordered by a Footnote 3 designated entity3 i.e., a military end-user on the Entity List under Russia, or ii a Footnote 3 designated entity is a party to any transaction4 involving the foreign-made item.5 Foreign-made items subject to the EAR under the Russia-MEU FDP rule will be subject to the new  746.8a3 license requirement without exception other than as specified in the Entity List entry for a Footnote 3 entity on the Entity List in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of the EAR.
As discussed above, the UK plans to implement export controls similar to those the United States has imposed, including a ban on the export of dual-use itemsnamely high-end and critical technical equipment and components in the electronics, telecommunications, aerospace and other sectorsto Russia.
Previously, the general prohibition of  744.21a of the EAR required a license to export, reexport, or transfer in-country any item subject to the EAR listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 774 to Burma, Cambodia, China, Russia, or Venezuela if there is knowledge7 that the item is intended entirely or partially for a military end-use or end-user in any of the listed countries at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer incountry. Now, for items destined to Russia, the new rule expands the product scope for this license requirement to cover all items subject to the EAR, except EAR99-designated food and medicine, and ECCN 5A992.c and 5D992.c items not for Russian government end users or Russian SOEs, if there is knowledge that the item is intended entirely or partially for a military end-use or end-user in any of the listed countries at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer incountry. License Exception GOV  740.11b2i-ii is the only license exception available for such transactions.
BIS has imposed a license requirement for the export and reexport to Crimea and the Covered Regions of Ukraine, as well as the transfer within the three regions, of all items subject to the EAR, other than EAR99-designated food and medicine and certain software for Internet-based personal communications i.e., ECCN 5D992.c software. BIS will review applications involving such transactions under a policy of denial except for items authorized under the Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control general licenses. The same narrow license exceptions previously available to Crimea under  746.6 are also now available to the other Covered Regions of Ukraine.
Federal State Budgetary Enterprise Special Flight Unit Rossiya of the Administration of the President of Russia
Certain sections of License Exception TMP for items for use by the news media,  740.9a9
Under  746.8a2 of the EAR, a license is required to reexport, export from abroad, and transfer in-country to any destination any foreign-made item subject to the EAR under the Russia FDP rule  734.9f, which is described below.
The new Russian export controls establish two new FDP rules that cause more foreign-made items to be subject to the EAR when destined for Russia or Russian military end-users.
The UK Prime Minister announced that the UK would be implementing export controls similar to those now imposed by the United States, including a ban on the export of dualuse items to Russia. The EU is expected to adopt similar measures.
BIS has expanded the restrictions in  746.6 to apply to export, reexport, and transfer in-country transactions involving the Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic regions of Ukraine together, the Covered Regions of Ukraine and the provision of goods, services, or technology from the United States or by a U.S. person. BIS has also imposed new license requirements for certain export, reexport, and transfer in-country transactions involving the Crimea region of Ukraine to ensure all restrictions on it conform with those on the Covered Regions of Ukraine.
The new rule allows for limited license exceptions when a license is otherwise required. Those license exceptions are:
Additionally, BIS revised two Russian entitiesFederal Security Service FSB and Main Intelligence Directorate already on the Entity List by adding a Footnote 3 designation to each because the End-User Review Committee has determined that these entities are military end users.
BIS has created a Russia Exclusions List to exclude certain countries,6 including the UK and EU, planning to implement similar export controls measures from the requirements of the Russia and Russia-MEU FDP Rules and the de minimis provisions under Supplement No. 2 to part 734 with respect to ECCNs that either control an item only for anti-terrorism AT reasons or are described in ECCN 9A991.
