US Imposes Additional Severe Sanctions on Russia in Response to Russias Military Advance into Ukraine
20220226
https://www.natlawreview.com:443/article/us-imposes-additional-severe-sanctions-russia-response-to-russia-s-military-advance
As an update to KL Gates previousalerton 24 February, U.S. President Joe Biden announced sanctions and export controls against Russia that are in addition to those imposed on the 21st and 22nd of February. This escalation of sanctions is in response to Russias military advance into Ukraine on multiple fronts. The following is a general high-level summary of these measures, some of which involve lengthy and complex rules.
The final rule expands export restrictions for military end uses and military end users in Russia. Previously, this restriction applied to certain specified items, but now export restrictions will apply to all items subject to the EAR with limited exceptions.
Among thesanctions imposed on 24 February, the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC added the following four Russian banks to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List SDN List: 1 VTB Bank 2 Bank Otkritie 3 Sovcombank OJSC and 4 Novikombank, as well as numerous subsidiaries of each bank. In conjunction with these blocking sanctions, OFAC issued several general licenses GLs authorizing U.S. persons to wind down certain categories of transactions with specified blocked banks by an appointed deadline. These include:GL 8energy related transactions,GL 9dealings in certain debt or equity,GL 10dealings in derivative contracts, andGL 11wind down of other transactions.
In addition, OFAC has imposed blocking sanctions on a host of other parties, including certain wealthy Russian individuals and their family members. Due to their support of the Ukraine invasion, OFAC has also designated numerous Belarusian individuals and entities to the SDN List, including certain state-owned banks, military institutions, and defense firms.
New export license requirements for a broad array of microelectronics, telecommunications items, sensors, navigation equipment, avionics, marine equipment, aircraft components, and other items, classified under 58 different export control classification numbers on the Commerce Control List of the Export Administration Regulations EAR not previously controlled for Russia.
The U.S. Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security BIS has issued afinal rulethat vastly expands existing export restrictions for Russia as a destination as well as for specific Russian end-users. The following is an overview of these new restrictions.
Forty-nine Russian entities have been added to the Entity List, which means a license is required to export, re-export, or transfer any item subject to the EAR tofor the listed entity. Most of these entities were transferred from the MEU List administered by BIS to the Entity List, where they carry the footnote 3 designation. This means the Russia MEU FDPR applies to these entities, broadening the scope of non-U.S. items that are controlled for the Russian MEUs.
Also significantly, the final rule establishes two new versions of the foreign direct product rule FDPR for Russia. Under the FDPR, non-U.S. origin items are subject to the EAR and its licensing requirements if they are the direct product of certain U.S.-origin technology or software. In 2020, BIS implemented a more expansive version of the FDPR for the Chinese company Huawei and certain affiliates. This final rule establishes two special versions of the FDPR for Russia, one for exports, re-exports, and transfers tofor Russian military end users Russia MEUs, which greatly expands the scope of non-U.S.-origin items subject to U.S. export controls, and one for all other exports, re-exports, and transfers to Russia. The FDPR for Russia MEUs does not apply to exports from the following partner countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.
U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in any dealings in new debt of greater than 14 days maturity and new equity issued by the following 13 Russian state-owned enterprises and entities: Sberbank, AlfaBank, Credit Bank of Moscow, Gazprombank, Russian Agricultural Bank, Gazprom, Gazprom Neft, Transneft, Rostelecom, RusHydro, Alrosa, Sovcomflot, and Russian Railways. As a result of these sanctions, these entities will be prevented from accessing U.S. capital.
U.S. persons are barred from engaging in any transaction, directly or indirectly, involving these SDNs, and the property and property interests of these SDNs are blocked frozen within U.S. jurisdictions, including any such property that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. person. These restrictions apply not only to the entities expressly named on the SDN List, but also to any entity or property owned 50 or more by SDNs.
BIS policy will be to deny most export license applications for Russia. Greater case-by-case consideration will be given for flight safety, maritime safety, humanitarian needs, government space cooperation, civil telecommunications infrastructure, and government-to-government activities, and to support limited operations of partner country companies in Russia. In addition, under the final rule, many of the EAR-based license exceptions that would normally relieve exporters from specific licensing requirements do not apply for Russia exports, re-exports, and transfers.
U.S. financial institutions are prohibited from opening or maintaining any correspondent account or payable-through account for Sberbank, Russias largest financial institution, along with 25 of its subsidiaries. Although Sberbank is not subject to blocking sanctions, this measure does cut off its access to U.S. dollar transactions.
