Seafood industry braces for losses of jobs fish due to sanctions
20220331
https://helenair.com/news/national/seafood-industry-braces-for-losses-of-jobs-fish-due-to-sanctions/article_66695e04-51c0-5940-8149-95c56c9ec0f0.html
He added that "our licensed partner has agreed to immediately pause store operations and will provide support to the nearly 2,000 employees in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood."
"We are deeply concerned by how the crisis keeps escalating in Ukraine," the company added.
Airbus followed Boeing with a similar move. In a statement, the company said it has "suspended support services to Russian airlines, as well as the supply of spare parts to the country."
Ikea, the world's largest furniture company, is closing its 17 stores in Russia. The company said the conflict is having a "huge human impact" and is "resulting in serious disruptions to supply chain and trading conditions." In addition to pausing its retail and manufacturing operations in Russia, it will suspend all trade with the country and its ally, Belarus.
Microsoft said it was suspending all new sales of its products and services in Russia. President and vice-chair Brad Smith also said the company is stopping "many aspects" of its business in Russia in compliance with government sanctions. Microsoft also said it will continue aiding in Ukrainian cybersecurity.
"We might be able to bring in more from Norway, a little more from Canadian fisheries," Golet said. "It really is driven by the price of those imports."
"We are shocked by the loss of life in Ukraine, which we deplore, resulting from a senseless act of military aggression which threatens European security," Shell CEO Ben van Beurden said in a statement.
"Maybe this is a time to use haddock or hake or maybe monkfish, something different," Martens said. "If it's going to disrupt supply chains it does present an opportunity for other species to fill that void."
The brewer announced on March 9 that it would "take immediate steps to ring-fence" its Russian business, "to stop the flow of monies, royalties and dividends" out of the country.
For U.S. producers of seafood staples such as fish and chips, the lack of Russian cod could mean pivoting to other foreign sources, said Walt Golet, a research assistant professor at the University of Maine's School of Marine Sciences.
"We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation," a Disney spokesperson said.
Patricia Kopta, nicknamed "The Sparrow," was a model and dance instructor before she vanished in 1992. Here's her story.
"AWS has clear terms of service where if a customer is using AWS services to threaten, incite, promote, or actively encourage violence, terrorism, or other serious harm, they will not be permitted to use our services," Amazon said. "Any customer we know of who is participating in this type of behavior will have their access to AWS suspended."
A spokesperson for the US satellite carrier told CNN Business that it had already been reviewing whether to renew the outlet's carriage agreement, which was due to expire later this year. Russia's war on Ukraine sped up its decision, according to the representative.
"As the stability and safety of our operations is already being directly and indirectly impacted by sanctions, new Maersk bookings to and from Russia will be temporarily suspended, with exception of foodstuffs, medical and humanitarian supplies," the Denmark-based company said in a statement.
Russia exported more than 28 million pounds 12.7 million kilograms of cod to the U.S. from Jan. 1, 2020, to Jan. 31, 2022, according to census data.
The Sakhalin-1 venture is "one of the largest single international direct investments in Russia," according to the project's website. An Exxon subsidiary has a 30 share, while Rosneft also owns a stake.
American Express said in a statement that globally issued American Express cards will no longer work in Russia, and cards issued in Russia won't work outside the country. The company also said it is ending its business operations in Belarus.
"Because seafood is a global commodity, even if they are not harvested in Russia, you will notice the price hike," Tokunaga said.
GM doesn't have a significant presence there: It sells only about 3,000 vehicles a year through 16 dealerships, according to a spokesperson. That's out of the more than 6 million vehicles the Detroit-based automaker sells annually.
"We are deeply shocked and saddened by the unprovoked attack on Ukraine," the spokesman added. "Our first priority over the past week has been the safety of our employees and to ensure that Spotify continues to serve as an important source of global and regional news at a time when access to information is more important than ever."
In the U.S., the dependence on foreign cod stems to the loss of its own once-robust Atlantic cod fishery that cratered in the face of overfishing and environmental changes. U.S. fishermen, based mostly in New England, brought more than 100 million pounds 45.4 million kilograms of cod to the docks per year in the early 1980s, but the 2020 catch was less than 2 million pounds 900,000 kilograms.
Amazon's cloud division, Amazon Web Services, said March 8 it would halt new sign-ups for the service in Russia and Ukraine. The company has already had a "long-standing policy of not doing business with the Russian government" and does not have data centers, infrastructure or offices in Russia, the company said in a blog post.
PORTLAND, Maine AP  The worldwide seafood industry is steeling itself for price hikes, supply disruptions and potential job losses as new rounds of economic sanctions on Russia make key species such as cod and crab harder to come by.
A company spokesperson said that the decision was made "in light of the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine," and that the company hoped "for a swift and peaceful resolution to this tragedy."
Disney is also suspending the release of its theatrical films in Russia, citing "the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine."
Roku, which sells hardware allowing users to stream content through the internet, has banned RT worldwide.
Ikea said 15,000 workers would be directly affected by the shutdown in the region. The company will continue to pay them, at least for the time being.
UPS and FedEx have suspended operations in Russia and Belarus. FedEx said it suspended operations to "support the people of Ukraine." DHL said it has suspended inbound shipments to Russia and Belarus.
The company has plants in St. Petersburg, Elabuga and Naberezhnye Chelny but said it had "significantly wound down" its Russian operations in recent years. The automaker said it was "deeply concerned about the situation in Ukraine," and noted it has "a strong contingent of Ukrainian nationals working at Ford around the world."
U.S. consumers are most likely to notice the impact of sanctions via price and availability of fish, said Kanae Tokunaga, who runs the Coastal and Marine Economics Lab at Gulf of Maine Research Institute in Portland.
Regulators have tried to save the fishery with management measures such as very low fishing quotas, and many fishermen targeting other East Coast groundfish species such as haddock and flounder now avoid cod altogether.
HM Group, which operates a number of brands, had 168 stores in Russia as of last November, according to its website.
Procter  Gamble CEO Jon Moeller said in a letter to employees on March 7 that the company has "discontinued all new capital investments in Russia" and is "suspending all media, advertising, and promotional activity."
"We are significantly reducing our product portfolio to focus on basic health, hygiene and personal care items needed by the many Russian families who depend on them in their daily lives," Moeller said. "As we proceed with the reduced scale of our Russian operations, we will continue to adjust as necessary."
Facebook-parent Meta said it would block access to Russian news outlets Sputnik and RT, the Russia-backed television network infamous for promoting Russian President Vladimir Putin's agenda, across the European Union.
A company spokesperson confirmed the aircraft maker was pausing "parts, maintenance and technical support services for Russian airlines," and had also "suspended major operations in Moscow and temporarily closed our office in Kyiv."
In a statement, the company said that it was "deeply concerned about the tragic developments in Ukraine, and stands with all the people who are suffering."
Ford announced it was suspending its operations in Russia. The American automaker has a 50 stake in Ford Sollers, a joint venture that employs at least 4,000 workers and is shared with Russian company Sollers.
WarnerMedia said on February 28 that it would pause the release of "The Batman" in Russia.
The European Union and United Kingdom are both deeply dependent on Russian seafood. And prices of seafood are already spiking in Japan, a major seafood consumer that is limiting its trade with Russia.
"If you're getting cod from Russia, it's going to be a problem," said Glen Libby, an owner of Port Clyde Fresh Catch, a seafood market in Tenants Harbor, Maine. "That's quite a mess. We'll see how it turns out."
In a Tuesday message to employees, Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson said that "today, we have decided to suspend all business activity in Russia."
"I have heard from seafood processors in my home state with concerns about potential sudden effects of a new, immediate ban on imports on their workforce, including hundreds of union workers in the seafood processing industry," he said on the Senate floor in February.
Twitter has similarly announced plans to "reduce the visibility and amplification" of Russian state media content.
Shell is getting out of Russia and ditching its joint ventures with Gazprom, including its involvement with the moribund Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline.
South Carolina lawyer Alex Murdaugh has been sentenced to life without parole in the fatal shootings of his wife, son.
"We're a massive part of U.K. culture and it would be a shame to see that go," he told broadcaster ITV.
Shell has also decided to stop buying Russian oil and gas and will close its service station network.
In the U.K., where fish and chips are a cultural marker, shop owners and consumers alike are bracing for price surges. British fish and chip shops were already facing a squeeze because of soaring energy costs and rising food prices.
Yum Brands, which has 1,000 KFC and Pizza Hut franchises in Russia, said it would suspend all investment and restaurant development in the country. The company said it would "assess additional options" and redirect all profits from operations in Russia to humanitarian efforts.
"Given the horrific events occurring in Ukraine we are announcing the suspension of the sale of Pepsi-Cola, and our global beverage brands in Russia, including 7Up and Mirinda." Laguarta added that Pepsi is suspending capital investments, ads and promotional activity in Russia.
Google and YouTube have also said they will no longer allow Russian state media outlets to run ads or monetize their content.
The film is one of the biggest blockbusters of the year, and is being released in most countries by Warner Bros. which, like CNN, is a unit of WarnerMedia.
McDonald's is temporarily closing its Russian restaurants. Eighty-four percent of McDonald's locations in Russia are operated by the company, according to the document. Russia's restaurants, along with another 108 in Ukraine, all operated by McDonald's, accounted for 9 of the company's revenue in 2021.
Spotify said it has closed its office in Russia "indefinitely" and restricted shows "owned and operated by Russian state-affiliated media." The streaming service removed all content from RT and Sputnik in Europe and other regions, a company spokesman said.
The company stated that "our hearts are with the people who are enduring unconscionable effects from these tragic events in Ukraine," adding that it will monitor the situation as things change.
"We are assessing the strategic options for the future of our Russian operations," it said in a statement. "We see a clear distinction between the actions of the government and our employees in Russia."
The latest round of U.S. attempts to punish Russia for the invasion of Ukraine includes bans on imports of seafood, alcohol and diamonds. The U.S. is also stripping "most favored nation status" from Russia. Nations around the world are taking similar steps.
Volkswagen is stopping production of vehicles in Russia and has suspended exports to the Russian market. The decision applies to the Russian production sites in Kaluga and Nizhny Novgorod.
Airbnb cofounder and CEO Brian Chesky said in a tweet that his company was suspending all operations in Russia and Belarus.
The family of actor Tom Sizemore is currently "deciding end of life matters" following an update from doctors, according to a statement receiv
Russia is one of the largest producers of seafood in the world, and was the fifth-largest producer of wild-caught fish, according to a 2020 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Russia is not one of the biggest exporters of seafood to the U.S., but it's a world leader in exports of cod the preference for fish and chips in the U.S.. It's also a major supplier of crabs and Alaska pollock, widely used in fast-food sandwiches and processed products like fish sticks.
"Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia," a Netflix spokesperson told CNN.
Mastercard said it was suspending its network services in Russia. Cards supported by Russian banks will not work in the company's network, and any cards issued outside of Russia will not work within the country.
Nissan has suspended the export of vehicles to Russia, adding that it "anticipates that production will stop soon at our plant in St. Petersburg."
The beverage giant, which sells into more than 190 countries, had already announced a suspension on new investments and exports to Russia.
Exxon pledged to leave its last remaining oil-and-gas project in Russia and not to invest in new developments in the country.
General Electric suspended most of its operations in Russia, with the exception of "providing essential medical equipment and supporting existing power services."
Andrew Crook, head of the National Federation of Fish Friers, said earlier this month that  even before the war  he expected a third of Britain's fish and chip shops to go out of business. If fish prices shoot up even higher, "we are in real dire straits," he said.
"In Ukraine, we have been in constant touch with our local teams and continue to provide assistance that includes relocation and financial support," Krishna said. "The safety and security of IBMers and their families in all areas impacted by this crisis remains our top priority."
In mid-March, the U.K. slapped a 35 tariff hike on Russian whitefish, including chip-shop staples cod and haddock.
The department's position that Trump is not immune from suit was laid out in a filing before a federal appeals court.
Visa said it is suspending all of its operations in Russia. It will end all Visa transactions within its borders, and Visa cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside of the country. In addition, all Visa cards worldwide "will no longer work within the Russian Federation," Visa said.
As an alternative, producers and consumers could try underutilized fish species caught domestically, such as Atlantic pollock and redfish, said Ben Martens, executive director of Maine Coast Fishermen's Association.
Seafood processors in Massachusetts are concerned about job losses due to loss of Russian products, Democratic U.S. Sen. Ed Markey, who does support sanctions on Russia, said.
WarnerMedia is also pausing all new business in Russia, ceasing broadcast of its channels, halting all new content licensing with Russian entities, and pausing planned theatrical and games releases.
The impact is likely to be felt globally, as well as in places with working waterfronts. One of those is Maine, where more than $50 million in seafood products from Russia passed through Portland in 2021, according to federal statistics.
The credit giant, which has operated in Russia for more than 25 years, had previously announced that it had "blocked multiple financial institutions" from its network as a result of anti-Russian sanctions, and would "continue to work with regulators in the days ahead."
The move comes after the company received "requests from a number of governments and the EU to take further steps in relation to Russian state controlled media," Nick Clegg, Meta's VP of global affairs, wrote in a tweet.
By quitting this project, Exxon would end more than a quarter-century of continuing business presence in Russia.
The entertainment giant had multiple films set for release in Russia in the coming months. That includes Marvel's "Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness" on May 5 and Pixar's "Lightyear" on June 16.
Toyota announced it would stop making cars in Russia or importing them to the country "until further notice, due to supply chain disruptions."
YouTube, which is owned by Google, said it blocked Russian state media within Ukraine, including RT. The video platform also said it would be "significantly limiting recommendations to these channels."
TotalEnergies also condemned Russia's actions and said it would no longer provide capital for new projects in the country.
The UK-based oil company said on February 28 it would dump its stake in a liquified natural gas facility, its stake in a project to develop fields in western Siberia and its interest in an exploration project in the Gydan peninsula in northwestern Siberia.
Unilever said it will "continue to supply our everyday essential food and hygiene products made in Russia to people in the country," adding "we will keep this under close review." But the company noted it is has suspended imports of its products to Russia and is stopping all investment in the country, in addition to stopping exports from there. It said it won't profit from its presence in Russia.
BP said it was planning to exit its 19.75 stake in Russia's biggest oil company, Rosneft, and suspending their joint ventures  which amount to one of the biggest foreign investments in Russia.
The tech giant said in a statement that it was "deeply concerned" about the Russian invasion. In response, the company has also moved to limit access to digital services, such as Apple Pay, inside Russia, and restricted the availability of Russian state media applications outside the country.
"Given the current situation, we have no plans to add these channels to our service," the company told CNN Business.
But PepsiCo will continue to sell some of its products, including baby formula, baby food, milk and other dairy options.
The French oil giant has done business in Russia for 25 years, and recently helped launch a major liquefied natural gas project on the Siberian coast.
Meta has also said it has applied algorithmic restrictions on Russian state media that should prevent those posts from surfacing as prominently in users' feeds.
FILE - In this Oct. 29, 2015, file photo, a cod to be auctioned sits on ice at the Portland Fish Exchange, in Portland, Maine. Russia, along with Iceland and Norway, remains a major producer of the white fish, which it harvests from the Barents Sea and other frigid oceans.
CNBC reports that on March 11, President Biden issued an executive order halting imports of Russian products, such as diamonds, seafood and alcohol.
German sports company Puma said it is suspending operations of all of its stores in Russia. The company said it operates more than 100 stores in the country.
The additions come as KFC recently removed some menu items, including wings, popcorn chicken and cookies, to make room for new additions.
Previously, the company said it was refusing to air Russian state TV channels  something that the platform would have been required to do starting this week under Russian law.
