Commentary Why US should support Ukraines freedom
20220106
https://www.postandcourier.com/opinion/commentary/commentary-why-us-should-support-ukraines-freedom/article_5f44b9fe-6d89-11ec-a170-1f89bad9e3d7.html
What can Washington and its allies do to deter Moscow from invading its western neighbor? NATO should make it clear that the cost of any invasion will be severe and immediate.
Cui Bono is a Latin term for who benefits from a Russian invasion? Certainly not Washington or NATO, which would lose any remaining credibility. Certainly not the Ukrainian people who will sacrifice most on their home soil. Not the common Russian soldier, who will be fighting a guerilla war in a foreign country. And not the long-suffering Russian people, who endured so much in World War II and, more recently, during the Afghan War as the body bags returned from a far-off land.
We know that Putin has not accepted Ukraine as a real nation. It is, of course, not up to Moscow or Washington or Brussels to decide the fate of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people have spoken, and they want to remain a free and independent nation.
On Monday, U.S. and Russian leaders will meet to discuss the fate of Ukraine. Three days later, NATO allies will join the talks.
Nevertheless, Ukraine has become a respected member of the international community. In the 1990s, at American insistence, Ukraine eliminated all its nuclear weapons it was the worlds third largest nuclear state at the time an act of extraordinary statecraft.
On Dec. 1, 1991, in a free and fair election, 92.3, including most Russian speakers, voted for independence. On Christmas day 1991the day Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev announced the dissolution of the USSR Washington officially recognized Ukraine's independence. Ten days later, I was appointed acting ambassador.
So who is responsible for the current crisis, and what should be done? Russian President Vladimir Putin says the West. Yet since 2004 NATO has not expanded eastward and has refrained from placing nuclear weapons or combat forces in the Eastern Europe. At the same time, Russia has occupied Crimea and eastern Ukraine and parts of Georgia and Moldova, placed nuclear missiles near Ukraine contrary to the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty and now has stationed more than 100,000 troops at the Ukrainian border.
In the 30 years that followed, Kyiv, with Western assistance, introduced democracy and a market economy. Admittedly, Ukraine is at best an imperfect democracy. Perhaps, after 70 years of communist rule, we could expect no better.
Leaders in Washington were more comfortable with the dealing with the devil we knew the Soviet Union than the devil we did not Ukraine and numerous unruly new nations.
Nevertheless, the consulate was tasked to report the situation on the ground. We noted that there was a growing independence movement in Ukraine. Washington had to accept that reality, we argued it reflected the will of the Ukrainian people.
It also has been a good ally, serving side-by-side with American forces in Afghanistan and other hot spots. It has conducted numerous free elections and threatens no one.
Militarily, we should reinforce our forces in neighboring Poland, provide Ukraine with robust defensive equipment anti-tank, anti-air and equip and train local counter-insurgency forces.
Of course, policy makers must also consider alternatives and unintended consequences. What does it say to Putin, who has called the collapse of the Soviet Union the greatest geo-political tragedy of the 20th century, if the West accepts his logic and surrenders the Russian-speaking east to Moscow? Will this lead to peace? Answer: Ask Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill if surrendering the German-speaking Sudetenland to Hitler in 1938 led to peace. What message will Beijing take from Washingtons lack of resolve? If an independent Ukraine is wiped from the map, can Taiwan be far behind?
Jon Gundersen has more than 50 years of government service, including more than 30 years as a senior foreign service officer. He lives on Sullivan's Island.
The upcoming negotiations are of more than passing interest to me, for I was there for the birth of the independent nation that Russia today threatens.
In January 1991, I was appointed as the first consul general to Kiev now called Kyiv, the capitol of Ukraine. At the time, Ukraine was still part of the Soviet Union. Few observers expected or even wanted the Soviet Union to break apart by year's end.
Our message must be clear and unambiguous, supported by all NATO nations and the Congress a rare chance for bipartisanship. Only by these and related actions will we change Putins invasion calculus.
Economically, we should cut off access to the international SWIFT system and freeze all Putins foreign assets, as well as the assets of the oligarchs who support him.
