Letters Ukraine fighters should use guerrilla tactics against Russians
20220301
https://www.postandcourier.com/opinion/letters_to_editor/letters-ukraine-fighters-should-use-guerrilla-tactics-against-russians/article_70ae400c-885f-11ec-a097-777c2aa59c85.html
A company must be allowed to fire employees who refuse to follow health and safety mandates. It is the ultimate enforcement. If this Senate bill passes, it will put all workers at risk.
I will point out that Illinois, New York and California are dominated by Democrats, more so than Republicans in South Carolina.
Let us hope our governments planning has employed deep forethought that is reflective of all possible outcomes and has gone all-out to give the Ukrainian people timely benefit of our knowledge of how to protect themselves with guerrilla warfare.
Our vast expertise could benefit Ukraine because guerrilla warfare could make it difficult for Russia to get its weapons into the country and to maintain control in a city environment.
We learned a lot from surprise tactical guerrilla warfare employed against our troops in Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq.
Our workplaces have become much safer over the years. Please dont let these misguided senators take us backward.
As I watched the news, I saw long convoys of Russian weapons move unimpeded into Ukraine.
A Sunday letter to the editor blamed Republicans in South Carolina for a host of ills, including poor infrastructure, litter, homelessness, poor health, overdevelopment and criticism of critical race theory.
Republicans in the state Senate are pushing a bill to penalize South Carolina businesses that enforce health and safety rules used to protect South Carolinians.
Holding the Russian offensive at bay from the onset is a critical strategy that could improve the opportunity for negotiations and a path to peace.
Similar forces within the cities could disrupt occupancy by making Russian forces fearful because they are sitting ducks exposed to guerrilla warfare.
It made me wonder if the United States had helped Ukraine prepare for the kind of warfare it needs to employ against the larger Russian force.
Ukraine forces spread out with handheld weaponry specific to guerrilla warfare along primary routes of entry could slow down and disrupt getting into the cities.
