Putin seeks to rewrite history
20220222
https://www.lowyinstitute.org/the-interpreter/putin-seeks-rewrite-history
It is aninalienable part ofour own history, culture andspiritual space. These are our comrades, those dearest tous not only colleagues, friends andpeople who once served together, but also relatives, people bound byblood, byfamily ties.
Its easy to be jaded about the habit of modern politicians to invoke the struggles of history as a means of trying to whip up support. By the danger of this type of rhetoric should be plain.
Denying that Ukraine deserves the legal and normative recognition of sovereignty makes it easier, in his mind at least, to seize control.
That last phrase, people bound byblood, byfamily ties, soaked in ethno-nationalist connotations and confirmed by the official translation, is a remarkable throwback to the drivers of 20th century authoritarianism.
But the sight of massive military convoys and changing facts on the ground in the days ahead should not overshadow the magnitude of the words Putin has used to justify his action.
The Russian leader wants to turn the preferred language of sovereignty and governance back on the West.
Vladimir Putin has confirmed the grim news that Russian troops are readying to roll across the border into eastern Ukraine.
Ukraine is not just aneighbouring country forus, Putin declared in a televised speech from the Kremlin.
Putin reached for history too in complaining about the prospect of NATO expansion to include Ukraine. Ukraine will serve as a forward springboard for the strike. If our ancestors had heard about it, they probably would simply not have believed it. And today we dont want to believe it, but its true.
Indeed, Putin continued with a potted history of policies by Lenin, Stalin and Khrushchev separating, severing what is historically Russian land  territories were transferred along with thepopulation ofwhat was historically Russia  Ukraine never had a tradition of genuine statehood.
And Putin parroted language that will be familiar to leaders in just about any country pledging their resolve: we will never compromise our sovereignty, national interests and our values.
It is important to see these comments in light of Putins no limits declaration this month alongside Chinas Xi Jinping about the transformation oftheglobal governance architecture andworld order. That joint statement prompted a collective eye-roll in the West for its evident cynicism, having invoked the rights ofpeoples ofdifferent countries toself-determination and the ideals of justice, democracy andfreedom.
But Putin doesnt want to just rob Ukraine of sovereignty. He is seeking to co-opt the preferred language used by the West about rules and global order. It will only make arguments that much more difficult when they are constantly bogged down by definitions and all the while real-world consequences are unfolding.
