Rutte ban on Russian oil would have enormous consquences for Europe
20220308
https://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2022/03/rutte-ban-on-russian-oil-would-have-enormous-consquences-for-europe/
On Tuesday Russia threatened to cut its gas supply to Germany if the west bans oil, a move which analysts say could double prices to $300 a barrel.
Unfortunately that means in practice that we are going to continue to see these terrible images for some time.
US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken has also said America, which is less dependent than Europe on Russian imports, had been talking to European allies about the prospect of banning the import of Russian oil.
Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, has called in recent days for a global boycott of all Russian products, including gas and oil, to squeeze its economy.
The DutchNews.nl team would like to thank all the generous readers who have made a donation.
Prime minister Mark Rutte has rejected calls for a ban on importing Russian oil and gas following the invasion of Ukraine.
Prime ministers Justin Trudeau l, Boris Johnson c and Mark Rutte. Photo: Simon Dawsoneyevine via ANP
If you have not yet made a donation, but would like to, you can do so via Ideal, credit card or Paypal.
He said he was disappointed that existing sanctions had not yet had the desired effect on Russia, but expected that they would hurt Putins government eventually.
What the west can do, we are doing, said Johnson. What were not going to do is intervene militarily in Ukraine.
In a joint press conference with his British and Canadian counterparts, Boris Johnson and Justin Trudeau, in London on Monday, Rutte said Europe needed to become less dependent on Russian energy, but a ban would have enormous consequences.
DutchNews.nl has been free for 16 years, but without the financial backing of our readers, we would not be able to provide you with fair and accurate news and features about all things Dutch. Your contributions make this possible.
Rutte said Europe wanted to drastically reduce its dependency on Russian fossil fuels, but said that at the moment that the dependency is, to a certain extent, still there.
Thank you for donating to DutchNews.nlThe DutchNews.nl team would like to thank all the generous readers who have made a donation. DutchNews.nl has been free for 16 years, but without the financial backing of our readers, we would not be able to provide you with fair and accurate news and features about all things Dutch. Your contributions make this possible.   If you have not yet made a donation, but would like to, you can do so via Ideal, credit card or Paypal.
Rutte acknowledged that not confronting Russia meant Ukraine would continue to be battered by war for some time, but ruled out measures such as a no-fly zone over Ukraine that would escalate the conflict.
We are delivering humanitarian aid, sending defensive supplies and providing logistical assistance, but we will not intervene. That is too great a risk for the Netherlands and the rest of the world.
The three leaders also ruled out any kind of direct intervention by Nato to stop the invasion because the risk of escalating the conflict.
