Ukraine is part of the European family but EU leaders dont back fast track EU entry
20220311
https://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2022/03/ukraine-is-part-of-the-european-family-but-eu-leaders-dont-back-fast-track-eu-entry/
Georgia and Moldova have also requested EU membership and their cases too are being considered by the Commission, the statement said.
The DutchNews.nl team would like to thank all the generous readers who have made a donation.
European leaders meeting in Versailles near Paris have not agreed to admitting Ukraine and other Eastern European countries to the European Union via a fast track procedure because there is no such thing, Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte has told RTL Nieuws.
The declaration published at the end of the meeting describes Ukraine as a member of the European family. We will further strengthen our bonds and deepen our partnership to support Ukraine in pursuing its European path. Ukraine belongs to our European family, the statement said.
Mark Rutte talking to reporters after the five hour meeting. Photo: Sem van der Waal ANP
What he would really like is for Ukraine to join this evening, Rutte said. But regardless of whether I or others want that, it is not going to happen. And that is what I told him.
According to Politico, Rutte insisted that the EU was already treating Ukraines application with unprecedented speed, but he said the Commissions assessment will take time  months, maybe years, before you get to anything.
DutchNews.nl has been free for 16 years, but without the financial backing of our readers, we would not be able to provide you with fair and accurate news and features about all things Dutch. Your contributions make this possible.
Thank you for donating to DutchNews.nlThe DutchNews.nl team would like to thank all the generous readers who have made a donation. DutchNews.nl has been free for 16 years, but without the financial backing of our readers, we would not be able to provide you with fair and accurate news and features about all things Dutch. Your contributions make this possible.   If you have not yet made a donation, but would like to, you can do so via Ideal, credit card or Paypal.
If you have not yet made a donation, but would like to, you can do so via Ideal, credit card or Paypal.
But these are friendly words and no guarantee of EU membership, RTL political correspondent Fons Lambie said.
While some countries back giving Ukraine fast-track entry, Rutte said there is no such system. He also told RTL that he had discussed this with Zelenski in their recent telephone conversation.
Poland and the Baltic states are keen to see Ukraine be given candidate status but the Netherlands and other countries do not want to trim the lengthy admittance procedures, RTL said.
Ukraine president Volodimir Zelenski submitted a formal request for membership at the end of February, after the start of the Russian invasion, and EU member states have asked the Commission for its position. That is the first step in gaining candidate status.
