More heroes needed in a crazy world
20211212
https://www.heraldmailmedia.com/story/opinion/columns/2021/12/12/more-heroes-needed-crazy-world/6461001001/
The lack of parentinghas once again raised its ugly head with the horrendous crime of a shooting by a 15-year-old boy who killed four and wounded others in a Michigan school.
How you fix a parenting problemin the world these days might be a good research paper topicfor the old Dargan Boy somewhere down the road.
The Russians seem like theyre getting ready to invade the Ukraine, or their military is having a picnic 175,000 strong. Word has it that President Biden has an offer for them they cant refuse.
The headlines of newspapers today, for sure, never seem to mention enough of these sorts of people bad headlines seem to always sell more newspapers.
There are many issues to be addressed these days as we continue our search for some answers.
The presidents Afghanistan exit plan seemed a little problematic for many and still is discussed.
And the prison populations have been decreased across the land and it seems the "bad guys" have been emboldened by these early releases, no bailpolicies, and a lack of police presence and enforcements in cities where criminals are simply walking into stores and taking what they want.
We dont need another hero. We dont need to know the way home. All we want is life beyond the Thunderdome.
And as I pondered my next assignment, I couldnt help but think that the world is a changing place. Just when I thought it impossible, the world seems like it is becoming a bit more toxic.
There is a cry from some about defending yourself against assault and potential injury, but there seems to be littlesaid about complete lawlessness, respect of other people or the evil that confronts them.
The Chinese seem to be displaying their military might to the people of Taiwan giving some indications maybe of their future endeavors, and our country doesnt seem intent on sending a diplomatic presence to China as a prelude to the Olympic games.
Were still arguing about whether we should mask up or not as the COVID-19 virus continues to kill many and keep hospital beds filled.
I was thinking about putting down a few New Years resolutions,but I thought Id wait for a few more weeks to see what happens around the globe.
The world has always been full of chaos, but there has always existed some heroto enthrall our imagination.
Do you remember that "Mad Max"movie with Mel Gibson, and Tina Turner singing a song with these lyrics?
A hero is "a person who is admired for great or brave acts or fine qualities," according to Merriam-Webster's definition.
People like the Lincolns, Roosevelts, Churchills,Mother Teresas,Martin Luther Kings, and Ghandis the little people in the world who lived and strived to make a big difference.
Yesterdays Dargan moonshiner hauling his goods through Frog Hollow surrounded by Revenue men couldnt hold a candle to the events of today.
Mankind has faced many obstacles before on this long road of life and we have responded.
Maybe our athletes can take a pass on the 2022games too. They don't seem like much fun anyway.
