UN Security Council to meet as Ukraine calls for humanitarian corridors
20220305
https://www.winsfordguardian.co.uk/news/19971619.un-security-council-meet-ukraine-calls-humanitarian-corridors/
See how you can stay informed  support our efforts to help those impacted by the suffering and destruction. https:t.co6Weu6o5J3G
Ukrainian officials have asked for help from the Red Cross in organising corridors, describing the situation in the blockaded cities as close to a catastrophe.
At the request of France and Mexico, the council meeting will be followed by closed consultations on a draft resolution on the humanitarian plight of Ukrainians, the diplomats said, speaking on condition of anonymity because negotiations on the meeting have been private.
The UN estimates that 12 million people staying in Ukraine and four million fleeing to neighbouring countries in the coming months will need humanitarian aid.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called Russias action nuclear terrorism and appealed to the UN Security Council for action to safeguard Ukraines endangered nuclear facilities.
I commend the national and local organizations in Ukraine providing aid, and the humanitarian and health workers caring for those injured in the fighting.
The United States and Albania requested the meeting, which will hear briefings by UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths and Catherine Russell, executive director of the UN childrens agency UNICEF, diplomats said on Friday.
The UN Security Council will hold an open meeting on Monday on the worsening humanitarian situation in Ukraine as the conflict intensifies and Ukrainian leaders call for the creation of humanitarian corridors.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal appealed to the International Atomic Energy Agency and the EU to send representatives to all five of Ukraines nuclear power plants. This is a question of the security of the whole world, he said in a night-time video address.
Mr Zelensky will talk to US senators on a video conference call on Saturday morning, according to a person familiar with the invitation from the Ukrainian embassy.
It is a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant, the embassy statement said. Putins shelling of Europes largest nuclear plant takes his reign of terror one step further.
The question of humanitarian corridors is question number one, Mr Danilov said on Ukrainian television. Children, women, elderly people  what are they doing here?
The United Nations launched an emergency appeal on March 1 for 1.7 billion dollars 1.3 billion to respond to soaring humanitarian needs of both people who fled Ukraine and who remain in the country. It immediately received pledges of 1.5 billion dollars 1.1 billion and has urged that the pledges be turned into cash quickly.
Russian troops seized the plant on Friday in an attack that set it on fire and briefly raised fears of a nuclear disaster. The blaze was extinguished and no radiation was released.
From pregnant women to small children, the United Nations is working to support people whose lives have been uprooted by the conflict in Ukraine.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
He spoke ahead of the latest talks between Ukrainian and Russian delegations, planned for this weekend.
Meanwhile, the US Embassy in Ukraine has called Russias attack on a nuclear plant a war crime.
Oleksiy Danilov said on Friday more than 840 children have been wounded in the war. A day earlier, the Ukrainian government put the death toll among children at 28.
It comes as the head of Ukraines security council called on Russia to create humanitarian corridors to allow children, women and the elderly to escape the fighting.
Russian troops have encircled and blockaded several large cities in the south of the country, including Mariupol, trying to cut Ukraine off from the Black and Azov seas.
