Frances Macron resists calling Russias war in Ukraine genocide
20220413
https://www.stripes.com/theaters/europe/2022-04-13/macron-resists-calling-russia-war-in-ukraine-genocide-5676172.html
Last week, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the grisly scenes left behind by Russian troops in Bucha, a Kyiv suburb where bodies were discovered in every neighborhood, did not look far short of genocide.
What we can say for sure is that the situation is unacceptable and that these are war crimes, Macron said. We are living through war crimes that are unprecedented on our soil - our European soil.
We categorically disagree with them, Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. We consider it unacceptable to attempt such a distortion of the situation.
He added: This is hardly acceptable for the president of the United States of America.
Brotherly people do not kill children, Nikolenko said, adding that there is no moral, no real reason to conduct conversations about the brotherly relations of Russian and Ukrainian peoples.
French President Emmanuel Macron declined Wednesday to call the actions of Russian troops in Ukraine genocide, saying that an escalation of rhetoric would not help stop the war after both President Joe Biden and Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas used the term.
Your country will pay dearly because it will end up as an isolated country, weakened and under sanctions for a very long time, Macron reportedly told Putin.
Emmanuel Macron, Frances president, speaks to members of the media at a news conference following a special meeting of the European Council to discuss the Ukrainian crisis at the EU Council headquarters in Brussels on Feb. 24, 2022. Valeria MongelliBloomberg
Macron told national broadcaster France 2 that he was careful about using such terms today because these two peoples Russians and Ukrainians are brothers.
In early March, Putin called Macron for a 90-minute discussion about Ukraine, but there was no diplomatic breakthrough.
Oleg Nikolenko, a spokesman for the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, blasted Macrons remarks, saying his unwillingness to recognize the genocide of Ukrainians after all the outspoken statements of the Russian leadership and criminal actions of the Russian military is disappointing.
