Russia will quit International Space Station over sanctions
20220430
https://www.stripes.com/theaters/europe/2022-04-30/russia-quit-international-space-station-over-sanctions-5852828.html
The orbital research space station had until the war remained a rare area of cooperation between Russia and the U.S. and its allies despite steadily worsening relations. But Russias unprecedented international isolation since it invaded Ukraine in February has marked the demise of this symbol of joint space exploration.
The decision has been taken already, were not obliged to talk about it publicly, Tass and RIA Novosti reported Roscosmos General Director Dmitry Rogozin as saying in an interview with state TV on Saturday. I can say this only  in accordance with our obligations, well inform our partners about the end of our work on the ISS with a years notice.
Three Americans and an Italian astronaut docked at the space station on Wednesday, joining three other Americans, three Russians and a German already on the ISS.
NASA astronauts Kate Rubins, bottom left, and Victor Glover, top right, during a spacewalk to install solar array modification kits on the International Space Station on February 28, 2020. NASA, which plans to operate the station through 2030, has continued to use Russian Soyuz spacecraft to transport astronauts to and from the ISS since retiring shuttles in 2011.  NASA
NASA, which plans to operate the space station through 2030, has continued to use Russian Soyuz spacecraft to transport astronauts to and from the ISS since retiring shuttles in 2011. The U.S. space agency is now relying more on private space flights. Elon Musks SpaceX launched the four astronauts for NASA and the European Space Agency on Wednesday.
Rogozin earlier this month threatened to end Russias mission unless the U.S., European Union and Canada lifted sanctions against enterprises involved in the Russian space industry.
Tribune News Service  The head of Russias space program said Moscow will pull out of the International Space Station, state media reported, a move it has blamed on sanctions imposed over the invasion of Ukraine.
