Russia shifts focus of war to eastern Ukraine as additional troops leave attack on Kyiv
20220404
https://www.stripes.com/theaters/us/2022-04-04/ukraine-russia-war-kyiv-donbas-odessa-pentagon-troops-5579234.html
A Ukrainian service member walks next to a fighting vehicle, outside Kyiv, Ukraine, on Saturday, April 2, 2022. As Russian forces pull back from Ukraines capital region, retreating troops are creating a catastrophic situation for civilians by leaving mines around homes, abandoned equipment and even the bodies of those killed, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned. Vadim GhirdaAP
It could be they are preparing to move on Odessa, the official said. It could be they're simply doing that to try to pin down Ukrainian forces there  make them think that there's something big coming in Odesa so they stay and try to protect the city."
Russias shift away from the capital city comes after weeks of stalled movement toward Kyiv. Russias Defense Ministry now claims their goal was always to liberate the Donbas region  not overthrow Kyiv and the Ukrainian government.
Russias reasoning behind this is unclear and there are no major signs of an imminent amphibious assault on the region, the official said, though some Russian navy landing ships have been conducting security patrols south of Odesa.
Putin made it very clear he was after regime change in Ukraine, and a key piece of achieving that regime change was taking the capital city. He has failed to do that, and they are now moving away on the ground. They're moving away from Kyiv."
What we continue to believe is that the Russian troops are going to be refit, resupplied, perhaps maybe even reinforced with additional manpower and then sent back into Ukraine to continue fighting elsewhere, the official told reporters at the Pentagon.
Previously, the Russians claimed that it is more reasonable to focus on the occupation of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the Ukrainian military said in the statement. Therefore, regrouping was in motion over this week.
"Again, that's in keeping with what we said that they would want to close off that Donbas area, the official said.
We have analysis that they've shifted much more to a defensive posture around Kherson, the official said.
In total, Russia has about 168 of such groups, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu told Russias state-owned TASS news outlet in August. Each unit has about 800 infantrymen.
Izyum, which is in the Kharkiv region, is important in organizing the defense of  the Donetsk region, the Ukrainian military said in a statement Friday announcing Russia had gained control of the city.
About two-thirds of the 20 fast-response units  known as battalion tactical groups  Russia had surrounding Kyiv in the wars first five weeks have turned back north into Belarus since last week, said the official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
"Clearly the maximalist goals originally set out by Mr. Putin have not been attained, have not been reached, the U.S. defense official said. He made it very clear publicly what he was going after, no matter what their narrative is now."
WASHINGTON  More Russian troops are pulling back from their advance on Ukraines capital city of Kyiv as invading forces intensify their attack in the separatist region of Donbas in the east, a senior U.S. defense official said Monday.
Indications of the refocus are now appearing elsewhere in Ukraine, as well, as the official said some forces north of the southern city of Mariupol may be aiming to push north to Donetsk, a separatist city in the Donbas region.
While Russia for weeks has made more progress in southern Ukraine, their forces have now gotten pinched in between Kherson and Mykolaiv in the south, the official said.
So far, Russia has launched more than 1,400 missiles since the war started Feb. 24, which "isn't a major change in the numbers" since Friday, the official said.
The Ukrainian military also predicted Russian forces moving from the Kyiv region would be directed at strengthening the units trying to attack the territory of the joint-forces operation near Izyum, according to the statement.
Still, Russia over the weekend launched airstrikes on Odesa in southeastern Ukraine, claiming to have struck an oil depot in the port city on the Black Sea.
Russia has also been refocusing their airstrikes on Izyum in eastern Ukraine near a Ukrainian joint-forces area, the official said.
While the vast majority of Russian forces deployed for the invasion remain in Ukraine, the 20 fast-response units that surrounded Kyiv represented nearly 17 of the 125 battalion tactical groups used by Russia to launch its war more than five weeks ago, the official said.
The changed messaging is part of classic Russian behavior in attempt to save face in the public sphere, the official said.
