Under threat of a Russian invasion Kyiv shrugs  and prepares for war
20220204
https://www.stripes.com/theaters/europe/2022-02-04/under-threat-of-russian-invasion-kyiv-shrugs-4642396.html
I dont listen to news. I dont watch TV. In Kyiv, in Odessa, we just cant feel it, he said of the mounting tensions between Russia and Ukraine.
Hyuna Ki, a 34-year-old medical student studying in Kyiv for the last three years, said the South Korean Embassy has also urged citizens to leave. Shes considering it, she said, but so far its only the media spreading the news that something will happen.
Outside the museum, the sun was shining, and children used plastic trays to slide down a snowbank. Katya Kiriyeva, a university lecturer, kept an occasional eye on her 7-year-old son, Sasha, as he tumbled down the hill.
For Iryna Kurhanska, the 26-year-old deputy director of the museums exhibition department, the rise in hostilities makes the museum more relevant than ever.
Thats perhaps of little surprise, given the ongoing war between Ukrainian security forces and Russia-backed separatists in the countrys east, a grinding conflict now entering its ninth year. Although almost 14,000 people have been killed, 34,000 wounded and millions displaced, in many ways the war has hardened into routine.
Kurhanska and her friends have been making plans in case of an invasion: packing suitcases, arranging how to communicate with family members, figuring out how to secure their homes if they have to leave.
For those who believe otherwise, the most telling proof is that a number of foreign embassies have sent nonessential staff packing. That includes the Canadian and British missions, as well as the U.S. Embassy, which on Wednesday instructed American citizens in Ukraine looking for flights out to get in touch for financial or booking assistance.
As a forklift positioned the cartridges into a back of a MAZ truck, a 20-year-old Ukrainian soldier watched approvingly from a distance.
War? Theres absolutely no war here. Look around you, he said, sweeping a furry arm across the snow-speckled tiles of the square. Just come here and have fun.
Before, people here dont want to think about the war. ... But after Russia brought more troops, people here started to understand its not just propaganda, not theory. Its real  and they want to protect their homes, Ostaltsev said.
Our embassy here isnt telling us to evacuate. So far, theyve distributed a list of emergency contacts, but thats it.
Inside the plane, instead of tired-looking rows of economy class seats, lay a jigsaw of rails, plates and rollers that a Belgian technician who gave only his first name, Mike, used to unload pallets bearing 85 tons of 40-millimeter MK-19 grenade cartridges. It was the seventh delivery of U.S. military aid allocated in a $200 million assistance package aimed at bolstering Ukraines army.
One person who appreciates the increase in readiness among his fellow Kyiv residents is Leonid Ostaltsev, a bearded 34-year-old with the look of a no-nonsense body-builder. A veteran of the war in eastern Ukraine, he opened Pizza Veterano, a military-themed restaurant that employs other former soldiers and that is famous for giving free pizzas to anyone who fought. The tables are topped with glass display cases full of bullets.
A sign on the door now offers a free pie to anyone who has legally purchased a firearm in January with the intention of defending the country.
We dont react because we havent seen anything. Its just tensions  Im used to it back home, and this is the same thing here, he said, adding with a slight smile that his parents back home in Abuja, Nigeria, were also unconcerned.
KYIV, Ukraine Tribune News Service Tens of thousands of Russian troops stand battle-ready just a few hundred miles away. The U.S. repeats warnings of a horrific invasion that could come at any hour. Friendly nations speed up weapons shipments to help Ukraines work-in-progress army fend off an attack.
Its important to show that we as veterans support peoples decision to buy a weapon, to also become a defender, not just to be defended by someone, he says.
Sashas school, fresh from coronavirus closures, is ready to return to distance learning if hostilities break out.
And since the nearest point of conflict is a 14-hour drive from Kyiv, its easy to feel far away, said Max Ivanov, a 28-year-old graphic designer from the coastal city of Odessa as he strolled with his girlfriend in a park on a cold recent morning.
On a verdant slice of the Pechersk Hills overlooking the Dnieper, the Holodomor Museum recounts the story of the Great Famine holodomor means death by hunger, when between 1932 and 1933 almost 4 million Ukrainians starved to death as a result of Soviet agricultural policies.
If this helps avoid conflict, if its just for protection, then Im happy its here, said the soldier, who declined to give his name because he was not authorized to speak to the media. Of course I dont want war to come.
Were ready to run away, Kiriyeva said. But were here now because nothing has happened.
Were ready. Weve made plans to go to a shelter  when I was in school we studied where to go in the metro to hide from bombs, she said.
On Thursday, with a blizzard and winds blowing the snow sideways, a Western Global cargo jet landed in a corner of Boryspil airport, 18 miles outside Kyiv, and rolled to a stop near a row of 10 olive-green MAZ army trucks.
The Russians committed genocide. They wanted these people to die and take their land. This is what we see now again, she said. The imperial ideas of Russia are still very powerful today. Nothing has changed. The Soviet Union collapsed, but we see that the policies havent changed.
Besides the army, the government is also preparing a reserve force comprising more than 100,000 citizen-soldiers. In Kyivs parks on weekends, out-of-shape computer software engineers and housewives, among others, run through military drills with wooden machine-gun mockups.
A military instructor teaches civilians holding wooden replicas of Kalashnikov rifles, during a training session at an abandoned factory in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on Jan. 30, 2022. Sergei Supinsky, AFP via Getty ImagesTNS
That shift in thinking is a measure of the changing attitude toward Russia since 2014, he added. Although Russian President Vladimir Putin often waxes on about Russians and Ukrainians being one people  as he did in a recent 7,000-word essay  there is a growing sense among Ukrainians that Russia is a dangerous neighbor, one ready to revisit the worst of the Soviet crimes upon them.
Those living here dont consider it like that, she said, adding that she was waiting for the university to switch to online learning as a sign of impending threat. In the meantime, she was checking the South Korean Embassys website every day.
Elsewhere, theres little sign that this elegant capital perched on the Dnieper River is on borrowed time. Despite subfreezing temperatures, Kyiv residents spill out onto the street in front of wine bars like the PYana Vishnya, form chattering hubs around Turkish kebab joints and try to beat the weekend rush at a local shopping mall.
None of that fazes Vasily, a 26-year-old street performer in an oversize bear suit in Kyivs central square. Only eight years ago, the Maidan was thronged with tens of thousands of protesters who succeeded in ousting their pro-Russian president, a seismic event that spurred Moscow to seize Ukraines Crimean peninsula. These days, the plaza is empty of demonstrators, with Vasily and his colleagues  one of them dressed as Tony the Tiger  taking selfies with the occasional tourist.
Surveys show that more than one-third of Ukrainians are willing to take up arms if Russia invades.
The blase attitude is not uncommon here in Kyiv, where many residents appear to be confronting the prospect of an enemy at the gates with a mix of stoicism and resignation, if not outright bewilderment at the presence of so many foreigners asking darkly about imminent conflict.
