US soldiers model river crossing in contrast to Russians Donbas disaster
20220517
https://www.stripes.com/theaters/europe/2022-05-17/russia-ukraine-us-army-river-crossing-poland-6030130.html
Days after dozens of Russian armored vehicles were obliterated during an attempted river crossing in eastern Ukraine, U.S. and allied soldiers launched a training version of a similar maneuver across Polands peaceful Vistula River.
The same cant be said for a Russian battalion tactical group of hundreds of soldiers that was trying to cross the Siversky Donets River in eastern Ukraine. The unit came under withering fire from Ukrainian forces.
For the Russians, the failed maneuver on the Siversky Donets cost them valuable assets and complicated their effort to gain the initiative against a smaller Ukrainian force, which by many experts accounts has outperformed their Russian counterparts.
This Russian river crossing has gained attention because it resulted in the loss of probably a battalion tactical group and some critical engineer equipment. The reality is, it is worse than that, wrote retired Australian Maj. Gen. Mick Ryan in an analysis of the debacle.
The crossing was part of a logistics drill that involved soldiers from NATO allies Poland, France and the United States, as well as Sweden, which was prompted by Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine to seek NATO membership after two centuries of neutrality.
Ukrainian aerial photographs of the May 11, 2022, attack on a Russian army unit shows blown-up tanks and other combat vehicles on both sides of the Siversky Donets River and a pontoon bridge under water.  TwitterDefense of Ukraine
For any army, river crossings are regarded as among the riskiest and most complicated maneuvers a unit can perform on the battlefield.
Soldiers from the Fort Hood, Texas-based 74th Multi-Role Bridge Company and other allied forces were part of the exercise in Poland, where the absence of enemy fire all but guaranteed success.
In case anyone was wondering what a successful "wet gap crossing" looks like, courtesy of the USArmy's74th Multi-Role Bridge Company, deployed from Fort Hood, Texas, for DefenderEurope 22, crossing the Vistula River in Poland, May 13. WeAreNATO StrongerTogether pic.twitter.comYYkRa7L6Ln
Carrying out a mission at night or using smoke, electronic jamming and feints at other possible crossing points are some of the ways to reduce exposure, Ryan said.
Military vehicles roll over a float ribbon bridge system set up by the 74th Multi-Role Bridge Company, deployed from Fort Hood, Texas, to cross the Vistula River between Ryki and Kozienice, Poland, May 13, 2022.  Michal CzornijDVIDS
U.S. soldiers with the 1st Battalion, 66th Armored Regiment, 3rd Armored Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, get a tank across the river on the ribbon bridge during a wet gap crossing during Defender Europe 2022 at Dblin, Poland, May 12, 2022. Javen OwensU.S. Army
In case anyone was wondering what a successful wet gap crossing looks like, courtesy of the USArmy, U.S. Army Europe and Africa said Monday on Twitter in what could be taken as a not-so-subtle jab at a disastrous river operation last week for Russian troops.
Aerial photographs of the Wednesday attack provided by the Ukrainian armed forces reveal blown-up tanks and other combat vehicles on both sides of the riverbank and a pontoon bridge under water. Hundreds of troops were likely killed in the operation, according to military analysts.
American soldiers have increasingly incorporated such missions into exercises in Europe, as the U.S. military looks for ways to operate better on a continent with a vast network of rivers.
Its unclear how much preparation the Russians did or what tactics they did or didnt use in their failed crossing, but the Ukrainian military said in a Wednesday statement after the artillery attack that holiday season had been opened on Russian soldiers, who bathed in the river and were burned by the May sun.
Perhaps most importantly, defeating this assault river crossing has probably denied the Russians an axis of advance they clearly thought was going to be productive for them in their eastern offensive, Ryan tweeted. This is a significant setback for them.
For a river crossing to succeed, multiple factors come into play. There must be extensive advance reconnaissance and surveillance, given how vulnerable soldiers are when setting up and traversing mobile bridges.
The 74th Multi-Role Bridge Company, deployed from Fort Hood, Texas, to Poland employs a float ribbon bridge system across the Vistula River between Ryki and Kozienice, Poland, May 13, 2022. The float bridge, which came from Army Field Support Battalion-Beneluxs APS-2 worksite in Zutendaal, Belgium, was used by U.S., Polish, French and Swedish military forces to cross the river as part of the Defender-Europe 22 exercise.  Michal CzornijDVIDS
Supporting combat aviation and artillery also must be ready in preparation for the river advance.
Ukrainian aerial photographs of the May 11, 2022 attack on a Russian army unit shows blown up tanks and other combat vehicles on both sides of the Severskyi Donets riverbank and a pontoon bridge under water.  TwitterDefense of Ukraine
An M1A2 Abrams Tank crosses the ribbon bridge during a wet gap crossing as a part of Defender-Europe 2022 at Dblin, Poland, May 12, 2022. Javen OwensU.S. Army
