Notorious R30 road in Free State closed
20220330
https://www.ofm.co.za/article/centralsa/314369/notorious-r30-road-in-free-state-closed-
ALSO READ: FS's accident-prone R30 reinforcedAuthorities say a number of drivers have since late January 2022 lost control of their vehicles once they hit the gravel portion at high speeds, ending up submerged in the water. On 5 February 2022, an Intercape bus liner also ended up in the water however, no casualties were reported in that incident. Motorists are warned to exercise caution when driving and to observe the signs that will indicate the road closure.
ALSO READ: More lives lost on notorious R30 roadThe road closure comes as a family of four hailing from the Eastern Cape, heading to Orkney in the North West, died early on Monday morning after the vehicle they were travelling in veered off the gravel section of the road and plunged into the nearby dam of water.
ALSO READ: 15 lives lost in R30 accidents since JanuaryIt is not known for how long the road will be closed."Vehicles travelling between Allanridge and Bothaville must make use of the S1075 secondary road and the R719. If you are travelling between Welkom and Kroonstad, the R34 is the indicated alternative route. Vehicles travelling to Orkney should use the R76 via Viljoenskroon, reads the statement.
The deadly R30 road between Allanridge and Welkom in the Free State has officially been closed.
The provincial Department of Police, Roads and Transport has closed this road, following car accidents that led to the deaths of 15 people in recent months. The department says the R30 has been flooded several times during the recent rainy season and despite repairs done, these fatal accidents persist.The MEC of Police, Roads and Transport, William Bulwane, has expressed his condolences to the families of the people who have died - and cautioned motorists to be vigilant when driving at night. The department advises motorists to make use of the S1075 secondary road, R719, the R34 and the R76 respectively.
