Ukraine calls on Russia to respect ICJ ruling
20220317
https://www.ofm.co.za/article/international/314121/ukraine-calls-on-russia-to-respect-icj-ruling
"The court recalls Ukraine also requested it to indicate measures aimed at ensuring the non-aggravation of the dispute with the Russian Federation.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky is calling on Russia to comply with the International Court of Justice ICJ order that they suspend their military operations.
READ HERE: full text of the ICJ Order indicating provisional measures in the case concerning Allegations of Genocide under the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide Ukraine v. Russia https:t.coLmjyyFayh0pic.twitter.comluc4hAfNYX
"In the present case, having considered all the circumstances in addition to the specific measure, the court deems it necessary to indicate an additional measure directed at both parties and aimed at ensuring the non-aggravation of the dispute," she said.
International Court of Justice president Joan Donoghue said "the court considers that the Russian Federation must also ensure that any military or irregular armed units which may be directed or supported by it, as well as any organisations that may be subject to its control and direction, take no steps in furtherance of those military operations.
The court made the ruling on Wednesday night, saying troops must withdraw. The court also ruled both parties must refrain from aggravating the dispute.
The case is also separate from a Ukraine war crimes investigation launched by the International Criminal Court ICC, a separate tribunal also based in The Hague.
The ICJ says it does have jurisdiction over the matter and could make a decision even though Russia elected not to represent itself at the court.
MULTIMDIA: photos et vidos du prononc de l'ordonnance de la CIJ en indication de mesures conservatoires en laffaire des Allgations de gnocide au titre de la convention pour la prvention et la rpression du crime de gnocide Ukraine c. Russie https:t.co3DcF1faEZopic.twitter.compPb8tuiZgC
"When it indicates provisional measures for the purpose of preserving specific rights the court may also indicate provisional measures with the view to preventing the aggravation or extension of the dispute if it considers those circumstances so require.
