RussiaUkraine live news US and allies to ban Russia investments  RussiaUkraine war News
20220405
https://todayheadline.co/russia-ukraine-live-news-us-and-allies-to-ban-russia-investments-russia-ukraine-war-news/
Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has said that people are still only able to flee the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol on foot or by private car.
The equipment and supplies, which were requested by Kyiv, are being delivered on a rolling basis and some has already been delivered, the unidentified official told the Reuters news agency.
What weve seen in Bucha is not the random act of a rogue unit, he said. Its a deliberate campaign to kill, to torture, to rape, to commit atrocities. The reports are more than credible, the evidence is there for the world to see.
A short while later he said in another post: As of this hour, there is no information on victims.
Explosions near Radekhiv, regional governor Maksim Kositsky said on Telegram, referring to a town about 70km 40 miles northeast of Lviv. Everybody must remain in shelters.
A total of 3,846 people were evacuated from Ukrainian cities through humanitarian corridors on Tuesday, Vereshchuk said in an online post.
A Biden administration official has said that the US is providing Ukraine with life-saving protective equipment that could be deployed if Russia were to use chemical and biological weapons.
No casualties have been reported following explosions in the Lviv region of western Ukraine, local officials said.
Its part of the continuation of our efforts to put consequences, to hold Russian officials accountable.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki has said that the US will announce new sanctions on Russia on Wednesday, including a ban on all new investment in Russia.
Russias defence ministry said Ukrainian forces had cynically disrupted the evacuation effort, the TASS news agency cited a senior official as saying.
They will target Russian government officials, their family members, Russian owned financial institutions, also state-owned enterprises, Psaki said during a news conference, about the upcoming measures.
Earlier on Tuesday Blinken said the killings in the Ukrainian town of Bucha were part of a deliberate Russian campaign to commit atrocities.
Efforts to organise mass evacuations by bus to safer parts of Ukraine have so far failed, and efforts with the help of the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC have repeatedly broken down.
That is slightly more than the 3,376 who escaped on Monday, Ukraines deputy prime minister said.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has landed in Belgiums capital ahead of a NATO meeting of foreign ministers.
In an online post, Vereshchuk said seven buses trying to get to Mariupol had not managed to make its way through a Russian blockade.
