Ukraine says Russia shelled chemical plant
20220321
https://todayheadline.co/ukraine-says-russia-shelled-chemical-plant/
Now that the masks have fallen, it is time to move forward implementing decisions that are absolutely necessary for Europe to feel safer, more independent and resistant to external shocks, Nauseda said.
The city council said no one was killed in the strike and that emergency services quickly extinguished a fire. Mayor Hennady Trukhanov visited the site and said we will not leave Odessa and we will fight for our city.
Russian military spokesman Igor Konashenkov claimed the leak was a planned provocation by Ukrainian forces to falsely accuse Russia of a chemical attack.
He adds that so far significant movement has not been achieved in the talks and that there are not any agreements which they could commit to at a joint meeting.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Monday that the Kinzhal hypersonic missile has proven its efficiency in destroying heavily fortified special facilities.
LVIV, Ukraine  An ammonia leak at a chemical plant in the eastern Ukrainian city of Sumy has contaminated an area with a radius of more than 2.5 kilometers about 1.5 miles, officials said early Monday.
U.K. officials said that despite the continued lack of progress, Kyiv remains Russias primary military objective and they are likely to prioritise attempting to encircle the city over the coming weeks.
LVIV, Ukraine  Authorities in Odesa have accused Russian forces of damaging civilian houses in a strike on the Black Sea port city on Monday.
In a statement Monday, the agency also said there are no longer firefighters available in the region to protect forests tainted by decades of radioactivity as the weather warms. The plant was seized by Russian forces on Feb. 24.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov charged Monday that the Ukrainian forces were using the shopping mall to reload multiple rocket launchers and store rockets used for shelling Russian troops. He said that a battery of multiple rocket launchers and ammunition for them were destroyed in the strike. The defense ministry spokesmans claims could not independently verified.
BERLIN  Germanys Buchenwald concentration camp memorial says Boris Romanchenko, who survived camps at Buchenwald, Peenemuende, Dora and Bergen-Belsen during World War II, was killed Friday when his home in Kharkiv was attacked.
He said that a Kinzhal missile was used Friday to hit a Soviet-era arsenal for storing missiles near the western town of Deliatyn in the Carpathian Mountains, the first time the new weapon was used in combat. It also was used in a strike on the fuel depot in Kostiantynivka near the Black Sea port of Mykolaiv over the weekend. Konashenkov noted that Kinzhal was used for these strikes due to its high kinetic energy and its ability to penetrate defenses.
Israel has good relations with both Ukraine and Russia and has acted as a broker between the two sides since Russia invaded Ukraine in late February. Bennett has held multiple phone calls with both leaders in recent weeks and flew to Moscow earlier this month to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Ukraine and Russias delegations have held several rounds of talks both in person and more recently via video link. Zelenskyy has said he would be prepared to meet Putin directly to seek agreements on key issues.
 Biden adds stop in Poland, crucial ally in the Ukraine crisis, to his trip this week to Europe
Stocks last traded on Feb. 25, the day after the invasion started and sent the main stock index sharply lower.
LJUBLJANA, Slovenia  Slovenia says it plans to send the countrys diplomatic representatives back to Ukraine later this week.
For the center of Sumy, there is no threat now, since the wind does not blow on the city, said Zhyvytskyy.
The Sumykhimprom plant is on the eastern outskirts of the city, which has a population of about 263,000 and has been regularly shelled by Russian troops in recent weeks.
The visit to the exercise Cold Response shouldnt be interpreted as a step toward a Swedish NATO membership, Andersson told reporters.
Morawiecki spoke Monday at a joint news conference with visiting Swiss President Ignazio Cassis. They held talks about the situation in Ukraine, which was invaded by Russian troops Feb. 24. Morawiecki noted that Russias richest businessmen have deposited billions of U.S. dollars in Swiss banks, were doing business there and had other assets.
MOSCOW  The Russian military says it has hit a shopping mall on the outskirts of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv because it has been used to store rockets.
The central bank bought bonds to support prices. It has imposed wide-ranging restrictions on financial transactions to try to stabilize markets and combat the severe fallout from Western sanctions that have sent the ruble sharply lower against the U.S. dollar and the euro.
NEW YORK  The Russian military has offered the Ukrainian troops defending the strategic port of Mariupol to lay down arms and exit the city via humanitarian corridors, but that proposal was quickly rejected by the Ukrainian authorities.
Mizintsev added that Russia will wait until 5 a.m. Monday for a written Kyivs response to the Russian proposal for the Ukrainian troops to leave Mariupol but didnt say what action Russia will take if its humanitarian offer is rejected.
Ratings agencies have downgraded Russias bonds to junk status. Russias finance ministry last week flirted with default by threatening to pay foreign holders of dollar bonds in massively devalued rubles before sending the money in dollars.
He said the assets could be used to help Ukraine rebuild from the wars destruction.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced the Russian bombing of a school in Mariupol where civilians took refuge.
The memorial cited relatives in a series of tweets on Monday. It said his granddaughter said that he lived in a multistory building that was hit by a projectile. Romanchenko was vice president of the International Buchenwald-Dora Committee.
Polands government is working on amendments to the constitution that would allow for the seizure of Russias assets in Poland.
The price of Russias ruble-denominated government debt fell Monday, sending borrowing costs higher. Stock trading has remained closed, with no word on when it might reopen.
NEW YORK  Russia has warned that relations with the U.S. are on the verge of a breach and summoned the U.S. ambassador for an official protest against President Joe Bidens criticism of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said the hoaxer was able to speak to him on a video call Thursday. Home Secretary Priti Patel said she had received a similar call, and Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said an unsuccessful attempt was made to speak to her.
Overnight shelling near the city center late Sunday left at least eight dead according to emergency officials. The force of the explosion shattered every window in the high-rise next door and twisted their metal frames.
NEW YORK  Russias central bank has cautiously reopened bond trading on the Moscow exchange for the first time since the country invaded Ukraine.
STOCKHOLM  Swedens Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said Monday that a NATO drill in Norway that was planned before the invasion of Ukraine sends an important signal that there is cooperation, cooperation and a readiness to defend our territory.
We must be sure that energy independence has sufficient gas and oil in the system. It is very important for the Netherlands, Germany, France, and the countries of eastern Europe, Mark Rutte told reporters after meeting Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda. We need to do this as soon as possible, but we cannot do that tomorrow.
Nauseda replied saying that Lithuania invested heavily into energy security for decades and now is ready for a full boycott of Russian oil and gas.
WARSAW, Poland  Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki says he is encouraging Switzerland to take bolder steps in cutting off Russian oligarchs who support Russian leaders from the billions of U.S. dollars they have in Swiss banks or in business there.
Odesa is in southwestern Ukraine and has largely avoided the fighting so far, though Russia has ships operating off the Black Sea coast.
The Ukrainian president also said that he had a call Sunday with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to discuss support for Ukraine during this weeks summit of the Group of Seven and NATO.
Slovenias diplomats left Ukraine with the start of the Russian invasion on Feb. 24 as other countries withdrew their representatives as well.
In the distance, the sound of artillery rang out as firefighters picked their way through the destruction in the densely populated Podil district.
The plant is on the eastern outskirts of the city, which has a population of about 263,000 and has been regularly shelled by Russian troops in recent weeks.
He said the nearby village of Novoselytsya, about 1.5 kilometers 1 mile southeast of Sumy, is under threat.
JERUSALEM  Israels prime minister says that while there have been advances in cease-fire talks between Russia and Ukraine, very large gaps remain between the two sides.
They are under the rubble, and we dont know how many of them have survived, he said. But we know that we will certainly shoot down the pilot who dropped that bomb, like about 100 other such mass murderers whom we already have downed.
Management of the Chernobyl plant said Sunday that 50 staff members who had been working nonstop since the Russian takeover have been rotated out and replaced.
KYIV, Ukraine  Shelling in a Kyiv neighborhood has devastated a shopping center, leaving a flattened ruin still smoldering Monday morning in the midst of high-rise towers.
Prime Minister Janez Jansa has urged other European Union nations to do the same. He said on Twitter late on Sunday that Ukraine needs diplomatic support.
NEW YORK  Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov says more progress must be made in talks with Ukraine before Russian President Vladimir Putin can meet his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Kinzhal, one of an array of hypersonic weapons developed by Russian in recent years, has a range of 2,000 kilometers1,250 miles and flies at a speed 10 times the speed of sound. Its carried by specially redesigned MiG-31 fighter jets.
Konashenkov also said an overnight cruise missile strike hit a Ukrainian military training center in the Rivne region. He said 80 foreign and Ukrainian troops were killed.
Jansa visited Kyiv last week along with the prime ministers of Poland and the Czech Republic. He has said after the visit that Ukraine was feeling abandoned and urged the EU to send a blocs representative there.
Borrell says that whats happening in Mariupol is a massive war crime. Destroying everything, bombarding and killing everybody in an indiscriminate manner. This is something awful.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines prosecutor general said a Russian shell struck a chemical plant outside the city of Sumy a little after 3 a.m. Monday, causing a leak in a 50-ton tank of ammonia that took hours to contain.
Mizintsev said that the deliveries of humanitarian supplies to the city will immediately follow if the Ukrainian troops agree to leave the city. He added that civilians will be free to choose whether to leave Mariupol or stay in the city.
The International Criminal Court in the Netherlands is gathering evidence about any possible war crimes in Ukraine, but Russia, like the United States, does not recognize the tribunals jurisdiction.
VILNIUS, Lithuania  The Dutch prime minister says that the European Union should be careful when imposing new sanctions on Russian gas and oil companies because some nations are still heavily dependent on these resources,
Zelenskyy, who spoke to members of the Israeli parliament via video link on Sunday, thanked Israel for its efforts to broker talks with Russia.
The Foreign Ministry says that at the meeting with U.S. ambassador to Moscow John Sullivan it was emphasized that remarks such as these by the American President, which are unworthy of a state figure of such a high rank, put Russian-American relations on the verge of a breach.
In an update Monday on social media, the ministry said Russian forces advancing on the city from the northeast have stalled, and troops advancing from the direction of Hostomel to the northwest have been pushed back by fierce Ukrainian resistance. It said the bulk of Russian forces were more than 25 kilometers 15 miles from the city center.
LONDON  Britains defense ministry says heavy fighting is continuing north of Kyiv as Russian forces press on with a stalled effort to encircle Ukraines capital city.
Naftali Bennett, who has acted as intermediary between the two warring countries in recent weeks, said at a conference on Monday that Israel will continue  together with other friends in the world  to try and bridge the gap and bring an end to the war.
MOSCOW  The Russian military says it will continue using its state-of-the-art hypersonic missile to hit particularly important targets in Ukraine.
Konashenkov said that Kinzhal missiles were fired at a distance of more than 1,000 kilometers over 620 miles.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines nuclear regulatory agency says the radiation monitors around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, site of the worlds worst meltdown in 1986, have stopped working.
Cassis noted that Switzerland has joined the European Unions sanctions on Russia and has also has frozen the bank accounts and business of Russian oligarchs who are on the EU sanctions lists and also of some others.
Wallace said he became suspicious and hung up after the caller posed several misleading questions. He accused Russia of dirty tricks.
A Russian Foreign Ministry statement Monday referred to recent unacceptable statements by Biden about Putin. Biden referred to Putin last week as a war criminal in relation to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Peskov says that in order to talk about a meeting of the two presidents, first its necessary to do the homework, its necessary to hold talks and agree the results.
LVIV, Ukraine  Emergency officials have contained an ammonia leak at a chemical plant that contaminated wide area in the eastern Ukrainian city of Sumy, officials said Monday.
Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev said Sunday that all Ukrainian soldiers could leave the Azov Sea port Monday using safe routes for evacuating civilians that had been previously agreed with Ukraine and head to areas controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. He said that all those who lay down arms will be guaranteed a safe exit from Mariupol.
Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in remarks carried by Ukrainska Pravda news outlet that Kyiv already had told Russia that there can be no talk about surrender and laying down weapons. She rejected the Russian statement as manipulation.
Speaking in a video address early Monday, Zelenskyy said about 400 civilians were taking shelter at the art school in the besieged Azov Sea port city when it was struck by a Russian bomb.
Support for joining NATO has surged to record levels in non-Alliance members Finland and Sweden.
According to Mondays statement, the combination of risks could mean a significant deterioration of the ability to control the spread of radiation not just in Ukraine but beyond the countrys borders in weeks and months to come.
Vitaliy Koval, the head of the Rivne regional military administration, confirmed a twin Russian missile strike on a training center there early Monday but offered no details about injuries or deaths.
LONDON  Britain is accusing the Russian state of being behind hoax calls to two government ministers by an imposter posing as the prime minister of Ukraine.
BRUSSELS  EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell is accusing Russia of committing war crimes in Ukraine, most notably in the besieged port city of Mariupol where hundreds of civilians have been killed.
Prime Minister Boris Johnsons spokesman, Max Blain, said Monday that the Russian state was responsible for the hoax calls made to government ministers last week.
Sumy regional governor Dmytro Zhyvytskyy didnt say what caused the leak, which spread about 2.5 kilometers 1.5 miles in all directions from the Sumykhimprom plant.
The shopping center in the densely populated Podil district was reduced to a smoldering ruin after being hit late Sunday by shelling that killed eight people, according to Ukrainian emergency officials. The attack shattered every window in a neighboring high-rise.
