Tsai pledges to defend Taiwans democracy amid Ukraine crisis
20220221
https://english.kyodonews.net/news/2022/02/c39abf51b6be-tsai-pledges-to-defend-taiwans-democracy-amid-ukraine-crisis.html
Foreign policy experts say the situation surrounding Ukraine has implications for the Indo-Pacific region that is facing China's increasing military assertiveness, especially targeting Taiwan.
China and Taiwan have been governed separately since they split in 1949 as the result of a civil war.
As the president, Tsai said it is her duty to unify the people of Taiwan and protect its democracy, urging the public to cherish their hard-earned freedoms and human rights.
Russia launched attacks on Ukraine last week from multiple fronts. Concerns grew that Chinese President Xi Jinping might emulate his Russian counterpart's strategy and exploit the confusion to seize Taiwan.
In addition to condemning Russia, Tsai ordered the military to remain on high alert against what she described as "cognitive warfare" and disinformation.
Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen said Monday the Russian invasion of Ukraine offers a lesson and pledged to protect the self-ruled island which China regards as a renegade province to be reunited, by force if necessary.
Speaking at a ceremony to mark the 75th anniversary of a February 28, 1947, massacre known as the "228 Incident," she reminded the people not to take their rights for granted but to join in their defense.
Historians estimate that at least 20,000 people were killed on the day and during the crackdown on dissent that followed under the authoritarian rule of former KMT dictators Chiang Kai-shek and his son Chiang Ching-kuo, in what has been dubbed the "White Terror Era."
"We all see the people of Ukraine come together to fight against the invasion by a powerful country," Tsai said. "The Ukrainian people have taught us that when we face any challenges, democracy and unity are the only option."
The ceremony was held at the Civic Plaza in Keelung just north of Taipei to mark the 75th anniversary of the massacre, which occurred during a military crackdown on civilian protests against Nationalist Party KMT rule that began on Feb. 28, 1947.
