India votes for a new president
20220717
https://www.asianews.it/news-en/India-votes-for-a-new-president-56281.html
According to data from the British Ministry of Defence, the Russians lost 50,000 dead and wounded soldiers in Ukraine. A significant part of the Russian arsenal was destroyed, including 4 thousand armoured fighting vehicles.
Suspected cases of Covid-19 have dropped to 400 a day. This was stated this morning by the authorities in Pyongyang. Since May, there have been almost five million cases, almost all of them treated in hospitals. In mid-May, there were more than 390,000 daily infections.
Today's headlines: tension at the G20 Finance in Indonesia over the Russian attack on UkraineLockdownsextended again in ChinaNorth Korea claims to have brought the pandemic under controlIran reported to haveatom bomb capabilities 50,000 Russian soldiers dead or wounded in Ukraine war Afghan missile attacks on Uzbekistan.
New outbreaks of Covid-19 continue to emerge in the country. Several cities have begun extending lockdowns or launching new mass tests. The alert is high Shanghai, Tianjin and Zhumadian Henan. The situation is seriousin Macao, where the authorities ordered the 11th round of population swabs.
Russia came under fire for its invasion of Ukraine yesterday at the conclusion of the G20finance ministers' summitin Bali. This was stated by the delegation of Indonesia, acting chair of the group of the world's 20 largest economies. Countries critical of Moscow called for an end to the aggression.
The Uzbek Defence Ministry denied that the country suffered a new missile attack from Afghanistan. On 5 July, the city of Termez was hit by five rockets fired from Afghan territory. The Taliban government in Kabul said the attack was the work of a criminal group, which was later dismantled by the authorities.
Elections are held today to choose the country's 15th president. Tribal candidate of Modi'smajority led BJP favoured. Former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha runs for opposition. The votes will be counted on 21 July the presidential oath is scheduled for four days later.
Tehran is "technically" capable of building an atomic bomb, but has not yet decided whether to take this step. This was stated yesterday by Kamal Kharrazi, advisor to the Iranian Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Kamenei.
