Unofficial mascot 3pawed bobcat charms northeast Calgary community
20220406
https://calgary.ctvnews.ca/unofficial-mascot-3-pawed-bobcat-charms-northeast-calgary-community-1.5850002
The felines fame took off online in a community forum called Nextdoor.  Therell be pictures posted of the cat online all the time, said Lloyd Koshman, another resident of Harvest Hills.  Adding, he doesnt mind having Stumpy around. Were perfectly fine with it, we moved into his territory, he said.  While residents are leaving the bobcat alone, there are other tips on how to be a good neighbour to Calgarys wildlife.  We just advise people to give animals space, said Holly Lilly, the executive director of the Alberta Institute for Wildlife Conservation. And not to have attractants in their garden, whether thats food or garbage and things like that, so that you can provide that humane exclusion if you don't want them.  Removing sources of food, water, and shelter, will help keep bobcats and other wildlife away, according to a spokesperson with Albertas Justice and Solicitor General. If there is concern for an animal's well-being, its best to leave it alone, and call the nearest fish and wildlife office for advice.
He had its head up against the pillow, said Caddigan. He was here for about three, four hours.  Caddigan says the animal has been making its rounds through the northeast like Coventry Hills, Panorama, Country Hills, Hidden Valley and Sandstone, so hes not sure when or if it will return to their porch.  I'm just gonna let him be and he'll grab his birds or rabbits or whatever he does, Caddigan said. And if it comes back, Ill just let it do its thing again.
The felines fame took off online in a community forum called Nextdoor.  The sex of the bobcat has not been confirmed, but according to Caddigan, area residents believe it is male and have named it Stumpy.
Calgarys southeast streets had Turk to call their unofficial mascot, but now, residents in the citys northeast communities have an ambassador of their own.  It's fun to see him, said Paul Caddigan, who lives in Harvest Hills. Hes pretty relaxed, and hes pretty agile.  Caddigan is talking about a three-pawed bobcat. He first spotted the feline outside his front window last month, lounging in the sun on his patio furniture.
