NewsTokyopop Releases Victory for Ukraine Graphic Novel Anthology by Ukranian Creators With Profit Share Donated to Ukraine
20220824
https://www.animenewsnetwork.com/news/2022-08-24/tokyopop-releases-victory-for-ukraine-graphic-novel-anthology-by-ukranian-creators-with-profit-/.188960
To the Ukrainian people, the Azovstal steel factory fight during the siege of Mariupol was very symbolic and involved many types of freedom fighters, including the Azov Regiment all are considered heroes in the Ukraine for their courage and spirit. The short story "Azovstal" in the anthology is about that encounter, and we have printed it as originally presented to us by the Ukrainian creative team.
Update: The graphic novel's cover image features an individual wearing an Azov Regiment patch, and the graphic novel also contains a story about the Azov Regiment. The all-volunteer unit's leadership and marketing have both expressed far-right and neo-Nazi views in the past, and has actively courted membership of neo-Nazis in Europe. Some of its leadership have also been members of neo-Nazi political interest groups. While it started as a civilian militia group in 2014, it has since been incorporated into Ukraine's Ministry of Internal Affairs as an official military unit. Both the U.S. and Canadian armed forces have refused to offer training to the regiment due to its alleged neo-Nazi ties. The Ukranian government has held that the regiment has continuously been "de-politicized" or "de-ideologised" of its right-wing leanings since being incorporated into the Ukrainian National Guard, and no longer officially promotes any ideology.
It is important to note that there have been concerted efforts throughout the war by Russian agents to disseminate numerous falsehoods, and this propaganda has frequently focused on calling the Ukrainian people and government "neo-Nazis" or "Nazis" to try and discredit their quest for freedom from Russia. Even Ukrainian president Zelenskyy  who is Jewish  has been called a Nazi by the Kremlin's massive disinformation campaign, and it is vital that we stay vigilant regarding the threat of misinformation.
Economic sanctions have fallen on Russia and Belarus in light of the invasion, while artists and creative studios have halted releases of some works in Russia. Nintendo announced in March that it has suspended its online eShop retail service in Russia. Sony later announced that it has suspended all PlayStation software and hardware sales in Russia as well as PlayStation Store operations in the country. Apple and Microsoft have also ceased sales and services in Russia during this time. Several companies such as Sega and Koei Tecmo Games have also donated to Ukraine.
Tokyopop announced on Wednesday that it has worked with a Ukranian publisher to translate and release a graphic novel titled Victory for Ukraine, an anthology of stories by Ukranian creators about the country's current conflict. Tokyopop will donate a share of profits to Razom for Ukraine "Razom" means "together" in Ukrainian, a non-profit Ukrainian-American human rights organization established to give direct support to the people of Ukraine. The company released the digital version of the graphic novel on Ukrainian Independence Day on Wednesday. It will release a physical version on September 27.
Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on February 24 after weeks of tense military buildup along their mutual borders and Belarus. Russia claimed to be supporting the independence of the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. Countries around the world have decried the invasion and expressed support for Ukraine.
