Carlisle MPs speak about support for Ukraine amid Russian invasion
20220301
https://www.newsandstar.co.uk/news/19958722.carlisle-mps-speak-ukrainian-support/
Mr Stevenson said: In the long run, what Id really like to see is Ukrainians having the opportunity to return to their own country as soon as possible so they can help rebuild it. That must be our goal in what we want to achieve.
Carlisles former MP, Eric Martlew, has called on the City Council to fly the Ukrainian flag above the Town Hall.
He said: What has happened this week is devastating with the invasion of a democratic independent state which should be condemned by all freedom-loving nations.
In response to Mr Martlews pleas, a spokesperson for Carlisle City Council said: We have joined many other cities all over the world by lighting up our Civic Centre heart blue and yellow to show solidarity with Ukraine.
Like most cities across the country, Carlisle held a vigil over the weekend on Castle Street, where Ukranian flags were held aloft during a silent prayer.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Talks between the two nations took place on the Belarusian border at the start of the week, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urging a ceasefire and requesting Russian troops to lay down their weapons, whilst calling for immediate EU membership.
"l can remember being a guest in their Club in Caldergate which only closed in 2016. It would be only fitting that we fly their flag.
It has been announced that a further 100,000 Ukrainians will be able to seek sanctuary in the UK.
Carlisles MP, John Stevenson has said that although the county should be prepared to welcome refugees from Ukraine, he hopes that the long-term aim would be to allow them to return home.
PROMINENT figures of Carlisle have given their thoughts on how the county should support Ukrainians as the country has been forced to battle Russian militants.
Priti Patel has, however, ruled out a visa waiver for those fleeing the conflict with Russia following Vladimir Putin's invasion.
Finally, we must do as we did in the thirties to start to build up our defences so we can face down the threats of another fascist dictator.
