Russia fires hypersonic missiles at Odesa as 44 civilians found dead in Izyum
20220510
https://www.newsandstar.co.uk/news/20126811.russia-fires-hypersonic-missiles-odesa-44-civilians-found-dead-izyum/
After unexpectedly fierce resistance forced the Kremlin to abandon its effort to storm the capital Kyiv over a month ago, Moscows forces have concentrated on capturing the Donbas, Ukraines eastern industrial region.
But Ukrainian, British and American officials warn Russia is rapidly expending its stock of precision weapons and may not be able to quickly build more, raising the risk of more imprecise rockets being used as the conflict grinds on.
Some analysts suggested Mr Putin might declare the fighting a war, not just a special military operation, and order a nationwide mobilisation, with a call-up of reserves, to fight an extended conflict.
The bodies of 44 civilians have been found in the rubble of a building destroyed by Russia, a Ukrainian official said.
Russia has about 97 battalion tactical groups in Ukraine, largely in the east and the south, a slight increase over last week, according to a senior US official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the Pentagons assessment.
Earlier, the Ukrainian military said Russian forces fired seven missiles from the air at Odesa, hitting a shopping centre and a warehouse.
As part of the barrage, a Russian supersonic bomber fired three hypersonic missiles, according to the Centre for Defence Strategies, a Ukrainian think tank tracking the war.
However, Planet Labs images showed thick smoke rising to the east of Vasylivka, a city flanked by nature preserves.
The official said that overall, the Russian effort in the Donbas has not achieved any significant progress in recent days and continues to face stiff resistance from Ukrainian forces.
Nigel Gould Davies, former British ambassador to Belarus, said: Russia has not won this war. Its starting to lose it.
Also, satellite pictures analysed by The Associated Press showed two ships off Ukraines Snake Island on Monday afternoon.
Ukraine alleged at least some of the munitions used dated back to the Soviet era, making them unreliable in targeting.
Using advanced guided missiles allows Russia to fire from aircraft at a distance without being in Ukrainian air space and exposed to potential anti-aircraft fire.
In Washington, President Joe Biden signed a bipartisan measure to reboot the Second World War-era lend-lease programme, which helped defeat Nazi Germany, to bolster Kyiv and eastern European allies.
Russia has given a pre-emptive response to aggression. It was forced, timely, and the only correct decision.
The Kinzhal can fly at five times the speed of sound and has a range of 1,240 miles.
As Mr Putin laid a wreath in Moscow, air raid sirens echoed again in the Kyiv.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Many Western analysts had expected Mr Putin to use the Victory Day holiday to trumpet some kind of victory in Ukraine or announce an escalation, but he did neither.
Izyum is an eastern Ukrainian city that Russia has been holding as a key frontline node.
Very soon there will be two Victory Days in Ukraine, he said in a video.
Intense fighting also raged in Ukraines east, and Russian forces sought to end the resistance of Ukrainian defenders making their last stand at a steel plant in Mariupol.
The strikes came after Russian President Vladimir Putin marked his countrys biggest patriotic holiday without being able to boast of major new battlefield successes.
He added: We are fighting for freedom, for our children, and therefore we will win.
Without concrete steps to build a new force, Russia cant fight a long war, and the clock starts ticking on the failure of their army in Ukraine, tweeted Phillips OBrien, professor of strategic studies at the University of St Andrews in Scotland.
It comes as Ukraines vital Black Sea port of Odesa is repeatedly bombed, including by hypersonic missiles.
One of the ships seen in the images from Planet Labs PBC appeared to be a landing craft.
Ukraine has repeatedly struck Russian positions there recently, suggesting Russian forces may be trying to re-staff or remove personnel from the Black Sea island.
But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky declared in his own Victory Day address that his country will eventually defeat the Russians.
This is another horrible war crime of the Russian occupiers against the civilian population, he said.
Valeri Paditel, who heads the border guards in the Donetsk region, said the fighters were doing everything to make those who defend the city in the future proud.
Specifically, he left unanswered the question of whether or how Russia will marshal more forces for a continuing war.
The claim was not immediately explained in the report, but Russian shelling has previously targeted oil depots and other industrial sites during the war.
In the end, he gave no signal as to where the war is heading or how he might intend to salvage it.
He said that unless Russia has a major breakthrough, the balance of advantages will shift steadily in favour of Ukraine, especially as Ukraine gets access to growing volumes of increasingly sophisticated western military equipment.
An adviser to Mr Zelensky interpreted Mr Putins speech as indicating that Russia has no interest in escalating the war through the use of nuclear weapons or direct engagement with Nato.
One of the Ukrainian fighters holding out at the steel plant said they were still defending the city.
Instead, he sought to again justify the war as a necessary response to what he portrayed as a hostile Ukraine.
He watched troops march in formation and military hardware roll by in a Victory Day parade on Moscows Red Square in a celebration of the Soviet Unions role in the 1945 defeat of Nazi Germany.
The civilians were inside a five-storey building that collapsed in Izyum in the Kharkiv region in March, said Oleh Synehuboy, the head of Kharkivs regional administration.
