Pressure on Moscowlinked magic circle law firms to pull out of Russia after UK auditors shut up shop
20220308
https://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/markets/article-10587129/Pressure-magic-circle-law-firms-UK-auditors-quit-Russia.html
Former Tory Party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said: A lot of other companies already have cut ties, and the rest should follow suit. Its time to shut down and time to leave.
MPs and campaigners had also slammed Britains lucrative professional services industry for continuing to work for Russian businesses  many of which are state-backed.
If they break the law, if they undermine the interests of this country and advance the interests of Putins war machine, they will pay a price.
Britain's biggest accountants have all pulled out of Russia after being blasted for tacitly supporting Vladimir Putins regime.
But others have been slower off the mark. Clifford Chance said in a LinkedIn post that it would not accept new mandates from any Russian state entity, Russian state-owned enterprises or individuals identified as having close connections to President Putin.
Bill Browder, a financier and campaigner who was instrumental in creating the Magnitsky Act to punish Russian human rights violators, added that Western firms pulling out of Russia would create a terrible environment for businesses in the country  piling further pressure on Putin to end his murderous rampage.
Jon Holt, chief executive of KPMG UK, added that the British branch of the audit giant had also terminated a small number of contracts relating to individuals and entities connected to the Russian state.
Feeling the chill: London firms are increasingly shunning Moscow with big name auditors the latest to pull out
Critics have now turned their scrutiny to the so-called Magic Circle law firms, which have represented swathes of Russian businesses in recent years.
It plans to wind down its operations and close the Moscow office, and added that it will not act for any individuals or entities connected to the Russian state.
Senior partner Steve Cooke added: We are appalled by the attack on Ukraine by Russia and the human suffering that is occurring as a result.
As you would expect, one of our top priorities throughout this crisis has been the safety and wellbeing of our colleagues in Moscow.
Altogether, Britains five Magic Circle firms employ more than 150 lawyers in Moscow. Linklaters, which opened its office in the country in 1992, is so far the only one to have fully distanced itself.
The disquiet in the boardrooms of Britains City firms comes after Prime Minister Boris Johnson gave lawyers an ominous warning last week.
In a similar post, Allen  Overy said it was reviewing our Russia-related portfolio, and as a result we will refuse new instructions and stop all Russia-linked work that goes against our values.
The Big Four auditors  EY, KPMG, PwC and Deloitte  will not shutter their Russian offices, but instead will push them out of their wider global networks.
Slaughter and May does not have an office in Russia, has no active clients in the country and said it had done very little work there.
EY branded the invasion of Ukraine shocking and abhorrent, while Deloitte added: We know our colleagues in Russia and Belarus have no voice in the actions of their government. We will support all impacted colleagues during this transition.
The legal profession, everybody involved in assisting those who wish to hide money in London and assisting corrupt oligarchs, have been set on notice that their actions are under scrutiny, he told Parliament.
Freshfields said on Monday that it had terminated its relationship with VTB, but declined to take any more drastic steps.
This means the Russian branches, which together employ around 13,000 staff, will have to operate on their own  backed by their partners.
This decision is not about them  it is a consequence of the actions of the Russian government.
State-backed: The Kremlin building seen from Moscow's Red Square. MPs and campaigners had slammed Britains professional services industry for continuing to work for Russian firms
One of those leading firms, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, even recently decided to work for sanctions-hit VTB Bank as it tried to sue one of Africas poorest nations, the Mail on Sunday revealed.
KPMG and PwC announced they would cut ties with their Russian arms on Sunday, while EY and Deloitte followed suit yesterday.
It had previously advised gas supplier Gazprom on the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipeline projects, and worked for oil giant Rosneft
As it cut ties on Sunday, a KPMG spokesman said: KPMG has over 4,500 people in Russia and Belarus, and ending our working relationship with them, many of whom have been a part of KPMG for many decades, is incredibly difficult.
A spokesman said: This is a very fast moving situation. We continue to assess the impact on our Moscow office as a matter of priority and will provide further updates as and when appropriate.
London-based Norton Rose Fulbright, which is not part of the top five elite law firms but is still seen as one of the countrys most prestigious legal groups, also agreed to close its Moscow office.
They will not pay any of their profits to the wider groups, and will not receive any support in matters such as IT or finding new work. They will also have to find new names.
