Steelmaker for Russian tanks STILL on LSE Evraz among firms to see shares suspended but regulator stops short of giving them the boot
20220310
https://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/markets/article-10599923/Steelmaker-Russian-tanks-LSE-Evraz-sees-shares-suspended.html
Rosneft's Igor Sechin became close to Putin during the Russian leaders time as deputy mayor of St Petersburg
Three British directors have refused to stand down from the board of Evraz  including a former aide to Prince Charles.
Rosneft is yet another whose shares hold a secondary listing on the London Stock Exchange, and while they are suspended, they have not yet been booted off.
Ex-Ford Motor Company executive Stephen Odell  who made 105,000 from Evraz last year  and former Deloitte director Deborah Gudgeon have also stayed.
The Mail understands the FCA does not even have plans to take any measures against Russian firms that go beyond those imposed by the Foreign Office  which so far has not made any direct mention of the LSE.
Financier and campaigner Bill Browder said: I believe that all Russian companies should be delisted from the London Stock Exchange immediately.
As the boss of state-backed Rosneft, the worlds largest publicly traded oil and gas company, Sechin is a particularly close and influential ally of Putin, according to the Foreign Office.
But the LSE and Financial Conduct Authority FCA have still refused to take measures to boot out Evraz and the 36 other companies that have had their shares suspended over the Ukraine crisis.
Controlling force: Shares in steel giant Evraz were suspended after the UK sanctioned oligarch Roman Abramovich, the groups biggest investor
He is standing down at the end of this month once part of Evrazs business has been split into a separate firm  a process that started long before the war with Ukraine  but has refused calls to leave early.
'It is neither morally right not prudentially responsible to allow the trading of shares of firms so closely tied to the Russian state.
It makes no sense if all major Western companies are pulling out of Russia but the LSE continues to list Russian companies. Its no longer a business issue but a security issue.
Sam Armstrong, of foreign affairs think-tank the Henry Jackson Society, said: The FCA have dragged their feet on this issue for too long.
City regulators were last night blasted for refusing to expel Russian companies from the stock exchange  even after one was accused of providing the steel that built Vladimir Putins tanks.
However, this does not amount to a full expulsion from the London Stock Exchange LSE and is effectively a temporary disruption to business-as-usual.
Politicians and other critics said the very presence of dozens of Russian firms on the London market threatened to undermine the Governments response to the war on Ukraine.
And a string of businesses such as Polymetal and Petropavlovsk  which claim they are not Russian  are still trading as normal.
Close: President of VTB Bank Andrey Kostin left with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the 2018 Russian Grand Prix in Sochi
Last Friday, James Rutherford became the only one so far to take a moral stand against Putins regime.
Roger Barker, director of policy and corporate governance at the Institute of Directors IoD, said: Although Russian issuers would normally be welcome participants in UK capital markets, their continued involvement could be construed as undermining public policy aimed at persuading the Russian government to pull back from its current actions in Ukraine.
Sechin, 61, became close to Putin during the Russian leaders time as deputy mayor of St Petersburg in the 1990s, serving as his chief of staff.
Its shares are suspended from trading in London, but have not been booted off the prestigious exchange.
The sanctioning of Miller, 60, will deal another blow to Russias energy sector, which accounts for a major proportion of the countrys economy.
The lack of action on LSE-listed firms comes in the wake of an international boycott of Russia by Western firms.
'Evraz is inextricably linked to a sanctioned oligarch and a failure to act would demonstrate that regulators simply lack the powers or wherewithal to defend the UKs national interests.
In a set of highly damaging claims, the Foreign Office said Abramovich has been involved in destabilising Ukraine and is the controlling force of FTSE 100-listed Evraz.
The businessman, who suggested at World Economic Forum in Davos four years ago that further sanctions on Russia would be economic war, is a former politician with close links to Putin.
Lord Barker, a former energy minister, finally gave up his 3million-a-year job on Monday despite vowing to stay in the role just days earlier.
The Kremlin owns 60.9 per cent of VTB, and that makes Kostin involved in supporting the Government of Russia, says the Foreign Office.
And Evraz itself, officials said, potentially supplies steel to the Russian military, which may have been used in the production of the tanks lurking on the outskirts of Kyiv.
Born in St Petersburg to a Russo-German family, Miller also fell into Putins inner circle serving under him during his time as deputy mayor.
It came as shares in steel giant Evraz were suspended after the UK sanctioned oligarch Roman Abramovich, the groups biggest investor.
Slapping on the sanctions, the foreign office noted the company had delivered gas to Crimea which was annexed illegally by Russia in 2014.
Of those remaining, Sir Michael Peat, Prince Charles ex-aide and the Queens former treasurer, is the best known. He has been with the company since 2011. Peat has earned 1.9million from Evraz in a decade.
The LSEs powers are limited to being able to suspend shares  and it is the FCA that determines which companies are listed. They are included on what is called the regulators Official List.
The sanctioning of Deripaska, who has been instrumental in forging ties between Russia and MPs, will raise questions about why it took so long for prominent Britons on Ens board to quit.
Sources said it was too early to speculate what would happen next but that it was not a decision for the FCA to make.
