Wizz Air shares jump 10 as budget airline unveils betterthanexpected losses with summer bookings rising
20220414
https://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/markets/article-10718513/Wizz-Air-shares-rise-anticipated-summer-bookings-boom.html
Nearly 2.5 million flights were booked by its customers last month, compared to just 480,200 in March 2021, when many European countries were under strict national lockdowns.
Upbeat: Wizz Air said bookings are on the rise and it has edged against fuel price rises
The Hungarian budget airline said losses in its last quarter to the end of March are set to be lower than initially feared, following encouraging demand for flights in recent weeks.
The war in Ukraine meant it had to suspend its flights to the country, as well as neighbouring Moldova and Russia, but Wizz Air has reallocated the affected capacity to other parts of its network.
In March, the airline carriedfive times more passengers than in the same month last year, according to an update released earlier this month.
'Despite these developments we are starting to see recovery take shape as we move closer to the summer of 2022.'
Despite the improvement in the last quarter, annual losses are set to be bigger than last year at between 632million and 652million - compared to 576million a year earlier.
It takes the number of passengers who have flown with the airline in the last 12 months to over 27million, which was still around a third lower than in the year leading up to the start of the coronavirus pandemic.
The company said the Omicron variant proved to be of 'benign nature', leading to quicker easing of restrictions.
Wizz Air expects bookings for this summer to 'build significantly' after Easter as Covid restrictions have been now been relaxed in many countries.
The company said it has reduced its exposure to volatility in oil prices byhedging for over a third of its expected fuel usage from April to August this year.
Wizz Air shares, which are listed on the FTSE 250, rose almost 10 per cent in early trading and were 8per cent higher at 31.16 by market close on Thursday.
'Distressingly, the war in Ukraine dented demand for air travel and destabilized commodity prices across the globe,' chief executive Jzsef Vradi said.
