10 Things in Tech Apple outages
20220322
https://www.businessinsider.com/10-things-in-tech-apple-outages-imessage-app-store-down-2022-3
Hi again. Apple experienced outages yesterday that affected services like iMessage and Apple Music, and Ford's F-150 Lightning's official range rating is in.
5. Amazon has been fined $60,000 for "willfully" violating safety rules at a warehouse. The citation, the most serious workplace safety violation in the commerce giant's history  and its fourth in the past year  says Amazon's "very high pace of work" is injuring workers. Here's what we know about Amazon's safety citation.
Curated by Jordan Parker Erb in New York. Feedback or tips? Email jerbinsider.com or tweet jordanparkererb. Edited by Michael Cogley in London.
9. Ford's F-150 Lightning is one of the longest-range electric vehicles on the market. The US government's official range rating for the EV is in, and with a range of 320 miles on a full charge, the truck exceeded even Ford's own expectations. Get the latest on the F-150 Lightning.
8. Elon Musk's Starlink satellites are helping Ukraine's drone unit destroy Russian tanks and trucks. The Times of London reported that Starlink's internet system ensures drone teams can work even if there are internet or power outages. More on that here.
10. LG's new TVs could be contenders for the year's best. LG's new G2 and C2 OLED Evo TVs are rolling out to stores over the coming weeks, and carry over everything we loved about previous models  while delivering an image with more pop and detail. Read the full review here.
1. Apple was hit with temporary outages yesterday. Services including iMessage, App Store, Apple Music, and Maps experienced outages on Monday afternoon. Internal systems at its retail locations were also affected, according to reports by Bloomberg.
4. Another ex-Googler has come forward to allege racial discrimination at the tech giant. Just days after a lawsuit alleging racial bias was filed against the company, another former employee is alleging sexual harassment and racism at Google. More on the latest allegations.
6. The Amazon-MGM merger signals a major threat to the movie-theater industry. The $8.5 billion deal highlights what one theater exec called one of his biggest concerns for exhibitors: fewer in-theater releases. See what else the exec told us.
If this was forwarded to you, sign up here. Download Insider's app  click here for iOS and here for Android.
7. Alumni from Google's DeepMind are raising millions for their own startups. Seventeen employees who started at DeepMind, Google's AI lab, have left to launch their own ventures, spanning non-profits, energy, and cryptocurrencies. Meet the DeepMind mafia.
3. Criminals are staging a devious new kind of kidnapping. Over the past few years, thousands of families have experienced the same bizarre nightmare: a phone call, a screaming child, a demand for ransom money and a kidnapping that is ultimately revealed to be fake. Inside the world of virtual kidnappings.
2. President Joe Biden warned of "evolving intelligence" that Russia is exploring cyberattacks. A statement issued by the president urged companies to "harden your cyber defenses immediately." The IT infrastructure for energy, finance, and transportation poses the biggest risk, analysts said. Here's what else you need to know.
