Estonian officials slam Russia for claiming the killer of Putin allys daughter fled there suggest her death may be a Russian false flag
20220823
https://www.businessinsider.com/darya-dugina-estonia-slams-russia-said-killer-fled-there-suggests-false-flag-2022-8
"It is possible that this was the FSB's own operation since these people had become a threat," Kannik said. "At the same time, it is convenient to blame it on the Ukrainians. Now we are seeing that Estonia can also be dragged into this."
On Monday, Oleksii Danilov, an official at the Ukrainian national security council official, told a TV interview: "We have nothing to do with the murder of this lady. This is the work of the Russian special services," CNN reported.
The country also reported last week that its government offices, banks, and healthcare services had been targeted by Russia-linked hackers, but that its websites survived the attack.
On Monday, Russia's Federal Security Service FSB claimed that a Ukrainian woman named Natalya Vovk was responsible for the blast, the state-run Tass news agency reported.
Estonia, a former Soviet state which borders Russia, has taken a strong stance against Putin and the invasion of Ukraine.
Estonian officials on Tuesday slammed Russia for claiming that Darya Dugina's killer fled there after the attack and suggested that her death might be a Russian-staged false flag.
Dugina  the daughter of Alexander Dugin, an ultranationalist philosopher and ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin  was killed in a car blast on the outskirts of Moscow on Saturday, investigators said.
Its prime minister, Kaja Kallas, led calls for economic sanctions on Russia in mid-February  before the invasion  as Russia was massing troops on Ukraine's border.
Estonia's foreign minister, Urmas Reinsalu, hit back at the claim on Tuesday, telling the ERR state broadcaster: "We regard this as one instance of provocation in a very long line of provocations by the Russian Federation, and we have nothing more to say about it at the moment."
The FSB claimed that Vovk was a Ukrainian special-services contractor who went to Russia in July to plan the attack, Tass reported. She then fled to neighboring Estonia after the attack, the FSB said.
Kannik did add, however, that the death could have had nothing to do with politics as well.
Indrek Kannik, the head of the International Centre for Defence and Security  an Estonian state-backed think-tank  also told ERR that the attack could have been a "false-flag" operation by Russia.
