JPMorgan says Russias economy is stronger than expected and will only suffer a shallow recession despite sanctions
20220510
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/russia-economy-gdp-stronger-expected-sanctions-ukraine-war-jpmorgan-ruble-2022-5
The US and its allies slapped tough economic sanctions on Russia in late February after Vladimir Putin's troops invaded Ukraine. The stringency of the measures prompted forecasters to predict a dramatic slowdown in Russia's economy.
Read more: The boss of a $2.2 billion asset manager who's called the last two big bear markets lays out why he's moved virtually all his positions into cash. He shares what he wants to see before buying back in
In March, JPMorgan forecasted that Russian gross domestic product would contract 35 quarter-over-quarter in the second quarter, and 7 for the year. The IMF expects Russia's economy to shrink 8.5 in 2022.
Yet the bank told clients last week that the country's economy is in better shape than expected, judging from business surveys and high-frequency indicators such as electricity consumption and financial flows.
"The impact of sanctions will continue building in coming quarters, we expect," JPMorgan said. "The GDP profile, therefore, looks increasingly likely to be consistent with a drawn-out, but not very sharp recession."
The Russian economy has so far fared better than expected under tough sanctions and is likely to suffer only a shallow  although drawn-out  recession, according to JPMorgan.
The Wall Street bank said business sentiment surveys from the country "are signaling a not very deep recession in Russia, and therefore imply upside risks to our growth forecasts," in a note sent to clients last week and released publicly Monday.
"The data at hand therefore do not point to an abrupt plunge in activity, at least for now," JPMorgan's analysts wrote. They said GDP in the second quarter would likely be better than predicted in March.
To be sure, JPMorgan said Russia's economy is far from where it would be if the invasion hadn't happened. It said export orders are doing particularly badly, and companies expect more pain down the line.
