Lithuanians crowdfund 54 million to buy Ukraine a feared Bayraktar combat drone
20220529
https://www.businessinsider.com/bayraktar-lithuania-crowfunds-54m-to-buy-feared-drone-for-ukraine-2022-5
It was not immediately clear how the funds would be used to buy the drone or how soon one could be deployed in Ukraine.
The fundraiser was organized by Laisves TV, an online broadcaster in Lithuania founded in 2016.
The drones are much slower and carry smaller payloads than US drones like the MQ-9 Reaper, but they are also significantly cheaper.
Lithuanians raised 5 million $5.4 million from its citizens to buy a Bayraktar TB-2 drone for the Ukrainian military.
ANew Yorker article published in early May suggested that the Bayraktars may have been losing their edge in recent month, noting Russian claims to have shot many of them down, and a lack of recent videos of successful strikes.
The country's official Twitter account celebrated the milestone on Saturday. It said the total was achieved in three days thanks mostly to small donations. The fundraising drive was a private initiative started by a media firm.
Bayraktar drones are among the most modern and celebrated weapons in Ukraine's arsenal against Russia, and have become a part of Ukrainian military folklore.
Early in the war, the Ukrainian military posted a series of videos showing Bayraktar strikes on columns of Russian armor that left smoking wreckage behind.
Ukraine's ambassador to Lithuania, Beshta Petro, celebrated the milestone in an interview with Laisves, according to the Reuters news agency.
Most shipments of weapons and other military equipment have come directly governments like those of the US, UK, and European nations. Ukraine itself also started accepting donations earmarked for its armed forces when the war began.
The Lithuanian drive is unusual because the funds were earmarked for a specific piece of equipment.
Ukrainian soldiers repeatedly cite the drones in propaganda videos mocking the invading Russians, and also inspired a popular song celebrating their success.
The drive was an unusual addition to the stream of military aid granted to Ukraine since Russian invaded in February.
Nonetheless, Ukraine thanked Lithuania, a Baltic state and EU member that borders Russia, with a post of its own.
"This is the first case in history when ordinary people raise money to buy something like a Bayraktar," he said. "It is unprecedented, it is unbelievable."
