Major fund managers have frozen at least 3 billion in assets exposed to Russia as Ukraine war wreaks havoc on markets reports say
20220302
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/russia-assets-frozen-ukraine-war-fund-managers-markets-rubles-stocks-2022-3
"We are just beginning to see the fall-out from the Russia-Ukraine crisis. The direct effects are now known: the majority of Russia-focussed funds are now suspended, other funds, if they have not suspended already will almost certainly need to do so soon," Fitch said in emailed comments to Insider.
"Due to the serious dysfunctioning of the Russian securities markets, normal market trading conditions cannot be guaranteed," Amundi said in a statement as reported by Bloomberg. Amundi has also suspended its Russian-linked funds, many of which would have racked up huge losses.
The Russian stock market was closed for a third day on Wednesday and exchanges like the NYSE halted trading in local-listed shares of Russian companies. London-listed shares in some of Russia's biggest companies were virtually worthless by Wednesday.
Some of the world's biggest asset managers have frozen withdrawals from their Russia-focussed funds after the country's attack on Ukraine unleashed a raft of punitive sanctions that have sent the currency into freefall and forced the closure of the stock market.
Fitch Ratings on Wednesday said it had identified 22 Russia-focused funds that had been suspended.
Big fund managers including JPMorgan, Amundi, and BNP Paribas have frozen Russian-linked assets worth at least $3 billion as the West stepped up its sanctions against the country, according to various media reports.
Unprecedented Western sanctions against Russia, including a ban on some of the country's banks from the SWIFT international payments system and freezing the Russian central bank's access to almost all of its $630 billion in foreign reserves, have locked it out of the global financial system. Anyone holding Russian stocks, bonds or currency have found it virtually impossible to trade.
The VanEck Russia exchange-traded fund - one of the world's largest ETFs with exposure to the country - has lost around 50 in value in just three trading days, reflecting the extent of the meltdown in Russian assets.
Reuters and Bloomberg identified more than a dozen suspended Russia-focused funds, and the FT said at least 19 asset managers had frozen withdrawals from funds since the start of the invasion last week.
Almost $13 billion in Russian stocks owned by US. and Europe-based funds are now in sanctioned companies, Bloomberg said. Overseas investors owned about $86 billion of Russian equities in 2021, according to data from the Moscow Exchange cited by Bloomberg.
With the likes of BP, Shell and Norway's Equinor abandoning their Russian oil and gas projects despite incurring billions of dollars in losses, Russia has in turn banned foreign companies from exiting their investments and stepped up its defense of its economy, adding to difficulties for foreign investors.
"The closure of the Russian stock exchange, for example, could force funds with domestic exposure to suspend redemptions due to an inability to trade effectively," Fitch said.
