Satellite photos show Russias final troop deployments around Ukraine before Putin launched an invasion
20220224
https://www.businessinsider.com/satellite-images-show-final-russia-troop-deployments-before-ukraine-invasion-2022-2
Blasts from missile strikes have been heard in the capital Kyiv, per the Ukrainian interior ministry. There have also been reports of outgoing artillery fire from Russian forces across the border.
Putin on Monday said that Moscow would formally recognize the independence of the two breakaway regions.
Russian forces, under orders from Putin, launched widespread attacks on Ukraine early on Thursday morning.
One camera captured tanks crossing Ukraine's northern border with Belarus at the Senkivka crossing at 6:48 a.m. local time Thursday, per CNN. It was not immediately clear when the other videos were captured.
The images show vehicles in four locations within Russia, all within 20 miles of the Ukrainian border  Golovchino, Malakeevo, Krasnaya Yaruga, and Kupino.
US President Joe Biden said that the attack amounts to a "premeditated war" that will bring "catastrophic loss of life and human suffering."
Satellite imagery captured Wednesday shows Russian troops seemingly being deployed within miles of the Ukrainian border just hours before President Vladimir Putin ordered a "full scale invasion" of the country.
The conflict, which has been escalating for months, has already led the US, UK, and the European Union to issue sanctions against Russia.
Ukrainian border guard video cameras captured imagery of military vehicles, including tanks, crossing the border to Ukraine from the southern Crimea region and Belarus, to the north of Ukraine, the Telegraph reported.
The pictures show a large number of military vehicles massing in farm land, which is marked with what appear to be fresh tire tracks.
The sanctions came Tuesday, after Putin decided to move troops in what he called a "peacekeeping" mission to the border with Donetsk and Luhansk  two separatist territories that are loyal to Moscow  on Monday.
Pictures captured Wednesday by Maxar Technologies satellites showed artillery, armored personnel carriers, and military convoys seemingly on the move on the Russian side of the border. The images appear to show Russian troops making their final preparations before moving into Ukraine.
Putin announced Russian forces were launching an offensive against Ukraine in a video that aired early Thursday morning in local time.
Ukraine's foreign ministrysaid Russia was "launching attacks on peaceful Ukrainian cities from different directions, including from the territory of the temporary occupied Donbas and Crimea, as well as from South-East region."
