These top European energy companies are set to pay for Russian gas in rubles to meet Putins demands despite EU warnings report
20220428
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/commodities/european-energy-giants-russian-natural-gas-ruble-payments-eu-sanctions-2022-4
For nations complying with the new ruble payment scheme, they must pay Gazprombank in euro-denominated deposits, which the firm would then convert to rubles in a second account opened in their name.
Earlier this week, however, Gazprombank rejected a ruble payment from a trading firm Germany had seized from Moscow.
On Wednesday, Bloomberg reported four European natural gas buyers have already paid Russia in rubles for supplies, though it didn't mention which ones.
Despite widespread condemnation of Russia's war on Ukraine, Europe remains heavily dependent on Russian energy.
Two of the largest importers of Russian gas are said to be participating  Dsseldorf-based Uniper and Vienna-based OMV. And by the end of May, Italy's Eni may sign up for the ruble payments as well, though it is still considering its options, according to the FT.
Putin threatened last month to cut off gas supplies to nations that did not pay in rubles. On Wednesday, Russia halted shipments to Poland and Bulgaria, triggering a 28 surge in European gas prices.Gazprom said the stoppage occurred because the two nations didn't offer payment in rubles.
In April, Ukraine had called for the world's largest energy traders to stop handling Russian oil altogether. "They are in this cycle of financing war crimes and genocide against Ukrainian citizens," Oleg Ustenko, advisor to Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told the FT.
Despite warnings from the European Union that such payments would violate sanctions, distributors in the four EU nations are preparing to register with Gazprombank in Switzerland, sources told the FT, to meet the ruble payment requirement.
Companies in Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Slovakia are set to meet the Kremlin's demand that natural customers register for a new payment mechanism that facilitates ruble payments, the Financial Times reported.
