Trump compares YouTube pulling his interview with the NELK Boys to Russias censorship of its Ukraine invasion
20220311
http://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/trump-compares-youtube-pulling-nelk-interview-russia-censor-ukraine-invasion-2022-3
Former President Donald Trump likened YouTube removing his interview with the NELK Boys to the way the Russian media was censoring news of the Ukraine invasion.
"I told them: 'Don't worry, it will be taken down, because I'm doing it,'" he said, without giving further specifics.
Speaking to Fox News, Trump went on to praise the NELK Boys as "four young guys, great people" and said he was encouraged to go on the show by UFC President Dana White.
On Thursday, YouTube took down an episode of the "Full Send" podcast, in which Trump spoke about Russia's invasion of Ukraine and once again alleged the 2020 election was fraudulent. The link to the video now renders a blank screen, which says: "This video has been removed for violating YouTube's Community Guidelines."
"Full Send" host Kyle Forgeard tweeted a screenshot of an email YouTube had sent his channel, which saidthe episode breached its "misinformation policy."
"It became very much a sensation," Trump said of the interview, adding he told the NELK Boys at the time that it would ultimately be removed by YouTube.
Twitter and Facebook booted Trump from their platforms in the wake of the Capitol riot last year, saying his posts incited violence. YouTube barred Trump from uploading new videos.
Speaking to Fox News on Thursday, Trump likened the removal to the way Russian state media censors news about the invasion of Ukraine.
YouTube did not specify which comments breached the policy.Google, which owns YouTube, did not immediately Insider's requests for comment.
"This is what they do in Russia, you know, if you look at Russia ... the people in Russia don't even know they're fighting a war with Ukraine," Trump said.
Since invading Ukraine on February 24, Russian authorities and state-run media have painted the invasion, which it refers to as a "special military operation," as a success. It has, on occasion, denied that Russia attacked cities despite abundant evidence to the contrary, and silenced those who challenge the government's narrative.
