Ukraine president says Russias invasion both united his country and strengthened the EU
20220302
https://www.businessinsider.com/zelensky-says-russia-invasion-united-ukraine-strengthened-eu-2022-3
"Indeed over time, they belong to us. They are one of us and we want them in," she told Euronews.
Zelensky applied directly to the European Parliament on Tuesday, saying: "We have proven our strengths, we have proven that, at a minimum, we are exactly the same as you are. Do prove that you are with us."
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, had said before Zelensky's application that the EU wants Ukraine as a member.
"During this time we have united the European Union already on a new level," he said. "Higher than formal. Higher than inter-state. At the level of the ordinary people. Millions and millions of Europeans. From the Atlantic Ocean to the suburbs of Kharkiv, where fierce fighting continues."
Russia has met significant resistance from Ukrainians, with Western intelligence concluding that Russia appeared to have been caught off guard and moving slower than it expected.
It is not clear when Ukraine would be able to join even if all member states agreed to its membership, as the joining process is bureaucratic and can be lengthy.
Russia hadcitedthe possibility of Ukraine and otherformer Soviet satellite statesbecoming members of NATO as a reason for invading Ukraine,saying it was acting out of self-defense against the bloc's eastward expansion.
"During this time we have had more unity than for over 30 years before," Zelensky said Wednesday.
"At first we were equally scared, then we felt equally painful. And now we do not care. Except for victory. Except for the truth. Except for peace. Except for the tranquility we want to achieve. Except for the lives of our people, for whom we are worried. Except for Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia's invasion of his country had managed to unite his people and strengthen the European Union.
Zelensky's commentssuggested that Russia's invasionharmed its own aims of destabilizingthe West and weakening Western alliances.
"During this time, we have truly become one. We forgave each other a lot. We started loving each other. We help each other. We are worried for each other."
He noted the standing ovation he was given after addressing the European Parliament on Tuesday, saying: "When the European parliament stood and applauded us, our struggle, it was an assessment of our efforts. Our unity."
The EU has taken unprecedentedsteps to help Ukraine against Russia, including the introduction of economic sanctions, purchasing and sending weapons, banning Russian planes from flying over its airspace, and supporting Ukrainian refugees.
Zelensky made the comments in a video address on Wednesday morning, the seventh day of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and two days after Zelensky applied for Ukraine to join the EU.
He later added: "Our diplomats and our friends unite the world for the sake of Ukraine and peace even more."
