Ukrainian MPs tell Insider current Western sanctions on Russia arent enough to stop an allout invasion We need more
20220223
https://www.businessinsider.com/ukraine-mps-say-current-western-sanctions-wont-stop-putin-invasion-2022-2
"If they are damaged in war, Ukraine won't have to pay," Klympush said of the arsenal.
Holos leader Kira Rudik told Insider there's no question that Putin will invade Ukraine: "I am sure he will move further. If we are not able to stop him now, why would he stop?"
Sovsun said she believed the vast majority of MPs across the political spectrum agreed that more needs to be done to deter Putin.
Rudik agreed, saying the West needs to sanction "not only his closest circle and the Duma, but the members of their families."
Ukraine is expected to declare a state of emergency later on Wednesday, a move that the country's top security official said paves the way for martial law.
All three MPs who spoke to Insider believe that isn't enough to end Putin's bellicose intentions.
Zelensky's argument against the measure, according to Sovsun, is that "if we declare martial law, Putin will use this to say Ukraine is getting militarized."
"Cancel the visas of all Putin's cronies and their families," Sovsun said. "Freezing their assets is good, but they are still extremely rich."
Another option floated in the US as a potential punishment for Russia was to remove it from SWIFT, the global network for international financial transfers.
The US, UK, and EU reacted swiftly with sanctions targeting Russian businesses and individuals, saying they would impose more punishments if Russia went further.
The West's current sanctions on Russia are not strong enough to deter President Vladimir Putin from launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, three Ukrainian Members of Parliament told Insider.
"They've not gone far enough, and there is a frustration on the side of the Ukrainians," Inna Sovsun, an MP with the Holos party, told Insider.
Putin ordered Russian forces to enter eastern Ukraine on Monday night after recognizing two pro-Kremlin oblasts, Donetsk and Luhansk, as independent regions. The international community continues to recognize them as Ukrainian territory.
Putin has derided the idea of sanctions, and both Sovsun and Rudik said any punishment must directly target Putin's closest allies, who could pressure him to shift course.
The US has not ruled it out. "We are not taking SWIFT off the table, it will remain an option that we can deploy depending on how Russia makes its next move," Russia's state-run TASS news agency cited a US official as saying.
Ivanna Klympush, an MP with the European Solidarity party, also told Insider that current sanctions "aren't enough to preclude further invasion into Ukraine."
Sovsun and Rudik also told Insider they believed President Volodymyr Zelensky was too slow to call for a state of emergency, and that he should have imposed martial law as a priority. None of the MPs Insider spoke with are members of Zelensky's Servant of the People party.
The prospect of NATO membership for Ukraine infuriates Putin, and is one of his main justifications for sending more than 150,000 troops to Ukraine's borders since November.
The US and UK have so far refrained from sending troops into Ukraine because it is not a NATO member. However, the UK sent artillery last month, and said on Wednesday it would provide more weaponry, including "lethal aid."
"I could try to predict the actions of the rational person, I cannot predict the actions of a guy who has clearly gone crazy," she said.
"There is this big disappointment that we have been left alone," she said, while acknowledging that the West had imposed some sanctions so far.
Klympush also called on the West to consider reviving the Lend-Lease scheme, which was last used during World War II. The program saw US weaponry lent effectively free of charge if its use served America's interests.
If the severity of sanctions doesn't increase, Putin will press home his advantage and invade, she said.
Russia said it would block oil, gas and minerals from reaching Europe if it was ejected. Many European nations including Germany, the region's largest economy, are heavily reliant on Russian energy supplies.
