Cannes Ukrainian film depicts trauma of war
20220524
https://www.dw.com/en/cannes-ukrainian-film-butterfly-vision-depicts-trauma-of-war/a-61913968
While we were researching for the production, we visited our soldiers at the actual front line to observe details there, and back then we also had to take some measures just to be safe.
Previous to this war, the stories being told about Ukraine were perhaps understood outside of the country as being influenced more by Russian stories. Doyou think the way people understand Ukraine outside the country has now changed?
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
So, yeah, that was among the dangers there was a possibility that the invasion would catch us inDonbas.
And, now as your film comes out, it has a broader relevancewe're in the midst of a full-scale war ...
Well, first of all, Ukrainian artists being present on such a big and well-known cultural platform is a matter of our struggle and survival in itself, because our cultural identity is under attack. And that's why each case of Ukrainian culture being successful, being presented, being loud and noticed, is a part of us still being alive and developing.
So it's a fiction film, but how much of it was inspired by real cases and stories you were hearing, for example whileyou were editing?
Ukrainian stories and the Ukrainian perspective could have been marginalized somehow, or there would be some kind of tiredness, let's say, because maybe there was this kind of misunderstanding.
There's a lot of focus here in Cannes on Ukrainian stories and films. What do you hope people will hear?
For people abroad, the warthat started in 2014 was kind of over. So they were wondering, why would Ukrainian filmmakers keep telling stories about war?
And then I was also editing a documentary called "Invisible Battalion," which tells the stories of womenveterans and women soldiers. While I was editing it, listening to some phrases and scenes again and again, I got deeply impressed by their perspective.
That wasn't so clear, and that wasn't so present back then, unfortunately. And that was also one of the initial reasons why we decided to make that film.
"Butterfly Vision" is about a female soldier who returns home aftermonths of captivity, and finds out that she is pregnant, having been rapedby her prison guard.
Ahead of the film's Cannes premiere on May 25, DW met Ukrainian director Maksym Nakonechnyi at the festival.
But, also, I would love our film to bring thoughts about the future, because it's a story of survival. It's a story of a will to survive and to keep standing and fighting. And I hope it will make its contribution to our general survival, standing and fighting as Ukrainian society, and to global progressive democratic society in general.
And that was a difficult situation for the soldiers or the people who had experienced the horrors of war and who were returning to peaceful civil life. What made it harder was that they would feel this indifference from the other people, who didn't have such an experience.
And now, when it started touching each Ukrainian citizen, each Ukrainian family and household, it became very clear that, as long as you don't experience something, you cannot fully get it. But you can at least be aware  and that is the key to living together as a united society.
Maksym Nakonechnyi: Since the very start of the Russian-Ukrainian war back in 2014, my colleagues and I have been trying to get involved and take action as artists and filmmakers. And we were making a lot of films on the topic.
I also had a lot of friends who were actually serving, and many women were among them. So I was just hearing their stories, their experiences.
So that's one of the conclusions I would love the international audience to make after seeing the film: that they know that we're present, not only where the actual hostilities take place. It's much broader it influences many more spheres of life.
I was deeply impressed by one of the phrases in particular it was a woman soldier saying that being captured was the scariest thing for her. She didn't want the Russians to know that she is a woman. She had made a deal with her fellow combatants, asking them to kill her in a situation where she could possibly become a captive.
The locations that we chose were not at the actual front line. But the exchange scene in the film was shot in Donbas. We had chosen the location back in 2020, and we were shooting this scene in the beginning of 2021. And that was just about the time ofRussia's first attempt to build up their troops around our borders.
So, from this initial testimony, we started researching the topic with my co-writer and then with my main actress, we talked to different participants, witnesses, or victims of waror of war crimes, and we collected their stories. And we were not only collecting the facts, but also observing their mode of survival with such an experience. All that would flow into the story's details,for example through the acting or the camera work.
Before this war, the Ukrainian perspective was marginalized or ignored, there was this falseperception of us as just a part of a bigger, post-Soviet cultural field. Of course, that was the result of Russian propaganda. That's over now. There is no way back. The process has started where the world has begun to see us as a sovereign identity with all the aspects that entails: cultural, political, sociological, existential and metaphysical. A Ukraine with a separate postcolonial identity.
Premiering at the Cannes Film Festival, Maksim Nakonechnyi's feature portrays the trauma of a Ukrainian female soldier kept captive and raped by her Russian captors in Donbas.
So, when we were preparing to go to the location, we were contacted by the local authorities, who told us that this location was too dangerous and that we had to move a bit further from the border.
Well, before the full-scale invasion started, when our war was still considered a "frozen conflict" by both the international community and a lot of Ukrainian citizens, too, I would say that there was a huge gap, even in Ukrainian society.
The film itself was shot in the Donbas region. How difficult or how dangerous was it to work there?
