Celebrities call for deescalation in Ukraine
20220205
https://www.dw.com/en/no-war-celebrities-call-for-de-escalation-in-ukraine/a-60672789
One day before the statement was published, the Russian governmentbanned Deutsche Welle. The move was a reaction to the ban on German-language programming by Russian state broadcaster RT DE. On Thursday, DW Director-General Peter Limbourg criticizedthe measures. "We are being made a pawn here in a way that media only have to experience in autocracies," Limbourg said."We formally protest this absurd reaction of the Russian government and will take legal action against the announced measures." Minister of State for Culture and MediaClaudia Rothalso called the broadcasting ban on DW unacceptable.
The letter was initiated by the artist couple Pamela andWolf Biermann, actor Burghart Klaussner, and cultural manager and literature festival initiator Ulrich Schreiber.
In an open letter, celebrities from around the world have called for an end to Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The prominent signatories include Ai Weiwei, Herta Mller and Ian McEwan.
According to NATO intelligence, Russia is continuing military deployments around Ukraine. Thirty thousand Russian soldiers are also reported to have been deployed to Belarus. NATO speaks of the largest military action since the end of the Cold War. Criticism is being voiced about the German government's refusal to supply weapons to Ukraine.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Prominent signatories include Nobel literature laureates Herta Mller and Akinwande Oluwole Soyinka, writers Ian McEwan and Liao Yiwu, and Chinese artistAi Weiwei. Putin, who has called the demise of the totalitarian Soviet Union a "tragedy," is known for his efforts to fight democratic movements within Russiaand to try to destabilize international rivals through cyberattacks and misinformation.
While Vladimir Putin celebrates relations with China at the opening of the Winter Olympics in Beijing, more than 350 authors and artists from Germany and abroad, including numerous celebrities, are appealing to politicians to oppose "Putin's aggression."
