Crimea gold awarded to Ukraine
20211026
https://www.dw.com/en/crimea-gold-awarded-to-ukraine-in-blow-to-russia/a-59627319
Russia's annexation of Crimea drew Western sanctions, with Western countries and most of the rest of the world recognizing the Black Sea peninsula as Ukrainian.
The University of Amsterdam, which owns the Allard Pierson Museum, has said the institutionwill continue to keep the treasure in storage until all appeals are settled.
The name Scythianis conventionally given by historians to a group of cultures that existedacross the Eurasian Steppeduring theIron Agefrom aroundthe 9thcentury B.C. to the 2ndcentury A.D.
The presiding judge at the court,Pauline Hofmeijer-Rutten, read out a ruling sayingthe national culture interests of Ukraine outweighed those of the four museums in Crimea that formerly possessed the artifacts.
The treasure was loaned to the Dutch museum shortly before Moscow annexed Crimeain 2014 in a move that most countries consider illegal under international law. Artifacts in the collection include aScythian helmet of pure gold and a golden neck ornament each weighing more than 1 kilogram 2.2 pounds, along with scabbards, helmets and gems.
A Dutch appeals court ruled on Tuesday that a collection of ancient gold items from Crimea at the center of a legal battle between Ukraine and Russiashould be returned to the Ukrainian state bythe Amsterdam museum where it is currently held.
"The Allard Pierson Museum is no longer obliged to return the pieces to the Crimean museums," the ruling said. "The rights of the Ukrainian state, based on the Law of Museums ... take precedence."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Ukrainian PresidentPresident Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Tuesday described the court's ruling as a "long-awaited victory" and a "fair decision."
"We always regain what's ours. After the 'Scythian gold,'we'll return Crimea," Zelenskyy said on Twitter.
Kyiv has hailed a ruling by a Dutch court saying a collection of ancient gold artifacts from Crimea should be handed to Ukraine. But the ruling could be appealed by Russia, which annexed the peninsula in 2014.
The ruling, which largely confirms an earlier 2016 decision that was appealed by Russia,can be appealed againbefore the Dutch Supreme Court.
