EU chief offers Kyiv fast track to bloc membership
20220408
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-eu-chief-in-kyiv-for-talks-with-zelenskyy/a-61409635
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and an EU delegation traveled to the Ukrainian capital on the first trip by senior European Commission officials since Russia's invasion started.
Borrell also said the EU would supply 7.5 million $8.2 million to train Ukrainian prosecutors to investigate war crimes, which Russia is accused of committing in the country.
Handing over a document at a joint press conference,she said: "This is where your path towards the European Union begins."
The questionnaire, she explained, forms the basis of an opinion that gets passed on to the European Council.
Borrell said one topic onthe agenda of talks with Zelenskyy was possible further sanctions to "isolate Russia."
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in Kyiv on Friday presented Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy with paperwork for his country to join the European Union.
Von der Leyen traveled to Ukraine with her deputy Josep Borrell, who is also the bloc's commissioner for foreign and security affairs. During the trip, the first by high-ranking EU officials since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, von der Leyen traveled to the city of Bucha.
On Twitter, shewrote, "It was importantto start my visit in Bucha. Because in Bucha our humanity was shattered."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
"Ukraine is not a country invaded, dominated. There is still a government whichreceives people from outside, and you can travel to Kyiv," Borrell said.
Von der Leyen said she intended to, "present Ukraine's application to the European Council this summer."
During the joint press conference von der Leyen said: "Russia will descend in economic, financial and technological decay while Ukraine is marching towards a European future."
The envoy's return will help ensure that the European Union and the Ukrainian government can work together closely and directly, Borrell said.
The EU's foreign policy chiefadded thathe hoped the bloc would offerKyiv another 500 million in the coming days.
Borrell announced in Kyiv that the European Union was returningits delegationto the Ukrainian capital.The head of the EU delegation to Ukraine, Matti Maasikas, was accompanying Borrell and von der Leyen.
It comes as a new sanctions package, including an EU embargo on Russian coal imports, is set to be formally implemented on Friday after the bloc approved the measures.
"We stand ready to support you in filling out this questionnaire," von der Leyen said, adding: "It will not be, as usual, a matter of years, but rather a matter of weeks" to complete this step.
Among the delegation visiting Kyiv is Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger, who announced that his country was donating its Soviet-era S-300 air defense system to Ukraine.
