EU condemns Russian grain blockade
20220620
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-eu-condemns-real-war-crime-of-russian-grain-blockade/a-62187109
"We call on Russia to deblockade the Ukrainian ports... It is inconceivable, one cannot imagine that millions of tonnes of wheat remain blocked in Ukraine while in the rest of the world people are suffering hunger," Borrell told reporters.
"We have offered to let through Hungary's territory, moreover, to facilitate the passage of any food shipments destined for various parts of the world from Ukraine, mainly to North Africa or the Middle East," Szijjarto said.
Borrell on Monday rejected this narrative, saying: "I want to insist that it's not the European sanctions that are creating this crisis. Our sanctions don't target food, don't target fertilizers."
At the meeting, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto offered his country's territory as a possible route for Ukrainian grain export.
"It is clear that, in the end, we will certainly not be able to get out all grain but if we even just manage to free part of it, on various routes, then this will help as we are facing this global challenge."
The bloc has given its support to a UN plan to mediate an agreement between Russia, Ukraine and Turkey in order to allow ships to safely access Ukraine's ports in the Black Sea.
Ukraine is one of the world's largest exporters of key goods such as wheat and vegetable oil. The restriction of these goods from the global market  along with rising fuel prices  has helped keep food prices well above normal levels.
The EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell called Russia's blockade of key grain exports from Ukraine a "real war crime" on arrival at a EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg on Monday.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Baerbock added that Germany will host a conference on Friday on the question of securing food exports from Ukraine to "improve the humanitarian situation worldwide and to set global food security on a more stable footing."
The EU has been working on solutions to get grains and other goods out of Ukraine to be exported to other countries.
The EU has also had to contend with claims by Russia that Western sanctions are to blame for food price hikes and shortages in Africa and the Middle East.
He did not elaborate on how much grain Hungary could accomodate, but offered up two logistical hubs on its eastern border.
Josep Borrell, the EU's foreign policy chief, has called for Russia to end its blockade of Ukrainian ports. His comments come ahead of a meeting of the bloc's 27 foreign ministers.
"The railway tracks need to be modernized, we need the right cargo wagons the German government is working on this with many other actors," she said on arrival at the EU foreign ministers meeting.
"So in case any type of grain or other produce were to be exported from Ukraine to the Middle East or North Africa through Hungary, that could happen quickly," Szijjarto said. "Rail access to ports in Southeastern Europe is fast from Hungary."
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said that Berlin will support Poland and Romania in adapting their rail networks to help bring the millions of tonnes of grain out of Ukraine.
He accused Russiaof weaponizing "the hunger of the people" and said Moscow would have to be held "accountable" for its actions.
