EUs Borrell decries Russian war crime in Mariupol
20220321
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-eus-borrell-slams-russian-war-crime-in-mariupol/a-61198900
EU foreign and defense ministers were meeting in Brusselson Monday to discuss the war in Ukraine.
Borrell added that "destroying everything, bombarding and killing everybody in an indiscriminate manner. This is something awful."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
The Russian attacks on Mariupol, a besiegedUkrainian city,amount to a "massive war crime," EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Monday ahead of a meeting with the bloc's foreign ministers.
France, which heads the EU's six-month presidency, has said that if the situation worsens even further in Ukraine, there should be no "taboos" in terms of sanctions.
The ministers' meeting comes ahead of a busy week of talks between Western allies over Ukraine, with an EU summit, a NATO summit and G7 talks all planned for later in the week.
The city holds a crucial strategic importance to Russian forces, as its capture could help them establish a land corridor to Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.
The port city ofMariupol has been under been under siege by Russian troops since the invasion began on February 24.
Mariupol authorities, as well as Russian forces, have said the city was facing a humanitarian catastrophe. Multiple civilian bomb shelters were shelled in the past few days.
Nevertheless, Germany, which is heavily dependent on Russian gas, and some other EUmember states are resisting an embargo on Russian energy imports.
But the sanctions have so far not succeeded in pushing the Kremlin to halt its invasion of Ukraine, where fighting showing no sign of abating.
The "courts will have to decide, but for me these are clearly war crimes," Baerbock said.
In remarks to reporters after the meeting, Borrell said the EU was "ready to take further
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell accused Russia of committing "war crimes" in Mariupol. The besieged Ukrainian port city has been under shelling, and city officials said civilians were forcibly evacuated to Russia.
EU defense ministers, meanwhile, will discuss a "strategic compass," the closest thing the EU would have to a military doctrine, to adapt to a new geopolitical reality.
Still, the worsening humanitarian situation in Ukraine is likely to increase pressure on EU leaders to toughen sanctions on Moscow.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock also highlighted the increase in Russian attacks on civilian infrastructure, including hospitals and theaters.
Some EU nations, like Poland and the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, were pushing for further sanctions, especially on the Russian oil and gas sector.
The European Union and its Western allies have already imposed wide-ranging sanctions on Russia, including freezing the nation's central bank assets.
The ministers did not decide on further sanctions on Monday. However, they adopted anew security strategyknown as "Strategic Compass," tocreate a rapid reaction of as many as 5,000 troops, an overhaul of the EU battlegroups that have existed only on paper since 2007.
