Germanys Scholz vows to send more weapons to Ukraine
20220413
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-joe-biden-accuses-putin-of-genocide-live-updates/a-61457259
"This new package of assistance will contain many of the highly effective weapons systems we have already provided and new capabilities tailored to the wider assault we expect Russia to launch in eastern Ukraine,'' Biden said in a statement.
Earlier in April, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov admitted that Russia has suffered significant losses in Ukraine. However, hedid not tell the actual numbers. In late March, Russia said it had lost 1,351 soldiers with another 3,825 wounded.
"Our countries are showing support to Ukraine and President Zelenskyy in this way," Jakub Kumoch, Duda's adviser said on Twitter.
Berlin had initially been against sending weapons to Kyiv, but Germany shifted its stance amid pressure and further apparent atrocities reported in Ukraine.
Peskov went on to say that the US is a "country that has committed well-known deeds in modern and recent history."
Ukraine's president added that it was not possible to conduct a full investigation in Mariupol.
The regional governor of Kharkiv, Oleh Synegubov, said at least seven had been killed and 22 were wounded in shelling in the northeastern region of Kharkiv during the course of Tuesday.
US Treasury Secretary warned those countries that were still "sitting on the fence, perhaps seeing an opportunity to gain by preserving their relationship with Russia and backfilling the void left by others" that their motivations were short-sighted.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz reiterated Berlin's support to Kyiv after Ukraine rejected a visit by President Steinmeier. Meanwhile, the OSCE says Russia "likely" committed crimes against humanity.
"We are seeing Ukrainian troops' attempts to carry out sabotage and strike Russian territory," the ministry said in a statement. "If such cases continue, the Russian armed forces will strike decision-making centers, including in Kyiv."
"Dvornikov's selection further demonstrates how determined Ukrainian resistance and ineffective pre-war planning have forced Russia to reassess its operations," a statement by the UK's Ministry of Defence on Twitter said.
The European Union Advisory Mission Ukraine EUAM Ukraine will also assist the International Criminal Court in its investigation, as well as other EU member states taking part in the probe.
He said that the leaders of Poland and the Baltic states "have helped us from the first day" and did not doubt whether to provide Ukraine with weapons or impose sanctions on Russia.
Macron has maintained contact with the Kremlin throughout the war. Last month, he also distanced himself from Biden's remarks when the US president called Putin a "butcher."
Steinmeier had said that he intended to visit Kyiv but his trip was apparently "not wanted" by Ukraine.
Ukraine's ambassador to Berlin Andrij Melnyk urged Germany's Chancellor Olaf Scholz to visit the Eastern European country.
"Routes have been changed to take into account the safety factor.Decisions should be made as soon as possible. The situation is extremely aggravated," he wrote on Facebook.
"I consider such an idea inopportune, ambiguous, and such that it does not take into account the context of Russias military aggression against Ukraine," said the head of Ukraine's Byzantine-rite Catholic Church, Major Archbishop Sviatoslav Shevchuk.
"We were not officially approached by the German president or the office of the German president for this visit," Zelenskyy told a news conference after meeting the leaders of Poland and the three Baltic states, Reuters reported.
The International Criminal Court's chief prosecutor, Karim Khan, visited Bucha  the Kyiv suburb where Ukrainian authorities said dozens of civilians' bodies had been discovered in areas abandoned by Russian forces.
"This is where the dark side of humankind has shown its face. Brutal war crimes committed by the Russian army will not stay unpunished. War criminals must be prosecuted internationally," he wrote on Twitter.
Russia's Ministry of Defense has reported that 1,026 Ukrainian marines in Mariupol have surrendered. Moscow said 162 officers and 47 female personnel were among them, as well as 151 wounded who received medical treatment.
State support will also be received by 11 airports in central and southern Russia which have been closed since February 24.
The Russian government plans to discuss on Thursday giving subsidies to airlines and airports in light of the economic damage caused by Western sanctions.
The US and its allies will continue to shareadditional weapons and resources as the conflict continues, Biden added.
"Medvedchuk is not a Russian citizen, he is a foreign politician. We do not know at all whether he himself wants some kind of Russian participation in his fate," Peskov said.
The presidents of three Baltic states and Poland met with their Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the capital Kyiv.
Speaking to Estonian lawmakers, Ukrainian president thanked Estonia for the military support and for assisting Ukrainian refugees and abandoning Russian energy.
Yesterday the government in Kyiv said that 2,671 people had used humanitarian corridors to flee Mariupol, the Zaporizhzhia region and the Luhansk region.
Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said some of the new equipment will require training for Ukrainian forces.
Polish president Andrzej Duda, along with Estonian President Alar Karis, Latvian President Egils Levits, and Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda are on their way to Kyiv, and will be meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday.
"Germany has made a decisive decision here to deliver weapons to Ukraine. We deliver, we have delivered and we will deliver," German Chancellor Olaf Scholz told German public radio RBB.
British military intelligence said on Wednesday that Russia's appointment of Army General Alexander Dvornikov as commander of the Ukraine war could mean the country is trying to centralize command and control.
Antonio Spadaro, a Jesuit priest who is also a close to the pontiff, defended the move.
The ministry also said that the seaport of the southern Ukrainian city Mariupol was under full Russian control. It added that "hostages" from the vessels at the port had been freed.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was "sincerely thankful" to the United States for its military assistance.
It is the third package of military aid the EU has agreed to send to Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian invasion. In total, the EU has sent 1.5 billion $1.39 billion in military assistance.
While Macron called Russia's invasion "the most brutal war," Macron said, "I want to try as much as possible to continue to be able to stop this war and to rebuild peace. I'm not sure that verbal escalations serve this cause."
However, almost simultaneously, the governor of the part of Luhansk still controlled by Ukraine, Serhiy Gaidai, urged the residents of several cities in his region to evacuate.
Speaking at the Atlantic Council in Washington, US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen appealed to China and other countries to help end Russia's "heinous war" in Ukraine. She also warned that those who seek to undermine Western sanctions would face consequences.
EU officials in Ukraine will provide investigators with training and strategic advice to hold those responsible accountable "in accordance with international law," the bloc said in a statement.
Ukrainian troops havebeen hunkered down in the besieged city for weeks, and said earlier this week that they were running low on ammunition and food.
He added being "careful" was the best course because "the Ukrainians and Russians are brotherly peoples."
Zelenskyy also called for sanctions on Russia to continue, saying they were the onlyway to get Russia to agree to peace.
The Vatican has been criticized by Ukrainian Catholic leaders over the decision to have Russians take part in the "Way of the Cross" procession on Friday, in light of the ongoing invasion.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Separately, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued another appeal for the West to send Ukraine more weapons.
Czech Republic had moved its embassy staff to safetyimmediately after the Russian invasion began on February 24.
Zelenskyy went on to say that he was thankful for Wednesday's visit by the presidents of Poland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia.
"Sanctions have tangible consequences and hardships for us. Solidarity also means the willingness to bear burdens," he added.
Zelenskyy alsoproposedswappingpolitician and businessman Viktor Medvedchuk for prisoners of war held by Russian forces. Zelenskyy posted a picture of Medvedchuk in handcuffs on Tuesday.
"Such things are very painful for us, so I will definitely do my best to discuss this issue with him," Zelensky said at a press conference with the visiting leaders of Poland and the Baltic states.
Biden went on to say that Russian President Vladimir Putin was trying to "wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
On Tuesday, Biden accused Russian forces of committing genocide in Ukraine. He said it has "become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being able to be a Ukrainian."
On France 2, ahead of France's run-off presidential election against far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, Macron urged caution with language.
According to her, Russian troops were blocking buses in the Zaporizhzhia region andthe ceasefire was not being observed in the Luhansk region. Vereshchuk said that a combination Russia's "disregard" for norms of international law, coupled with difficulties controlling its ground forces, "creates such a level of danger on the routes" that they could not be opened.
The ministry said the Russian government is planning to issue more sanctions in the coming days, Russia's Interfax news agency reported.
His remarks came a day after he said he had planned to visit Kyiv but that he was apparently "not wanted" in Ukraine. Steinmeier has been criticized for his ties to Russia.
German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said on Tuesday in Warsaw that he was also ready to visit Ukraine together with other four presidents, but this idea was not accepted by the Ukrainian authorities. "That was not wanted in Kyiv," Steinmeier said.
US President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that Americans' ability to payforgasoline should not hinge on whether "a dictator declares war and commits genocide a half a world away."
"Unfortunately, this number is increasing every day, because bodies are being found with their hands tied, with marks of torture, with shots to the head  these are terrible things," he told journalists.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia is not interested in the exchange of pro-Russian Ukrainian politician Viktor Medvedchuk, after weeks of being on the run.
"Our goal is to supportPresident Zelenskyy and the defenders of Ukraine at a decisive moment for this country,"the Office of the Polish President Andrzej Duda quoted him as saying on Twitter.
Spadaro suggested that the image of a Russian and Ukrainian bearing the cross was upsetting because the two women represented something that could not be achieved right now, which was peace.
Meanwhile, the EU said its officials are setto help Ukraine investigate and prosecute war crimes committed during the Russian invasion.
NATO membership is also being discussed by Sweden since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.You can read the full story here.
French Defense Minister Florence Parly said Paris will deliver more military equipment to Ukraine on top of the 100 million $108 million of military aid it had already provided.
Ukrainian authorities put Medvedchuk under house arrest last May on suspicion of treason. But this February, officials said Medvedchuk had fled.
"We categorically disagree and consider unacceptable any attempt to distort the situation in this way, especially since it is hardly acceptable for the president of the United States," Peskov told reporters.
Borrell said the EU must increase military support to Ukraine as Russia gears up for a new offensive in the country's east. He added that "the next weeks will be decisive."
The 60-year-old Dvornikov is one of Russia's most experienced officers, and has led the country's campaign in Syria. In 2016, Putin awarded him the Hero of Russia medal, and named him the chief of the Southern Military District, commanding units in southwestern Russia near the Ukrainian border.
The Vatican decided to have a Russian woman and a Ukrainian woman carry the cross together during a Good Friday procession, presided over by Pope Francis.
approached by German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier or his office about a trip to Kyiv, according to the Reuters news agency.
"It is one of many steps expressing our support for Ukraine. Czechia has and always will stand behind Ukraine," the ministry said on Twitter.
"We have seen this desire to attack civilians, to use sexual violence as a weapon of war," he said. "This is completely unacceptable."
After Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine on February 24, the European Union, United Kingdom, Canada and the United States closed their airspace to Russian carriers. Also in February, the European Union banned the supply of civil aircraft and spare parts to the Russian Federation.
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons OPCW said it was "concerned" by unconfirmed reports that chemical agents might have been used in Mariupol.
Deputy Mayor of the central Ukrainian city of Dnipro, Mykhailo Lysenko said that the remains of more than 1,500 Russian soldiers were being kept in city morgues. Speaking on Ukrainian television, he expressed hope that "some of the Russian mothers will come and pick up their sons."
The package will include artillery systems, artillery rounds and armored personnel carriers, Biden said in a statement after a phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Russian troops likely committed crimes against humanity in Ukraine, according to a report commissioned by the 45-member Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE.
"At the present moment a global cease-fire in Ukraine doesn't seem possible," Guterres told reporters.
The massacres in Bosnia, Rwanda, Iraq and Darfur the Islamic State's attacks on Yazidis and other minorities in Syria and Iraq,China's treatment of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities,and the Myanmar army's persecution of the Rohingya minority have also been described as genocide by the US.
The politician previously served as a chairman of the pro-Kremlin political party Opposition Platform for Life, and his daughter is Putin's godchild.
German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier has called for solidarity with Ukraine and further sanctions on Russia.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that it was not possible to draw firm conclusions about whether Russian forces had used chemical weapons in the besieged southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol.
Russia's Defense Ministry said if attacks on Russian territories continue, its forces will strike Ukraine's command "centers."
The Czech Foreign Ministry announced that ithas reopened its embassy in Kyiv on Wednesday and the staff have returned to the Ukrainian capital.
Guterres recently sent UN aid chief Martin Griffiths to Russia and Ukraine to see if a truce could be agreed.
"As the conflict continues, France is preparing with its partners to provide Ukraine with long-term military support, backed by the mobilization of our defense industries," said the Defense Ministry said in a statement.
Biden's announcement brings Washington's total aid tally to Ukraine since Russian forces invaded to more than $2.4 billion.
According to Yellen, China cannot expect the global community to respect any future appeals on sovereignty and territorial integrity if it fails to respect these principles in Ukraine "now when it counts."
According to the report, Russian units at least clearly violated their duties to protect civilians.
French President Emmanuel Macron said Wednesday that US President Joe Biden's accusation that Russia was engaged in "genocide" in Ukraine would not help end the war.
His claim could not be independently verified. However, it is similar to officials' reports from Bucha, a Kyiv suburb where they said they found dozens of bodies and apparent atrocities following the withdrawal of Russian forces.
"The future of our international order, both for peaceful security and economic prosperity, is at stake," Yellen said. "And let's be clear, the unified coalition... will not be indifferent to actions that undermine the sanctions we've put in place."
"I think it's absolutely right that more and more people be talking and using the word genocide in terms of what Russia is doing, what Vladimir Putin has done," Trudeau told reporters in Quebec.
"We're here because we have reasonable grounds to believe that crimes within the jurisdiction of the court are being committed," he said, promising to "follow the evidence" as forensic teams began their work.
"France is determined to help Ukraine resist this aggression and create the conditions for a just and lasting peace."
French far-right leader and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen said there should be a "strategic rapprochement" between NATO and Russia once the war launched by Moscow against Ukraine has ended.
"Speaking at a press conference in Stockholm with Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, Marin said: "I think it will happen quite fast. Within weeks, not within months."
His remarks came afterUkraine rejecteda proposed visit by German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Scholz said the snubwas "irksome."
Three OSCE experts did not pass a final judgment on whether crimes against humanity had been committed. However, they noted that certain patterns of Russian violence "are likely to meet this qualification." These included targeted killings and abductions of civilians, including journalists and officials.
The presidents of the four countriesare set to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv later on Wednesday.
The equipment would be funded using Presidential Drawdown Authority, which allows US presidents to transfer articles and services from US stocks without approval from Congress.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov slammed US President Joe Biden for accusing Russia of committing a "genocide" in Ukraine.
Since the end of the Cold War, the US State Department has formally used the term "genocide" seven times.
Finland's Prime Minister Sanna Marin said on Wednesday that she expected lawmakers in Helsinki to reach a decision on possible NATO membership"within weeks.
According to the Lithuanian leader, four presidents will continue to advocate Ukraine's membership in the EU and help the Ukrainian nation overcome the horrors of war. "Unity is our strength. We will stand with Ukraine until victory," Nauseda wrote.
"In Kyiv, with the presidents of Poland, Estonia and Latvia, we expressed our full support to Volodymyr Zelenskyy," wrote Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda on Twitter.
Under international law, genocide is defined as an intent to destroy in whole or in part  a national, ethnic, racial or religious group.
Russia's President Vladimir Putin restated his claims that the invasion of Ukraine was still on track.
Britain also said Russian messaging has recently emphasized progressing offensives in the Donbas as Russian forces refocus eastwards.
The Hague-based court, which investigates and prosecutes war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide, has been working to document such crimes in Ukraine.
Airlines will be able to receive compensation for revenues lost due to the cancellation of flights, the Interfax news agency reported, citing the Kremlin press office.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced Macron's refusal to call killings in Ukraine "genocide," as well as his reference to Russians as a "brotherly" people.
"This involves collectively mobilizing equipment adapted to Ukrainian needs and organizing ourselves to coordinate, with our allies and partners, our assistance in terms of training and support specific to this equipment," it said.
However,presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych did say, without directly commenting on the supposed surrender, that elements of the 36th Marine Brigade had managed to link up with Ukrainian forces elsewhere in the city in what he called a "risky maneuver."
French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen, set to face off against Emmanuel Macron in the April 24 runoff vote, said she would block EU sanctions on Russian oil and gas.
The presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are set to meet with Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Wednesday.
"Ukraine needs weapon supplies. We need heavy artillery, armored vehicles, air defense systems and combat aircraft  anything to repel Russian forces and stop their war crimes," he said in a video statement.
"Until Russia returns forcibly deported Ukrainians, until it returns thousands of stolen children, it must not receive any money from European states and companies. The European Union has no right to sponsor deportations," Zelenskyy said.
Two US officials told Reuters that the US government is expected to announce another $750 million 692 million in military assistance for Ukraine.
Yellen said that the Biden administration was resolute in its commitment to hold Russia accountable for its "horrific conduct" and its violations of international law.
His remarks came after US President Joe Biden also accused Russian forces of committing genocide in Ukraine, while French President Emmanuel Macron refused to use the label, saying it wouldn't help de-escalate the situation.
Le Pen is facing President Emmanuel Macron in the run-off presidential election on April 24.
"It's about sanctions, the toughest sanctions that Europe has ever adopted, to persuade Putin to put an end to the violence and to respect Ukraine's independence," Steinmeier said at an exhibition opening at the Jewish Museum Berlin.
Russia's Foreign Ministry announced sanctions against hundreds of lawmakers in the United States and Canada in retaliation for punitive measures over the invasion of Ukraine.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said a humanitarian cease-fire in Ukraine does not seem possible at the moment.
The four leaders departed from the city ofRzeszow in southeastern Poland, close to the Ukrainian border.
"Rest assured, until Putin ends his heinous war of choice, the Biden administration will work with our partners to push Russia further toward economic, financial, and strategic isolation," she said.
Dmytro Shyvytskyy, the governor of the north-eastern Ukrainian region of Sumy, said more than 100 bodies have been found after the withdrawal of Russian forces.
After being pressed on his use of the term by reporters, Bidenclarified that it will be up to lawyers to determine whether Russia's actions in Ukraine would qualify as "genocide."He added that the evidence against Russia was "mounting."
Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Iryna Vereshchuk said 2,671 people have been evacuated to safety on Tuesday.
In an address early on Wednesday, Zelenskyy said that the West needed to act now to prevent Russia from deploying chemical weapons.
Synegubov said a two-year-old boy was among those killed by the more than 50 rocket and artillery strikes carried out by Russian forcesacross Kharkiv region.
"You have to understand one thing," Spadaro told Italian radio station RAI on Wednesday. "He's a pastor, not a politician."
Scholz did not specify what type of weapons, or how much, Germany would send. But Germany's Defense MinisterChristine Lambrecht recently said Berlin was not providing such details to the public as per Ukraine's request.
Shulginov said it would be difficult to predict possible price levels "especially given the unconstructive behavior of Western politicians."
The European Union member states agreed to send another 500 million in military aid for Ukraine, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell announced.
Earlier on Wednesday, the presidents of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland visited several towns in the Kyiv region that have been devastated during the Russian occupation.
The minister said that oil prices in the range of $80-$150 74-139 per barrel were "possible in principle." He added that Moscow's task was not to guess oil prices, but to "ensure the functioning of the oil industry" in Russia.
"The systems that will probably require some additional training for Ukrainian forces are the howitzers and... the counter artillery radar, not a very difficult system to operate, but it's not one that they have in their inventory," he said.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said it was "right" to describe Russia's aggression in Ukraine as "genocide."
This comes after US President Joe Biden announced an additional $800 million 735 million in military assistance to Ukraine on Wednesday, bringing total US military aid up to $2.4 billion 2.2 billion.
Addressing the parliament of Estonia, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of using terror tactics against civilians. He said that the European Union has to find the instruments needed to pressure Russia into stopping forced deportations of Ukrainians.
In particular, she "fervently" hoped that China would make something positive out of its "special relationship" with Russia and said Beijing's standing in the world would suffer if it fails to do so.
The sanctions targeted 398 members of the US Congress. Additionally, sanctions were also levied by Moscow against 87 members of Canada's Senate.
No humanitarian corridors to help Ukrainians flee to safety are planned for Wednesday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk reported.
Russian Energy Minister Nikolai Shulginov told Russia'sIzvestianewspaper Moscow is ready to sell oil and oil products to "friendly countries in any price range."
US President Joe Biden announced an additional $800 million 735 million in military assistance to Ukraine.
"It is in the interest of France and Europe, but also I believe the United States, which has... no interest in seeing the emergence of a close Sino-Russian union," she said.
Ukrainian officials said they were "very lucky" to avert a cyberattack that would leave two million people without electricity.
Four civilian residents were killed and ten wounded by Russian bombing in the northeastern city of Kharkiv on Wednesday, regional governor Oleh Synyehubov said.
The presidents of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland have arrived in Ukraine and are visiting one of the cities devastated during the Russian occupation.
"Now there are more than 1,500 dead Russian soldiers in the morgues of Dnipro that no one wants to retrieve," Lysenko said, adding that he doesnt want cremate the corpses or bury them in mass graves.
