Germany and NATO see real risk of UkraineRussia conflict
20220118
https://www.dw.com/en/germany-and-nato-urge-russia-to-deescalate-on-ukraine-border/a-60463185
"We're now at a stage where Russia could at any point launch an attack in Ukraine," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told a press conference.
The Western military alliance has been seeking dialogue with Moscow, although talks appear to have stalled.
In light of the troop buildup, NATO has intensified the strategy it has employed since Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014.
Amid the tensions, officials said on Tuesday that Russia is sending soldiers to Belarus for war games.Ukraine has repeatedly warned that Russia could launch an attack from various directions, including from Belarus.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
"The trip follows extensive diplomacy with our European Allies and partners about a united approach to address the threat Russia poses to Ukraine and our joint efforts to encourage it to choose diplomacy and de-escalation in the interests of security and stability,'' the State Department said.
The West says that, under the terms of the Helsinki Final Act a nontreaty accordto improve East-West detente during the Cold War nations are entitled to a free choice on which alliances they join.
"We are now awaiting responses to these proposals  as we were promised  in order to continue negotiations," Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said at a joint press conference with visiting German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock.
Whilevisiting Moscow on Tuesday, Baerbock said Berlin was prepared for a serious dialogue with Moscow about "security for all in Europe." On Monday, Baerbock visited the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, where she warned thatRussia faced a firm response if it resorted to military escalation.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz and NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg say Russia faces severe consequences if it invades Ukraine and urged Moscow to de-escalate. The US has warned a Russian attack could come at "any point."
Scholz said Germany and NATO expected Russia to ease the situation on the border with Ukraine by, for example, reducing the number of troops there.
Moscow on Tuesday rejected new talks on Ukraine unless the West responds to its demands. Russia is insisting its demands for security guarantees including a permanent ban on Ukraine joining NATO be taken seriously.
Fomin did not specify how many troops would be involved but said that Russia would deploy a dozen Su-35 fighter jets and several air defense units to Belarus as part of the exercises.
It's expected that if Russia were to invade Ukraine, NATO would be likely to raise its alert level and reinforce its troop presence in the Baltics and Poland. It's also thought the alliance might station more troops in southeastern Europe.
Blinken is also expected to meet withLavrov on Friday in Geneva in an attempt tosecure a "diplomatic off-ramp" to the crisis, an unnamed State Department official told reporters on Tuesday.
Since 2014, NATO has prioritized reinforcing the Balticsand deployed four multinational battalion-size battlegroups led by Canada, Germany, Britain and the United States in Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Poland.
In a call with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Tuesday, Lavrov demanded "concrete article-by-article" answers to Moscow's demands "as soon as possible," according to Russia's Foreign Ministry.
"It is clear that there will be a high price to pay and that everything will have to be discussed should there be a military intervention in Ukraine," Scholz said.
After Kyiv, Blinken will also travel to Berlin to meet with his German, British, and French counterparts to address the situation.
In 2008, NATO offered Ukraine the prospect of joining, without, however, fixing any time frame.
"The risk of a conflict is real," Stoltenberg said. "NATO allies call on Russia to de-escalate. We encourage Russia to reverse its decision to cut diplomatic ties with NATO."
The US State Department said Blinken would fly to Ukraine and meet with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesdayto "reinforce the United States' commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity."
The alliance has conducted more defensive military planning. It has also sought to modernize deterrents and support Ukraine with cyber warfare teams. However, NATO is under no treaty obligation to defend Ukraine, which is not a member.
The European Union might face some of the toughest challenges if Russia does invade. These might include imposing sanctions on Russia, managing a cut in supplies of gas to Europe and accommodating refugees fleeing war.
Moscow has stationed about 100,000 troops near the border with Ukraine, something the West has interpreted as preparation for invasion in order to force NATO to make concessions on on issues like the possible accession of Ukraine into the bloc.
Stoltenberg said NATO allies were keen to engage with Russia on any concerns that it may have, urging Russia to join talks.
He said both agreed that Russia would face severe political and economic consequences if there was an invasion.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and Chancellor Olaf Scholz spoke after the pair met in Berlin to discuss the perceived threat of a conflict.
The German chancellor and the head of NATO on Tuesday urged Russia to de-escalate amid fears that Moscow may be planning an invasion of Ukraine.
However, DW's Terri Schultz reported that Stoletenberg at a separate event on Tuesday said that NATO has information backing up US claims made last week that Russia has operatives currently in Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out "false flag" operations as a pretext for invasion. Russia previously denied these claims.
Alexander Fomin, Russia's deputy defense minister, said the joint drills would involve practicing repelling "foreign aggression."
Stoltenberg saidhe had invited Russia and NATO alliesto new talks"in the near future." He said theaim was to "address our concerns but also listen to Russia's concerns, and to try to find a way forward to prevent any military attack against Ukraine."
