Germany France and Russia may hold summit on Ukraine
20211012
https://www.dw.com/en/germany-france-and-russia-may-hold-summit-on-ukraine-conflict/a-59474644
The German and French governments are hoping to meet with Russian and Ukrainian leaders to discuss the conflict in the Donbass, which erupted in 2014. Meanwhile, the EU's Ursula von der Leyen will visit Kyiv on Tuesday.
A concrete date for the meeting has not yet been determined, thoughMerkel spokesperson Steffen Seibert didconfirmplans for the gathering.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyyand Russian President Vladimir Putin by phoneon Monday regarding a solution to the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine.
The conflict in eastern Ukraine began in 2014 following the Russian annexation of Crimea that same year. The war has claimed over 13,000 lives.
Russia has accused Ukraine of not abiding by peace negotiations, while Kyiv has said Moscow is "aggravating" the situation in the Donbass region.
The latest phone calls between Merkel, Macron, Putin and Zelenskycome ahead of a visit by high-ranking EU officials to Ukraine on Tuesday. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel are expected to deepen the bloc's economic and scientific ties with Kyiv during the visit.
Merkel visited Ukraine and Russia in August and expressed hope that peace negotiations between Ukraine and pro-Russia separatists would continue after she left office.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
A 2015 peace deal, known as Minsk 2, has failed to put an end to the fighting. Tensionsescalated earlier this year due to a Russian military buildup on the Ukrainian border, before Moscow retreated a few weeks later.
Zelenskyy's office said the four countries may soon meet for a summit on the conflict, in what is known as the Normandy format. The German and French governments have previously mediatedbetweenRussia and Ukraine as part of this diplomatic arrangement.
The Kremlin also called for a summit on the conflict, but did not mention whether Ukrainian officialswould take part in the meetings. The Russian government said European leaders have asked their respective foreign ministers to "intensify their contacts" and work on the "difficult" situation in Ukraine.
