How to circumvent state internet censorship in Russia
20220309
https://www.dw.com/en/how-to-circumvent-state-internet-censorship-in-russia/a-61054476
"There's no risk for people who provide the connection,"he said. "From the outside, it's impossible to recognize which connections are open or forwarded. Even if people who use the Snowflake system take part in some sort of abuse, it won't come back to people hosting the networks. The load on your own internet line is also kept within limits."
Relief supplies, medicine, monetary donations  people across the world have exhibited an enormous willingness to help Ukrianians. But what people in occupied territories of Ukraineand in Russia most urgently needis free access to uncensored information on the Internet.
People in Russia can use Tor once again thanks to some 25,000 volunteers across the world who installed a small plugin in their Chrome or Firefox browser called a "Snowflake proxy."
However, there are a few ways to bypass these blocks. The use of VPN apps in Russia has skyrocketed.
Tor software offers a way to pass through censorship while protecting your privacy. The name is short for "The Onion Routing" which describes precisely what makes Tor so secure.
The websites of the BBC and Deutsche Welle have been blocked since March 4. When users try to access the news organizations' websites, connection to the server appears broken or websites pop up featuring references to a block by the Russian supervisory authority.
Overall, Snowflake is a simple and effective way to help people receive uncensored information on the internet.
Although the Russian media regulator Roskomnadzor blocked the servers of the Tor network a few months ago, Tor is still being accessed in the country  proving that anyone who thinks information-craving Russians aren't savvy enough to bypass this barrier is mistaken.
Anyone who wants to support the system can help by installing a Snowflake plugin, said Jens Kubieziel, honorary board member of the German association Onion Friends e.V., which has been helping people communicate securely for many years.
The large number of these proxies make it impossible for censorship authority firewalls to block them all. That means that despite the censorship measures, users can continue accessing the Internet via Snowflake proxies.
The censorship authorities are unable to prevent this because the mostly private internet connections of the volunteers who operate a Snowflake proxy change their IP addresses within a few days.
Independent media websites are blocked in Russia. But there are ways to escape Russian propaganda  and everyone can help.
The software uses many layers of encryption, which wrap around every individual internet connection like an onion skin. Neither the content of your internet activity nor the target addresses can be viewed, making it impossible for state censorship authorities to distinguish between permitted and prohibited websites.
Tor is easy to use. You just need the Tor Browser, which is as easy to navigate and install as any other internet browser.
The benefit of these Snowflakes is well-proven. Currently some 40,000 connections to the uncensored Tor network have been established in Russia.
