Kremlin dismisses Western warnings over troop buildup
20211112
https://www.dw.com/en/kremlin-dismisses-western-warnings-of-ukraine-border-troop-buildup/a-59806143
"We continue to watch, and we continue to monitor the situation, and the information we gathered so far is rather worrying," a Commission spokesman told a news briefing on Friday.
Ukraine said units of the Russian 41st army hadremained in Yelnya, a town about 260 kilometers 160 miles north of the Ukrainian border, after conducting war games.
Ukraine's Defense Ministry claimed that about 90,000 Russian troops were stationed close to its border and in rebel-controlled areas in Ukraine's east.
Russia on Friday played down allegations that a troop buildup near its border with Ukraine reflects aggressive intentions.
The European Commission has received "rather worrying" information about the situation on Ukraine's border, a spokesman for the EU's executive body said, responding to the comments from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday.
The United States briefed European allies in Brussels on Russian troop movements on the eastern Ukrainian border, news agency Reuters reported, quoting two European diplomats.
Meanwhile, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday doubled down on comments made a day earlier over the buildup.
Following the briefing, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Western allies had stepped up diplomatic efforts to cautionRussia againstmilitary escalation.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
To this end, France warned Russia against harming Ukraine's territorial integrity, with Defense Minister Florence Parly and Foreign Minister Jean-Yves le Drian issuing a statement after meeting their Russian counterparts in Paris.
"The movement of troops on our territory shouldn't be a cause for anyone's concern," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said during a press conference call.
"We're very concerned about some of the irregular movements of forces that we see on Ukraine's borders," Blinken said.
Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula in 2014. Itsupported a separatist insurgency that broke out that year in eastern Ukraine after the more pro-Russian elected government was toppled in a popular uprising.
In April, Russiabegan a troop drawdown. At the time, western officials said that around 100,000 troops had been deployed for exercises.
It's the second time this year that Russia has been pressured by Western powers foramassing troops near the border with Ukraine.
The troop buildup prompted fresh comments on Friday from theEuropean Union, the US and Ukraine.
"Russia doesn't threaten anyone," the government spokesperson has said in a bid to calm concerns raised by Ukraine, the European Union and the US.
