LIVE  Russia seeks full control of southern Ukraine
20220415
https://www.dw.com/en/russia-says-it-seeks-full-control-of-southern-ukraine-access-to-moldovas-trans-dniester-region-live-updates/a-61551869
"The conflict has further worsened the situation of many of the approximately 84 million displaced people on earth, as food has already become scarcer and significantly more expensive worldwide," the acting UNHCR office manager in Germany, Roland Bank, said in remarks published by Germany's Funke Media Group.
Meanwhile, Washington said it saw "no evidence" that Russia was in control of Mariupol, and announced another $800 million around 738 million in military aid for Ukraine, including heavy artillery.
Moscow has either orchestrated or supported several similar votes in contested areas of Ukraine in recent years, holding a referendum in Crimea after occupying the territory in 2014 and later supporting independence votes held by pro-Russian separatists in Luhansk and Donetsk.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy reiterated calls for Western governments to send more heavy weapons to Ukraine in a plea to Portuguese lawmakers.
SpanishPrime Minister Pedro Snchez and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksenmet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Thursday.
"They stopped hiding it," the ministry said on Twitter. It saidRussia had "acknowledged that the goal of the 'second phase' of the war is not victory over the mythical Nazis, but simply the occupation of eastern and southern Ukraine."
"A full ground assault by Russia on the plant would likely incur significant Russian casualties, further decreasing their overall combat effectiveness," the UK Ministry of Defense posted on Twitter.
Around 22.5 million would go to the reconstruction of Ukraine's power grid, while the remainderwould go to the rebuilding of apartments as well as for the acquisition of medical equipment.
Germany "is not wobbling, but it's struggling to find its new values, its new core" in this new situation, she added.
But he paid tribute to the Ukrainian resistance and said Russia's Vladimir Putin had made a "catastrophic blunder" in ordering the invasion.
"Because of the insecurity along the routes, there will be no humanitarian corridors today, April 22," she wrote on the Telegram messaging app.
The analyst also referred to the overall European response to Russia's attack on neighboring Ukraine, saying: "It's spectacular, to be honest. I mean, before Ukraine, Europe was very much in line with Germany's strategic culture, a continent, an organization actually, not just a continent, that was very much focusing on peaceful resolution of conflict, very non-military in nature I think the big surprise here is not just the war itself, or the performance of the Ukrainians, but it's also how Europe managed to change its strategic direction basically overnight."
In a separate address, Zelenskyy told a World Bank forum that Ukraine needs $7 billion a month to function amid the devastating "economic losses" caused by the Russian invasion.
Russian President Vladimir Putin previously said it was unnecessary to storm the industrial zone containing the plant.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Moscow of planning to "falsify" a "referendum" in parts of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions that are under Russian control. The regions are located to the north of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014.
Guterres is also expected to have a working meeting and lunch with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
The International Atomic Energy Agency says its director general will visit the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant next week.
The government will subsidize energy companies to fill its Bergermeer gas storage facility to 70 capacity by the end of the year.
"If someone wants a new annexation, it can only lead to new powerful sanctions on Russia."
The IAEA said in a statement that he would lead a team that would deliver "vital equipment"and conduct radiological and other assessments at the site. They will alsorepair remote monitoring systems that stopped sending data back to the agency's headquarters.
A daughter of Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has also been targeted, the Australian government said in a statement on Friday.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is scheduled to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow on Tuesday.
"They can only delay the inevitable  the time when the invaders will have to leave our territory, in particular Mariupol, a city that continues to resist Russia, despite everything the occupiers say."
"Control over the south of Ukraine is another way out to Trans-Dniester,"Minnekayev said.He then claimed there was evidence of "oppression" of the Russian-speaking population there.
Gaub said, "It's not so much that Germany doesn't have these weapons it needs weapons itself," noting Berlin is also concerned about the potential long-term, escalating impact of large-scale arms deliveries.
Rutte said his government would be negotiating supply agreements with other countries as soon as possible and that it planned to import significantly more liquefied natural gas LNG in the future.
The Ukrainian Defense Ministry has denounced Russian plans to take full control of the Donbas region and southern Ukraine as "imperialism."
Germany will provide37 million 40.1 million for reconstruction in Ukraine, the paper went on to say citing ministry sources.
According to a statement, Blinken "expressed the United States' steadfast support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrityand reinforced our determination to help Ukraine successfullydefend itself againstRussias brutal and unjustified war of aggression."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
In a statement carried by TASS and Interfax, Rustam Minnekayev, acting commander of the CFD, said Russia plans to establish full control over the Donbas and southern Ukraine, allowing it access to Trans-Dniester.
Ukrainian presidential aid Olena Symonenko said that Russian forces had captured 42 villages in the eastern Donetsk region on Thursday, as Moscow continues to gain ground in Ukraine's east.
"After all, we are supplying considerable equipment, from the Milan to the Caesar to various types of weapons," Macron said, referring to the Milan anti-tank system and the Caesar howitzer.
At least 369,000 people fleeing the war have registered in Germany since Russia invaded on February 24, Germany's Interior Ministry said on Friday.
Lavrov said he was under the impression Kyiv may not want to continue the talks.
Zelenskyy urged residents in these areas not to provide their passport numbers or other personal information to Russian forces.
Russia hadpreviously used claims of oppression of Russian minorities in the Donetsk andLuhansk regions in eastern Ukraineas groundsfor military action.
Australia has imposed sanctions and travel bans on two daughters of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The casualtyfigures from the Defense Ministry are Moscow's first admission of the losses following the sinking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia rejected a proposal for a cease-fire over the Orthodox Christian Easter period.
Grossi saidthe Chernobyl visit "will be followed by more IAEA missions to this and other nuclear facilities in Ukraine in the coming weeks.''
Russia says one crew member died and 27 more are unaccounted for after theMoskva warship sanklast week.
"One serviceman was killed, another 27 crew members went missing," it said, adding that "the remaining 396 members" were rescued.
The US military expects more than 20 countries to attend Ukraine-focused defense talks with allies at Ramstein Air Base in Germany next week.
"They negotiations have stalled now," he said after talks with his Kazakh counterpart in Moscow.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Mariupol "continues to resist" despite Moscow's claim to have captured it.
However, Deputy PM Vereshchuk said it would be too dangerous for civilians to leave on Friday.
The United Nations said Friday that 50 civilians had been killed in Bucha, some of whom by summary execution.
Kyiv has previously warned that Russia may use the region to launch attacks into western Ukraine,potentially surroundingUkrainian forces in the south of the country, especially around the Odesa region.
Gaub also spoke of Berlin coming to grips with a wholly changed political landscape in terms of its European leadership role, saying: "It's no secret that German strategic culture since 1945 has been a culture very much along the lines of dialogue, finding  building bridges, cooperation, trade  as long as the world was in line with these ideas, it was easy for Germany to be a leader. Now we are in a different world."
The statements follows Russia's announcement that it had defeated the Ukrainian forces in Mariupol, also located in the Donetsk region, albeit without clearing out the last holdouts at a steelworks in the city.
During the call, Michel stressed in "no uncertain terms" the unacceptability of Russia's war and detailed the sanctions the European Union is imposing, anEU official said.
The UN says, in total, it has received more than 300 allegations of civilians being killed in the regions of Kyiv, Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Sumy, all under the control of Russian armed forces in late February and early March.
Foreign Minister Marisa Payne added that Canberrawill continue to increase the pressure on Moscowby targeting those who bear responsibility for the "unjustified and unprovoked aggression in Ukraine."
Heavy shelling is continuing in the Donbas region as Russia seeks to advance towards settlements, including Krasnyy Lyman, Buhayikva, Barvinkove, Lyman and Popasna, the ministry said in its regular bulletin.
Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boichenko said "about 100,000 people remain" in the city, which President Vladimir Putin says is now controlled by Russian forces, a claim Ukraine denies.
This live updates article is now closed. For our latest from April 23, click here.
Ukraine's Orthodox majority celebrate the holiday this weekend, with the Easter service starting late on Saturday into Sunday morning. Eastern Orthodoxy is also Russia's largest religious denomination.
The UN High Commission for Refugees UNCHR said on Friday that the situation of refugees has further worsened due to the war in Ukraine.
Earlier this week, the Kremlin said Russia had submitted a new written proposal, but Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he had neither seen nor heard about it.
"During a mission to Bucha on the ninth of April, UN human rights officers documented the unlawful killing including by summary execution of some 50 civilians there," said Ravina Shamdasani, spokesperson for Michelle Bachelet, UN's High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Ukrainian officials including President Volodymyr Zelenskyy have repeatedly asked European and NATO powers to provide heavier weapons, especially artillery.
Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed that the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, which holds a significant strategic value to Russia, had been "liberated" after nearly two months of siege.
"It is very strange for me to hear every day statements by various Ukrainian representatives, including the president and his advisers, that make one think that they do not need these negotiations at all, that they have resigned themselves to their fate," Lavrov added.
"Any 'Kherson People's Republics' are not going to fly," Zelenskyy said, alluding to the entities established by pro-Russian separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson says there was a "realistic possibility" the war in Ukraine could drag on until the end of next year.
"We can achieve this by working hard on a mix of energy savings and sustainability, but it will also have to lead to the import of energy from other countries, including liquid natural gas," the Dutch leader said.
Earlier on Friday, Russia's Central Military Districtsaid it plannedto seize Ukraine's southas part of the"second phase" of its military operation.
On Thursday the Ukrainian prime minister met with US President Joe Biden, who conveyed continued US commitment to the people of Ukraine.
"It really is a challenge. We are very dependent on Russian gas in Europe and there are not many alternatives to LNG," Rutte said.
He also said his country would make experts available to the International Criminal Court to help investigate alleged war crimes.
Florence Gaub, an analyst with the European Union Institute for Security Studies EUISS, spoke to DW about shifting security stances in Germany and Europe as well as growing criticism over Berlin's seemingly hesitant approach to arms deliveries.
Bachelet, meanwhile, said on Friday that since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 "international humanitarian law has not merely been ignored but seemingly tossed aside."
Sanchez announced a new shipment of 200 tons of military equipment, including 30 trucks, several special heavy transport vehicles, and 10 small vehicles loaded with military materiel to Ukraine.
French President Emmanuel Macron says his country issending heavy weapons to Ukraine, including a self-propelled howitzer and an anti-tank guided missile weapon system.
The mayor of Mariupol has pleaded for the "full evacuation" of the southern city, but Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said there "will be no humanitarian corridors" in the country on Friday.
"This very well demonstrates how the leaders of this state actually treat the Christian faith, one of the most joyful and important holidays," Zelenskyy said.
"Canada has now delivered a number of M777 howitzers and associated ammunition to the Security Forces of Ukraine, in conjunction with our American allies."
He also, for the first time, admitted there was a possibility Russia could win the war, "The situation is, I'm afraid, unpredictable at this stage, but we've just got to be realistic about that," he said.
Johnson also said the UK was looking at sending tanks to support Poland so that Warsaw could send its own to Ukrainian forces fighting against Russia.
European Council President Charles Michel spokewithVladimir Putin in a phone call on Friday, urging the Russian president to engage directly with his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
"As a result of a fire on April 13, the Moskva missile cruiser was seriously damaged due to the detonation of ammunition," the ministry said in a statement carried by Russian news agencies.
Spain's diplomatic staff moved to Poland a day after Russia invaded Ukraine, but they are now back in Kyiv.
Vladimir Medinsky, who is Russia's chief negotiator with Ukraine, however, said he had spoken to his Ukrainian counterpart on Friday.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Friday hit backat suggestionshis center-left Social Democrats SPD have been too lenient towards Russia.
Luhansk and Donetsk later declared themselves independent "people's republics," a status soon supported by Russia. The two regions are officiallyrecognized as Ukrainian territoryby almost every country in the world, despite being under control of the separatists since 2014.
The UN chief made the request for a meeting with Putin to discuss the war inUkraine some time ago.
Rafael Mariano Grossi is expected to arrive at the site on April 26, the anniversary of the disaster there in 1986.
The Ukraine Defense Consultative Group is due to meet on April 26and will include non-NATO countries.
The precise number to register is 369,381, a spokesperson for the ministry confirmed, adding that the actual number is probablymuch higher.
The statement went on to say that a "significant number" of anti-armor ammunition had also been provided.
According to the Geneva Convention, the killing of persons"taking no active part in hostilities" constitutes a war crime.
Macron told a regional newspaper 40 Ukrainian soldiers would be trained in France to operate the howitzers.
Bank added that millions of people had already lost their incomes due to the pandemic. Soaring food and fuel prices pose new challenges for humanitarian groups, Bank said.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby, however, played down expectations of any big announcements."We're not going into this with a pre-cooked set of endings here," he said.
The Netherlands plans to stop importing natural gas and oil from Russia by the end of the year, Prime Minister Mark Rutte said.
Guterres hopes to speak to Putin about steps to end the war in Ukraine, his associate spokesperson Eri Kaneko said.
World Bank chief David Malpass estimated physical damage to Ukraine's buildings and infrastructure had reached roughly $60 billion, saying the figure would rise further as the war continues.
An unspecified amount of armored vehicles would also be sent soon. The statement also made mention of a service contract to maintain and repair specialized drone cameras that Canada has supplied to Ukraine.
Ukraine's Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal has met with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Washington.
Moscow is planning to seize Ukraine's south and open a route to Moldova's Trans-Dniester region, as part of the"second phase" of its military operation, Russia's Central Military District CFD command said.
His office said they are also talking to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about a possible visit.
The opposition in Germany, as well as the leadership in Kyiv and NATO allies such as Poland,haveaccused Berlin of not doing enough to help Ukraine.
Shortly after speaking with Putin, Michel tweeted: "Firmly reiterated the EU's position: support for Ukraineand her sovereignty, condemnation and sanctions for Russia's aggression. Our unity, principles and values are inviolable."
"This is not to help you ... This is aimed to falsify the so-called referendum on your land, if an order comes from Moscow to stage such a show," Zelenskyy said.
Opponents have confronted the SPDwith a "distorted and slanderous depiction" of its Moscowpolicy ever since World War II, Scholz toldDer Spiegel. "That annoys me," he said in an interview with the magazine, adding that his partywas "bound into the Western and transatlantic alliance."
A pro-Russian regime has de facto ruled the breakaway republic of Trans-Dniester since the 1990s, with support from Russian troops.
"In the south and east of our country, the occupiers continue to do everything to have a reason to talk about at least some victories," he said in a video address.
Scholz also saidthatthe Bundeswehr's ability to deliver weapons from its own supplies "was largely exhausted."
Chernobyl was captured by Russian forces soon after Moscow launched its invasion of Ukraine on February 24. They withdrew from the plant at the end of March.
"Ukraine urgently needs housing for millions of internally displaced people and it needs an intact power grid. This is where German development cooperation can help in the short term,"Shulze toldAugsburger Allgemeine. "My ministry has reallocated funds for this via an emergency program."
In an intelligence update on the Ukraine conflict, the UK suggested "Putin's decision to blockade the Azovstal steel plant likely indicates a desire to contain Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol and free up Russian forces to be deployed elsewhere in eastern Ukraine."
The flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet sank after an explosion and fire that Ukraine said was caused by a successful missile strike.Russia said the sinking was the result of exploding munitions.
Following talks, Blinken tweeted: "Excellent meeting with Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal to discuss what Ukraine needs most to defend itself and rebuild. Ukraine's courage in defense of freedom and democracy inspires all of us."
Spain has reopened its embassy in the Ukrainian capital, Foreign Minister Jos Manuel Albares said on Friday.
The statement also said that despite Russia's "renewed focus they are still suffering from losses sustained earlier in the conflict. In order to try and reconstitute their depleted forces, they have resorted to transiting inoperable equipment back to Russia for repair."
They'll focus on Ukraine's long-term defense needs, although the latest developments in the war will also be discussed.
The Russian military has said it wants "another way" to access Moldova's breakaway Trans-Dniester region. Meanwhile, the UN chief is set to travel to Moscow next week to meet Vladimir Putin. Follow DW for the latest.
"But we keep the hope. Hope for peace, hope that life beats death," he added.
Hundreds of fighters and civilians were believed to still be inside a huge steel plant in Mariupol, which Putin ordered his forces to blockade "so that not even a fly" could escape.
The statement did not name the two relations of Putin but the president is known to have two adult daughters, Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova.
Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said talks between Moscow and Kyiv have stalled,appearing to contradict his own negotiator.
German Development Minister Svenja Shulze on Friday told theAugsburger Allgemeinenewspaper that Berlinwould allocate funds for reconstruction in Ukraine.
