LIVE  Hundreds still trapped under Mariupol theater
20220318
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-japan-australia-announce-further-russia-sanctions-live-updates/a-61168458
Izumi Nakamitsu, UN high representative for disarmament issues, last week said his department had no knowledge of a Ukrainian biological weapons department or a mandate to carry out an investigation.
"The deteriorating security situation in Europe because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine makes this contribution necessary."
"This is our defense,"he said in his nighttime video address to the nation. "When the enemy doesn't know what to expect from us. As they didn't know what awaited them after February24,"the day Russia invaded. "They didn't know what we had for defense or how we prepared to meet the blow."
As Putin prepared to take the stage, speakers had praised him as fighting "Nazism" in Ukrainethe pretext used by Moscow for staging its invasion.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says "hundreds" who sheltered in a theater in Mariupol are still trapped. Meanwhile, more than two million refugees have now crossed into Poland. Follow DW for the latest.
On Wednesday, Mariupol's theaterwas destroyed during a bombardment. Russia denied striking it. Italy said it would rebuild it.
The findings were presented in a paper issued by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
One person was killed and several others injured when the Podil neighborhood of Kyiv was bombed.
"The Tennessee Guard is aware of the fake news coming out of Russia," said Tracy O'Grady, a spokesperson for the larger USNational Guard.
He added Western allies give them a "proper replacement" to avoid creating a security gap.
"With our recent inclusion of the Central Bank of Russia,Australia has now targeted all Russian government entities responsible for issuing and managing Russia's sovereign debt," Minister for Foreign Affairs Marise Payne said in a statement.
Frick also spoke about how Ukraine's role as a breadbasket for the world was affecting global food supply and prices: "While we speak, 20 of the 2021 wheat production is still stuck in Ukraine and more than 40 of the corn production... the global market price for wheat is going through the roof. We have 66 higher prices now than a year ago and 33...only since the Ukraine war started. So this is directly affecting some of the poorest countries in the world and is pushing families in these countries towards poverty and hunger."
On Thursday, Slovakia's defense minister, Jaroslav Nad, speaking alongside his US counterpart Lloyd Austin, said Bratislava is ready to send long-range surface-to-air missiles to Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia had been surprised by the resistance it has been met with since it began its invasion.
"We continue to believe it is possible that Russia may be planning to use chemical or biological agents against the Ukrainian people," said Thomas-Greenfield.
Washington has denied these claims,in turn alleging that they arepart of a potential "false-flag operation"by Moscow.
He unleashed a diatribe at those who oppose his course and spoke of the "necessary self-purification of society."
This lives updates article is now closed. For the March 19 edition, please go here.
"The cabinet considers it of great importance to make an active military contribution to strengthening the deterrence and defense of the NATO alliance," Dutch Defense Minister Katja Ollongren said in a statement.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said rescue work was ongoing at the site of a bombed theater in Mariupolfrom where 130 people have so far been recovered alive.
The allegation was made at a council meeting called at Russia's request to discuss its allegations that Ukraine is developing biological weapons.
"The entire global economy will feel the effects of the crisis through slower growth, trade disruptions, and steeper inflation," the statement read, adding that the conflict was hitting energy and food supplies resulting in rising poverty.
Several countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada, have banned Russian oil imports.
In the eastern city of Kharkiv, the emergency services said one person was killed when a teaching building was struck.
Earlier in the week, ambassador Igor Kalabukhov said that if Bosnia "chooses to be a member of anything, that is its internal business. But there is another thing, our reaction."
Earlier in the week CAS also rejected a Russian appeal to stay a suspension of its national teams and clubs by the European
But areport published in Russia's Pravda newspaper identified threeAmericans as being dead and gave military ranks for each of them, citing information from pro-Russian militia in Ukraine's Donetsk.
World Food Program Director Martin Frick spoke to DW about the deteriorating situation for civilians in Ukrainian cities like Mariupol, which are being besieged by Russian forces, as well as the consequences for the global food supply without Ukrainian wheat.
A Ukrainian lawmaker has also said that the theater was clearly marked from above as a shelter for women and children, accusing Moscow of bombing it on purpose.
The rally was held to celebrate the 8th anniversary of Russia's annexation of the Ukrainian Black Sea peninsula of Crimea on March 18, 2014.
US President Joe Biden spoke with Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Friday by video call and warned China against giving Russia military and economic assistance.
Critics say the Russian allegations could be subterfuge to create a pretext for using such weapons themselves.
He said this also meant "that we will take care of the humanitarian plight of the people there."
Bosnia has been split along ethnic lines since the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 90s and was ravaged by a brutal war with Russia's close ally Serbia.
International Energy Agency urged the international community to cut oil use, warning that the world faced a massive supply crisis.
During the latest of several telephone calls between the two leaders since Russia's invasion began three weeks ago, Macron "again demanded the immediate respect of a cease-fire" in Ukraine, the Elysee Palace said.
He said Russia expected to find Ukraine much as it did in 2014, when it seized Crimea without a fight and backed separatists inthe eastern Donbas region. But Ukraine is now a different country, with much stronger defenses, he said.
Asked about supposed humanitarian corridors that Moscow promised it would respect, Frick said "we have yet to see them."
"Russia is once again attempting to use this council to launder its disinformation, spread its propaganda, and justify its unprovoked and brutal attack on Ukraine," the six countries with seats on the council said in a statement read out by US ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield.
Bulgaria expelled two other Russian diplomats on March 2 amid allegations of espionage. On Monday, Slovakia kicked out three Russian embassy staff based on information from its secret service.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Australia and Japan on Friday increased the pressure on Russia by placing sanctions on individuals, banks and government organizations.
Russia is the largest exporter of oil to global markets and the second-largest crude oil exporter behind Saudi Arabia.
Russia has been using the UN Security Council to spread disinformation over the invasion of Ukraine, according to six Western member states.
The sanctions, which include asset freezing, are the latest in a series of measures by Tokyo sinceRussia's February 24 invasion of Ukraine.
It will instead use the scheduled council session to repeatallegations that the United States has biological warfare laboratories in Ukraine.
The search for survivors continuedat the Mariupol theater, which was bombed on Wednesday, withUkrainian lawmaker Dmytro Gurin tellingDW that the attack was "deliberate."
China is trying to walk a fine line between antagonizing its Russian partners and disrupting its economic ties with the west. Xi's government has tried to distance itself from Russia's actions  for example abstaining from a historic UN vote to condemn the invasion  but has not gone as far as condemning Moscow.
"In addition to the devastating human catastrophe unfolding in Ukraine, the war is disrupting livelihoods throughout the region and beyond," they said.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the call offers the chance "to assess where Xi stands" on the war. She added that Biden will question Beijing's "rhetorical support" and "absence of denunciation" over the invasion.
Russia announced it will not call forthe UNSecurity Council to vote Friday on its draft resolution on humanitarian relief for Ukraine, which has been criticized for making no mention of the Kremlin'sinvasion of its neighbor.
"For Spain, it is very important that the EU summit take urgent action," said Sanchez.
"Latvia expels three Russian Embassy employees in connection with activities that are contrary to their diplomatic status and taking into account ongoing Russian aggression in Ukraine. The decision has been coordinated with Lithuania and Estonia," Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics tweeted.
Projections found that "over 12 million people are estimated to be stranded in affected areas or unable to leave due to heightened security risks, destruction of bridges and roads, as well as a lack of resources or information on where to find safety and accommodation.''
"We are delivering food to cities that are not entirely encircled. We have now built up food stocks for more than 3 million people for 30 days. But we are still waiting and pressing for humanitarian corridors, particularly for Mariupol."
The Tennessee Guard said in a statement: "They are accounted for, safe and not, as the article headline erroneously states, USmercenaries killed in Donetsk People's Republic."
Putin said all of the Kremlin's plans for Ukraine would be implemented. However, Russian state television curiously cut Putin's speech mid-sentence, switching to footage of patriotic music.
The city's mayor Vitali Klitschko shared a video from thedistrict saying, "The enemy continues to attack the capital." He said six buildings, including a preschool, were damaged in the attack.
Japan, meanwhile, saidit would impose sanctions against 15individuals and nine organizations, including defense officials and state-owned arms and dual-use technologies exporter Rosoboronexport.
The IEA also called on the OPEC group of oil-producing nations to help "relieve the strain" on markets.
The EU said that potential "war crimes" in Ukraine would be investigated and prosecuted, joiningtop US figures in labeling Moscow's actions thus.
She said refugees need more than food, water, and shelter, "there's a great deal of trauma that we will have to be able to support."
"We will continue to stand firmly by Bosnia and Herzegovina as it takes the necessary steps to secure its place in the Euro-Atlantic community of nations," the US embassy said on Thursday evening.
Shells also hit the eastern city of Kramatorsk, killing two people and wounding six, according to Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko.
"The only strategic air defense system that we have in Slovakia is the S-300 system," Nad said.
The Polish border guard has said that more than 2million people have crossed from Ukraine into Poland since the Russian invasion began on 24 February.
The Russian leader also told his German counterpart they were doing everything possible to save the lives of civilians.
Ukraine hopes to evacuate civilians through nine humanitarian corridors from cities and towns on Friday, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has said.
He wrote on Telegram work in the plant had stopped before the strike and no casualties were reported. A bus repair facility was also hit in the strike.
S-300 missiles are high on Ukrainian demands from the West because they are designed to hit targets at higher altitudes.
The city near the Polish border has been spared the worst of the Russian attacks so far.
By seizing the strategic port city, Russian President Vladimir Putin could create a corridor between Russia, the Donbas area, and Crimea and take full control of the Sea of Azov.
The Bulgarian foreign ministry declared 10 Russian diplomats "persona non grata" and demanded that they leave the country within 72 hours, accusing them of carrying out activities incompatible with their diplomatic status.
Putin spoke before tens of thousands of people at Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium, where people waved the Russian national flag and flags bearing the letter Z, a pro-war symbol.
"I think we fear what may happen in the coming days and weeks as we've seen cities that we thought were safe havens, it seems, are not necessarily safe," she said.
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the state broadcaster RT that Russia wouldn't allow other countries to supply S-300 anti-aircraft missile systems to Ukraine.
The two leaders spoke for an hour, during which time Macron urged a "a lifting of the siege and humanitarian access" to the city.
In an online address, Zelenskyysaid shelling by Russian forces continued to prevent the authorities from establishing effective humanitarian corridors to the encircled port city in southern Ukraine. He said that hundreds of people are believed to still be trapped.
"We have shown what we expect on the example of Ukraine. If there are threats, we will react," Kalabukhov added.
"As a result of Russia's appalling aggression against Ukraine, the world may well be facing its biggest oil supply shock in decades, with huge implications for our economies and societies," IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressedthe Bundestag, telling the German parliament that "help came too late to stop war." He also criticized the German governmentover its economic ties with Russia.
The Dutch government has said it will send a Patriot missile defense system to Sliac, Slovakia, as NATO moves to strengthen air defenses in Eastern Europe.
The Patriot is a surface-to-air guided weapon system that can be used to take out aircraft, helicopters, and high-speed ballistic and cruise missiles. This is possible up to a height of 20 kilometers about 12.5 miles and a distance of 60 kilometers.
Poland, Sweden, and the Czech Republicsaid they would refuse to play against Russia before the suspension.
The document cited the IOM figures as "a good representation of the scale of internal displacement in Ukraine  calculated to stand at 6.48 million internally displaced persons in Ukraine as of March 16.''
President Vladimir Putin praised the war waged on Ukraine as a "heroic" mission by the Russian army during a patriotic rally at a Moscow stadium on Friday.
Local officials said shelling of the town of Merefa, outside the city of Kharkiv, killed at least 21 people and injured 25.
The council held a meeting on the same issue last week, also at Russia's request. At the time, Western countries accused Russia of spreading conspiracy theories.
The Kremlin characterized the call somewhat differently, saying that Putin used it to accuse Ukraine of "war crimes" while promising that the Russian leader would do "everything possible" to avoid civilian deaths.
Canberra imposedsanctions on Moscow's Finance Ministry while adding 11 banks and government organizations, including the central bank,covering the majority of Russia's banking assets along with all entities that handle its sovereign debt.
The Baltic states also expelled a total of 10 Russian diplomats on Friday: three from Latvia and Estonia each and four from Lithuania.
The CAS decision means Russia will not be able to play Poland in World Cup qualifying on Thursday.
"Attention was drawn to the numerous war crimes committed daily by the Ukrainian security forces, in particular massive rocket and artillery attacks on the cities of Donbas," the Kremlin said of the call.
In an ominous speech on Wednesday, Putin likened opponents to "gnats''who try to weaken the country at the behest of the West.
So far, more than 3 million people have fled due to Russias invasion of the country. At least 200,000 of these have arrived in Germany seeking refuge. According to the UN, around half of all Ukrainian refugees are children.
She said the decision was taken because it "appears impossible for RT to comply with the due impartiality rules" in its coverage of the war in Ukraine.
"The war in Ukraine means a turning point for the EU as well," Scholz said as the pair met in Berlin.
A group of leading financial lenders, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Council of Europe Development Bank among others, have released a statement warning of the "extensive" economic fallout from the war in Ukraine.
The Russian ambassadorto the UN, Vassily Nebenzia, announced the change of plans in a separate session on Thursday called by western countries.
Sanchez said that Putin was the sole author of the war. He also underlined the need to keep energy prices from spiraling out of controlahead of a meeting of European leaders next week.
According to the White House, Biden laid out the "implications and consequences" of Chinese assistance to Russia. An administration official said that Biden pointed to the economic isolation Russia has faced as a result of Western sanctions in his discussion with Xi.
Representatives from the global institutions met on Thursday to discuss the impacts of the Russian invasion of Ukraine around the world.
US President Joe Biden ordered the withdrawal of Americantroops from Ukraine ahead ofRussia's invasion of the country.
"It was noted that the Kyiv regime is attempting in every possible way to delay the negotiation process, putting forward more and more unrealistic proposals," the Kremlin said in a readout of the call.
Three current and previousmembers of the Tennessee National Guard were falsely identified as being killed in a Russian media report.
"The situation is Mariupol is particularly bad. We are trying to get access to bring food in," said Frick, saying the need for humanitarian aid was "urgent" but that "there hasn't been a possibility to bring food in with a humanitarian convoy" due to constant Russian shelling.
"What we're afraid of is are we going to be able to keep up with the numbers of people that are flowing out of the country? And that will be in need of greater and greater support," Ghedini-Williams said.
"In addition to the 3.3 million who have become refugees in neighboring countries, we could be looking at potentials of many more millions becoming refugees," Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams, Head of Global Communications at the UNHCR, told DW.
Britain's media regulator, Ofcom, has revoked Russian state broadcaster RT's license to broadcast in the UK with immediate effect.
Officials and observers have noted that people in Mariupol are on their "last reserves" of food and water, claiming Russia is using starvation as a tactic of war.
The UN has said that at least 780 civilians have already been killed in Ukraine since the invasion began, as Russian bombs have also been dropped on hospitals and shelters.
According to his spokesman, Scholz pressed Putin to make progress in finding a diplomatic solution and told him the humanitarian situation needed to improve.
The US embassy in Sarajevo has called the "threats" made by the Russian ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the Balkan country's wish to join NATO "dangerous, irresponsible and unacceptable" in a Tweet.
"In Mariupol, units of the Donetsk People's Republic, with the support of the Russian armed forces, are squeezing the encirclement and fighting against nationalists in the city center," the ministry said in Moscow.
The Ukrainian air force's western command said the missiles that hit Lviv were launched from the Black Sea.
However, last weekend, Russian troops launched multiple air raids on a large Ukrainian military facility outside the city, killing at least 35 people.
US President Joe Biden is planning to call his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Friday. While the phone call has been on the agenda since November, relations between Beijing and Moscow in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine are likely to take center stage.
The Court of Arbitration for Sport CAS upheld FIFA's ban on Russia from taking part in the playoffs for the 2022 World Cup finals over the invasion of Ukraine.
He repeated an earlier threat that Russian troops could target supplies of weapons to Ukraine.
Bulgaria was Moscow's closest ally during the Cold War but has since joined both the EU and NATO.
FIFA declared Poland winners by walkover a decision that is made when a team is disqualified after Russia's suspension.
"As before, we will continue to support Ukraine, which so courageously opposes the aggressor," said Scholz.
The International Organization for Migration IOM indicates that, within 3 weeks, Ukraine is on its way to the levels of displacement from Syria's devastating war.
Bilateral talks also continued between Russia and Ukraine, albeit with neither side saying very much publicly on Thursday.
Ofcom's decision is largely symbolic as RT has already been taken off air as a result of sanctions imposed in the EU.
"We call on President Putin to immediately stop the to immediately cease hostilities and withdraw his invading forces from the country."
That conflict drove some 13 million people from their homes internally and to other countries.
The IEA has announced a 10-point plan to cut oil use, including reducing highway speed limits by 10 kilometers per hour 6 miles per hour.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called for an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine during a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The UN migration agency says nearly 6.5 million people have been displaced inside Ukraine, in addition to the 3.2 million who have already fled the country.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said the Russian invasion of Ukraine should be a turning point for the European Union.
Speaking alongside Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez in Berlin, Scholz said it was vital for the EU to strengthen its defense capability and take decisions in the energy sector.
He was cutwhile saying: "It so happened that the beginning of the operation coincided by chance with the birthday of one of our outstanding military..."
The Russian soccer federation wanted an urgent interim ruling to freeze the ban pending an appeal.
The storyeven offered a detailedexplanation for how the three were identified, using items from a backpack "near the remains of one of the militants." Among the items wasa Tennessee state flag, the report claimed.
"Freedom of expression is something we guard fiercely in this country, and the bar for action on broadcasters is rightly set very high," Ofcom Chief Executive Melanie Dawes said.
Xi urged the US and Russia to negotiate and accused the US of provoking Russia by shipping arms to Ukraine.
French President Emmanuel Macrontold Russias President Putin in a phone call that he had "extreme concern" for the civilians in Mariupol, Macrons office said.
