Most stayed Ukrainian artist in Kyiv
20220302
https://www.dw.com/en/most-stayed-ukrainian-artist-yevgenia-belorusets-in-kyiv/a-60987270
Putin justifies his attack on Ukraine with the accusation that those in power in Ukraine are fascists propaganda that is also circulating in the West.
Yevgenia Belorusets, born in 1980, is a photographer,artist and writer.She lives alternately in Kyiv and Berlin. Her work deals with the intersection ofart, media and society.She has been in Kyiv since December 2021 and spoke to DW from her apartment in the Ukrainian capitalon March 1, 2022.
Air raid sirens are constantly sounding, people are holed up in bunkers.Yevgenia Belorusets, an artist based in both Kyiv and Berlin, speaks to DW from inside the Ukrainian capital.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
I want to keep writing, keep telling stories.And do what I can do, here and now.I can't really plan anything in this situation.
How do people in Ukraine get information right now?Can you share ideas with other people?
The Ukrainians who believed this also believed that the east of Ukraine was voluntarily occupied by the Russians.But people have been dying in this war for years, every day.
Everyone must now take a position even in the art world.Any support, any help is important right now.People are being murdered, just like that, on the streets, and you have to do everything to stop it.
It was never about protecting the identity of people close to Russia and their way of life.It is precisely those people who are being attacked, as we can also see in Kharkiv, which has now been attacked.
You have always been a critic of the political situation in Ukraine, how do you experience that?
I came to Kyiv in December to work on a noveldealing with human rights.I'm also working on another book that's more about social research, which requires me to do a lot of research in Ukraine.
This is a Russian-speaking city with a unique history and modernist architecture, and now it's just under rocket fire.There is no military infrastructurecivilians live there and theyare now being attacked with rockets.It allstarted back in 2014 in Donbas.
My neighbor is a doctor who stayed in Kyiv to work in the bomb shelter, although he can hardly stand the shelling.He puts himself in danger to help.
Now it's all about the injured, wounded, soldiers and others. Few pharmacies are open.Only the people who need medicine for wounded soldiers can enter without having to queue.
People are afraid, they go out as little as possible.Yesterday I accompanied my friend to the train station.I don't live far, it usually takes about 25 minutes to walk.But yesterday was really dangerous  and I went back alone.
In a 2018 interview, you expressed your fear that there would be a war against Ukraine.Why?What were the signs?Were you alone with this fear?
I am in many Telegram groups and channels.I read 10-20 different news sources, mostly independent, government or verified journalistic sources reliable sources.You can exchange ideas in the comments.But we are careful. I am in constant contact with relatives, friends and acquaintances through various social networks and by telephone.The communication is very intense.I also try to take photos with my smartphone and with my old film camera.
I keep a diary for "Der Spiegel."That helps me.Writing in German, a foreign language for me, is a challenge.That gives meaning to my existence in this situation.I write.I am thinking.I take pictures.
My view of the country has always been, and always will be, critical.At this moment, however, it is very difficult to remain critical.I'm shocked and I'm in love with my country because I see that people really protect each other and stand together, that people are trying to counter this unspeakable, inhuman violence with something human.If any food is missing, you give it to each other.
The streets are deserted.There is a queue in front of the pharmacy, people wait five or six hours to get their vital medicines.Not long ago we were still in the reality of a pandemic it still continues, but it's not the topic anymore.
With its disinformation campaign, Russia managed to get some Ukrainians to believe that eastern Ukraine was really pro-Russian  that Russia was invited to go to war there.But one never invites a war.
Several times, three or four times until this afternoon.And going into the bunker every time and waiting for the air raid alarm to stop is very difficult.
Many have come forwardand said they are sorry.They're tense, they think it's terrible, they say: "Shame on Russia!"
I had already planned to return to Berlin in the beginning of March,but when the war started, I suddenly didn't want to leave.My parents are here.My father is a bit weak right now he is a translator of German poetry.Iwould only be ready toleave the country with my parents and with my friends.But thank God most of my friends are no longer here.
Ukraine has never been a fascist country, nor has it ever been inhumane.Nationalist parties have never really been popular here  their share in parliament is less than 3.
I want sanctions that will destroy the Russian economy.I want military support for Ukraine at all levels.We have to be able to protect ourselves.I hope that truth prevails in the end.
That is hard to say.Russia launched violent attacks in eastern Ukraine and the whole region was in danger.There were only a few international journalists reporting on site, and little was said about it on the Ukrainian sidepeople apparently didn't have the strength to do so.
Yevgenia Belorusets: Several times a day, sirens can be heardwarning us ofmissiles.It is not clear whether the danger is really coming or going.But you have to seek shelter.You have to go into the cellars, into the bunkers, deep underground.I'm reckless sometimes and I wait and hope it just passes.
