NATO defense chiefs to discuss Russian security threat
20220615
https://www.dw.com/en/nato-defense-ministers-to-discuss-russian-security-threat/a-62138471
The Ukrainian leadership hasmade repeated appeals for more military assistance in the form of heavy weaponrysince the Russian invasion on February 24. While various pledges have been made, there has been a level of criticism that support has been slow in coming.
The ministers of defense of NATO member statesare holding a round of talks in Brussels on Wednesday to deal with the response to security threats posed by Russia in the medium to long term.
As Russia's invasion of Ukraine heads towards the four month mark, Baltic states bordering Russia want a stronger military presence in the region.Last week German Chancellor Olaf Scholzpledged to bolster the alliance's eastern flank with a 100 billion $106 billion special fundthat would reinforce German forces in the area.
Ahead of talks NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said "Russia's war against Ukraine is posing the biggest threat to Euro-Atlantic security in decades."
Stoltenberg also said thathe expected consensus on a new package of assistance at theupcoming NATO leaders' summit in Madrid later this month.
Stoltenberg will bechairing the talks which begin with a working dinner on Wednesday evening and will continue with an allied ministers' meeting on Thursday.
With that in mind, the security alliance's summit in Madrid is expected to determine what the future of the NATO deployment in eastern Europe will look like.
Heads of NATO defense are meeting ahead of the alliance's summit in Madrid later in June. NATO Chief Jens Stoltenberg said the Ukraine war posed the "biggest threat to Euro-Atlantic security in decades."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
"Allies are committed to continue providing the military equipment that Ukraine needs to prevail, including heavy weapons and long range systems," the NATO chief said.
I welcome Germanys intension to strengthen its engagement in Lithuania, which leads our NATO battlegroup and develop it towards a more robust combat brigade," Stoltenberg said.
Finland, Georgia, Sweden and Ukraine and the European Union have been invited to the session which Stoltenberg said would be an opportunity to assess Ukraine's urgent needs, while also affording NATO allies the opportunity to pledge more support.
A separate meeting being held by the US and the Ukraine Defense Contact Group is also being held on Wednesday, although NATO is not officially taking part in discussions.
