Russia invades Ukraine What you need to know
20220224
https://www.dw.com/en/russia-invades-ukraine-what-you-need-to-know/a-60895337
For weeks, Western intelligence has shown that a Russian attack on Ukraine was imminent, with over 150,000 Russian troops massed along the Ukrainian borders.
In a joint statement, the seven countries said they were "ready to act" to minimize disruptions to world energy markets resulting from Russia's attack on Ukraine.
With the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine politically began looking westwards and started talking with both the European Union and NATO.
In 2004, the first of two significant revolutions on Maidan Square took place, known as the "Orange Revolution." That year, voters elected the pro-Western candidate Viktor Yushchenkoover the Russian-backed Viktor Yanukovych,who later won the 2010 elections.
Up until late Wednesday, Ukraine's Zelenskyy said he attempted to reach out to Putin.In an emotional address, Zelenskyy said, "Today I initiated a phone call with the president of the Russian Federation. The result was silence."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenkskyy was elected in a 2019 vote, although some eligible voters could not take part owing either to Russia's annexation of Crimea or the fighting in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Ukraine, the largest country on the European continent, had a short-lived independent state following World War I. It was absorbed by the Soviet Union, which forced the terror of famine on the country in the 1930s under Josef Stalin.
Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden announced "devastating" Western sanctions against Russia after a virtual closed-door meeting with the other G7 powers.
Here's a look at the most significant developments from today and how the situation unfolded:
Russia on Wednesdayhad withdrawn its diplomatic mission from Kyiv. Ukraine on Thursday officially severed diplomatic ties with Russia.
Europen Union leaders agreed to a sweeping second set of sanctions against Russia at an emergency meeting in Brussels on Thursday.
In an unscheduled television address on Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that he "decided to conduct a special military operation."
In 2013, Yanukovych stopped the signing of an association agreement with the EU he had said he supported earlier. Protests ensued and the second Maidan revolution, Ukraine's "Revolution for Dignity" as it has become known, culminated in his security forces firing on demonstrators gathered on Maidan. Yanukovych fled to Russia by helicopter the next day, taking with him briefcases of cash and documents.
The Russian government claimed hours earlier that separatist leaders had requested military help to fend off what they called Ukrainian "aggression."
"With this package, we will target the strategic sectors of the Russian economy by blocking their access to technologies and markets that are key to Russia," European Commission President U von der Leyen said before presenting the sanctions.
NATOannounced it would deploy additional forces to eastern Europe "to take additional steps to further strengthen deterrence and defense across the alliance."
The G7 states are the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.
Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine on Thursday, with explosions heard across the country and Russian tanks entering Ukrainian territories.
The moves came in the wake of Putin ordering troops into the separatist-held regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine after herecognized the independence of the two regions.
Still, diplomatic efforts were continuing to prevent an invasion. But when Putin announced the recognition of two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine as "independent republics," diplomacy came to a halt.
In 1991, Ukraine officially declared its independence. Russia recognized Ukraine's borders in a number of international agreements.
"This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now," he added.
The US, the EU, Japan and the UK had already unveiled a range of economic and financial sanctions against Russia earlier this week, while Germany suspended the Russian Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
The European Union was quick to vowthe "strongest, the harshest package" of sanctions ever considered, the bloc's foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said.
At an emergency UN Security Council meeting, Russia's envoy Vassily Nebenzia said the "operation" was targeting "the junta" in power in Kyiv.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said, "Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz expressed solidarity with Ukrainians, saying "Putin'swar" on their country wascompletely without justification. The US and the UK strongly condemned the Russian invasion.
World convened on Thursday as part of multiple bodies, including the European Union, NATO and the G7.
In eastern Ukraine, Russian-backed separatists are fighting for what they have called "people's republics " in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and more than 13,000 people have been killed so far, according to the UN. An additional 1.4 million Ukrainians have been internally displaced by the conflict.
Casualties, shelling, Russian tanks and emergency meetings to coordinate the West's response. DW has an overview as a Russian war on Ukraine unfolds.
The Ukrainianleadership said at least 40 soldiers had been killed so far by Russian airstrikes.
Biden tweeted that the G7 leaders "agreed to move forward on devastating packages of sanctions and other economic measures to hold Russia to account. We stand with the brave people of Ukraine."
"While we were trying to find a political solution, they were planning for this invasion," NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said on Thursday. "Russia has shut the door" on a political solution, he added.
"These sanctions cover the financial sector, the energy and transport sectors, dual-use goods as well as export controls and export financing, visa policy, additional listings of Russian Individuals and new listing criteria," the European Union said in a statement.
NATO allies have also warned that Russia was seeking a pretext to invade Ukraine further.
Putin claimed the "operation" was to "protect people who have been subjected to bullying and genocide... for the last eight years," or since 2014, when Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea. Moscow-backed separatists have fought the government's forces in eastern Ukraine ever since.
A year later, Russia annexed Crimea. Bloody battles and heavy losses in the eastern part of the country have been ongoing since then.
