Russia not hopeful ahead of talks with US over Ukraine
20220109
https://www.dw.com/en/russia-says-not-hopeful-ahead-of-talks-with-us-over-ukraine/a-60372383
Moscow has said it is "disappointed" with signals from the United States ahead of talks in Geneva, where the two sides are set to discuss the crisis at the Ukrainian border.
Russia is not optimistic ahead of the planned talks with the United States and other NATO members over the tensions at the Ukrainian border, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said on Sunday.
High-level talks in Geneva, whereRussian representatives are set to meet delegations from NATO and the Organization for Security and Operation in Europe, aim toease the tensions at the Ukrainian-Russian border. Russia has amassed troops atits border with Ukraine, prompting fears of a full-scale invasion.
"There's a path of dialogue and diplomacy to try to resolve some of these differences and avoid a confrontation," he said on CNN.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Biden warned his Russian counterpart of serious consequences, should Moscow invade Ukraine again, after annexing the Crimean Peninsula in 2014. A possible response could include further sanctions, canceling the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline in the Baltic Seaor even cutting Russia off from the global banking network.
The Kremlin has made a series of demands regarding Ukraine's relationship with NATOand NATO's expansion in Eastern Europe. In response, Washington has made clear that many of those demands are non-starters. On Sunday,Russia reduced any possible optimism about a possible resolution of the situation, saying it would not back down.
"I don't think we're going to see any breakthroughs in the coming week,"Blinken told CNN.
"We will not agree to any concession. That is completely excluded," said Ryabkov. "We are disappointed with the signals coming in the last few days from Washington but also from Brussels."
Speaking withthe Interfax news agency,Ryabkov said it would be "naive" to expect "progress, let alone quick progress."
The Kremlin has been pushing for an assurance that Ukraine will never be given membership to NATO  an alliance set up to counter the influence of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe during the Cold War.
While there is no process underway to bring Kyiv into the alliance, the US and NATO have rejected attempts by Moscow to dictate Ukraine's foreign policy.
Moscow has increased its pressure on Kyiv since the revolution in 2014 that toppled the Moscow-friendly administration. Russian troops are believed to have been supporting separatists in the country's east ever since.
The US is also considering sending more NATO troops to the ex-Soviet states in theBaltics, which have since joined NATO, according to a report by the AFP news agency. In addition, Washington is mulling sending reinforcements toother NATO members in EasternEurope, the report said.
The Russian diplomat is expected to take part in the scheduled summit inGeneva on Monday. The Russian delegation reportedly arrived in Switzerland on Sunday afternoon.
US President Joe Biden held two phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin in previous weeks.
Ryabkovis set to meet with US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman on Sunday evening ahead of the talks.
On Sunday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken likewise took to the airwaves to lower expectations ahead of the talks.
