Russiabacked separatists claim gains  as it happened
20220702
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-russian-backed-separatists-claim-lysychansk-is-surrounded-live-updates/a-62335782
It said that the strike that hit the Kremenchuk shopping center appeared to have been an air-launched anti-ship missile being used in "a secondary land-attack role."
"There are powerful explosions in the city! Stay in shelters!"Mykolaiv Mayor Oleksandr Senkevych wrote on the Telegram messaging app.
Russian forces took control of the neighboring city Severodonetsk, which lies across the Donets River, last week.
According to him, the Ukrainians made it very hard for the Russians to sustain their operations there and made them very vulnerable to Ukrainian strikes. "So, that of course, is why Russia left the island," the official said.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
The pair were captured in April and are being held by authorities in the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic DPR, according to Russia's TASS news agency. They were charged on Friday.
Ukraine's army accused Russia of carrying out strikes using incendiary phosphorus munitions on Snake Island Friday, just a day after withdrawing its forces from the rocky outcrop in the Black Sea.
Ukraine has called on Turkey to detain a Russian-flagged ship carrying several thousand tons of grainwhich Kyiv claims Russia has stolen.
Ukraine's army has denied claims by Moscow-backed separatists to have encircled the city. The capture of Lysychansk would allow the Russians to push deeper into the eastern Donbas. DW has the latest.
The UK government has accusedRussian-backed forcesof theexploitation of prisoners of war after two British men held by pro-Russian separatist forces in eastern Ukraine were charged with "mercenary activities."
Kyiv last week said missiles fired from Belarus had struck a border region inside Ukrainian territory.
The capture of Lysychansky would allow the Russians to push deeper into the eastern Donbas, which has become the focus of their offensive since failing to capture Kyiv earlier in the invasion.
Cluster munitions are bombs that release several smaller explosives and they are banned under an international convention.
A German official has warned that Russia could be planning to use a regular maintenance break on the Nord Stream 1 gas pipelineas an opportunity tocut the gas supply to Germanycompletely.
The update also claimed that Russian forces have likely been using less precise missiles due to "dwindling stockpiles of more accurate modern weapons."
Russia has already cut or reduced its gas supplyto several European countries amid tensions overMoscow's invasion of Ukraine.
The Ukrainian soup borscht  which in 2023 was set to be added to the UN's list of endangered cultural heritage items  has had its inscription hastened by the "negative impact on this tradition" caused by the war, UNESCO said.
The UK's Defense Ministry said in its latest intelligence update on Saturday that Russian forces "continue to achieve minor advances" around the city.
"We are in constant contact with the government of Ukraine on their cases and are fully supportive of Ukraine in its efforts to get them released."
A statement from the UK Foreign Office said: "We condemn the exploitation of prisoners of war and civilians for political purposes and have raised this with Russia."
He told Saturday newspapers from the Funke Media Group thatthe question was whether the planned 11-day maintenance period, due to start July 11, will "become a longer period of political maintenance."
"Today the Luhansk popular militia and Russian forces occupied the last strategic heights, which allows us to confirm that Lysychansk is completely encircled," Andrei Marotchko, a spokesman for the separatist forces, told the TASS news agency.
"Thank God, our Pantsir anti-air systems intercepted all the missiles fired by the Ukrainian forces,"Lukashenko was quoted as saying.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced Friday's Russian missile strikes in the southern Odesa region that left 21 dead and dozens wounded.
Five Ukrainian army command posts in the eastern Donbas and the southern Mykolaiv region have been destroyed by Russian troops using high-precision weapons, the Russian Defense Ministry was quoted as saying.
He said that if the gas supply from Russia "was reduced longer for political reasons, we have to talk more seriously about ways to cut consumption."
Last month, two other British military volunteers and a Moroccan were sentencedto death by a court in Donetsk.They were also charged with being mercenaries. At least two of the men have appealed.
"Fighting rages around Lysychansk. But luckily the city has not been encircled and is under control of the Ukrainian army," Ruslan Muzytchuk,a spokesman for the Ukrainian National Guard, said on Ukrainian television.
European Commission PresidentUrsula von der Leyen said on Friday that "massive investments" wouldbe needed for the reconstruction of Ukraine, but the country's path to EU membership would go "hand in hand" with that process.
Klaus Mller, the head of the Federal Network Agency Bundesnetzwerkagentur, said that made it crucial to save as much gas as possible.
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced last week that Moscow would deliver Iskander-M missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons to Belarus "in the coming months."
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has claimed that Ukraine tried to strike its military facilities three days ago. But he failed to provide any evidence.
The city is still under Ukrainian control and is a major stronghold in the region of Donetsk.
This live updates article is now closed. For our latest, on July 3, click here.
The UK's Ministry of Defense said in its intelligence update on Saturday that Russian forces "continue to achieve minor advances around Lysychansk"  one of the main Russian targets in the east of Ukraine after their forces took Sievierodonetsk.
Zelenskyy also said that he was grateful to the United States of America and personally to US President Joe Biden for the new support package for Ukraine announced today, which includes NASAMS surface-to-air missile systems.
"An anti-aircraft missile complex that will significantly strengthen our air defense. We have worked hard for this supply. In total, this package is worth 820 million dollars and, in addition to NASAMS, also includes artillery munition and radars," Zelenskyy said.
However, the longtime Kremlin ally has supported Russia's military operation in Ukraine, allowingRussian troops to cross into Ukraine from Belarus as they tried and failed to take Kyiv.
The men were identified by British media as 22-year-old aid worker Dylan Healyand 35-year-old Andrew Hill, who is reported to be a volunteer fighter for the Ukrainian army.
Russian forces also struck three storage sites in the Zaporizhzhia regionto the northeast of Mykolaiv, the ministry said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies. It also said the Russian air force had struck a Ukrainian weapons and equipment base at a tractor factory in Kharkiv in northeast Ukraine.
Norway has announced almost a billion euros of aid to Ukraine, over two years. News of the aid worth 10 billion Norwegian crowns roughly 960 million or$1 billion came as Norwegian Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Store visited the country.
Westerners have been traveling to Ukraine, either to help defend it against the Russian invasion or to help provide humanitarian aid to the millions of Ukrainians whose lives have been upended.
The US Defense Department does not believe there is any credence to Russia saying its retreat from Snake Island was a gesture of goodwill, said a senior American official on Friday.
The lack of precision for such missiles "greatly increases the likelihood of collateral damage when targeting built-up areas," the UK ministry said.
Slovyansk Mayor Vadym Lyakh said on Telegram on Saturday that four people were killed in a Russian cluster munitions attack on Friday night.
The official, who was not named but whose comments were published on the DOD website, said that reclaiming Snake Island would make it easier for Ukraine to defend Odesa and to open shipping lanes in the future with Russia no longer controlling the island in the Black Sea.
"Three missiles hit an ordinary residential building, a nine-story building in which no one hid any weapons, military equipment or ammunition, as Russian propagandists and officials always tell about such strikes," Zelenskyy said.
The state-run Belta news agency cited Lukashenko as saying that his country's army had intercepted Kyiv's missiles.
Russia-backed separatists say they have "completely" encircled the key city of Lysychansk in the eastern Luhansk region.
Powerful explosions rocked the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv early Saturday, the mayor said, a day after at least 21 people were killed when Russian missiles hit the neighboring Odesa region.
The Ukrainian president called the attack "a deliberate, purposeful Russian terror, not some mistakes or an accidental missile strike."
"We view this development as that the Ukrainians were very successful at applying significant pressure on the Russians, including by using Harpoon missiles that they recently acquired to attack a resupply ship," the official said.
