Russia to cut Nord Stream gas flow by half
20220725
https://www.dw.com/en/russia-to-further-slash-gas-deliveries-to-germany-via-nord-stream-pipeline/a-62588620
On Monday, German Economy Minister Habeck said that Putin was "trying to weaken the great support for Ukraine and drive a wedge through our society."
German Economy Minister Robert Habeck told Germany's dpa news agencyMonday that"Russia is breaking contracts and blaming others," adding that Russian President Vladimir Putin is playing a"duplicitous game."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
"The maintenance of our turbines is and remains a routine procedure. During the last 10 years of maintenance there have been no significant complications," Siemens Energy said, adding that Gazprom had not provided required customs documents.
The fullcapacity of Nord Stream 1 is over 160 cubic meters of gas exported daily.Stopping the turbine will result in reduced capacity of33 million cubic meters.Gazprom said theproduction capacity is to bereduced at Russia's Portovaya compressor station.
Germany, which is heavily dependent on Russian gas, has previously accused the Kremlin of using energy as a "weapon."
"Gazprom has studied...the documents, but has to acknowledge that they do not remove the previously identified risks and raise additional questions," it said in a statement.
The new blow to supply comes as politicians in Europe have repeatedly warned that Russia could cut off gas flows this winter.
Turbine maker Siemens dismissed the concerns saying the turbine that was transported from Canada to Germany could be shipped immediately.
Russia's Gazprom said it would again reduce gas deliveries through Nord Stream 1 by 20 for 'repairs,' cutting the current flow in half. The new blow to supply comes as Europe scrambles to store gas for winter.
Von der Leyen told German news agency dpa, "Even member states that hardly purchase any Russian gas cannot escape the effects of a potential supply stop on our internal market."
Russian gas giant Gazprom said Monday it was cutting daily gas deliveries via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to 33 million cubic metres starting Wednesday.
Germanysays the cuts are not the result of maintenance or technical issues but are punishment for EU sanctions.
Moscow maintains the gas flow reductions are due to repairs and technical complications brought on byEuropean sanctions in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"Moscow is not shying away from using grain and energy deliveries as a weapon. We have to be resolute in protecting ourselves," German Chancellor Olaf Scholz told reporters last week.
The company said it was halting the operation of another turbine due to the "technical condition of the engine".
Monday's announcement of the latest cut comes after the Russian company raised questions about the return of a different turbine that was serviced in Canada, saying it wasn't satisfied with the documents it has received.
"We are monitoring the situation very closely in close exchange with the Federal Network Agency and the gas crisis team,'' the German Economics Ministrysaid.
On Tuesday, EU ministers will debate a gas saving plan calling for member states to reduce demand by15.
On Monday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said EU nations that have gas supplies independent of Russia need to demonstrate solidarity with countries forced to ration gas this coming winter.
"To do this, he stirs up uncertainty and drives up prices. We are countering this with unity and focused action. We are taking precautions to get us through the winter," Habeck added.
"According to our information, there is no technical reason for a reduction in deliveries,'' it added.
Gazprom only resumed gas deliveries via the pipeline last week after it was shut down for 10 days of scheduled work.
That would correspond to 20 of the pipeline's capacity. The current flow of gas into Germany is only at 40.
"Additionally, there are still open questions from Gazprom regarding the EU and UK sanctions, the resolution of which is important for the delivery of the engine to Russia and the urgent overhaul of other gas turbine engines for the Portovaya compressor station," the statement said.
Last week Putin seemed to foreshadowthe latest cut when he said: "There are two functioning machines there. They pump 60 million cubic meters per day ... If one is not returned, there will be one, which is 30 million cubic meters."
Nord Stream 1 begins north of SaintPetersburg inRussia and ends at a station near Greifswald on Germany's northern Baltic Sea coast.
