Russias invasion of Ukraine in 7 graphics
20220303
https://www.dw.com/en/russias-invasion-of-ukraine-in-7-graphics/a-60909241
Russia'smilitary outnumbersUkraine's in virtually every way  on land, at sea and in the air. The only area where Russia and Ukraine are on par militarily is active personnel. On February 24, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy signed a decree ordering the general mobilization of the population. Conscripts and reservists will be called up over the next 90 days to "ensure the defense of the state, maintaining combat and mobilization readiness." All men between the ages of 18 and 60 have been prohibited from leaving the country.
This article was originally written in German and published on February 24. It waslast updated on March 3.
Shortly after the attacks started, people began fleeing Ukraine's cities and villages. They headed overland to neighboring countries in the west and southwest, forming huge lines at the border crossings. The European Union is preparing for millions of refugees to arrive in the bloc and has promised that all war refugees will be accepted.Here's a look at where the refugees have gone to date.
Since the first tanks rolled into eastern Ukraineearly on February 24, Russia has intensified its attacks acrossUkraine.Explosions and shellinghave been reported in several major cities, including Kharkiv,Mariupol and the capital, Kyiv.
The history of the current conflictbetween Russia and Ukraine dates to the breakup of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s. As Ukraine has oriented itself more toward theEuropean Union, tensions have escalated, particularly since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and separatists gained control of Donetsk and Luhansk in the east. The following timeline plots out the course of the current conflict, from the breakdown in diplomacy to invasion.
From rocket attacks to refugees, these graphics help understand the current military situation and the history of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
On March 3, Russia announced that itstroopshad takencontrol of the strategic city of Kherson, in southern Ukraine. This map shows how far the Russian troops have advanced.
Ukraine is not a member of the NATO security alliance, and Russia has repeatedly demanded guarantees to deny membership for Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin regardsthe eastward expansion of NATOas a threat to the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation. This map shows how the borders of the alliance have shifted toward Russia since the end of the Cold War.
Prior to Russia's invasion, NATO had already begun building up its presence on Europe'seasternflank.In early February, the US sent additional troops to NATO members in the east. Germany sent troop reinforcementsto Lithuania in mid-February.
On March 2,the UNGeneral Assembly overwhelmingly backed a motiontodemand that Russia stop its offensive in Ukraine and withdraw all its troops, deploringRussia's "aggression"against Ukraine "in the strongest terms."General Assembly resolutions aren't legally binding.This map shows which countries supported the resolution  and the five countries that voted against it.
