Russia intensifies assault around Kharkiv
20220711
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-russia-halts-nord-stream-flow-to-germany-live-updates/a-62427128
Zelenskyy wrote on Twitter they discussed the importance of unblocking Ukraine's ports in the Black Sea.
The Italian oil and gas company Eni said that the Russian state-owned gas provider Gazprom has announced that, from Monday, it will be delivering only 21 million cubic meters of gas per day, down from the average of 32 million cubic meters.
Attacks against pro-Moscow officials have increased in Kherson and the partially occupied region of Zaporizhzhia in recent weeks.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
This reduction, which amounts to a third of average daily supplies, comes as the Nord Stream 1 pipeline in the Baltic Sea between Russia and Germany is turned off for maintenance work.
In an earlier phone call, Erdogan told his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin it was time to follow a United Nations proposal to create a corridor for Ukrainian grain exports through the Black Sea.
Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest person, would give up his vast media business because of pending plans to have all oligarchs listed in a state register.
Ukraine's deputy prime minister urged civilians in the Russian-occupied southern region of Kherson to urgently evacuate as Ukraine's armed forces were preparing a counterattack there. Ukraine lost control of most of the Black Sea region of Kherson, including its eponymous capital, in the first weeks after Russia's February 24 invasion.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Andriy Yermak said the rocket strike was "another terrorist attack" and that Russia should be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.
"OMV has been informed by Gazprom about a reduction in the gas supply. This means for today a reduction of about 70of the amount that arrives at the Baumgarten natural gas hub" near the Slovak border, the group said in a statement, and reported on bynews agencyAFP.
"The crossings between the EU and Ukraine, the numbers are pre-war, pre-COVID level, so we are back to like a normal number of people crossing."
Ukraine wants to resume grain exports, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
He said the Netherlands would supply Ukraine with more long-range artillery and an aid package for 200 million $201 million.
"The Ukrainian football championship will start on August 23," Sports Minister Vadym Gutsait wrote on Facebook.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia in November of trying to use Akhmetov in a coup attempt against him. Akhmetov dismissed the allegations.
Later on Monday, the regional governor said that three people had been killed in Kharkiv whiledozens morewere wounded from the Russian shelling.
Meanwhile, Andrei Siguta, the Russian-installed district head of Melitopol in Zaporizhzhia, escaped an attempt on his life on Monday.
Ukraine's energy and foreign ministries said they were "deeply disappointed" by Canada's decision to return a repaired Siemens turbine used for the Nord Stream 1 natural gas pipeline to Germany.
President Vladimir Putin signed a decree on Monday which will fast track Russian citizenship forall Ukrainians, a document published on the government's website showed.
In its daily update, the UK defense ministry said: "As of Sunday July 10, Russian artillery bombardments continued in the Donbas, but probably without any major territorial advances."
"As of 08:45 on July 11, ... 18 people were killed, 6 people were rescued from the rubble," it said.
"We agreed to work out... the procedure for organizing and holding competitions under martial law," he added.
Ukrainian emergency services said that the number of people killed in a Russian strike on a five-story apartment building hadrisen to 15.The incident took place in the town of Chasiv Yar, in the Donetsk region, not far from the front line.
There are widespread fears that Russia is using its gas supplies to pressure European countries to lift sanctions imposed against Moscowover its invasion of Ukraine.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan told his Russian counterpartVladimir Putin on the phonethat it was time to followa United Nations proposalto create a corridor for Ukrainian grain exports through the Black Sea, Ankara's state-owned Anadolu news agency reported.
"I foresee that a lot of Ukrainians in the EU will take a decision before school starts  where to start school, in an EU member state or going back to Ukraine to start school there," Johansson added.
"During air raids, matches will be stopped, and football players, coaches and the staff must quickly go to a shelter," Gutsait said.
Five people were brought out of the building alive, Donetsk regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko tweeted earlier.
Ukrainian football clubs decided in April to end the previous season early after it was suspended following Russia's invasion.
Meanwhile,the death toll from a Russian rocket attack that hit an apartment block in the town of Chasiv Yar in Donetsk regionover the weekend has risento 18 asrescuers continueto search forsurvivors, the emergency services said.
The UK's Ministry of Defense said in its intelligence update that Russian shells fired from Izium continue to focus along the axis of the E40 main road. "Control of the E40, which links Donetsk to Kharkiv, is likely to be an important objective for Russia as it attempts to advance through Donetsk Oblast," the ministry said.
"We have to stay focused and continue to support Ukraine in every way," he said.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte warned the war in Ukraine may last longer than hoped.
Romania is exercising its jurisdiction based on the "principle of universality" and criminal law if crimes were committed against anyone holding Romanian citizenship in neighboring Ukraine.
Canada announced it will grant a sanctions waiver for the return of repaired Russian turbines needed for the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to pump more gas from Russia to Germany.
Prosecutors said Russia's invasion resulted in "a large number of deaths among the civilian population, including children, as well as injuries."
Akhmetov is considered a patron of ousted pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych, but has avoided taking public political stances in recent years.
"Being the largest private investor in the Ukrainian economy, I have repeatedly stated that I have never been and am not going to be an oligarch," he said.
The phone call between the two leaders comes at a time of record food prices, as the conflict in Ukraine, the world's largest grain supplier, has fueled concerns about global food security.
"When it comes to the refugee flows, the situation now is stable," the EU's Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson said ahead of a meeting in Prague.
The Czech Republic has the highest number of Ukrainian refugees per capita, followed by Poland, the Baltic states and Bulgaria. But around half of the 6 million Ukrainian refugees who fled to the EU have already returned home.
Germany's Economy Minister Robert Habeck has warned that Russia could continue to suspend gas flows beyond the planned maintenance period in order to destabilize Europe.
The pro-Russian head of a village occupied by Moscow's troops near Kharkiv in Ukraine died after his car was blown up.
"This war may last longer than we all hoped or expected. But that does not mean we can sit back and passively watch how it unfolds," Rutte said during a visit to Kyiv.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy welcomed the "constructive" talks with Rutte and the decision to supply weapons to Ukraine.
He also said Russia couldn't be allowed to seize grain in Ukrainian territories under its control.
Last month, UN investigators found a high probability that war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed by invading Russian forces.
Previously, a simplified procedure to be nationalizedonly applied to residents of the self-proclaimed breakaway territories of the Donetsk People's Republic DPR and Luhansk People's Republic LPR in eastern Ukraine.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's chief of staff, Andriy Yermak, said the rocket strike was "another terrorist attack" and that Russia should be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.
Russia has opened fire with artillery, multiple rocket launchers and tanks in and around Kharkiv while maintaining an onslaught on cities in the east. Follow DW for the latest.
He said Media Group Ukraine would hand over the licenses for its television channels and print media and cease online media.
Europe has been cut off from Russian gas after the Nord Stream 1 pipeline was turned off for planned repairs. The shutdown is expected to last 10 days, but other repairs have misseddeadlines in the past.
The death toll has risen to 31, as rescuers search rubble after a Russian missile hit a five-story building in the eastern Ukrainian city of Chasiv Yar.
Rescuers were in voice contact with two people trapped in the ruins of the five-story buildingin that was struck late on Saturday, the service said.
Several European countries remain dependent on Russian gas exports. After Russia invaded Ukraine this year, Germany reduced the proportion of gas it imports from Russia from 55to around 35.
The number of Ukrainians entering the European Union has returned to pre-invasion levels, a senior EU official said on Monday morning.
Russia opened fire with artillery, multiple rocket launchers and tanks in and aroundKharkiv as Moscow kept up itsonslaughtoneastern cities, Ukraine's general staff said on Monday.
A Ukrainian sabotage and reconnaissance group had killed Yevgeny Yunakov, chief administrator of Velikyi Burluk, the village's "military-civilian administration" told the Russian Tass news agency.
"We are confronted by an unprecedented situation  anything is possible," he told public radio over the weekend.
Ukraine last year passed a law to order "oligarchs" to register and stay out of politics.
