Russia to send Belarus nuclearcapable missiles
20220626
https://www.dw.com/en/russia-to-send-nuclear-capable-missiles-to-belarus/a-62263179
Belarus has been a key player in the Russian war against Ukraine. The country served as a staging ground for Russian troops to invade on February 24.
Its two guided missiles have a range of up to 500 kilometers 300 miles and can carry conventional or nuclear warheads.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has promised to transfer the "conventional and nuclear versions" of the Iskander-M missile systems to neighboring Belarus in the coming months.
Putin has several times referred to nuclear weapons since his country launched a military operation in Ukraine on February 24, in what has been seen as a warning to the West not to intervene.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
The Iskander-M is a mobile guided missile system code-named "SS-26 Stone" by NATO, which replaced the Soviet "Scud."
"This modernization should be carried out in aircraft factories in Russia and the training of personnel should start in accordance with this," he added after Lukashenko asked him to "adapt" the planes.
"In the coming months, we will transfer to Belarus Iskander-M tactical missile systems, which can use ballistic or cruise missiles, in their conventional and nuclear versions," Putin said in a broadcast on Russian television at the start of his meeting with Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko in St.Petersburg.
Details and logistics of the weapons transfer would be discussed by the defenseministers of the two countries, Putin said.
Ukraine said Saturday that Russian troops had fired dozens of missiles at the Ukrainian cities of Zhytomyr and Chernihiv from Belarus.
Lukashenko said last month that his country had bought Iskander nuclear-capable missiles and S-400 anti-aircraft anti-missile systems from Russia.
Putin also said Russia would help Belarus upgrade its fleet of Su-25 fighter jets to make them capable of carrying nuclear weapons.
Russia intends to supply nuclear-capable Iskander-M missile systems to Belarus in the coming months, President Vladimir Putin said on Saturday.
