Russia recognizes independence of Ukraine separatist regions
20220221
https://www.dw.com/en/putin-to-recognize-ukraine-separatist-regions-as-independent-kremlin/a-60861963
In a phone call with Putin late Monday, Scholz urged Russia to "immediately deescalate and withdraw the massed forces from the borders to Ukraine."
Putin told a meeting of his Security Council that he would respond to the rebel republics' request before the end of the day.
Former President Dmitry Medvedev, deputy chairman of theSecurity Council, said it was "obvious" that Ukraine did not need the two regions.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Russian President Vladimir Putin has recognized the independence of two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine.
Ukraine, meanwhile, requested an urgent meeting of the UN Security Council to address the threat.
Presidents Putin and Biden have tentatively agreed to a possible face-to-face meeting in a last-ditch attempt to avoid war.
In a long, fieryaddress, Putin said he was confident the Russian people would support his decision. He also described Ukraine asinextricably linked to Russia's history.
The Russian leadersigned a decree recognizing theself-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" DPR and the "Luhansk People's Republic" LPR as independent.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz warned Moscow against the action, saying it would be "a unilateral breach"of the 2015 peace deal for the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg joined in the international condemnation of the move, saying "this further undermines Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, erodes efforts towards a resolution of the conflict, and violates the Minsk Agreements, to which Russia is a party," he added.
Western countries are concerned asignificant buildup of Russian troops near the border with Ukraine means Moscow is preparing to invade its neighbor. Putin has deniedplanning any such attack.
The recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk as "independent" has been met with widespread condemnation from the West amid fears it could provide a pretext for a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Separately on Monday, Russia said Ukrainian saboteurs had attempted to stage an incursion, accusations that Kyiv rejected as "fake news."
US President Joe Biden and Ukrainian President VolodymyrZelenskyy said they spoke over the phone during Putin's speech.
Washington saidthere are now up to 190,000 Russian troops in the region, including pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine.
The Westhas repeatedly alleged that Moscowaims to fabricate a pretext to invade. British Defense SecretaryBen Wallace saidMonday that a "proliferation" of so-called false flag events and increasing troop numbers near Ukraine's border indicated Putin was committed to an invasion.
The leaders of the self-declared separatist republics of Luhansk and Donetskreleased statements earlieron Monday calling on Moscow to recognize them as independent states.
Biden announced shortly thereafter that he will soon pen an executive order to prohibit "new investment, trade, and financing by US persons to, from, or in" the two breakaway regions.
"The UK will continue to do everything we can to stand by the people of Ukraine with a very robust package of sanctions," he told a press conference.
Moscow has demanded sweeping security guarantees in return for defusing the crisis, including a pledge that Ukraine never be allowed to join NATO.
Still, recognition of the separatist regions is expected to escalate tensions further as it gives Moscow a reason to openly move in troops.
Hours after the announcement,Putin instructed the Defense Ministry to send troops into the territories for what the Kremlin called "the function of peacekeeping."
The two regions broke away from Ukraine's control in 2014. However, parts of them remain under control of Ukrainian forces, and sporadic fighting has along a "line of contact" haspersisted for years.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell told reporters in Brussels that the bloc was "ready to react with a strong united front" if Russiarecognized the territories.
Monday's developments came amid an uptick of violence in the long-running conflict between Ukrainian troops and pro-Russian rebels.
Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu also pushed for recognizing the regions, arguing that Ukraine had a greater "nuclear potential" than Iran or North Korea. Ukraine renounced nuclear weapons after breaking away from the Soviet Union in 1991.
Zelenskyy wrote on Twitter that they "discussed the events of the last hours" in order to forge a common response.
"Moscow continues to fuel the conflict in eastern Ukraine by providing financial and military support to the separatists. It is also trying to stage a pretext to invade Ukraine once again."
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the recognition was "plainly in breach of international law" and a "flagrant violation of the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel Macron have "expressed disappointment" inphone calls with Putin.
