Scholz and Zelenskyy seek justice for war crimes
20220410
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-scholz-and-zelenskyy-vow-justice-for-war-crimes-in-phone-call-as-it-happened/a-61421498
British military intelligence said there was evidence of "disproportionate" attacks on civilians after Russia pulled out of parts of northern Ukraine.
US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan told ABC News that Washington will provide Ukraine with "the weapons it needs"to defend itself against Russia.
Oleg Orlov, a leader of the now-banned human rights organization Memorial, Russia's oldest rights group, was arrested after staging a one-man protest of his country's invasion of Ukraine in Moscow's Red Square.
Austria's Chancellor Karl Nehammerwill on Monday become the first European leader to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin since Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
On her Telegram channel, Vereshchuk wrote, "All the routes for the humanitarian corridors in the Luhansk region will work as long as there is a ceasefire by the occupying Russian troops."
"When tyranny launches aggression against everything that keeps peace in Europe, action must be taken immediately," he said.
"He is going there, having informed Berlin, Brussels and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy" to encourage dialogue, said a spokesman for Nehammer, who was in Kyiv on Saturday.
Trade between the two nations has largely been cut off since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
But "we don't want to lose opportunities, if we have them, for a diplomatic solution."
Zelenskyy also thanked UK PM Boris Johnson and Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer for visiting Kyiv on Saturday.
Ukraine's economic output will likely contract by a staggering 45.1 this year, the World Bank said in a new report.
In its "War in the Region"update, the bank estimated that over half of the country's firms are closed, while others are operating at well under normal capacity.
Economists said GDP inthe Eastern Europe region, comprising Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, is forecast to contract by30.7 this year, due to shocks from the war and disruption of trade.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Saturday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy again called for a ban on oil imports from Russia in his Saturday evening video address.
The two leaders spoke about how "all perpetrators of war crimes must be identified and punished," as well as "anti-Russian sanctions,defense and financial support for Ukraine," Zelenskyy tweeted.
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi criticized Russian leader Vladimir Putin for the first time since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
The bank also forecast Russia's 2022 GDP output to fall 11.2 due to punishing financial sanctions imposed by the West.
There they waved Russian flags and a row of police officers stood between them and counter-demonstrators, some of whom waved Ukrainian flags.
In an interview with ABC News, Wladimir Klitschko pleaded for the world to isolate Russia economically, saying "every cent that Russia is getting, they're using for weapons to kill us."
During the visit, Johnson walked with Zelenskyy through the capital. The UK leader pledged "unwavering" support for Ukraine, as Zelenskyy urged tougher sanctions on Moscow.
During a rally in the German state of Schleswig-Holstein, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of carrying out "war crimes." In addition, he vowed to continue supplying Ukraine with weapons.
Welt am Sonntag reported that Krauss-Maffei Wegmann did not currently have the weaponry. In stock and had suggested Germany's army, known as the Bundeswehr, provide 100 howitzers from its arsenal to Kyiv and the company would deliver new weapons to the army, likely in late 2024.
The UK Ministry of Defense MOD said following Russia's pullout from parts of northern Ukraine, there was evidence that Russian troops engaged in "disproportionate"attacks on civilians.
Zelenskyy's comments come as Russia appears poised to begin ramping up attacks in the east of Ukraine.
Dvornikov previously served in the second Chechen war and had several senior roles before he was placed in charge of Russian forces in Syria in 2015.
Sullivansaid, "This general will just be another author of crimes and brutality against Ukrainian civilians."
On Facebook, Ukraine said two research facilities in the area were pillaged. They said Russian forces stole 133 highly radioactive substances.
The UN refugee agency said that there are now 4.5 million Ukrainian refugees following Russia's invasion.
"No one wants to negotiate with a person or people who tortured this nation. It's all understandable. And as a man, as a father, Iunderstand this very well,"the president said.
Tatiana Moskalova, the human rights commissioner in Russia, said that Russia and Ukraine had carried out a prisoner exchange on Saturday.
A grave with dozens of Ukrainian civiliansis reported to have been found in the village of Buzova, close to Ukraine's capital, Kyiv.
The Pentagon said thousands of Russian soldiers are gathered near the northeastern city of Kharkiv.
Several hundred pro-war demonstrators gathered in support of Russia in its invasion of Ukraine front of the opera house in Frankfurt.
Biden will use the talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue "close consultations" on the consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, along with the impact on global food security, White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.
According to the statement,IEDs were being used to "inflict casualties, lower morale, and restrict Ukrainian freedom of movement."
Iryna Venediktova, Ukraine's prosecutor general, said the country had identified 5,600 cases of alleged war crimes and had identified 500 suspects. Among those crimes is Friday's missile attack on the train station in Kramatorsk in the Donetsk region.
The European entity can continue to function, but its board is not permitted to take directives from Russian VTB following EU sanctions Friday on the bank. VTB's German subsidiary's operations were "unchanged" and clients could continue to access deposits, German regulators said.
The comments contradicted German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht, who told the Augsburger Allgemeine newspaper that German arms deliveries to Kyiv have reached a limit.
VTB was already hit by US sanctions and has been cut from the international SWIFT banking system. The German-registered subsidiary has been banned from transferring funds to "VTB group entities" already for "several weeks," Germany's financial regulator said.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
The spokesperson added, "The Federal Chancellor and the Ukrainian president also exchanged views on ways of further
Earlier in the week, Ukraine's energy minister German Gulashchenko said Russian forces that had occupied the site were exposed to "shocking" amounts of radiation, adding some may have less than one year to live as a result.
VCI Vice President Werner Baumann told the German Bild am Sonntag newspaper that Germany would see a "wave of unemployment" from such a move.
Members of Memorial shared a video of Orlov with a sign that read, "Our willingness to know the truth and our silence, makes us conspirators in this crime," before he was taken away by police. It is Orlov's fourth such arrest.
"Today we officially announced a complete termination of trade in goods with the aggressor state," Economy Minister Yulia Svrydenko said on her Facebook page. "From now on, no Russian Federation's products will be able to be imported into the territory of our state."
The death toll from a missile strike on the train station in Ukraine's Kramatorsk has risen to 57 people, Donetsk region governor Pavlo Kyrylenko has said.
Austria, which is not a member of NATO, has so far provided 10,000 helmets and 9,000 protective vests for Ukrainian civilian use,among other things.
Residents will have a total of nine trains to use for evacuation, Gaidai wrote on Telegram.
"Russia's departure from northern Ukraine leaves evidence of the disproportionate targeting of non-combatants including the presence of mass graves, the fatal use of hostages as human shields, and mining of civilian infrastructure," the MOD said in its latest intelligence update.
EU member states have agreed toreduce their net greenhouse gas emissions by 55 from 1990 levels by 2030, a step towards "net zero" by 2050.
In Hannover, Sven Kindler, a member of the Bundestag with the Greens, tweeted about counter-demonstrations there. He wrote it was "very crowded," adding "much more than expected."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Saturday that he was still pushing for peace despite Russian attacks on civilians.
The closure of Black Sea shipping from Ukraine has cut off some 90 of the country's grain exports and half of its total exports.
Zelenskyy was speaking in an interview with The Associated Press, a day after at least 52 people were killed in a rocket attack at the Kramatorsk train station.
He added, "War crimes have been committed and Russia cannot deny its responsibility for this."
Russia's military will return to the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko and his brother Wladimir have warned. And when they do, the pair said, Ukraine will need weapons to repel the advance.
Luhansk regional Governor Serhiy Gaidai has said that trains will be available for evacuations from the beleaguered region in Ukraines east on Sunday.
Brussels may set more ambitious renewable energy targets as it triesto wean itself off Russian fossil fuel imports, EU climate policy chief Frans Timmermans said.
US national security advisor Jake Sullivan told CNN that Russia has appointed a new war commander, General Alexander Dvornikov.
Pascal Hundt, the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Ukraine, said, "The scale of the suffering we are seeing is simply immense, and I cannot remember seeing this in recent history."
The governor added Russian forces had carried out 66 artillery attacks in several parts of the region.
Iryna Vereshchuk, Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister, said Sunday Kyiv had agreed to nine humanitarian corridors to permit people to escape the heavy fighting in eastern Ukraine.
The 60-year-old general is among Russia's most experienced military officials, US officials say. They added he has a record of brutality in Syria and elsewhere.
Russian forces also continue to attack infrastructure targets with a high risk of collateral harm to civilians, including a nitrate acid tank at Rubizhne, the statement added.
The German government has confirmed a report in Welt am Sonntag that arms manufacturer Krauss-Maffei Wegmann offered Ukraine 100 howitzers, an artillery weapon.
"The enemy's budget will not receive these funds, which will reduce its potential to finance the war," Svrydenko added.
Synyehubov wrote, "As you can see, the Russian army continues to 'fight' with the civilian population, because it has no victories at the front."
The regional governor of Kharkiv Oleh Synyehubov said in a Facebook post that two people were killed and several were wounded from Russian shelling in the town of Derhachy.
Meanwhile, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said a donor conference in Warsaw raised a total of9.1 billion $9.9 billion for Ukrainian refugees. Von der Leyen attended the event in person, while Canadian PM Justin Trudeau took part via videolink.
Germany's banking regulator said it stripped Russian bank VTB of control over its Germany-based subsidiary VTB Bank SE. In a statement, the financial authority said VTB "no longer has control" over the Europe-based firm.
Vitali Klitschko spoke of the shocking discovery of the bodies of hundreds of civilians afterthe Russians retreated from Kyiv. He called it genocide to kill women, children, old people and teenagers for no reason.
Pope Francis said, " Let an Easter truce start, but not to rearm and resume combat but a truce to reach peace through real negotiations."
In a speech in Rome to members of the Forza Italia party, Berlusconi said, "I will not hide the fact that I am deeply disappointed and saddened by the behavior of Vladimir Putin, who has assumed before the whole world a very serious responsibility."
Speaking later on NBC's "Meet the Press,"Sullivan said the US was "working around the clock to deliver our own weapons . . . and organizing and coordinating the delivery of weapons from many other countries."
Venediktova said, "We have actually now, only for this morning, 1,222 dead people only in Kyiv region."
The German chemical industry association VCI said a boycott of gas imports from Russia could have "catastrophic consequences for industry in Germany and the people in our country."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who met with Modi in New Delhi in early April, has praised India for its approach to the conflict.
Pope Francis called for an Easter truce in Ukraine following his Palm Sunday Service for tens of thousands gathered in St. Peter's Square.
Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer also visited Ukraine on Saturday and met with Zelenskyy. The Austrian leader visited the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where mass killings of civilians took place.
Under current plans, the EU is set to grow the share of renewable energy to 40 by 2030. But Timmermans said the bloc could now push for a "higher percentage of renewable energy" by the same deadline.
"The democratic world can definitely give up Russian oil and make it toxic to all other states," Zelenskyy asserted.
He added, "No appointment of any general can erase the fact that Russia has already faced a strategic failure in Ukraine."
We have closed these live updates. Please head to our new article for all the latest developments.
It said Russia's invasion has shut down businesses, slashed exports and rendered economic activity impossible in many parts of the country.
Ukraine's state agency for managing the Chernobyl exclusion zone said Russian forces that occupied the Chernobyl nuclear plant for five weeks stole radioactive substances from research laboratories. Ukraine said some of those substances were lethal.
To defend Ukraine now, the mayor said, is to defend democracy and peace in Europe.
On Telegram, the governor of Dnipropetrovsk, Valentyn Reznichenko, said, "The airport itself was destroyed, as well as nearby infrastructure.
US President Joe Biden and his Indian counterpart will discuss the Ukraine conflict during a virtual meeting on Monday, the White House has said.
He thinksEU countries could boost imports of liquefied natural gas LNG in the short term but then quickly movetowards more renewables.
The US has sent $1.7 billion 1.57 billion in military assistance to Ukraine, the White House said last week, but is under pressure from Kyiv to deliver more.
Iryna Venediktova, Ukraine's prosecutor general, said that 1,222 bodies have been recovered in the region around Kyiv to date.
The German government spokespersonsaid, "The chancellor condemned the heinous war crimes committed by the Russian military in Bucha and in other places in Ukraine."
With Russian troops retreating from their attack on the capital and focusing their offensive on Ukraine's east, the grave in Buzova is the latest reported mass grave to be discovered.
Roughly 2.6 million refugees fled to Poland initially and over 686,000 into Romania. The UNHCR notes that due to the Schengen visa-free rules of the EU, "a large number of people" have likely moved on from the first country they fled to.
"Now we are returning to life but during the occupation we had our 'hotspots', many civilians died," Didych said on Saturday.
The US national security advisor added Russia's decision to target civilians "lies at the feet of the Kremlin."
From February 24 until March 31 Russian forces occupied the plant, site of the devastating 1986 nuclear accident, the world's worst such incident.
British military intelligence also claimed Russian forces continue to use improvised explosive devices IEDs in Ukraine.
VTB will no longer be able to access its subsidiary's financial assets as the subsidiary has been "completely isolated" from Russian VTB.
Taras Didych, head of the Dmytrivka community that includes Buzova, told Ukrainian television that the bodies of the civilians were found in a ditch near a petrol station.
New Delhi has so far refused to condemn Moscow through the United Nations, although it has said it was deeply disturbed by the alleged killings of civilians by Russian troops in the town of Bucha.
The protest monitoring group OVD-Info also said one other arrest occurred of a man wearing the blue and yellow of the Ukrainian flag in front of Moscow city hall.
Russian forces recently retreated from the region. In the towns of Bucha and Borodyanka, civilians were found dead on the streets and in shallow graves following Russia's weeks-long occupation.
Earlier this week, Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk had called for the evacuation of residents in Luhansk and also other eastern regions of Donetsk and Kharkiv amid reports ofRussian forces repositioning for an assault.
Kyrylenko said 109 people were wounded in the attack, which Ukraine has blamed on Russia.
