Scholz stresses Ukraine support but no weapons
20220214
https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-scholz-holds-crisis-talks-with-ukraines-zelenskyy-in-kyiv/a-60771248
She described Scholz's advisers as being "modest" about what they think can be expected from the chancellor's visit to Moscow on Tuesday.
Speaking of Russian demands that NATO should deny membership to Ukraine, Scholzalso said that as the alliance was not currently in accession talks with Kyiv, it was strange that Russia should raise the issue.
The pipeline, which has not yet gone into operation, is meant to carry Russian gas to Germany, bypassing Ukraine, which would lose the transit fees it would otherwise receive. The project has come under criticism from a number of countries, notably the US, for giving Russia too much control over the European energy market.
The Ukrainian president also touched on the issue  sensitive for Germany  of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, conceding there were differences in assessments of the project between Kyiv and Berlin.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said Germany "stands close by" Ukraine's side amid fears of a Russian attack. However, his visit came amid questions over the real extent of Germany's support.
In an apparently scripted exchange broadcast on television a day before Scholz's visit,Russian Foreign Minister SergeyLavrov on Monday said he had urgedPutin to persist for now with diplomacy in Moscow'sbid to gain security guarantees from the West.
Lavrov said the US had made concrete proposals on how to reduce military risks, though stating that the proposals from the EU and NATO remain unsatisfactory for Moscow.
On Tuesday, Scholz is inMoscow for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The chancellor said he would "underscore" to Putin the heavy consequences of any invasion, adding that the West was ready to impose "very far-reaching and effective sanctions."
Russia has amassed more than 100,000 troops on Ukraine's borders. Currently, the country is also conducting naval drills in the Black Sea and military exercises in Belarus along Ukraine's northern border. However, the Kremlin has said it has no intention of invading Ukraine.
"We understand that NATO membership would ensure our security and our territorial integrity," he said.
Germany has shown some hesitancy about making the pipeline any part of a sanctions package against Russia, should it invade Ukraine.
However, the chancellor pointed out that Germany hasalready given large amounts of financial aid to Ukraine, to help ward off what hecalled "foreign influences." Scholz also announced new loanof 150 million $170 million to Kyiv.
DW's Kyiv correspondent Nick Connolly said there had been alot of criticism of Germany amid the crisis, both for its stance on Nord Stream 2 and its refusal to deliver lethal weapons to Ukraine.
Before the beginning of his trip, the chancellor described the situation at Ukraine's borders as "very serious," as Russia amasses troops amid fears of a possible invasion.
Scholz on Sunday urged Moscow to de-escalate the Ukraine standoff and warned Russiafaces sanctions "immediately" if it invades its neighbor.
In earlier remarks at the press conference, Zelenskyy said his country was still seeking membership in the alliance.
Scholz has held firm on Germany'sopposition to sending lethal weaponry to Ukraine amid a massive Russian troop buildup.
"We have already warned more than once that we will not allow endless negotiations on questions that demand a solution today," Lavrov said.However, headded, "there are always chances ...it seems to me that our possibilities are far from exhausted."
"Germany stands close by your side," Scholz said at a press conference after the talks."My country is impressed by the democratic movement in Ukraine and supports the European path it has taken since 2014."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholzstressed German support for Ukraine on Monday after meeting for several hours withthe country's president, Vodolymyr Zelenskyy, in Kyiv.
"With no sign for now that Germany is prepared to give any ground either on weapons or on Nord Stream 2, Olaf Scholz has his work cut out convincing his Ukrainian hosts that he has their interests at heart and that they can trust him to negotiate a way out of this crisis when he goes to Moscow," said Connolly.
"There are no good reasons for the activities on the Ukrainian border," Scholz said. "The sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine is not negotiable. We expect Russia to take clear steps to resolve the situation."
At the same time, he said Germany was "ready for serious dialogue with Russia" over European security.
DWcorrespondent Michaela Kfner, who is accompanying Scholz on his trip, said Zelenskyy had voiced gratitude for German support, but said there was continuing criticism over the fact that Germany will not deliver arms to Ukraine.
