Scholz to Russia Dont underestimate our resolve
20220210
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-crisis-dont-underestimate-wests-resolve-germanys-scholz-tells-russia/a-60725127
"We want peace," he added following a meeting in Berlin with the leaders of the Baltic countries on Thursday.
Lavrov said in response that "ideological approaches, ultimatums and moralizing is a road to nowhere."
Bildt said the "Russian game" was about Ukraine as a whole, and about "changing the entire European security order."
As top diplomats and European leaders confront the Ukraine crisis, German Chancellor Scholz has said the West wants peace but also issued a warning to Moscow.
On Tuesday, Macron traveled to Kyiv to speak with his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Upon arriving in Kyiv, Macron told reporters that he had received assurances from Putin that Moscow "won't be initiating an escalation" in the conflict.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine's foreign minister, said Russia had blocked the OSCE's monitoring mission and plotted against the work of the Trilateral Contact Group, a three-way diplomatic forum for Russia, Ukraine and the OSCE.
"The demands to remove the Russian troops from the Russian territory cause regret,'' Lavrov said. "We don't want to threaten anyone. It's us who are facing threats."
Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas called on the West to stand united and persevere ahead of the trip to Germany.
"Our unity in Europe is of key importance at the moment. We must have strategic patience," she told the dpa news agency.
Scholz met with US President Joe Bidenin Washington on Monday. At a joint press conference, Biden promised there would be no advancement of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline in the event of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
"I'm honestly disappointed that what we have is a conversation between a dumb and a deaf person. It's as if we listen but we don't hear," Lavrov said.
Zbigniew Rau, Poland's foreign minister, who holds the rotating presidency of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE, was in Kyiv, where he called on all sides to show the political will and end the standoff between Russia and Ukraine.
The week kicked off with French President Emmanuel Macron going to Moscow to talk to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
"Estonia is willing to provide weapons and ammunition to help Ukraine defend itself from Russian aggression in cooperation with our allies," she said.
The start of joint military exercises by Russia and Belarus has added urgency to efforts to defuse the situation in Ukraine.
"It's good that Berlin and Paris are now accelerating efforts on Donbas, but we should understand that the Russian game at the moment is much bigger," the former Swedish prime minister said.
"I honestly don't think a decision has yet been taken by Moscow. But that doesn't mean that it is impossible that something absolutely disastrous could happen very soon indeed," he told a news conference. "Our intelligence, I'm afraid to say, remains grim."
Lavrov alleged that Western politicians were provoking tensions for domestic political purposes. He added that Russia had already planned to move its troops back after the drills, and that "the West will likely claim it has forced Russia to deescalate" once Russian troops return to their bases.
During an exchange of comments after the talks, Truss called for Moscow to pull back the more than100,000 troops stationed near the border. Lavrov rejected the demand and pointed to NATO troop buildup in Eastern Europe.
UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss traveled to Moscow andmet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Thursday.
Scholz warned of serious political, economic and strategic consequences for Moscow if Russian troops invade Ukraine.
When asked to comment on Scholz's hopes for a diplomatic solution in Ukraine, co-chairof the European Council on Foreign Relations Carl Bildt told DW that"one should be hopeful, but one should also be realistic."
Rau said: "We are seriously concerned about the situation in and around Ukraine, both in Donbass and as regards Russia's growing military presence along the border with Ukraine and in Belarus."
Foreign policy advisers from Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine are also meeting in Berlin behind closed doors to continue "Normandy format'' talks, named after the 2015 deal to end major hostilities between Russia and Ukraine.
"At the OSCE, we will continue to do everything we can, but it will take political will and engagement of all parties to live up to the obligations and bring the crisis to an end for good," Rau said.
Johnson will later headto Poland for talks with President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.
Tensions around Russia'smilitary buildup near Ukraine havelaunched a flurry of diplomatic activity, with talks among different European countries continuing Thursday.
Stoltenberg said it was a dangerous moment for European security, and that"the number of Russian forces is going up  the warning time for a possible attack is going down."
Both Russia and Ukraine are members of the OSCE. The OSCE has monitored the conflict in eastern Ukraine in the Donbas between Russian-backed proxy forces and the Ukrainian military.
Speaking beside Rau, Kuleba said: "A difficult situation cannot be resolved without making difficult decisions, and, therefore, it is impossible for the OSCE to remain permanently passively neutral in this process."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said: "What is at stake at the moment is nothing less than preventing a war in Europe."
Truss warned Russia that attacking its neighbor will " have massive consequences and carry severe costs." She urged Moscow to de-escalateand abide by international agreements.
Lavrov said the West was using Ukraine against Moscow and accused Ukraine of attempting to rewrite the Minsk protocol, which outlined a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock also made a two-day visit to Ukraine. In Kyiv, shevowed solidarity with Ukraine, despite Berlin's refusal to send weapons to the country. Baerbock then went to the front linein eastern Ukraine to get a firsthand account of the humanitarian and military situation.
Macron told reporters that he had made proposals of "concrete security guarantees" to Putin, proposalsPutin described as "realistic" and that could form a basis for further joint steps.
