Spain NATO summit focuses on Russia and China
20220628
https://www.dw.com/en/nato-summit-opens-in-spain-with-focus-on-russia-and-china/a-62285188
Finnish media are reporting that the Finland, Sweden and Turkey will issue a joint statement later on Tuesday.
The talks came just days after North African immigrants stormed a Spanish enclave in Morocco in an attempt to reach Europe. At least 23 migrant were killed in the event and many more injured in the attempted mass crossing.
Addressing reporters after their meeting, Sanchez told reporters the two had discussed "increasingly prominent challenges" facing the Western Sahel region of Africa, exacerbated he said, by Russia's expanding presence and its cultivation of proxies at Europe's southern flank.
Also on Tuesday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan met with Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson and Finnish President Sauli Niinistoto discuss the stalled Swedish and Finnish bids to join the alliance.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
"It is extremely important that we are ready to continue to provide support because Ukraine now faces a brutality which we haven't seen in Europe since the Second World War," NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said ahead of the gathering.
Sweden and Finland have disputed Erdogan's claims. After decades of demurring, both countries are seeking NATO membership over concerns about Russia's aggression.
"The president said before the war started that if Putin invaded Ukraine, the United States and NATO would enhance the force posture on the eastern flank, not just for the duration of the crisis, but to address the long term change in the strategic reality that that would present," said National Security Adviser Sullivan.
"We do not want empty words, we want results," Erdogan told reporters in Ankara ahead of his departure for Madrid."If Sweden and Finland are to become NATO members, they have to take the security concerns of Turkey seriously," he added.
US President Joe Bidenis expected to hold a trilateral meeting with the leaders of Japan and South Korea Wednesday.
Members are expected to agree to stockpile weapons and equipment in eastern Europe and the Baltic States, and to dramatically increase the number of troops based in those regions. There will also be more support for Ukraine to upgrade its military, which still uses mostly Soviet-era equipment.
Leaders of NATO countries and allies aregathering in Madrid on Tuesday, with the main topics of discussion likely to beRussia's invasion of Ukraineand China's growing international ambitions.
"The president tomorrow will have the opportunity to host a trilateral meeting with the president of Korea and the prime minister of Japan. This will be the first trilateral leaders level meeting that we've had in some time," said US National Security Adviser Sullivan
Biden said that the US intends to bolster NATO'spresence on itssouthern flank by expanding the number of navy destroyers stationed in the southern Spanish port of Rota from four to six.
Ankara, which has at times engaged in armed conflict with Kurdish independence movements, has classifiedboth as terrorist groups.
"The forces will be focused on the Baltics, Balkans and NATO's eastern flank bordering Russia," he said.
The alliance is also seeking to assist Kyivwithout having a direct confrontation with Russia, which is one of the reasons why Ukraine is still not a partof the group despite being on a path to membership since 2008.
Erdogan is currently blocking both bids over accusations that the two Nordic countries aresupporting the Kurdistan Workers' Partyand the YPG, a Kurdish militia based in Syria.
The leaders of Japan, Australia, South Korea and New Zealand have been invited as guests to the summit for the first time. All four have been supportive of Ukrainebut are also attending due to increased concerns about China's military presence in the Pacific.
The US beganincreasingits troop presence in Europe shortly before the February 24 invasion, adding another 20,000 soldiers to its deployment contingent of 80,000 on the continent.
Turkey's anger over US military installations in Greece and delays in the previouslyplanned deliveryof US F-16 fighter jets will likely be part of Erdogan's Wednesday meeting with Biden.
The alliance is expected to announce increased troop numbers in at its eastern borders, as well as more aid for Ukraine. Leaders from Asia and Oceania were also invited to address concerns about China's rising influence.
US President Joe Biden was welcomed to Madrid by Spain's King Felipe VI before meeting with Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez. Biden and Sanchezdiscussed the fight against what Sanchez called the "hybrid threat" of irregular immigration from Africa  fueled he said, by rising food prices resulting from Russia's war in Ukraineas well anexpandedUS military presenceon the Iberian peninsula.
Speaking ahead of the summit on Tuesday, US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said the US is planning to announce new "land, sea and air" military deployments "over the long term."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is scheduled to address the summit by video call. He has acknowledged that joining NATO in the near future is unlikely, and is instead focusing on seeking membership in theEuropean Union.
A joint statement issued after the meeting said President Vladimir Putin's invasion of neighboringUkraine had, "fundamentallyaltered the global strategic environment, noting that Russia's"aggression constitutes the most direct threat to transatlantic security and global stability since the end of the Cold War."
The meeting was mediated by NATO boss Stoltenberg. Though PresidentBiden will meet with Erdogan Wednesday, Security Adviser Sullivan says the US has no role to play in negotiations.
The US president said that was just the first of several announcements that he would be making at the summit.
