Ukraine Russian strikes wound several in Lviv
20220326
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-russian-strikes-wound-several-in-lviv-live-updates/a-61266737
Western officials said a seventh Russian general has been killed since the war in Ukraine began. Lt. Gen. Yakov Rezanstev, commander of Russia's 49th Combined Arms Army in the southern military district, was killed most recently.
"They're going to try and dress it up as something else, that they've accomplished everything they meant to, but they haven't accomplished anything except to demonstrate that their military has suffered from decades of corruption," he said.
According to the US Embassy in the Polish capital, he will appear at Warsaw's Royal Castle between 5 and 6 p.m. local time 1600 and 1700 UTCGMT.
Hodges said he expects Russian forces around Kyiv to harden their positions outside the city and make it difficult for the Ukrainians to push them out while buying more time for negotiations.
Ukrainian officials reported that airstrikes had hit the western city of Lviv on Saturday afternoon after explosions were heard earlier outside the city.
"There have been two rocket strikes within the limits of Lviv," regional Governor Maksym Kozytskyy said. The city's mayor, Andriy Sadovyi, also said the city had been targeted by airstrikes in a post on Telegram.
The former commander of US forces in Europe also said the West needs to do more to help Ukraine fight the Russians.
Poland is taking a "significant" responsibility in the humanitarian crisis caused by the conflict, Biden said during a visit to Warsaw. He also told his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda that he views NATO's Article 5 guarantee of mutual defense between member states as a "sacred" commitment.
"We discuss current issues  cooperation in political and defense directions between Ukraine and the United States," Reznikov said on Twitter. He posted a photograph of the meeting in the Polish capital with USSecretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin.
In his nightly video address to the Ukrainian people, Zelenskyy may have been responding to Russian Colonel General Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of the Russian general staff. Rudskoi said Russian forces would focus on "the main goal, the liberation of Donbas."
Vladyslav Atroshenko, the mayor of the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv that lies close to the border with Russia and Belarus, said on Saturday that the city "has been completely devastated."
"We are supporting the Ukrainians so that they can defend themselves and fight for their security and their peace," Baerbock told a Green Party conference Saturday.
In over a month of fighting, Russian troops have failed to capture and hold onto any major Ukrainian city, although a number of major centers, including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol remain under siege.
"We have to ensure this sacred month of Ramadan is not overshadowed by the misery of people in Ukraine,'' he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy reiterated his call for peace talks with Russia to end the war, but he stressed that Ukraine would not give up territory.
"The attacks on Lviv would be going on if they have a limited war in the East simply to try and slow down the movement of goods and supplies and reinforcements from western Ukraine to eastern Ukraine," O'Brien told DW.
It said 64 of those children were killed in the Kyiv region. A further 50died in the Donetsk region in the country's east, it added.
We have now closed these live updates. Please head to our new article for all the latest developments.
He told the international conference that no country was safeguarded from the shocks triggered by disruptions to food supply as a result ofRussia's invasion.
Ukrainian officials said Russian airstrikes have hit the western city of Lviv. Meanwhile, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock defended sending arms to Ukraine. DW has the latest.
The UK said it planned to fund 2 million pounds $2.6 million 2.3 million worth of food aid for critically cut off areas of Ukraine after a direct request was made by the Ukrainian government.
The White House said US President Joe Biden was also expected to "drop by"the meeting.
He said that the decision to focus on eastern Ukraine "would be to save face."
Ukrainian authorities had previouslyreported three large explosions near the western Ukrainian city of Lvivand urged residents to take shelter.
Ukraine's parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, tweeted that Russian forces were firing at a nuclear research facility in Kharkiv.
Russian troops have seized control of the town of Slavutych, home to workers of the defunct Chernobyl nuclear site, the governor of the Kyiv region said.
"We don't even know all the possibilities for hybrid influencing that someone may invent," Niinisto said. "The entire world of information technology is vulnerable. Even some important society functions can be disrupted.''
Biden is on the second day of a visit to Poland followingsummitswith EU and NATO leaders in Brussels earlier in the week.
He was detained by Russian forces while trying to flee the Ukrainian city of Kherson and held for 10 days.
According to a White House pool report,Biden was seated at a long white table alongside US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, facing Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
Russia's main intelligence agency warned earlier this week that a number of mines had drifted out to sea after breaking away from cables near Ukrainian ports. That claim was dismissed by Kyiv as disinformation.
The office of Ukraine's prosecutor general says the war in Ukraine has killed 136 children since Russia invaded its neighbor a little over a month ago.
Later on Saturday, the US president is due to visit a reception center for refugees and deliver a major speech on the conflict at Warsaw's Royal Castle.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
The office of Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota announced that Tyler Jacob, a 28-year-old American teaching English in Ukraine who had been detained at a checkpoint while trying to exit the country, has been freed.
On the second day of his visit to Poland, US President Joe Biden is expected to address the Polish peoplein a speech in Warsaw.
She said Russian President Vladimir has brokeninternational law with his war of aggression, which was an attack on 40 million Ukrainians and peace in Europe as a whole.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement on Saturday that the US intends to send $100 million 91 million to Ukraine in civilian security assistance.
In introducing Germany's national security strategy last week, Baerbock said "in the light of Russia's massive breach of our peace order, we need to implement the principles that guide us even more clearly into practical politics."
"Before we deliver something, we look to see if it is functional," Lambrecht told RedaktionsNetzwerk Deutschland,
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced he had placed Moscow's strategic nuclear forces on high alert just days after Russia's invasion of Ukraine began last month.
He said the fight is not with the Russian people, but with Russian President Vladimir Putin who has "strangled democracy and sought to do so elsewhere."
Russia, Turkey and Ukraine all border the Black Sea, a majorshipping artery for grain, oil and oil products.
"There were three powerful explosions near Lvivindirection of Kryvchytsy, now there is an air raid warning, so "keep calm and take shelter,"Kozytskyy said in an online post, referring to an to the east of the city.
"This will be done in an attempt to create new facts on the ground for negotiation, to create a new sort of frozen conflict. And this is what we cannot afford. We should not allow Russia to be rewarded for their attack on Ukraine," he said.
However, Ukraine's air force said the headquarters in Vinnytsia in the western part of the country was hit by numerous Russian cruise missiles Friday afternoon.
Turkish authorities say they have discovered a mine-like objectfloating in the Bosporusnear the Black Sea, days after Russia warned that several mines had drifted away from Ukrainian ports.
Russia has said its invasion of Ukraine has entered a new phase, one signal it may be scaling back its ambitions. Moscow has suffered a series of setbacks and defeats at the hands of the Ukrainian army and Ukrainians fighting against the Russian invasion.
Kuleba told reporters after the meeting that Ukraine had received "additional promises from the United Stateson how our defense co-operation will evolve."
Biden ended his speech by calling for Putin's removal, saying: "For God's sake, this man cannot remain in power." The White House later said Biden was not calling for regime change in Russia.
The mayor of Ukraine's capital says an extendedcurfew will go into force from 8 p.m. local time 1800 UTCGMT on Saturday until 8 a.m. on Monday.
US President Joe Biden said the world should help lessen the burden of the Russia-Ukraine war on Poland, which has received some 2 million Ukrainians over the past month.
After a statement from Sergei Rudskoi, a senior Russian general, suggested that Russia would reduce its war aims to controlling Donbas, an eastern region already partly held by Russian proxies, former US GeneralBen Hodges told DW it indicated a "colossal failure" of the Russian military to reach its stated objectives in Ukraine.
US President Joe Biden told the world to prepare for a "long fight ahead" on Saturday from Warsaw's Royal Castle during his visit to Poland.
Zelenskyy made the commentsduring a surprise video appearance at theDoha Forum in Qatar, a leading exporter of natural gas.
Reuters news agency reported that authorities had warned vessels to keep away from the area while the team carried out their work.
The UK said around 25 truckloads of dried food and water were being sent by road and rail from warehouses in both Poland and Slovakia to the most vulnerable Ukrainian cities.
Baerbock'sGreen Party has its roots in the German peace movement and many members are skeptical of German military involvement abroad.
US President Joe Bidenmet Saturday with Ukraine's foreign and defense ministers at the Marriott Hotel in central Warsaw.
Weeks after Germany announced a major policy shift on delivering arms to conflict zones, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said that "when the world changes, policy has to change."
The gathering marks his first talks with top Kyiv officials since Russia's invasion began on February 24.
Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida and the country's US envoy Rahm Emanuel appeared at the Hiroshima memorial park on Saturday and said Russia's refusal to rule out deploying its nuclear arsenal was "unconscionable."
Alice Hooper, a humanitarian adviser to the Foreign Office, said, "The need on the ground in Ukraine is clear, with so many people in encircled areas trapped in basements without access to food or water."
On Friday, US President Joe Biden traveled to Rzeszow, a city in southeastern Poland that's located about 65 kilometers 40 miles from the border with Ukraine. Biden addressed US troops who are stationed there as part of a NATO mission to protect its eastern flank.
The town is close to Ukraine's border with Belarus and sits just outside the exclusion zone that was established around Chernobyl after the 1986 nuclear disaster. Ukrainian staff have continued to work there even after the plant was seized by Russian forces last month.
Speaking on live television, Iryna Vereshchuk said civilians trying to get out of the southern port of Mariupol would have to leave in private cars as Russian forces were not letting buses through their checkpoints.
Opinion polls in recent weeks have shown that a majority of Finns now support NATO membership, up from about a quarter before Russia's invasion of Ukraine last month.
Zelenskyy also noted thatMuslims in Ukraine would have to fight during the upcoming holy fasting month of Ramadan.
The mayor later said that "an industrial facility where fuel is stored caught fire" as a result of the attack, but that "no residential buildings were damaged."
Governor of the Kyiv regionOleksandr Pavlyuk said troops had occupied the town's hospital and kidnapped the mayor. Media reports latersaid the mayor had been released. Neither account could be independently verified.
This money is earmarked for the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs to "provide essential border security, sustain civil law enforcement functions, and safeguard critical governmental infrastructure in the face of President Putins premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attack."
Moscow has said it would see moves by EU members Finland and Sweden to join NATO as hostile and that they would come with military and political consequences.
Earlier this week, Moscow said nuclear weapons could be used in the Ukraine war if Russia were to face an "existential threat."
Mayor Vitali Klitschko said in an online post that the decision was made by the Ukrainian military. No further details were available.
The White House said he would "deliver remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, holdRussia accountable for its brutal war, and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principles.''
Almost 2.24 million refugees from Ukraine have entered Poland since the Russian invasion began more than a month ago.
UkrainianDefense Minister Oleksii Reznikovand Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba have held a joint meeting with their US counterparts for the first time.
He went on to tell Ukraine: "We stand with you. Period." And warned the Kremlin: "Don't even think about moving onto one single inch of NATO territory"
Emanuel condemned Moscow's position in statement: "We live in unprecedented times as Russia threatens the use of nuclear weapons, something that was once unthinkable, even unspeakable."
One month into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russian troops have not captured any major Ukrainian cities.
Finland's president fears his country would be targeted by Russian cyberattacks and other violations if it decides to apply for NATO membership.
He warned that the city has been surrounded by Russian troops and it is no longer possible to set up escape corridors for civilians. The city is also without power and the major bridge connecting Chernihiv with Kyiv has been destroyed, the mayor said.
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht denied her ministry had been slow in making good on its promises of weapons deliveries to Ukraine.
UK intelligence reports Russian forces have been pushed back to 35 kilometers east of Kyiv. The Pentagon said the city of Kherson was again "contested" as Ukrainian forces launched a counteroffensive.
The latest intelligence report from the UK's Ministry of Defense has warned that Russia will likely continue to "use its heavy firepower on urban areas as it looks to limit its own already considerable losses."
"They are destroying our ports,'' Zelenskyy said. "The absence of exports from Ukraine will deal a blow to countries worldwide.''
Ukraines deputy prime minister says an agreement has been reached to set up10 humanitarian corridors on Saturday to evacuate civilians from front-line areas.
In an interview with public broadcaster YLE, President Sauli Niinisto said the biggest advantage in joining the military alliance would be "gaining a preventive effect."
"But I can assure them: Just because we are silent doesn't mean nothing is happening  quite the opposite," she added.
The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said, "It is currently impossible to estimate the extent of damage due to hostilities that do not stop in the area of the nuclear installation."
Klobuchar's office specifically thanked "his parents Tina  John for never giving up  our State Dept  U.S. Ambassador in Moscow Sullivan who spoke with me  directly helped."
Atroshenko added that some 200 civilians had been killed in the past weeks and that half of the city's 285,000-strong population had already left. But he vowed that the city would not give up.
"I'm sure they won't take any more territory, but they will continue to destroy Ukraine and that's why we have got to do a lot more," he said.
Phillips O'Brien, a professor of strategic studies at the University of St Andrews in Scotland, said that the airstrikes on Saturday that hit the western Ukrainian city of Lviv are not incompatible with the recently proclaimed new strategy of the Kremlin to focus on eastern Ukraine.
Along with breaking from a long-held policy on arms delivery, Germany has also said it would commit 100 billion $111 billion to a new "armed forces fund."
Dozens of Ukrainian officials, journalists and activists have been detained or kidnapped by Russian forces, the United Nations has warned. Matilda Bogner, the head of the UN rights team in Ukraine, said human rights monitors have been receiving ever more information on mass graves in the besieged port city of Mariupol.
The intelligence report said Russian forces were mainly relying on the indiscriminate use of air and artillery bombardments "in an attempt to demoralize defending forces," rather than large-scale infantry operations inside cities.
"It is important for us to condemn this war in the strongest terms and to name clearly who can end this war and that is the Russian president," Baerbock said.
Turkey's Defense Ministry said on Twitter that a dive team had initiated an intervention to "neutralize" the object.
Around 200 children have been injured, the prosecutor's office said. The figures have not been independently verified.
"They've demonstrated that Ukrainians have something to fight for where Russian soldiers don't. Unfortunately, they still have the ability to murder innocent Ukrainians," he added.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called on energy-rich countries to increase their output to prevent Moscow from using its oil and gas supplies to "blackmail" other nations.
The statement added that "Ukrainian law enforcement officers are playing a key role in rescuing victims of the Russian governments brutal assault."
Earlier in the day, Biden is due to meetPolishPresident Andrzej Duda at the presidential palace. He is also expected to accompany PolishPrime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski to Warsaw's National Stadium, where Ukrainian refugees are being registered and provided with aid.
Located in the far west of Ukraine near the border with Poland, Lviv so far has been spared from major Russian attacks and is a destination for refugees. It is the largest city in western Ukraine.
The death toll was posted in a message on the Telegram app and on Facebook.
