Ukraines Zelenskyy pushes EU lawmakers for bloc membership
20220301
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraines-zelenskyy-pushes-eu-lawmakers-for-bloc-membership/a-60960230
Ahead of Zelenskyy's address, European Parliament chief Roberta Metsola had said she condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine "in the strongest possible states."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
"EU accession is not something that can be achieved in a few months," Baerbock said, while emphasizing that Ukraine is "part of the house of Europe."
The Ukrainian president on Tuesdayaddressed the European Parliament by videolink, saying Ukraine had earned the right to be immediately accepted into the bloc as a member.
"Do prove that you are with us. Do prove that you will not let us go. Do prove that you are indeed Europeans and then life will win over death and light will win over darkness," he said.
Zelenskyy addressed the European Parliament in an emotional message, explaining that he was doing so amid a break in missile strikes.
She said the EU would support war crimes investigations against both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko.
The president outlined his belief that Ukraine deserved to be part of the EU, and that it had shown so in its fight for survival.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy'splea to be accepted came on the sixth day of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, amid rising concerns about civilian casualties.
However, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock on Monday cautioned against a hasty accession of Ukraine.
"We are here in the dark shadow of Putin's war, awar we did not provoke. A war we did not start. An invasion of a sovereign independent state."
There was a standing ovation from EU lawmakers, many wearing standwithUkraine T-shirts emblazoned with the Ukrainian flag, others with blue-and-yellow scarves or ribbons.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has addressed a special sitting of the European Parliament amid Russia's onslaught. Zelenskyy said he was convinced his compatriots had earned the right to be considered equal.
The bloc says candidate status offers tangible benefits for membership hopefuls, making states more attractive for investment, easing trade flows and providing greater stability.
"I believe that we, today, we're giving lives for the desire to be equal, as much as you are," Zelenskyy said. "We are giving away our best people."
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has spoken in favor of Ukraine joining the EU, but the decision must be taken unanimously by all EU member states rather than the executive arm in Brussels.
The presidents of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia on Monday all signed an open letter calling for Ukraine to receive EU candidate status.
Metsola also underlined the EU's sanctions against Russia and said: "This must be our whatever it takes moment."
He highlighted the plight of the city of Kharkiv, which was hit by missile attacks on Monday and Tuesday. But he added: "Nobody is going to break us. We are strong. We are Ukrainian."
Romanian President Klaus Iohannis on Tuesday also backed the membership plea for Ukraine, as well as Moldova, Hungaryand Georgia.
