Ukraine crisis Biden announces sanctions on Russia
20220222
https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-crisis-russian-lawmakers-greenlight-putins-troop-deployment-live-updates/a-60868301
"He calls them peacekeepers. This is nonsense. We know what they really are," Thomas-Greenfield said.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Tuesday he was "concerned about the perversion of the concept of peacekeeping."
Kuleba called Russia's recognition of the separatist-held regions in eastern Ukraine as "absurd" and urged the world to use its economic might to "hit Russia's economy now, and hit it hard."
Johnson accused Russia of picking a fight with "a fellow Slav country." He also called on Russian President Putin to step back from the brink.
Zelenskyy called for Nord Stream 2 to be shut down immediately and said the fate of European security would be decided in Ukraine today.
The Ukrainian army recorded the deaths of two of its soldiers and said 18 more were seriously injured. One civilian in the town of Novoluhanske in the Donetsk region was also reportedly killed and five civilians there suffered injuries.
In 2013, Yanukovych,stopped the signing of an association agreement with the EU he had said he supported earlier. Protests ensued and the second Maidan revolution, Ukraine's Revolution for Dignity asit has become known, culminatedin his security forces firingon demonstrators gathered on Maidan. Yanukovych fled to Rostov-on-Don in Russia by helicopter the next day taking with him briefcases of cash and documents but leaving the ostriches in his zoo behind.
A total of 153 Russian senators backed the decision, with no one voting against or abstaining.
Russia has supported its ally, Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad, militarily since he faced a popular uprising against his rule in 2011, leading to hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees dispersed mostly across neighboring countries with thousands also residing in Germany.
The US president announced financial sanctions against Russian banks in response to what he called the "beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.''
"To protect the lives and safety of diplomats, the Russian leadership decided to evacuate the personnel of Russian foreign missions in Ukraine, which will be implemented in the near future," the ministry said in a statement.
Earlier, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyysaid Kyiv was considering severing diplomatic relations with Russia over the decision to recognize the occupied regions of Luhansk and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine as "independent."
"The Minsk agreements were destroyed long before yesterday's recognition," he said, blaming Ukraine for cease-fire violations.
On Monday, US President Joe Biden signed an executive order prohibiting business with the DPR and LPR.
She added, "The consequences of Russia's actions will be dire, across Ukraine, Europe and the globe."
He also called on European nations to build up their defense capabilities immediately. He noted the threat to other nations by an expansionist power like Russia.
Scholz also commended Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on his unwillingness to be provokedinto a major conflict. He also said he still hashopes diplomacy and the Normandy Format talks consisting of Germany, France, Russia remainimportant.
The European Union foreign ministers have agreed on sanctions targeting individuals and entities that "undermine Ukrainian integrity" the bloc's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Putin will have "gravely miscalculated" if Russia opts for the full-scale invasion of Ukraine it seems prepared to launch and the UK will impose sanctions immediately.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that the US is prepared to continue putting pressure on Russia through sanctions if Moscow continues to escalate its aggression toward Ukraine
Several senior Russian legislators suggested Russia might opt to recognize the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in their original administrative borders, including the lands controlled by Ukraine currently.
"The best solution to the issue would be if the current Kyiv authorities themselves refused to join NATO and maintained neutrality," Putin said.
Fighting picked up overnight following Russian President Vladimir Putin's recognition of the two republics as "independent" from Ukraine.
The UN Security Council convened an emergency meeting late Monday where it condemned Russia for "violating international law."
It was unclear whether Russian troops would be sent only to the parts of Donetsk and Luhansk already occupied by the proxy forces they have denied supporting or areas that are still controlled by Ukraine.
He said Ukraine's sovereignty was in question due to "external influence" and also denied he intends to "restore the empire."
Russian military hackers were blamed for recent distributed denial of service DDoS attacks that took down banking and government websites in Ukraine, the US and the UK said last Friday.
In 2004, the first of two significant revolutions on Maidan Square took place, known as the "Orange revolution." That year, voters elected the pro-Western candidate Viktor Yushchenko, who had been poisoned leaving scars on his face, over the Russian-backed Viktor Yanukovych. He took office in January 2005 andremained in office until 2010, when Yanukovych returned to power.
Honorary chairman Alexander Gauland and foreign policy spokesman Petr Bystron placed blame on the West for the crisis.
In eastern Ukraine, Russian-backed separatists are fighting for what they have called "people's republics " in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and more than 13,000 people have been killed so far, according to the UN. An additional 1.4 million Ukrainians have been internally displaced by the conflict.
Blinken also left the door open for diplomacy, saying, "If Moscow's approach changes I remain prepared to engage."
Putin also listed some demands to end the crisis. He called for the international recognition of Crimea as part of Russia, an end to Ukraine's NATO membership bid and a halt to weapons shipments there.
The statement said, "Hungary's security is the most important, we are reinforcing the Ukraine-Hungary border."
A US official cited by the APsaid the White House had decided to begin referring to Russia's actions as an "invasion'' because of the situation on the ground.
The old Soviet Union collapsed in December 1991 at the Belavezha villa at the Soviet state dacha near Viskuli in Belovezhskaya Pushcha, in what is modern-day Belarus. There, the leaders of Russia, Belarus and Ukraine signed accords that dissolved what remained of the Soviet Union.
Germany's Ost-Ausschuss Eastern Business Associationhas canceled its annual meeting with Russian President Putin, previously scheduled for March.
In brief, Ukraine, the largest country on the European continent, had a short-livedindependentstate following World War I. It was absorbed by the Soviet Union, which forced the terror of famine on the country in the 1930s under Stalin, known as the Holodomyr. Ukraine was a Soviet republic right up until the fall of the Soviet Union.
Johnson said UK sanctions are "targeted not just at entities in Donbas and Luhansk and Donetsk, but in Russia itself targeting Russian economic interests as hard as we can."
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Putin said he recognizes the sovereignty of other countries that were once part of the former Soviet Union, though not Ukraine.Once considered "captive nations,"manywere incorporated by force into the Soviet Union at the end of World War 2and the start ofthe Cold War, though Ukraine was absorbed in the interwar period.
Finnish President Sauli Niinisto said Russia's decision could negatively impact the security assessment for a joint Finnish-Russian nuclear plant inPyhjoki inthe northwest of his country. Shortly after, the defense minister said Finland will reassess the overall safety of Rosatoms nuclear project, Helsingen Sanomat reported.
"His outrageous statements about Ukraine and the Ukrainian people were delusional, reflecting a warped vision reminiscent, not of a global leader, but of Europe's worst authoritarians," Kvien said.
The UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force JEF said in a statement they would "shortly conduct an exercise demonstrating JEF nations' freedom of movement" in the strategic zone.
An Iranian Foreign Ministry statement called on both nations to "avoid any action that could aggravate tensions."
Another Russian ally, Iran, urged both Russia and Ukraine to show "restraint" as it blamed the US and NATO for the ratcheting up of tensions between the two sovereign states.
Earlier on Tuesday, the presidents of the European Council and the European Commission, Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen, outlined the possible sanctions on:
Kyslytsya said, "We are on our land and we are not afraid of anything or anyone."
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said it had recalled the charge d'affaires at its embassy in Moscow for consultations on Tuesday. The post, usually the number two at an embassy, fulfills the functions of ambassador when there is not one in place or when an ambassador is out of the country.
"The G7 Foreign Ministers strongly condemn Russias violation of their international commitments. We agreed a strong package of coordinated escalatory sanctions in response," Britain's Liz Truss said after the call.
Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman Said Khatibzadeh said, "We are following the issues related to this country with sensitivity."
The UK announced sanctions against five Russian banks and three"very high-net-worth individuals" includingoligarch Gennady Timchenko, who Prime Minister Boris Johnson called out by name before Parliament.
The US ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield attacked Russian claims that its troops were being deployed to eastern Ukraine on a "peacekeeping" mission as "nonsense."
Although he said the US had"no intention of fighting Russia," Biden ordered additional troops to shore up the Baltic states.
Asked about the Minsk agreements, Stefanyshyna said that Putin "has shown a total negligence to any peaceful efforts, which has been taken for the last eight years."
After the meeting, Johnson told reporters, "I think that the tragedy of the present situation is that President Putin has surrounded himself with like-minded advisors who tell him that Ukraine is not a proper country."
The most senior US diplomat in Ukraine, charge d'affaires Kristina Kvien, said Putin's speech Monday was not that of a reasonable man.
The self-proclaimedparliaments in the Russian-backed separatist regions of eastern Ukraine ratified the treaties of Russian friendship the Russian Duma rubber-stamped through, Russia's RBC reported.
The US and European alliesare set to announce new sanctions against Russia on Tuesday over Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision to recognize the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" DPR and the "Luhansk People's Republic" LPR in eastern Ukraine as "independent."
Hungary's Defense Ministry said in a statement Tuesday that it will deploy some troops to its border with Ukraine, in part to prepare a humanitarian response, but also to protect the country's border.
"The United States, together with our allies,will defend every inch of NATOterritory," Biden said, adding thathe still hopes diplomacy is possible.
The ambassadors of EU members states will also meet Tuesday in Brussels to discuss possible sanctions. The EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said sanctions would be imposed in the afternoon and called for an emergency meeting of foreign ministers in Paris to discuss the ongoing crisis.
He claimed that Russia's 2014 annexation of the Ukrainian Crimean Peninsula should be recognized as a legitimate reflection of the local population's choice.
Germany's stance on weapons exports to Ukraine remains unchanged, Scholz said, noting Germany would focus on providing economic support to Ukraine's ailing economy.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyyappeared at a joint press conference with Estonian President Alar Karis, his first public appearance since Russian President Vladimir Putin announced his decision to recognize occupied parts of eastern Ukraine as "independent."
Syria said it supports Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision to recognize the self-proclaimed independent republics of Luhansk and Donetsk.
Olga Stefanyshyna, Ukrainian deputy prime minister for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, told DW that the Ukrainian military will make sure that "no inch of Ukrainian land is occupied."
Russia's stock exchange fell almost 9 early Tuesday as it continued its nosedive on fears of an imminent Russian invasion of Ukraine. For the fourth day in a row, Moscow stocks have tumbled and the leading index, MOEX, has lost more than a quarter of its value.
It was set up in 2012 with a focus on security in the "High North" region around the Arctic, the North Atlantic and the Baltic Sea area.
Russia's Foreign Ministry announced that it has decided to evacuate its diplomatic staff from Ukraine.
Chairman Oliver Hermes condemned Russia's recognition of Luhansk and Donetsk as "independent." He also urged the German government to remain open to dialogue with the Russian government.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said Tuesday it will recognize the independent republics of Luhansk and Donetsk as the territories currently controlled by Russian-backed proxy forces.
"When troops of one country enter the territory of another country without its consent, they are not impartial peacekeepers. They are not peacekeepers at all," Guterres told reporters.
"In acting together, we shall demonstrate the JEF's solidarity, capability and resolve to stand together for security and stability in our region."
"We're clear in our position that it's our territory. It has always been our territory and it will be our territory, regardless of any decision that Putin would take,"Stefanyshyna said.
Jon Finer, the US deputy national security adviser, told CNN an invasion of Ukraine is underway.
OnAugust 24, 1991, it officially declared its independence. Russia recognized Ukraine's borders in a number of international agreements, including the Budapest Memorandum of 1994.With the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine politically began lookingwestwards and started talking with both theEuropean Union and NATO.
The ministers held talks in Britain on Tuesday and unanimously condemned President Putin's recognition of two pro-Moscow separatist regions in Ukraine and the deployment of troops there.
"We have our next move prepared as well, Russia will pay an even steeper price if continues its aggressions," Biden warned.
The lower house of the Russian parliament, the Duma, voted Tuesday to ratify friendship treaties with Russian-backed separatists in the eastern Ukraine regions of Luhansk and Donetsk.
Stoltenberg called recent developments a "serious escalation by Russia and a flagrant violation of international law.''
His statement on Tuesday came after Russian President Vladimir Putin and signed a decree ordering Russian troops into the separatist-held regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukrainefor what the Kremlin called"peacekeeping" purposes.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Driantold reporters after a Paris meeting of the EU's top diplomats that they "unanimously agreed" to the sanctions package.
They said the fate of the territories Russia has proclaimed "independent" would be decided by the local people in a referendum, a near replica of the actions that took place when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014.
In the spring of 2014, Russia then seized and annexed the Crimean peninsula by using "little green men" as Russian special forces Spetsnaz soldiers with their insignias covered became known. In a victory for the Kremlin's hybrid warfare techniques, the annexation of Crimea took place without bloodshed, unlike the bloody battles and heavy losses in the eastern part of the country that have been ongoing since 2014.
A Defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said F-35 fighter jets and Apache attack helicopters were also being sent to the Baltic region and to Poland.
In a letter to the Russian upper house of parliament, President Putin formally asked lawmakers to approve the use of Russian military force outside the country.
"We will not allow Russia to claim the pretense of diplomacy at the same time it accelerates its march down the path of conflict and war,"Blinken said, while describingRussia's actions in Ukraineas "the greatest threat to Europe since WWII."
While the Russian-backed separatists claim the entirety of the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, they only have control over a part of the territory they claim.
In a phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, Erdogan underscoredTurkey is against any decision that targets Ukraine's territorial integrity.
The five Russian banks the UK sanctioned areRossiya, IS Bank, General Bank, Promsvyazbank and the Black Sea Bank.
"So now is the day where we should think that maybe dialogue and discussions is not the right instrument to deter," she added.
Michel and von der Leyen concluded by emphasizing the EU's solidarity with Ukraine in what is a dire hour for European security, or what the statement by the two European presidentsterms "the illegal actions of Russia."
Shelling reportedly continued on the line of contact between Ukraine and the Russian-backed separatists in the two eastern regions of Luhansk and Donetsk, according to a diplomatic source quoted by Reuters.
"Well, we're used to it," Lavrov said, adding, "We know that sanctions will be imposed anyway, in any case. With or without reason."
RussianPresident Vladimir Putin spoke to reporters after parliamentarians approved the use of Russian forces abroad.
Asked about the Minsk agreements, Putin said,"The Minsk agreements do not exist now, we recognized the DNR and LNR," Putin said, using the abbreviations for the separatist regions of Donetsk and Lugansk.
Austin told Kuleba that Washington will continue to work closely with Kyiv and allies "in trying to find a way to avoid further conflict."
"We see that more and more of the forces are moving out of the camps and are in combat formations and ready to strike," he added.
Following the call, Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi told reporters that the ministers agreed to condemn Russia's recognition of Ukraine's separatist regions as independent, saying it was in violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as international law.
"Every indication is that Russia is continuing to plan for a full-scale attack of Ukraine," Stoltenberg told a news conference.
The JEF is made up of NATO members Denmark, Estonia, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United Kingdom, and non-members Finland and Sweden.
The Syrian state-run news agency SANA said Syrian Foreign Minister Faisal Mikdad told the Valdai discussion club in Moscow Tuesday, "What the West is doing against Russia today is similar to what it did against Syria during the terrorist war."
By contrast, Russia's UN ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, said Moscow was still "open to diplomacy," and claimed that Russia did not intend to allow "a new bloodbath in Donbas."
Previously, Poland's Defense Ministry and British Health Secretary Sajid Javid also used the word "invasion."
"But what is essential is knowing that Ukraine will fight for its territorial integrity. Now EU, NATO, US and particularly Great Britain ... should impose severe individual sanctions to those who legitimized yesterday's decision to deter Russia from further military invasion."
Defense ministers from 10 countries announced maneuvers in the Baltic Sea after talks in Britain.
"The current situation is a consequence of the eastward expansion the eastward expansion of NATO after the end of the Cold War," Bystron said.
Ukraine's UN representative Sergiy Kyslytsya demanded Russia withdraw its decision to recognize the two breakaway republics.
At a press conference alongside Ukrainian Foreign MinisterDmytro Kuleba, Blinken said Russia had made clear its "wholesale rejection of diplomacy," and said he hadcanceled a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, planned for Thursday in Geneva.
US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Russian President Putin "can still avoid a full-blown, tragic war of choice."
The move formalizes a Russian military deployment to Moscow-backed separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, Donetsk and Luhansk, a day after Putin recognized their independence.
Bystron has aligned himself in the past with American far-right personalities who express similarly friendly views towards Russia.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed Russia's move to recognize the regions of eastern Ukraine occupied by Russian-backed separatists as "unacceptable" on Tuesday.
Elsewhere, European stocks and equity markets plunged as oil and safe assets like gold rallied. Brent crude, already up 25 this year due to a surge in demand, rallied, approaching the $100 mark, the first time since 2014 that has occurred. Russia is heavily reliant on oil and gas and high energy prices can help it to fuel a war economy.
By contrast, the EU's foreign policy chief stopped short of calling it an "invasion," and instead said, "Russian troops have entered in Donbas," adding he would not call it "a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil."
He added Russia's recognition of "the so-called 'independence'" of the separatist regions was "a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine."
Putin has previously called the collapse of the Soviet Union the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the twentiethcentury. The Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania which were all incorporated into the former Soviet Union are currently membersof NATO.
The sanctions target Russia's VEB and Promsvyazbank banks. Biden added that sanctions against Russia'ssovereign debt meant that "we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing."
Earlier Monday, he recognized the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" DPR and the "Luhansk People's Republic" LPR in eastern Ukraine as "independent."
On Monday evening, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree ordering Russian troops into eastern Ukraine.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock convened a call of foreign ministers from the Group of Seven nations to discuss the latest developments.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said that Nord Stream 2 cannot go ahead now in these crisis circumstances. He said the approval process has been halted asDer Spiegel reportsGermany's economics minister, Robert Habeck, has withdrawn the original positive certification of the pipeline.
"We continue to call on Russia to step back ... it's never too late not to attack."
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called on Western nations "to impose tough sanctions against the Russian Federation," in a statement issued while he is in Washington.
Qatar's minister of state for energy affairs, Saad al-Kaabi, addressed the crisis during a plenary session of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum GECF, saying the group of gas-producing countries would not support non-UN economic sanctions levied againstany of its members. Russia is a member of the group.
While Poland welcomed the announcement,Polish Deputy Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski said, "This is better than nothing but far too little, one shouldn't keep supplying funds to an aggressive state."
The White House expressed its gratitude for the move, with Press Secretary Jen Psaki writingon Twitter, "We have been in close consultations with Germany overnight and welcome their announcement."
Six EU countries, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania announced plans to send cybersecurity experts to help Ukraine in response to a request from Kyiv.
The parliamentary group of Germany's far-right Alternative fr Deutschland AfD said it rejects sanctions on Russia over its recognition of regions of eastern Ukraine as "independent."
