Ukraine How Elon Musk got involved
20220228
https://www.dw.com/en/will-musks-starlink-save-ukraine-spacex-save-the-iss/a-60948531
That's where spacefaring nations tend to dump decommissioned satellites and other space junk. It is far from "uninhabited," however. As we've described in another article, SPOUA ishome to under-researched, diverse and abundant marine life.
The somewhat obscure reference to terminals is in fact a vital one. Without sufficient terminals  basically, ground-based satellite receivers  Ukraine will be unable to use Starlink's space-based internet transmitters.
NASA and its current controllers in the US government  the administration led by President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris  have committed the United States to ongoing ISS operations through to 2030.
Tech tycoon Elon Musk has indicated he will protect the internet in Ukraine and the world from the International Space Station if it crashes to Earth. But how?
How exactly the company would go about ensuring that the space station doesn't possibly one day crash into populated areas remains unclear. But what is clear is that Musk and other commercial space players have a vested interest in helping NASA and its partners, including Roscosmos, get it right.
Regarding the continuation of the ExoMars 2022 program, ESA says, "the sanctions and the wider context make a launch in 2022 very unlikely."
Roscosmos headDmitry Rogozinwas responding to sanctions that countries, among them the United States and some in Europe, have imposed on Russia in opposition to its war on Ukraine.
"Do you want to destroy our cooperation on the ISS?" he writes. "You are doing that already by restricting exchange between our cosmonaut and astronaut training centers."
Ukraine's deputy prime minister Mykhailo Fedorov acknowledged receipt of what appears to be a shipment of Starlink "terminals" in a tweet late on Monday CET. Elon Musk replied: "You are most welcome."
But, whoever it is and no matter what they do in the future, everyone in the industry knows how hard it is to transport heavy materials into space. It's likely that at least some of these companies are hoping to salvage parts of the ISS.
But it's a bit that starts off by attacking "talented businessmen" for polluting near-Earth orbit with space debris  the region where our closest communications satellites and the ISS fly  that appears to have gotten Musk directly involved:
"If you block cooperation with us, who will save the ISS from uncontrolled deorbiting and falling on the territory of the US or Europe? The ISS could fall down on India or China. Do you want to threaten them with such a prospect? The ISS doesn't fly over Russia, so all the risks are yours. Are you ready for them? So, as Russia is still a partner, I suggest that you do not behave as an irresponsible gamer and disavow these 'Alzheimer sanctions'. It's my friendly advice."
"Notwithstanding the current conflict, civil space cooperation remains a bridge. ESA continues to work on all of its programmes, including on ISS  ExoMars launch campaign, in order to honour commitments with Member States  partners. We continue to monitor the evolving situation."
Within 10 hours, Musk replied: "Starlink service is now active in Ukraine. More terminals en route."
On Saturday, Mykhailo Fedorov, Ukraine's Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, essentially challenged Musk into saving the country's internet.
"elonmusk, while you try to colonize Mars  Russia try to occupy Ukraine!" tweeted Fedorov. "While your rockets successfully land from space  Russian rockets attack Ukrainian civil people! We ask you to provide Ukraine with Starlink stations and to address sane Russians to stand."
He has suggested in tweets, for instance, that Europe, Asia, and the US cannot do without Russia's cooperation in space.
The terminals are ground-based satellite receivers and transmitters that people in Ukraine need in order to access Starlink, Musk's satellite internet system.
In a report published by NASA in January, Russia is indeed listed as one of the lead partners. But that was also before Russian invaded Ukraine.
Axiom, which is contracted to ferry the first private crew to the ISS, has already committed to building its own space station. And it wants to use the ISS and jumping off point for that venture.
On Monday,ESA released an official statement concerning Ukraine and the international sanctions on Russia, saying it was "fully implementing sanctions imposed on Russia by our Member States."
That decision may affect upcoming missions as many large launches use Russian Soyuz rockets. ESA says it will use European rockets if and where appropriate.
A second stage ofExoMars was scheduled to launch from Russia's Baikonur Cosmodrome in September or October.
Those sanctions have included, on the one hand, a raft of measures  such as boycotting sporting events or moving the locations of events outside of Russia  and on the other economic threats. But they have also touched on the new territorial domain that is outer space.
After 2030, space operations such as those conducted on the ISS today are slated to "transition" to the private sector. It's expected that companies like SpaceX, Axiom, Blue Origin, Nanoracks and Northrop Grumman will build so-called Commercial Low Earth Orbit Destinations, with NASA's help.
We'll yield instead to Rogozin's counterpart at the European Space Agency, Josef Aschbacher, who had only the following to say on Twitter:
John Scott-Railton, a senior cybersecurity researcher at the University of Toronto, then tweeted: "Good to see. But remember: if Putin controls the air above Ukraine, users' uplink transmissions become beacons... for airstrikes."
That's the same for any satellite service: You need satellite receivers on the ground to pick up and send back signals. Satellite phones, satellite TV, satellite internet  it's all the same.
Musk, whose companies include carmaker Tesla, satellite-based internet company Starlink and rocket company SpaceX to name only the top three, retorted by tweeting an image of the SpaceX logo.
But, with Russia reportedly targeting all kinds of ground-based infrastructure, it really does remain to be seen whether, or to what extent, Musk's Starlink pledge can help protect Ukraine's internet, and its access to information and free communication.
It came amidst a series of tweets from the head of Russian space agency, Roscosmos  a lengthy thread that started late Thursday and lasted well into the weekend. SpaceX and Starlink bossElon Muskgot involved in the situation in Ukraine.
When the entrepreneur's followers on Twitter asked whether that meant SpaceX would save the ISS, Musk posted a one-word reply: "Yes."
That does still leave the question of whether Rogozin's comments were threats made in the context of an expanding war. But that's not for this writer to answer.
"Do you want to ban all countries from launching their spacecraft on Russian rockets, which are the most reliable in the world?" Rogozin asks in a numbered thread. "You've done that already."
The space station will then be "deorbited"  brought back to Earth in a controlled manner  and eventually come down in a region of the Pacific known as the South Pacific Oceanic Uninhabited Area SPOUA, an area around Point Nemo.
We've translated Rogozin's tweets, and, while we can't publish the entire thread, it's worth mentioning a few excerpts.
ESA said: "We take note" of Roscosmos' decision to withdraw its workforce from Europe's Spaceport in Kourou, French Guyana.
SpaceX  as a leading commercial firm that's already contracted by NASA to deliver both people and supplies to the ISS  want a central a role in protecting the future of the station.
