US and allies begin largescale naval drill in Black Sea
20210628
https://www.dw.com/en/us-and-allies-begin-large-scale-naval-drill-in-black-sea/a-58071189
The US and Ukraine are leading the"Sea Breeze" drills. Theyare scheduled to last for two weeks, according to the US military.
The exercises come days after Moscow said its navy had fired warning shots anddropped bombs in the path of a British warship to chase it out of Black Sea waters off the coast of Crimea.
Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. However,many nations worldwide do not recognize the annexation and consider the region to be part of Ukrainian territory.
Thirty-two countries from six continents are participating in this year's exercises. That representsthe largest participation in the history of the drills, which have been taking place annually since 1997.
The biggest ever "Sea Breeze" exercises come days after Russia said its navy had fired warning shots against a British warship to chase it out of Black Sea waters.
Ukrainian navy commander Oleksiy Neizhpapa said during an opening ceremony in Odessa that the exercises would send a "powerful message to maintain stability and peace in our region."
But the Russian Foreign Ministry described the exercisesas a provocation and alleged that they were being used to transport weapons and military equipment into Ukraine.
They are said to focus on areas such asamphibious warfare, diving operations, air defense and anti-submarine warfare, among other things.
On Saturday, the Russian navy closely monitored the US destroyer USS Ross as it entered the Black Sea, the Interfax agency reported, citing the Russian Defense Ministry.
Over 5,000 troops, 32 ships and 40 aircraft, as well as 18 special operations and dive teams, are involved this year.
A total of 32 countries began conducting military exercises in the Black Sea Monday, despite sharp criticism from Russia.
Russia said the British navy ship violated its territorial waters. The UK rejected Moscow's account of the incident and said the ship was making "an innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law."
