What you need to know about the UkraineRussia crisis
20220222
https://www.dw.com/en/how-the-ukraine-russia-crisis-reached-a-tipping-point/a-60802626
As far as size is concerned, Ukraineis the largest country on the European continent, with the exception of the European part of Russia. It became a state following World War I and then was a Soviet republic right up until the fall of the Soviet Union. OnAugust 24, 1991, it officially declared its independence.
His pro-Russian successor, Viktor Yanukovych, stopped the signing of an association agreement with the EU he had supported earlier, and by doing so sparkedprotests that led to his ousting a few weeks later. In the spring of 2014, Russia then seized and annexed the Crimean peninsula.
Russia recognized Ukraine's borders in a number of international agreements, including the Budapest Memorandum of 1994. While Ukraine was economically dependent on Moscow, it politically began lookingwestwards and started talking with both theEuropean Union and NATO. This allculminated in the Orange Revolution in 2004, with voters electing the pro-Western candidate Viktor Yushchenko as their new president in January 2005. He remained in office until 2010.
The Russian military is one of the most powerful in the world. It outnumbers Ukraine by far in terms of personnel, equipment and weapons.
Germany has saidit will not be sending offensive military equipment to Ukraine, unlike NATO members Poland, Great Britain and the United States.
Several months ago, Russia began a massive military buildup on the border by moving tanks, artillery and attack helicopters into position.
Despite warnings from Western countries  including Germany  that the Kremlin should not recognize the separatist regions in eastern Ukraine as sovereign, on February 21 Putin signed a decree recognizing the independence of both Luhansk and Dontesk. Later that evening, Moscow ordered its troops to enter the two breakaway regions.
In February2015, France and Germany helped broker a ceasefire deal between Russia and Ukraine, known as the Minsk agreement Minsk II. That agreement, however, is currently on hold aftermore than 20 failed ceasefire attempts.
During its 2008 summit in Budapest, it held out the prospect of a possible NATO membership for Ukraine without, however, providing a specific date. Preventing Ukraine from joining NATO is one of Moscow's keydemands in the current crisis. It continues to see such a move asan existential threat to Russia.
This article has been translated from German. It was originally published on February 16, 2022 and was updated on February 22 when the Kremlin recognized the independence of Donetsk and Luhansk.
The annexation of Crimea took place without bloodshed, unlike the bloody battles and heavy losses in the eastern part of the country that have been ongoing since 2014. Russian-backed separatists are fighting for what they have called "people's republics " in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and more than 13,000 people have been killed so far, according to the UN. An additional 1.4 million Ukrainians have been internally displaced by the conflict.
The danger of a Russian invasion appears imminent, as Vladimir Putin orders his troops to enter Ukraine's breakaway regions. A DW takes a look at how it came to this point.
In response to the Russian troop deployments, NATOhas strengthened its eastern flank. 350 German Bundeswehr soldiers and around a hundred military vehicles have been sent to NATO member Lithuania, increasing to almost 1,000 the number of German soldiers stationed in the former Soviet republic.
In addition, it and neighboring Belarus have more than 100,000 battle-ready troops on standby. According to Moscow, the troops are justtaking part in military exercises.
Since the end of the Cold War, NATO has pursued what it has called an "open door policy" with regard to possible new members.
