Why Ukrainian perspectives on cinema matter
20220611
https://www.dw.com/en/why-ukrainian-perspectives-on-cinema-matter/a-62074824
A series of films by Ukrainian directors will be screened in different German cities in June. It's a way of paying tribute to the country's lesser-known but rich cinematic culture as well as its politics and history.
Ukrainian cinema has been experiencing a revival over the past decade, boosted by a strong documentary filmmaking scene. From there, many moved on to directing fiction, Leshchenko pointed out at the press presentation of the program.
But then, starting in the 1930s, the studio fell under Moscow's control, with many creators fleeing as they faced political prosecution.
The state-led Odesa Film Studio was officially founded in 1919, on top ofthe remnants of private cinema studios held by Myron Grossman and other producers.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
Among those who suffered was Les Kurbas, who is seenas one of the most important Ukrainian theater directors of the 20th century. He was executed in 1937, among the estimated 700,000 to 1.2 million killed during Joseph Stalin's campaign to solidify his hold on power.
Ukrainians are proud of their cinematic tradition. As Kovalenko pointed out, the inhabitants of Odesa see their city as the home of the inventionof the world's first movie camera. Inventor Joseph Timchenko held a screening of films shot with his own apparatus in 1894  two years before the Lumiere brothers' first projection, which went down in history as the birth of cinema. Timchenko, however, never patented his design.
Collaborating with the two curators, the Berlin-basedDeutsche Kinemathek is now releasing a special program called "Perspectives of Ukrainian Cinema."
Kovalenko stayed in the country with her parents, while Leshchenko, the festival's program director, managed to flee to Berlin. Even though their lives were disrupted by war, they have pursued their mission of promoting Ukrainian cinemaby establishing a film curators' initiative, called Sloik Film Atelier.
After two years of online events due to the pandemic, Victoria Leshchenko and Yuliia Kovalenko and their team of organizers were looking forward to finally celebrating the Docudays UA International Human Rights Documentary Film Festivalin person.
From June 12 to 30, cinemas in Berlin, Hamburg and Leipzig will be screening  free of charge  an eclectic selection of Ukrainian films, accompanied by discussions with filmmakers and experts.
Another notable name is Isaac Babel, a screenwriter and author whose bookshavebeen translated into several languages, including his "Odessa Stories." Having traveled around Ukraine in the early 1930s, he witnessed the USSR's brutal collectivization process and Stalin's deliberate famine, the Holodomor, which killed an estimated 4 million Ukrainians. Babel was arrested in 1939 and, according to Soviet authorities, died in a Siberian gulag campin 1941. His family assumes he was executed soon after his arrest.
The fact that Russia is threatening to destroy this cultural symbol reawakens painful memories, as Ukraine's flourishing filmmaking scene was already suppressed by the totalitarian Soviet regime last century.
"Perspectives of Ukrainian Cinema" opens with a film classic by Oleksandr Dovzhenko, who managed to keep working during that period since he supported communist ideals. "But despite his communist beliefs, he didn't try to produce agitprop films," Kovalenko pointed out.
At the press presentation of the series "Perspectives of Ukrainian Cinema," co-curator Kovalenko sent a video message filmed in front of the Odesa Film Studio. Her choice of location was not random.
Dovzhenko's1929 avant-garde expressionist film, "Arsenal," portraying the 1918 uprising of workers in the Kyiv factory of the same name, avoids tracing clear ideological lines and evokes wartime absurdities, which could be interpreted as questioning the morality of violent revolution."It is really interesting to analyze and rethink the film today," said Kovalenko.
Initially managed by a state agency called the All Ukrainian Photo Cinema Administration, "for the first 10 years it was still possible to work independently from Moscow," explained Kovalenko. It was the golden era of Ukrainian cinema, and Odesa was seen as "the Ukrainian Hollywood," said the film fan.
All the other films in the "Perspectives ofUkrainian Cinema" seriesare recent works, directed in the past five years.
This idea was also echoed by Germany's culture commissioner, Claudia Roth, during her official visit to Odesa on Tuesday. "This war is also a war against culture," she said, noting that after more than 100 days of war, 375 cultural institutions and 137 churches have been destroyed or damaged. "This clearly shows it is about attacking the cultural identity of Ukraine," she added.
The film studio, which officially celebrated its centennial in 2019, is a symbol of Ukraine's longstanding filmmaking tradition.
"We don't know as much as we should know about Ukrainian culture, society and history," said Rainer Rother, artistic director of the Deutsche Kinemathek at a presentation of the film series. By screening these films, the German film archive aims to increase people's awareness that "Ukraine has a culture of its own. As we know, Russian propaganda deniesthe existence of Ukrainianculture," he added.
But recently, on May 18, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said that Russia considers the film studio a "military facility" and a likely target for a missile strike.
This new generation of directors carry the torch of the country's rich cinematic legacy, the film fans said. Their works not only showcase a broad palette of genres, Leshchenko noted, but many films also bear witness to the fact that the current conflict with Russia sadly didn't start in 2022.
But then,just as they were completing the planning of their festival, to be heldMarch 25 to April 3, Russia invaded Ukraine. It has since been postponed indefinitely. "This is a painful story for us," festival programmer Kovalenko told DW via video from Odesa.
