Boris Johnson calls on Russians to reject Vladimir Putins war in Ukraine
20220406
https://www.harwichandmanningtreestandard.co.uk/news/20047378.boris-johnson-calls-russians-reject-vladimir-putins-war-ukraine/
Boris Johnson has issued a direct appeal to the Russian people to reject President Vladimir Putins war in Ukraine, which he called a stain on their countrys honour.
I believe he could be indicted very quickly because the evidence is clear about him planning, preparing and executing an invasion, he told BBC2s Newsnight.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The Ukrainian leader called for the creation of a special tribunal along the lines of the Nuremberg tribunals used to try leading Nazis to bring those responsible to justice.
US officials said they expected to see co-ordinated measures by Western allies including a ban on all new investment in the country.
In his message, Mr Johnson said the atrocities committed by Russian forces  including the rape and massacre of innocent civilians  were so shocking that Mr Putin had deliberately sought to hide the truth from his people.
However, the UK Ministry of Defence said analysis of satellite imagery from March 21  when the town was still occupied by the Russians  showed at least eight bodies lying in a street.
Your president knows that if you could see what was happening, you would not support his war, he said.
But she said they must do more by cracking down further on Russian banks and going after industries that are filling Putins war chest, like gold, and agreeing a clear timetable to eliminate our imports of Russian oil, coal and gas.
Speaking in Russian, he added: Your president stands accused of committing war crimes. But I cannot believe hes acting in your name.
Analysis of satellite imagery dated 21 March 2022 shows at least 8 bodies identified lying in a street in Bucha, Kyiv Oblast. Bucha was occupied by the Russian armed forces until 31 March 2022.
In a video message posted online, the Prime Minister urged Russians to download VPNs to enable them to circumvent the Kremlins media controls and see for themselves the atrocities being committed in their name.
Mr Zelenskys call for a war crimes tribunal was backed by former prime minister Gordon Brown who said President Putin and members of his inner circle could be charged with the crime of aggression.
She said the West has frozen more than 350 billion US dollars 266 billion of Putins war chest, rendering unavailable over 60 of the regimes 604 billion US dollars 459 billion of foreign currency reserves.
His intervention came after President Volodymyr Zelensky used a dramatic address to the United Nations Security to accuse the Russians of the most terrible war crimes since the Second World War.
Following talks in the Polish capital, Warsaw, on Tuesday, Ms Truss said economic actions so far were having a crippling impact and pushing the Russian economy back into the Soviet era.
And he knows they are a stain on the honour of Russia itself. A stain that will only grow larger and more indelible every day this war continues.
The Kremlin responded by claiming images of civilians said to have been killed by Russian soldiers in the town of Bucha were fake news having been staged by the Ukrainians themselves.
It is what we had to do in Rwanda, we had to do it in relation to Liberia. We did it in relation to other countries as well in Yugoslavia.
Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has reaffirmed her intention to use a two-day meeting of Nato and G7 ministers starting on Wednesday in Brussels to press for further sanctions against Russia.
Other measures are expected to include new restrictions on financial institutions and state-owned enterprises, and sanctions on government officials and their family members.
You could be putting out an arrest warrant, not just for Putin but for a lot of his inner circle who have been collaborating with him in these deeds.
He knows that these crimes betray the trust of every Russian mother who proudly waves goodbye to her son as he heads off to join the military.
Mr Johnson said that people only needed a VPN connection to access independent information from around the world.
