Emmanuel Macron lashes UK for not doing enough for Ukraines refugees
20220312
https://www.harwichandmanningtreestandard.co.uk/news/national/19988443.emmanuel-macron-lashes-uk-not-enough-ukraines-refugees/
On Thursday, Ms Patel announced that from Tuesday people will be able to apply online for a visa and will no longer have to go to a processing centre to give their biometrics.
We cannot allow Putin, and his cronies in Moscow, to live a Mayfair lifestyle while they kill innocent people in their illegal invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky also accused Russia of kidnapping the mayor of Melitopol, a port city in the south of Ukraine.
The announcement followed Britains sanctioning of nearly 400 Russian parliamentarians, with ministers seeking to tighten the screw on Moscow over the invasion of Ukraine.
Mr Hunt also suggested the UK should increase spending on defence, aid and soft power to at least 4 of GDP over the next decade.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
In an update on Saturday morning, the Ministry of Defence MoD said fighting to the north-west of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv continued, with the bulk of Russian ground forces now about 25 kilometres from its centre.
Earlier, the UKs permanent representative to the United Nations accused Russia of bringing about wild, completely baseless and irresponsible conspiracy theories.
The UK is the second largest Nato defence spender and we have always met our funding obligations  going well above Natos 2 spending target, a spokesperson said.
Nick Thomas-Symonds, Labours shadow international trade secretary, said: Labour has been calling for weeks now for a ban on luxury goods being sent to Russia, so it is welcome that the UK Government have finally listened  but it should not have taken this long.
The UK Government has been condemned by French president Emmanuel Macron for failing to live up to its grand statements on helping Ukrainian refugees.
Speaking at the end of an EU summit in Versailles on Friday, Mr Macron reportedly criticised Britains visa policy which required applicants to make them in person in Brussels or Paris.
In response to Mr Macrons reported remarks, the Home Office pointed to previous comments from Home Secretary Priti Patel, which stated: We are now making the process quicker and simpler by removing the need to physically visit visa application centres for many of those who are making the perilous journey across Europe.
Elements of the large Russian column north of Kyiv have dispersed, the MoD added, which it said is likely to support an attempt by the aggressors to encircle the city.
It came as the UN security council met at Russias request to discuss claims levelled by Moscow about biological activities in Ukraine.
Dame Barbara Woodward said Russia must not be allowed to abuse its permanent seat on the council to spread disinformation and lies.
According to The Guardian, the French president said this further exacerbated circumstances for those fleeing the war.
Prime Minister Johnson has previously expressed fears Russia is spreading a fake story that the US or the Ukrainians have chemical weapons in Ukraine as a pretext for an atrocity.
The Ukraine crisis is expected to be a topic for discussion when Mr Johnson meets Irish premier Micheal Martin for talks on Saturday.
The UK has now sanctioned more than 500 high-value individuals and entities since the invasion of Ukraine began, while Russian aircraft, including oligarchs private jets, are banned from the UK.
He added: Despite all the grand statements the British government continued to apply current rules that meant they did not welcome Ukrainian refugees who wanted to reach British soil saying they have to travel hundreds of kilometres in order to apply for a visa.
The group agreed to take steps to deny Russia most favoured nation status on key products, which No 10 said would significantly reduce the ability of Russian businesses to export.
Writing in The Daily Telegraph, he said: It happened because we forgot the most fundamental lesson of the Cold War: the power of deterrence.
His comments came as the Government intends to further ramp up pressure on the Kremlin.
We stand united with our G7 partners and we will continue strengthening our response to stop Putins invasion of Ukraine https:t.coLO89n5QeuR
Sharing the news on Friday evening, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK stood united with our G7 partners, and would continue strengthening our response to put a halt to Russias aggression against its neighbour.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian government said a mosque in the city of Mariupol had been shelled by the Russian military.
He told BBC Radio 4s Today programme: A lot of operators have job-related accommodation. And there must be a way, I think, of putting the two things together and helping some of the refugees coming over, who may well have the skills that were looking for they may be nurses or people whove cared before who would be perfectly suited to roles in this country.
Also on Friday, former Tory foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt argued the Russian invasion of Ukraine was the biggest failure of Western foreign and security policy in our lifetimes.
Meanwhile, the Government is intending to further ramp up pressure on the Kremlin with plans to ban exports of luxury goods to Russia in the latest move to isolate Vladimir Putin.
Tony Stein, chief executive of Healthcare Management Solutions, suggested on Saturday morning that Ukrainian people fleeing the war could find jobs and a place to live through the UK care sector.
It came as Boris Johnson joined with other G7 leaders on Friday to commit to further increase the pressure on the Russian presidents regime.
In response, the Treasury said the MoD had received the largest sustained spending increase since the end of the Cold War  with a 24 billion uplift in cash terms over the four-year Spending Review period.
The mosque was said to be sheltering more than 80 people. There were no reported casualties.
Details of the plans will be set out in the coming days, Downing Street said.
