Basic History Lesson
20220312
https://www.journal-news.net/journal-news/basic-history-lesson/article_719e46c9-bdfe-57b5-8b82-927a4d2dd061.html
Over the past 20 years Putin has never hid his intent to reestablish a Russian empire. As a KGB trained assassin that never showed any reluctance to murder unarmed civilians, why Western Europe placed its energy dependence in his hands is mind boggling. That said, it is no less mystifying why the US has largely displaced its manufacturing capability to China, particularly for medicine and essential electronic components. China, similar to Russia, has made no secret of its intent to take Taiwan and parts of the Philippines. Chinas leadership firmly believes that the Asian Pacific is its to take and control. The world turning a blind eye to Chinas ongoing genocide against the Uyghurs portends a similar attitude as it subjugates additional parts of Asia. While traditionally the world would rely on the US to check such aggression, the odds of us doing so is low, since literally our daily life depends on a steady flow of essential goods from China.
No subscription is required to sign up for Journal newsletters. Some links may take you to stories that require a subscription after a limited number of free views. Manage your newsletter subscriptions in your user dashboard.
While perhaps trite, the current world situation underscores the basic wisdom in two old sayings: Those that fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it, and Peace and prosperity begets weakness, weakness begets bullies, bullies beget war. World leaders and the MSM talking heads have shown an appalling ignorance of history in formulating and commenting on policy. The world situation and actions of aggressors so closely parallels the lead up to World War II that it would appear the aggressors are following a script. Instead of Germany and Japan, we now have Russia and China with expansion ambitions through use of military force. Real brutal aggression is on the march.
Have the latest local news delivered every day so you don't miss out on updates.
Both Russia and China are relying on the leverage they hold over the West to pursue their goals of subjugating neighboring countries. Anyone that thinks either will stop with their immediate goals is deluding themselves. When will the leaders in the West including the one living at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave take action to lessen dependence on the worlds despots? There are two things that can be done immediately. First take all steps necessary to replace energy resources from Russia. The West has more than adequate resources to do so. Second is to replicate the production of critical goods, such as medicine, in North America and Western Europe. Yes both will come with a price, but to use another trite saying Freedom is not free.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. Delivered every morning.
Ukraine has been trying to free itself from Russia for centuries, having had brief periods of independence before being again brutally crushed by Russia. The reason there are Russian sympathies in eastern Ukraine is because Stalin largely depopulated it of Ukrainians in the 1930s through genocide and forced relocations to the Far East, with replacement by politically loyal Russians. It should come as no surprise that those second and third generation Russian transplants retain some loyalties to Mother Russia. Similarly it should come as no surprise that native Ukrainians are resisting Putins war all out of proportion to their capabilities on paper.
