Russian Military Failures in Ukraine Not a Surprise to Some Cold War Vets
20220423
https://www.journal-news.net/journal-news/russian-military-failures-in-ukraine-not-a-surprise-to-some-cold-war-vets/article_c138bf9a-cc30-512f-abbc-f60a381ac50a.html
No subscription is required to sign up for Journal newsletters. Some links may take you to stories that require a subscription after a limited number of free views. Manage your newsletter subscriptions in your user dashboard.
Fast forward to 1990. Military tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union had thawed to the point that the two nations were carrying out cultural and scientific exchanges to help improve relations.
On Aug. 4, 1990, the Soviet maritime training vessel Druzhba peace in Russian, a three-masted, square-rigged sailing ship, arrived in Baltimore harbor from Odessa, Ukraine, in a good will port call. Aboard was a mix of American and Soviet maritime cadets, two professional American merchant mariners and four officers from the NOAA Corps, the uniformed arm of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. All the Druzhba officers were Russians.
Have the latest local news delivered every day so you don't miss out on updates.
The failure of the Russians to take Kyiv, in large part because of their military ineptness, does not come as a surprise to some of us who faced off against the Soviets in the Cold War.
At lunch, I joined a group of the Russian officers, one of whom named Gregori spoke excellent American English. I told him I had been in the U.S. Navy in the Mediterranean in the early 1970s. He said he had been there then in the Soviet Navy. We exchanged a few reminiscences of our service and experiences, then I said, We thought if it ever came to a shooting war, you guys would blow us out of the water because you had so many more ships than we had. He said, Thats funny. We thought that if it ever came to a shooting war you guys would blow us out of the water, because none of our stuff worked. By stuff he meant the weapons, guidance and communications systems so necessary to insure a ships survival in combat.
On Aug. 10, the Druzhba cadets and officers were invited to Washington, D.C. Following a private tour of the White House, the groups next stop was lunch at the Commerce Department cafeteria. As the NOAA public affairs officer for oceanic and atmospheric research, I served as their escort.
Fifty years ago, I was a sailor aboard the destroyer tender U.S.S. Cascade in the Mediterranean Sea, part of the U.S. Sixth Fleet. During my service through mid-1973, our ships and Soviet ships in the Med were constantly conducting sea operations in a cat-and-mouse game above and below the ocean surface. It was clear that if a hot war between the two superpowers was going to break out, it would be in the Mediterranean, where our military forces operated in such close proximity.
If you dont have the top technology all working properly in a battle at sea, it doesnt matter how brave your sailors are your ships are likely going down. As the Russian army has discovered in Ukraine, the same, apparently, is also true on land.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. Delivered every morning.
We were outnumbered. In 1972, the U.S. Navy had 40 combat ships and 8 auxiliary vessels spread out across the Mediterranean, versus at least 50 Soviet combat ships and 15 auxiliary vessels, clustered mostly in the central and eastern Med.
