We must never give in to false info propaganda
20220412
https://www.journal-news.net/journal-news/we-must-never-give-in-to-false-info-propaganda/article_4a0aeac4-13ae-50ce-93d2-8e2b7e3464e7.html
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. Delivered every morning.
Youve probably also read about last weeks Russian missile attack on a train station in the eastern part of Ukraine where civilians were attempting to flee the country. At least 50 people were killed.
My message to those 140 countries who have courageously stood together is simple: the images out of Bucha and devastation across Ukraine require us now to match our words with action, said U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield.
No subscription is required to sign up for Journal newsletters. Some links may take you to stories that require a subscription after a limited number of free views. Manage your newsletter subscriptions in your user dashboard.
Have the latest local news delivered every day so you don't miss out on updates.
Whats happening in Bucha is outrageous, and everyone sees it, President Joe Biden said April 4.
You have read about it or heard it from official sources, of course, but you also have seen photos. You can see it for yourself, because journalists  including Associated Press reporters  are there.
By now, you have learned of the reported 410 civilians at least killed in the Kyiv area by Russian forces.
Further, Russian officials claim journalists reporting on what is happening in Ukraine, and those other international officials who are working to document war crimes, should themselves be investigated  for violating a brand new Russian law that bans anything the government declares to be false information about Russian forces.
We owe it to them not to give in to cries of false information from propagandists  now or ever.
At least seven non-Russian journalists have died since Russia invaded Ukraine in February, according to one estimate. Without their sacrifice and the determination of those carrying on the work, we might have a very different idea of what is happening on the other side of the world.
In fact, those AP reporters in the Kyiv area saw at least 21 bodies for themselves and have reported on and photographed as much as they can to let the rest of the world know what is happening in Ukraine.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Well. Almost everyone. Those whose media consumption is controlled by Russian government and that countrys Investigative Committee are being told the committee has launched its own investigation into what it calls Ukrainian allegations with the aim of discrediting Russian troops.
Tossing around phrases such as false information can be a powerful tool for tyrants bent on sowing doubt. But youve seen with your own eyes what is happening because journalists from all over the world are risking their lives to show you. What theyre doing might well save Ukrainian lives. Certainly, it will help the rest of the world understand what must be done.
Photos from the scene of Fridays train station attack in Ukraine showed bodies covered with tarps on the ground and the remnants of a rocket with the words For the children painted on it in Russian. The Russian Defense Ministry denied attacking the station in Kramatorsk, a city in Ukraines contested Donbas region, but President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and other Ukrainian leaders accused Russias military of deliberately targeting a location where only civilians were assembled.
