Winners and Losers From the Ukraine War
20220831
https://www.journal-news.net/winners-and-losers-from-the-ukraine-war/article_2f8b09df-1be1-535d-baea-48af12c76fc6.html
Sweden and Finland have abandoned their historic neutrality to become the 31st and 32nd members of NATO.
Where President Richard Nixon appeared to split Maos China from Russia, this generation of American leaders appears to have restored that hostile duopoly.
The flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet, the cruiser Moskva, has been sunk. A thousand tanks and armored personnel carriers have been destroyed.
After all, the war that the Ukraine of Volodymyr Zelenskyy has fought against a larger Russia for its freedom, independence and territorial integrity has won the admiration of much of the world.
Six months into the war in Ukraine, launched by Russian President Vladimir Putin on Feb. 24, when he could not get the U.S. or Kyiv to rule out admission of Ukraine to a NATO alliance aimed against Russia, who appear to be the winners and who the losers?
In the first Cold War, Eastern Europe and the Baltic States were accepted as satellites of the Soviet Union. Communism had been imposed upon them all after World War II.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
Now that we are again in a hostile state of relations with Moscow as we were then, how can this be the result of a successful foreign policy?
When we brought virtually all of Eastern Europe into NATO, we were the ones, not Putin, who made their independence of Moscow and alliance with the West a matter for which we committed ourselves to go to war.
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. Delivered every morning.
There never was a good war or a bad peace, wrote Ben Franklin at the end of the American Revolution.
Politically, Russia has isolated itself from much of Europe, been hit with severe sanctions and watched as Europe and NATO unite against it.
Putin was a Russian KGB agent during the Cold War. Now every member state of the former Warsaw Pact and three constituent republics of the USSR of that era are NATO allies of the United States.
And who benefits from a continuation of this war, which will bring thousands more dead and wounded Russians and Ukrainians?
The invading Russian army of February was stopped in its tracks outside Ukraines capital of Kyiv. That army failed to capture Ukraines second largest city, Kharkiv, close to the Russian border. It failed to capture Odessa, the third largest city and Ukraines major port on the Black Sea.
While Russia has made gains in the east of Ukraine, the Donbas and in the South adjacent to Crimea, captured Mariupol, and turned the Sea of Azov into a Russian lake, its losses have been massive.
According to Western sources, Russia has suffered 75,000 to 80,000 casualties and is desperately recruiting, even in prisons, to find troops to replace the dead and wounded lost in Ukraine.
Is this new Cold War II with Russia, into which we appear to have plunged, in the national interest of a United States that so welcomed the peaceful end of the old Cold War three decades ago?
Is the revival of the Sino-Soviet pact, aimed at the West in the 1950s and now aimed at NATO and our Asian allies, something we should welcome? Have not our own post-Cold War policies contributed mightily to reviving the old Cold War Russia-China alliance against us?
Are we better off because all the nations of the Warsaw Pact and three republics of the old USSR are now NATO allies for whose independence we are committed to fight Russia?
Yet, in two clashes with Russia, in 2014 and 2022, Ukraine has lost 20 of its territory in its east and south, and Kyiv is not going to retrieve these lost lands before winter comes.
Perhaps highest among our goals in the first Cold War with Russia was the avoidance of a hot war that could escalate to a nuclear war and destroy both nations.
Of what benefit to the U.S. is the sending of troops to the Baltic republics? Are we stronger, safer, more secure, now that we have committed to fight Russia to defend the 830-mile Finnish-Russian border, something no Cold Warrior of an earlier era would have dreamt of doing?
But if Russia has been badly bled and Ukraine has suffered irretrievable losses of land and soldiers, who then are the winners?
No subscription is required to sign up for Journal newsletters. Some links may take you to stories that require a subscription after a limited number of free views. Manage your newsletter subscriptions in your user dashboard.
The reputation of the Russian army as a near-invincible force in any land war in Europe has been shattered.
As Russians and Ukrainians kill one another in the Donbas, and hatred of Russians for Americans grows, how is that good for the USA?
Have the latest local news delivered every day so you don't miss out on updates.
 Patrick J. Buchanan is the author of Nixons White House Wars: The Battles That Made and Broke a President and Divided America Forever. To find out more about Patrick Buchanan and read features by other Creators writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators website at www.creators.com.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Perhaps we ought to invest as much time and energy trying to end this war as we do to defeat and humiliate Russia, which will not bring us peace.
