Kyiv opera house reopens after 3 months
20220606
https://www.kwit.org/2022-06-05/kyiv-opera-house-reopens-after-3-months
In late May, the opera quietly re-opened with Rossini's The Barber of Seville in an experiment of wartime entertainment. After taking a week to sort out things like how to evacuate amid an air raid siren, the directors launched a big marketing blitz to get people back into the Opera with Natalka Poltavka at the top of the playbill.
Natalka Poltavka's conductor, Herman Makarenko, says that he always feels lucky to be able to lead Ukrainian music, especially in light of war.
Eight-year-old Katyusha enjoyed the show with her mother, Natalia. It was their first opera, and was part of a cultural tour around the city after fleeing war-torn Mariupol.
When Kyiv's aristocrats opened the "City Opera'' in 1867, making it the first such theater in the Russian Empire outside of Moscow and St. Petersburg, many referred to it as the "Russian Opera." At the time, both Russian and Ukrainian opera were in their infancy the Russian aristocracy tended to speak French, with music tastes that leaned Italian.
Imperial authorities commissioned Russian-language operas to compete with Western European high arts, while Ukrainian remained forbidden.
"There was a very strong policy of Russification" in Ukraine, says Larysa Tarasenko, the Kyiv Opera's archivist. "Ironically, critics wrote that the Russian Opera's preference for Italian music undermined attempts to make these 'southern Russian lands' more Russian."
The composer Lysenko thought his country's music deserved more of a chance, and spent most of his life studying the music of Ukrainian serfs  operas like Natalka Poltavka borrowed heavily from their folk songs and poetry, premiering only after being translated into Russian later in the century.
"The way we approach our work has changed," says soprano Natalia Nikolaishyn, who plays the title role in the Kyiv Opera Company's production of Natalka Poltavka,written by Ukrainian composer Mykola Lysenko in the mid-19th century. It was the last show performed at the Kyiv Opera before Russian forces attacked the city in late February.
KYIV, Ukraine  Last year, President Vladimir Putin claimed that Russian and Ukrainian are dialects of the same language, somehow forced into separate languages by Europe in order to undermine Russian power. During the 19th century, the Russian Empire even banned publication and performance in Ukrainian. But a trip to Ukraine's National Opera House reveals a more nuanced story.
Now, more than a century-and-a-half after being referred to as "the Russian Opera," the Kyiv Opera company has sworn off Russian music.
"Our entire society is going through a rejection of all things Russian," says soprano Nikolaishyn. "Of course they have their classics  but others can perform them."
