All the ways you can help Ukraine in Worcester
20220228
https://www.worcesternews.co.uk/news/19958009.ways-can-help-ukraine-worcester/
People have watched in horror as tanks rolled into Ukraine and have been rushing to help families fleeing the conflict.
NTL Fabrication and Welding Ltd has organised a shoebox-style appeal for people to send over hygiene products, toys and other new items.
"The community's response is amazing you can see how very, very important it is for them and they want to help."
The stationery shop posted on Facebook: "Sat here in Malvern, in a shop that sells nice cards and stationery, it's difficult to comprehend that less than 2000 miles away from us, a major European country is going through hell.
Good Samaritans across the county have rolled into action to raise money or donate goods tocharities supporting fleeing Ukrainians.
"Anyone contacting friends, family or any other loved ones in Ukraine, is welcome to visit The Alma Tavern and use our super fast wifi free of charge without making any purchases.
Tickets cost 2 and are on sale at the club with money going to Red Cross Ukraine.
"So following on from the highly popular dog toys featuring Boris and Trump remember him?, we have secured a number of Vladimir dog toys."
People are asked to write on the box who the gifts are for and they can be dropped off at the unit on Weston Industrial Estate, Honeybourne, from Monday, March 7.
"Anyone who is familiar with our pub knows that we believe that nobody deserves to live in fear of bigotry, prejudice or deserves to suffer as a result of callous, cowardice individuals.
The Alma Tavern, on Droitwich Road, is offering use of its wifi free of charge without by anything to anyone contacting friends and family in Ukraine.
LikeU Worcester in Westbury Street has had a huge reaction to its plea for donations and is now looking for van drivers to drop off items in London.
Fernhill Heath War Memorial Club is holding a raffle with prizes including a weekend away for two.
More than 500,000 people have fled the country since the invasion with James Elder of Unicef speaking of harrowing scenes in Lviv, in western Ukraine.
Mrs Moore said: "We have been overloaded with stuff, every single hour someone is coming in with boxes or bags of stuff.
With the situation changing rapidlyat collection points we have started a live blog with updates about where to take your donations
PEOPLE in Worcestershire have been desperate to help those caught up in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict.
Donations drives have been set up by people looking at ways to help since Russia began an invasion of neighbouring Ukraine on Thursday February 24.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
She can no longer accept donations because of the scale of generosity but suggested people contacted the Red Cross.
Aleksandra Moore, from Malvern, has a house filled with boxes of donations after organising a collection.
Austin and Co in Worcester Road, Great Malvern is selling a 'Vladimir' dog toy with all money going to dog shelters in Ukraine.
She has a very personal reason for wanting to get involved: "My great grandparents had to escape from Poland during World War II.
A Concert for Ukraine featuring Vocal High Excelsa Vocesandwill be performed at Pershore Abbey on Friday March 4.
The concert begins at 7.30pm with tickets, costing 10 or 5 for under 16s, available from Blue, Broad Street, or the Town Hall, High Street.
It will re-open its doors on Wednesday, March 2 from 9am to5pm and need items including helmets, drones,sanitary products and wound dressings.
"You were here when we needed you andnow were in a position to support our loved ones, you, our community. We all stand with the people of Ukraine."
A post on its Facebook page said: "As a team, we are horrified to read what is happening throughout Ukraine.
Baby clothes, soft toys, first aid items, blankets and sleeping bags will be delivered to Poland for refugees.
About 50 boxes have been donated and are currently taking over Mrs Moore's home until she is able to put them into vans on Friday.
"I was thinking how a quirky independent shop in the English Shires could help the cause, and the only way I could think of is to do what we do best a mix of our dry humour, quirk, and dogs.
