China Is Issuing The Same Red Line Warnings About Taiwan That Russia Issued About Ukraine
20220729
https://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2022/07/29/china-issuing-same-red-line-warnings-about-taiwan-that-russia-issued-about-ukraine/
We have repeatedly made clear our our firm opposition to Speaker Pelosis potential visit to Taiwan. If the US side insists on making the visit and challenges Chinas red line, it will be met with resolute countermeasures, Chinas Foreign Ministry spokespersonZhao Lijiang said Wednesday. The U.S. must assume full responsibility for any serious consequence arising thereof.
This is that red line that I talked about multiple times, Putinsaid. They have crossed it.
Officials told The Associated Press that if Pelosi goes to Taiwan  still an uncertainty  the military would increase its movement of forces and assets in the Indo-Pacific region. They declined to provide details, but said that fighter jets, ships, surveillance assets and other military systems would likely be used to provide overlapping rings of protection for her flight to Taiwan and any time on the ground there.
Failing to learn from history is one thing failing to learn even from the last five months is quite another. Pelosi and whoevers orchestrating her trip should abort those plans immediately, because the dangers that are being toyed with here are not worth the moral victory of being able to say that China didnt make you swerve in the stupidestgame of chickenthat has ever been played.
And thats exactly whats happening here. Chinas red line warnings make it clear that Pelosi landing in Taiwan will at best kick up brinkmanship between the two nations another notch, while Republicans areaggressively pushing the narrativethat if the trip doesnt happen it will mean that Communist China is winning. The political pressure is on the side of escalation, with evenprogressive Democrats supporting Pelosis moveand calls for de-escalation and detente becoming increasingly relegated to the sidelines.
We shouldnt have to deal with this. We shouldnt be watching a whole new country added to the potential flashpoints for nuclear armageddon just because some octogenarian in congress is too old to care if her plane gets shot down. We shouldnt be risking another deadly conflict which stands to benefit no ordinary person over what amounts to nothing more than petty egoic chest-pounding.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., has invited a small group of lawmakers on her official trip to Taiwan, including the top Democrat and Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, NBC Newsreports.
Our futures shouldnt depend upon the better angels of the worst monsters. Those with power have far too much of it, and the ordinary people of this world have not nearly enough.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has continued to pour gasoline on theforeign policy dumpster firethat is her planned visit to Taiwan next month, now reportedly encouraging other members of congress to come along for the ride.
During the lead-up to the invasion of Ukraine, Russia was issuing similar warnings using the same phrase. Putin warnedoverandover againthat the west was taking Moscows red lines on Ukrainian neutrality too lightly, and Washingtonbrazenly dismissedthose warnings while continuing tofloat the possibilityof future NATO membership for Ukraine.
This risk alone would be reason enough to cancel the trip, but adding to the concern is the fact that the Chinese government has begun warning against it using the same red line language that Russia was using in the lead-up to its invasion of Ukraine.
While U.S. officials say they have little fear that Beijing would attack the U.S. House speakers plane, they are aware that a mishap, misstep or misunderstanding could endanger her safety. So the Pentagon is developing plans for any contingency.
We shouldnt have to hope that the worlds most powerful people dont take some idiotic risks for no good reason which could hurt us all or even end up getting us all killed. We should not have systems in place which can allow the worst things imaginable to happen if the tyrants who rule over us dont happen to make the wisest decision on any given day.
This trip, which Beijing perceives as an egregious transgression of Washingtons longstanding one-China policy, is already so incendiary that the Pentagon is now planning to send in fighter jets and other war machinery to protect Pelosis plane in case of attacks by the Chinese military.
Weeks later Putin made good on his threat, launching a horrific war that has killed thousands and whichcould easily have been preventedwith a few low-cost concessions.
I dont accept anybodys red lines, President Bidentold the pressin December of last year when asked about the warnings.
China has been using this same language since news first broke about Pelosis planned trip, with Chinese state media Global Timessaying last weekthat visiting Taiwan is definitely a red line that Pelosi must never cross.
