Something Hopeful for the New Year  Sort of
20220111
https://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2022/01/11/something-hopeful-for-the-new-year-sort-of/
The wise men of that Academy of Wisdom aka The Atlantic Council tell us How to deal with the Kremlin-created crisis in Europe. The piece is mostly codswallop, boasting, cheap threats and hot air but there is one good thing about it:
The withered carrot that makes up the final suggestion amounts to talk to Russia if it admits its sins. Too late: Moscows not in the mood.
All that need be said about still more sanctions on Russia is that the EU iscomplaining to the WTO right now about the effectiveness of Russian counters to the sanctions Europe imposed on it because of past alleged sins. In a word, sanctions have made Russia stronger.Food is the most obvious examplebut there are plenty of others: the latest being forcing theRussian aircraft industry to home produce wings and engines for the MC-21. Past sanctions have given Russia a degree of immunity against future sanctions.
Of course these strategists of Laputa dont miss this one: prevent Nord Stream 2 from going into operation in the event of a Russian attack. What they havent the wit to understand is that stopping Nord Stream will only cost Moscow moneyof which it has plentybut it willcost Germany much more. Its a curious state of mind that threatens enemies by damaging allies. AlthoughGeorge Friedman would suggest that that is precisely the point.
Nobody in Moscow cares any more about statements and consultations. And neither do they in Tehran and Beijing.
What do they suggest? What are the immediate steps to affect the Kremlins cost-benefit calculations raising the costs? Only worn-out repetition of past failures. One may be encouraged because it shows the paucity of thought among the warmongers but, at the same time, discouraged because it shows their paucity of thought. Stasis. Decay. Petrifaction. But never a reflective silence.
As to the threat of NATO bolstering its deployments to its eastern flank, taking the British Army as an example,cuts, not increases are the reality as it is now, it hasone fully-staffed infantry battalion.The US Army isnt much better.Once a paper tiger, NATO is now merely a paper pussycat.
The weapons they suggest are Javelin anti-armor missiles and Q36 counter-battery radar systems as well as Stinger and other anti-aircraft missiles. There wont be a chance to use them  if the Ukronazis provoke a Russian reaction, it will resemble this story: ,     .   10 .
But these guys think Moscow appears to be setting the stage for launching a major conventional assault on Ukraine. The signers are the usual Putin whisperers none very tightly connected to reality: the lead signer suggested that Ukraine should invite the United States and NATO to send a fleet of armed ships to visit Mariupol.. Theyd better be pretty small ships  the Sea isvery shallow. Especially near Mariupol. Another signer is theauthor of the ridiculous Dragoon Ride. Another isthe expert in wrongness.
However pitiful their suggestions, one may take comfort from the fact that they do not suggest that the USANATO go to war with Russia if it invades Ukraine. The truth, of whichone signer has a some dim awareness, is simple:
Never mind that Russia wont invade Ukraine for a host of reasons which I for one  I certainly dont pretend to be the only person who can see the obvious laid out in 2014:Why Russia Hasnt and Wont Invade Ukraine. These reasons are only stronger now because Ukraine has become more decayed, more poor, more nazi, more corrupt, more divided and more hopeless. It is a huge hostile expensive liability that Moscow doesnt want to pay for and police. Let those who broke it, pay for it.
