This Aint Putins Price Hike
20220314
https://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2022/03/14/this-aint-putin-price-hike/
Never thought Id be so worried about being censored all the time. Very carefully and cautiously watching what I say and how I say it, deciding I shouldnt even say it at all. Some democracy we have here on the internet. Very healthy.
Bleating whataboutism at sincere attempts to get the US empire to stop doing evil things is just defending those evil things. Youre basically just saying Shut up! Nows not the time to talk about the bad things the US power alliance does, were on something else right now! Okay, so when? Never? Nothing has ever been done about the crimes of the empire. No meaningful changes whatsoever were made after Iraq.
Its an objectively good thing if more attention is brought to that urgent problem by someone saying Oh youre upset about this war? Wait til you hear about what your own government has been doing. Any attempt to interfere in their pointing this out is facilitating mass murder. Either help draw attention to this problem or stop interrupting people who are drawing attention to it with power-serving gibberish about whataboutism.
Higher fuel and food prices are a sacrifice Im prepared to make in exchange for a greatly increased likelihood of nuclear armageddon.
Four years of demented propaganda about an imaginary Trump-Russia conspiracy, Kremlin Facebook memes and GRU bounties in Afghanistan turned liberals into a bunch of gnashing, frothing zombies starved for Russian flesh. Ukraine just gave them something to sink their teeth into.
Criticizing Putin is the easiest thing in the world for a westerner to do right now. Low cost, maximum clicks, but has zero impact on the conflict and will save zero people. Criticizing the west for its role is hard it gets you outrage mobbed, deplatformed and shunned. But it could work.
The western empire could not possibly care less about Ukrainians beyond the extent to which they can be used to roll out this agenda. There hasnt been nearly enough public rage about the fact that the US government knew this war was coming, knew exactly how to prevent it with very low-cost concessions to Moscow, andchose not to. They made that choice in order to advance this agenda.
During the Cuban Missile Crisis everyone had a healthy fear of nuclear annihilation, and people wanted de-escalation above all else. Today hardly anyone even cares about the insane nuclear brinkmanship games being played, and all mainstream factions are calling only for escalation.
Our voices can do far more good criticizing the actions of our own governments, which receive barely any criticism, than those of someone elses government which gets tons. It also cant be denied that theres a major propaganda push to manufacture consent for dangerous agendas whichpre-date the invasion by many years. Is my voice better used opposing those dangerous agendas, or in helping to facilitate them by saying the same things everyone else is already saying?
None of these outrage merchants would ever dream of going against their own government, because if they tried they would find themselves smashed against the invisible walls of ourinverted totalitarian cage. On some level they know this. Thats why they project.
Always wondered how long it would take for DuckDuckGo to get absorbed into the imperial narrative management campaign. https:t.coyRHoUQHxe3
Lets be clear: youre not paying more for necessities to punish Putin and save Ukraine, youre paying more for necessities to fund an economic war of unprecedented scale geared toward collapsing Russia to help secure US unipolar domination of this planet.
When someone brings up bad things the US does in response to outrage over bad things Russia does, its not to defend Russia. Its to get the US to stop doing bad things.
This is the exact same principle as a king having an artist who spoke ill of him tortured in the public square in order to deter future acts of dissent. Just re-packaged to be more palatable for the modern world.
EXCLUSIVE: Twenty years after 911, compelling statistical data suggests that the true death toll of the War on Terror is a staggering 6 million people: which is likely a conservative estimate. I breakdown the data for BylineTimes https:t.coYTV6IoZ3ic
I dont understand the common sentiment on the left that we need to spend a lot of energy criticizing Putin for this war in the same way we criticize our own rulers for their warmongering. Like even forgetting about all the things western powers did to give rise to the war in Ukraine, what specifically is the argument here? That the English-speaking world doesnt have enough criticism of the Russian invasion, and has too much criticism of NATO aggression? That if more antiwar lefties scream about Putin hell go Ah shit I pissed off a few fringe westerners, lets cancel the war you guys? It just doesnt seem like those who make such claims have thought very hard about the position theyre trying to advance.
Love how shitlibs finally decide to become anti-war the second their anti-war activism has a chance to help manufacture consent for World War 3.
The murderousness, tyranny and omnicidal recklessness of the US-centralized empire is a problem of unequalled urgency regardless of what Russia happens to be doing. You cant just bleat whataboutism and make that go away. Its a problem that urgently needs to be dealt with.
One under-appreciated aspect of online censorship is how the fear of losing a valuable platform understandably causes people to self-censor, thereby widening the radius of the censorship campaigns effectiveness a lot further than the actual censorship:
The fact that the Russian people are doing a better job of holding their government to account withmassive antiwar proteststhan people in western nations have says terrible things about us and our obsequiousness to our warmongering masters. If you cant criticize your government, you are more obedient than Russians living under Putin.
There. I did the thing. Can anyone tell me what I just accomplished, apart from greasing the wheels for new cold war escalations? Did I plow any new ground? Expand awareness in any new direction? What specific good did I do?
People talk about this like its something in the past, something the US and its allies did back in history but now its Russia doing it. No, this is happeningcurrentlyin Yemen, Afghanistan, Syria, Venezuela etc, and will continue to happen unless drastic changes are made.
Schrdingers Putin: Simultaneously a crazy deranged lunatic and also much too level-headed and rational to respond to western escalations with nuclear weapons.
Its not Putins price hike. This was all orchestrated by the empire, from root to flower. The goal is to use economic warfare and a costly counterinsurgency against western-backed Ukrainians to either collapse and balkanize the Russian Federation or foment enough discontent to secure regime change in Moscow. This is because Putin refuses to kiss the imperial ring.
And if you think these cold war escalations against Russia are hurting your bank account, wait til the imperial crosshairs move to China.
Russia invading Ukraine doesnt magically erase the fact that the western empire has spent the 21st century slaughtering peopleby the millionsin wars of aggression and working to destroy any nation which disobeys it. Putin would have to work very, very hard to catch up to those numbers. That still needs to be talked about, and it still needs to end.
If for example a chemical attack occurs in Ukraine and is blamed on Russia, there will be great fear of questioning the official narrative about it on YouTube for fear of losing ones platform because YouTubehas banned skepticismof official stories about violence in that nation. People will self-censor to avoid being punished for their speech.
Thatswhat youre paying for as your cost of living skyrockets. Not freedom and democracy. Not saving Ukrainian lives. Just the very mundane and unsexyunipolarist objectivesof a few sociopathic empire managers. Empire managers who, of course, will have no trouble paying for things like fuel and groceries while ordinary people struggle.
Its exactly the same as the cooling effect that the persecution of whistleblowers and journalists has on leaks and investigative journalism. People shying away from speech they could be punished for does a lot more to restrict speech than the punishments themselves.
