Unable to Produce Evidence State Dept Spox Hits Reporter With Russia Smear
20220205
https://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2022/02/05/unable-produce-evidence-state-dept-spox-hits-reporter-with-russia-smear/
Enter Ned Price from the State Department, who had the thankless task today of selling the hollow narrative that U.S. intelligence had uncovered a fantastical plot by the Russians to bring in crisis actors and fake bodies to sell a false narrative to justify their no longer imminent invasion of Ukraine.
MR PRICE: If you doubt  if you doubt the credibility of the U.S. Government, of the British Government, of other governments, and want to find solace in information that the Russians are putting out 
QUESTION: And when youre asked what the information is, you say, I just gave it to you. But thats not what 
So in Thursdays State Department brief, spokesman Ned Price was given the unenviable task of dressing up the Administrations latest offering of bovine excrement and selling it as a gourmet dip. At issue was a leaked story in the Washington Postahem -that Russia is planning an elaborate video fabrication of a Ukrainian attack on eastern Ukraine to serve as a false flag to justify a Russian incursion into Ukraine.
MR PRICE: Matt, you said yourself youve been in this business for quite a long time. You know that when we make information  intelligence information public we do so in a way that protects sensitive sources and methods. You also know that we do so  we declassify information  only when were confident in that information.
The CIA, which brought us hits like WMDs, Russiagate, and Havana Syndrome, is now claiming Russia will do a crazy false-flag op, and you have to believe them, with zero evidence, because the US govt says so https:t.coLG6m29zq3L pic.twitter.comEn3rq9mlxw
MR PRICE: What we know, Matt, is what we  what I have just said, that they have engaged in this activity, in this planning activity 
MR PRICE: Would you like us to print out the topper? Because you will see a transcript of this briefing that you can print out for yourself.
QUESTION: Yes, but you dont have any evidence to back it up other than what youre saying. Its like youre saying, We think  we have information the Russians may do this, but you wont tell us what the information is. And then when youre asked 
QUESTION: Thanks. Okay, well, thats quite a mouthful there. So you said actions such as these suggest otherwise  suggest meaning that they suggest theyre not interested in talks and theyre going to go ahead with some kind of a  what action are you talking about?
The U.S. governments position position is that if you ask for any evidence of a U.S. government claim  you are a Putin agent!
Yes this is the Readers Digest version, but essentially this is what took place in the extraordinary State Dept. briefing on Thursday. Price told Lee: If you doubt the credibility of the U.S. government, of the British government of other governments and wanna, you know, find solace in information that the Russians are putting out, thats for you to do.
MR PRICE: But let me  let me  because obviously this is not  this is not the first time weve made these reports public. Youll remember that just a few weeks ago
QUESTION: But then its unprovable. I mean, my God, what is the evidence that you have that suggests that the Russians are even planning this?
QUESTION: But thats not evidence, Ned. Thats you saying it. Thats not evidence. Im sorry.
MR PRICE: Matt, this is derived from information known to the U.S. Government, intelligence information that we have declassified. I think you know 
Ned: Well thats it  my declassified claim that Russia is about to do it.
MR PRICE: I know. That was my point. You have been doing this for quite a while.
The evidence is me asserting it. If you doubt this evidence, youre a propagandist for Nigeria.
MR PRICE: Well, that is the idea behind deterrence, Matt. That is the idea behind deterrence.
MR PRICE: You know that when we declassify intelligence, we do so in a means 
QUESTION: No, its an action that you say that they have taken, but you have shown no evidence to confirm that. And Im going to get to the next question here, which is: What is the evidence that they  I mean, this is  like, crisis actors? Really? This is like Alex Jones territory youre getting into now. What evidence do you have to support the idea that there is some propaganda film in the making?
QUESTION: Well no, youve made an allegation that they might do that. Have they actually done it?
QUESTION: I would like to see some proof that you  that you can show that 
Prices pathetic talking point was this: we are declassifying intelligence information that Russia is about to release a fake video of a Ukrainian attack on Donbas as a false flag to open the door to Russian involvement.
It is so rare to see an actual journalist rather than a regime stenographer in the U.S. mainstream media that there really needs to be a federal endangered species protection designation. In this case it would be APsMatt Lee, their diplomatic affairs correspondent, whos been around the block many times and whose reputation is that he takes no crap from flacks regardless of party. Imagine that!
So a new threat needed to be cooked up in the bowels of Foggy Bottom and Langley.
This after a month or so of the U.S. Administration insisting that a Russian invasion of Ukraine was imminent. It was a claim dramatically refuted by none other than the one political leader who on paper would benefit most from such a narrative  the Ukrainian president himself  who told Biden on a phone call togo take his meds and stop fear-mongering about a Russian invasion of Ukraine!
MR PRICE: What Im telling you is that this is information thats available to us. We are making it available to you in order  for a couple reasons. One is to attempt to deter the Russians from going ahead with this activity. Two, in the event were not able to do that, in the event the Russians do go ahead with this, to make it clear as day, to lay bare the fact that this has always been an attempt on the part of the Russian Federation to fabricate a pretext.
MR PRICE: Im sorry you are doubting the information that is in the possession of the U.S. Government.
Im declassifying evidence that Nigeria is planning a false flag operation in Switzerland. Are you ready? Here it is:
The whole thing is reminiscent of the Obama Administrations absurd suggestion that the attack on the U.S. CIA installation in Benghazi, Libya, was motivated by a laughable anti-Muslim videoinstead of a U.S. arms deal gone wrong,as Sen. Paul uncovered.
MR PRICE: We told you a few weeks ago that we have information indicating Russia also has already pre-positioned a group of operatives to conduct a false flag operation in eastern Ukraine. So that, Matt, to your question, is an action that Russia has already taken.
QUESTION: And I remember that Kabul was not going to fall. I remember a lot of things. So where is the declassified information other than you coming out here and saying it?
Our friend, the analyst, Caitlin Johnstone also perfectly captures the absurdity of the Biden claims in this thread:
Matt Lee: Well, thats not declassified information, thats just you claiming it. Surely you understand the difference. I mean, crisis actors, fake dead bodies  thats Alex Jones territory.
But as the bipartisan support for bovine excrement continues to pollute the barnyard, at least we can thank Matt Lee from otherwise odious AP for refusing to thrust his chip into the Biden dip
MR PRICE: We are trying to deter the Russians from moving forward with this type of activity. That is why we are making it public today. If the Russians dont go forward with this, that is not ipso facto an indication that they never had plans to do so.
QUESTION: I mean, Im not saying that theyre not. But you just come out and say this and expect us just to believe it without you showing a shred of evidence that its actually true  other than when I ask or when anyone else asks whats the information, you said, well, I just gave it to you, which was just you making a statement.
The views expressed are solely those of the author and may or may not reflect those ofConsortium News.
QUESTION: No, no, no, Ned. You dont  you seem not to understand the idea of 
APs Matt Lee replied with a question any normal journalist would ask before our current era: OK, but what evidence do you have that this is indeed the case?
Its been more than a month since the imminent invasion was coming so a new threat needed to be cooked up in the bowels of Foggy Bottom and Langley, writes Daniel McAdams.
MR PRICE: If you let me finish, I will tell you what report we made public.
QUESTION: I dont want  Im not asking what the Russian Government is putting out. And what do you  what is that supposed to mean? .
