Washington Thinks US Borders End at Neptune
20220128
https://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2022/01/28/washington-thinks-us-borders-end-at-neptune/
Hardly any westerners are aware that the US government has spent the 21st century slaughtering millions in wars of aggression, or that its circling the planet with hundreds of military bases and working to destroy any nation which disobeys its dictates. This stuff should be the first thing anyone learns when theyre beginning to research international conflicts and global power dynamics. Instead its like this obscure esoteric secret thats hidden from them while theyre fed an IV drip of propaganda about Russia and China.
The US government is the most evil and destructive regime on this planet and you should want its leadership to be ineffectual and its agendas to fail.
The old model of slavery came with bad PR and you had to feed and house your slaves. The new model of slavery has great PR, you dont even have to pay them enough to house themselves, plus its easy to profit from the way the slaves are always forced into debt with interest.
Its actually a bit enraging to see western elites kicking around peoples emotions and personal psychology like a motherfucking hacky sack with bullshit propaganda all the time just to make money for the military-industrial complex and advance some dopey geostrategic agendas in Eurasia.
If the narrative you just repeated is the same as what the TV and the US State Department are saying, and you havent researched opposing perspectives on that narrative, you havent done any actual research at all. Youre just a mindless automaton acting out your programming.
After this has been established, you can go ahead and say theyre done. If they keep going I sometimes say If I had just admitted to doing zero meaningful research into whether or not the claim I just made is true, I personally would shut the fuck up about it.
.PressSec: We have a sacred obligation to support the security of our eastern flank countriesIts important to remember who the aggressor is hereit is Russia who has tens of thousands of troops on the border of Ukraine. They have the power to deescalate. pic.twitter.comRtzy0RJ8h3
Biden says everything south of the Mexican border is Americas front yard. Jen Psaki says Eastern Europe is our eastern flank. The US government firmly believes its territorial borders extend to the outer planets in our solar system.
Whenever someone regurgitates a western propaganda narrative, ask them what articles theyve read disputing that narrative. If they say none or more commonly What articles dispute this??, which means the same thing, theyve admitted to having no idea what theyre talking about. And at that point theyve already lost the argument, because they just admitted theyve done no real research into whether or not their claim is actually true. They just told you theyre blindly regurgitating television narratives without bothering to check if theyre factual.
Ive never encountered anyone who can refute my claim that the US is quantifiably the most evil and destructive government in todays world. They try, but they generally werent even aware of the facts that I use to make my case until I show them to them. This says so much about the power of US propaganda.
Yep. Just hanging around, killing time, waiting to find out whether the US is going to start World War 3 now or a little later on.
If youre a leftwardly-inclined politically active person in the western world, you will eventually discover that many of the figures you were initially drawn to are terrible on imperialism and militarism. How you respond to this discovery says a lot about your character.
Both Moscow and Kyiv agree that there wil be no unprovoked Russian invasion of Ukraine. Washington keeps insisting that if theres a war Russia will be the aggressor, but in reality all that has to happen for there not to be a Ukraine war is for USNATO powers not to start one.
