Explosions rock Kiev during UN chiefs visit
20220429
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272527792/explosions-rock-kiev-during-un-chief-visit
The Kremlin has since demanded that Ukraine officially declare itself a neutral country that will never join the US-led NATO military bloc. Kiev insists the Russian offensive was completely unprovoked and has denied claims it was planning to retake the two republics by force.
On Tuesday, Guterres visited Moscow for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin revolving around the Ukrainian crisis. The two discussed the situation on the ground, with Putin explaining to the UN chief Moscow's reasons for launching its military operation in Ukraine.
Ukrainian emergency services initiallyannounced that an unspecified "facility" was hit in the Shevchenko district of the city, while a nearby residential building suffered damage to its lower floors. There were no reports of casualties, but Ukrainian authorities later said at least 10 people were injured inside the damaged 25-story high-rise, while media shared photos of firefighters working at the scene.
Russia attacked the neighboring state in late February, following Ukraine's failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements, first signed in 2014, and Moscow's eventual recognition of the Donbass republics of Donetsk and Lugansk. The German and French brokered Minsk Protocol was designed to give the breakaway regions special status within the Ukrainian state.
At least five cruise missiles targeted Kiev on Thursday evening, President Volodymyr Zelensky has claimed, accusing Moscow of carrying out the strike todeliberately "humiliate" the United Nations asthe body's chief visitedthe Ukrainian capital.
"This says a lot about Russia's true attitude to global institutions, about the efforts of the Russian leadership to humiliate the UN, and everything that the organization represents," Zelensky said in his Thursday night address.
Earlier on Thursday, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterresmetwith Zelensky and toured Kiev and its suburbs, with Ukrainian officials showing him the sites of alleged "war crimes" committed by Russia. Upon hearing reports of a new "attack on Kiev," the UN chief said it "shocked me, not because I'm here, but because Kiev is a sacred city for Ukrainians and Russians alike," according to Reuters.
Ukraine's Zelensky accused Russia of striking the capital 'immediately after' his talks with Antonio Guterres
Officials in Moscow have yet to issue a comment, as the alleged strike took place around 8pm, after the evening press briefing by Russian military spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov. If confirmed, it wouldn't be the first time Russia launched strikes against military facilities in and around Kiev, including at an armored-vehicle manufacturing factory two weeks ago.
According to some reports, the mysterious facility may have been the Artem missile development and production plant, with the Guardian claiming the factory had been evacuated and stood empty since February.
