GLOBALink  Russia takes full control of Severodonetsk
20220626
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272599522/globalink--russia-takes-full-control-of-severodonetsk
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Saturday that Russia will transfer the nuclear-capable Iskander-M tactical missile systems to Belarus in the next few months to increase its defense capability.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian Finance Ministry said Saturday that Ukraine and Germany signed an agreement on providing grant aid worth 1 billion euros about 1.06 billion U.S. dollars for Kiev.
KIEV, June 26 Xinhua -- The Russian military on Saturday announced full control of Severodonetsk, the administrative center of the Ukraine-controlled part of the eastern Lugansk region.Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said that with the support of Russian troops, the forces of Lugansk launched "a successful offensive" and "completely liberated" the cities of Severodonetsk and Borovskoye as well as two settlements in Lugansk.The Ukrainian government-run Ukrinform news agency reported, citing Severodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk, "the city is already completely occupied by the Russian Federation. They are trying to establish their order."Stryuk said civilians, who had been sheltering at the Azot chemical plant, began to leave the plant, adding that there was enough medicine in the city to give them emergency medical assistance.Meanwhile, the Ukrainian Finance Ministry said Saturday that Ukraine and Germany signed an agreement on providing grant aid worth 1 billion euros about 1.06 billion U.S. dollars for Kiev.Russian President Vladimir Putin said Saturday that Russia will transfer the nuclear-capable Iskander-M tactical missile systems to Belarus in the next few months to increase its defense capability.Produced by Xinhua Global Service
The Ukrainian government-run Ukrinform news agency reported, citing Severodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk, "the city is already completely occupied by the Russian Federation. They are trying to establish their order."
Stryuk said civilians, who had been sheltering at the Azot chemical plant, began to leave the plant, adding that there was enough medicine in the city to give them emergency medical assistance.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said that with the support of Russian troops, the forces of Lugansk launched "a successful offensive" and "completely liberated" the cities of Severodonetsk and Borovskoye as well as two settlements in Lugansk.
KIEV, June 26 Xinhua -- The Russian military on Saturday announced full control of Severodonetsk, the administrative center of the Ukraine-controlled part of the eastern Lugansk region.
