Is Ukraine Losing The War Depends On How You Look At It
20220616
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272587486/is-ukraine-losing-the-war-depends-on-how-you-look-at-it
Russia eventually withdrew many of its units near Kyiv, and shifted its resources to focus on seizing the port city of Mariupol, which was reduced to Stalingrad-like rubble before the battle for the city effectively ended on May 22. Russia also retooled its command -- appointing a single general for a unified command -- and focused resources on seizing more ground in eastern and northeastern Ukraine.
Several weeks of brutal, house-to-house, street-by-street fighting has resulted in Syevyerodonetsk, a city with a prewar population of around 100,000, being nearly entirely controlled by Russian troops as of June 15, including the city's center.
After a sputtering start, it now appears to be working -- slowly, incrementally, steadily -- on the battlefield.
Powered by withering Russian artillery and rocket fire, and a marked change in Russian tactics and command, the tide of war is turning against Ukraine -- and Kyiv says the only way to turn it back is to get more Western weapons faster.
Most Western experts were surprised both at the deep problems with the Russian military that the offensive exposed, but also the dogged and effective defense put up by Ukrainian troops.
'It may look pessimistic, but in reality, if you look at the map, you look at the Donbas, you can't find a lot of changes, in spite of the huge concentration of Russian forces,' said Mykhaylo Samus, the deputy director of the Center for Army, Conversion, and Disarmament Studies in Kyiv. 'Ukrainian forces are playing very effective defense.'
'On the contrary, what we can say is Russia has failed,' Samus said. 'Basically, Russia in strategic thinking has lost the war already, because they started with high expectations on February 24. They planned to get Kyiv in a couple days, it was a catastrophic process, they made very bad decisions on their operations.'
Copyright c 2018. RFERL, Inc. Republished with the permission of Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty, Washington DC 20036
Russia is on the verge of taking the city, and between 100-200 Ukrainian soldiers are dying every day. In the southern Kherson region, Ukraine has made only incremental progress in a counteroffensive against Russian positions. Russian troops have reportedly begun moving toward the northeastern city of Kharkiv again.
'If by 'losing' you mean Ukraine doesn't look like it can regain its territory, and drive Russia out of its own territory, then yes, that's a fair assessment they are losing,' said Scott Boston, a former U.S. Army colonel and artillery officer who has studied the Ukraine war closely.
During the first phase of the war after launching a large-scale invasion on February 24, Russia failed in its main priorities to seize the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and potentially oust the government there.
Luhansk's military governor, Serhiy Hayday, said on June 14 that the last bridges across the Siverskiy Donets River leading to the smaller suburb of Lysychansk had been destroyed, all but cutting off evacuation and supply routes for the last troops and civilians remaining in Syevyerodonetsk.
The last bridges over the Siverskiy Donets River have been blown at Syevyerodonetsk, cutting off the Donbas city from the right bank and trapping hundreds of Ukrainian civilians and troops.
Many of those remaining are holed up in a chemical industrial plant, raising fears of a siege similar to what happened in Mariupol, in the last days before the city fell to Russian control.
