Live Ukraine says five special op fighters rescued from Kherson
20220712
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272618042/live-ukraine-says-five-special-op-fighters-rescued-from-kherson
In a statement released Tuesday, Ukrainian military intelligence said, "Five Ukraine citizens held by the Russian occupiers were released" during a "special operation". A military serviceman, a former police officer and three civilians had been freed, it added in a statement.
The European Union has frozen Russian assets worth 13.8 billion $13.8 billion since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders said Tuesday.
Russia took weeks to capture Severodonetsk and Lysychansk, two cities in the Luhansk region, Zalmayev explained. Capturing the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk in the Donetsk region will be much harder because they are "veritable fortresses", he said.
Five Ukrainian fighters captured during a special operation in the Russian-occupied southern Kherson region have been rescued, according to Ukrainian miltiary intelligence.
"For the moment, we have frozen-coming from oligarchs and other entities -- 13.8 billion, so it's quite huge," Reynders told reporters in Prague.
More than 5,000 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24, the UN human rights office OHCHR said Tuesday, adding that the real toll was likely much higher.
At the end of June, an international sanctions task force said its members, including several EU countries, had blocked $30 billion in assets belonging to Russian oligarchs and officials.
"In this atmosphere, I feel like nothing can happen and that life is normal," he said, sitting with his family outside his home. "But we know there's a war and there's no place safe in Ukraine right now."
"There are signs of enemy units preparing to intensify combat operations in the direction of Kramatorsk and Bakhmut," it said, referring to two main cities still under Ukrainian control.
Ukraine warned Monday that Russian forces were preparing to intensify their fight for key cities in the Donbas.
"Our information indicates that the Iranian government is preparing to provide Russia with up to several hundred UAVs, including weapons-capable UAVs on an expedited timeline," he told reporters Monday.
Ukraine said Tuesday it had struck Russian military units and an ammunitions depot in the Russian-controlled region of Kherson, where Moscow-backed authorities claimed seven people had been killed.
"This aid will help Ukraine's democratic government provide essential services for the people of Ukraine," Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in a statement. The funds are part of the $7.5 billion aid package signed by President Joe Biden in May.
Sullivan said it was proof the Russia's overwhelming bombardments in Ukraine, which have led it to consolidate gains in the country's east in recent weeks, was "coming at a cost to the sustainment of its own weapons".
In Bucha, a town outside Kyiv, 36-year-old web designer Maxim said just three months ago, Russian soldiers were rummaging through his home and sleeping in his children's bedroom.
The White House on Monday said it believes Russia is turning to Iran to provide it with "hundreds" of unmanned aerial vehicles, including weapons-capable drones, for use in its ongoing war in Ukraine.
The Ukrainian army warned that Russian troops were likely planning to launch some of their heaviest attacks yet in the Donetsk region.
The battle calculations are also slowly changing in Ukraine's favour, maintained Zalmayev. "Ukrainians are having much more success targeting Russian stockpiles far behind the frontlines and Western weaponry continues to arrive while at the same time, the Russians are running out of manpower to throw at this war."
Ukrainian miltiary intelligence said Tuesday that its troops had rescued five Ukrainians in a special operation in the southern Kherson region, occupied by pro-Russian forces. The rescue came as Ukraine said it struck Russian military units and an ammunitions depot in Kherson, where Moscow-backed authorities claimed seven people were killed. Follow the day's events on our live blog, updated regularly. All times are Paris time, GMT2.
"There are already seven dead for sure and about 60 wounded," TASS quoted Vladimir Leontyev, head of Russia-installed Kakhovka District military-civilian administration in the Kherson region.
OHCHR, which has dozens of human rights monitors in Ukraine, said in its weekly update that 5,024 people had been killed and 6,520 injured since the war began in Feburary.
Moscow's slow advance into the east-despite fierce Ukrainian resistance emboldened by recent deliveries of Western-supplied artillery-contrasts with their failure to capture the capital Kyiv at the start of the invasion.
The Russian Elites, Proxies, and Oligarchs Task Force REPO said its members, who also include the US, Canada, Britain, Japan and other allies, had immobilised $300 billion owned by the Russian central bank.
"Russia has no other choice, it has said that it has to keep up this slow, grinding assault," said Zalmayev. But the Russians still have to capture parts of Luhansk before they turn their sights on the rest of the Donbas "which is a much bigger terrain and much much more heavily fortified than Luhansk was", he noted.
"But I must say that a very large part of it is more than 12 billion... coming from five member states," he added ahead of an informal meeting of EU justice ministers held by the Czech presidency of the EU.
Ukrainian military officials responsible for the south of the country said Ukrainian shelling and missiles had killed 52 Russian servicemen, artillery, armoured vehicles "and a warehouse with ammunition in Nova Kakhovka".
At least seven people were killed in an attack by Ukrainian armed forces on Monday in the Russian-held town of Nova Kakhovka in Ukraine's southern Kherson region, Russian state news agency TASS said on Tuesday.
"There are still many people under the rubble. The injured are being taken to the hospital, but many people are blocked in their apartments and houses," Leontyev added.
European Union finance ministers on Monday approved 1 billion in financial aid to Ukraine, a first instalment of a promised 9-billion budget for Kyiv agreed by European leaders in May.
The US Treasury has announced that it will send an additional $1.7 billion in economic aid to Ukraine to help fund the country's recovery from Russia's invasion.
US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said it was unclear whether Iran had already provided any of the unmanned systems to Russia, but said the US has "information" that indicates Iran is preparing to train Russian forces to use them as soon as this month.
He refused to name the five countries, but added he expected the other countries in the 27-member bloc to step up their efforts soon.
According to TASS, in addition to damaged buildings, the attack also led to an explosion at fertiliser warehouses in the region.
"This will give Ukraine the necessary funds to cover urgent needs and ensure the operation of critical infrastructure," said Zbynek Stanjura, minister of finance from the Czech Republic, which holds the EU's rotating presidency.
As Ukraine readies for a counter-offensive to recapture southeastern parts of the country now under Russian control, Peter Zalmayev, director of the Eurasian Democracy Initiative, assesses the situation in eastern Ukraine.
