Live Macron Germanys Scholz and Italys Draghi arrive in Kyiv
20220616
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272587883/live-macron-germanys-scholz-and-italys-draghi-arrive-in-kyiv
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi have arrived in Kyiv, Macron's office said on Thursday.
Ukrainian officials have been saying they urgently need more weapons to fend off Russian advances in the south and the east, an appeal aimed at the West as French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi travel to Kyiv on Thursday. FRANCE 24's Catherine Norris Trent reports from Ukraine's capital.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi left Poland Thursday on board a train bound for Kyiv, an AFP reporter said.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi arrived in Kyiv Thursday morning, AFP reports, and are due to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Ukrainian troops on Wednesday showed off freshly delivered French artillery being used against Russian targets on the front lines in the eastern Donbas region. Follow FRANCE 24's liveblog for the latest updates. All times are in Paris time GMT2.
Macron said they will meet President Volodymyr Zelensky and go to "a war site where massacres have been committed." The French leader has called alleged Russian atrocities in towns near Kyiv "war crimes".
Efforts to address global food insecurity, which has been dramatically aggravated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, is "of paramount importance ... to prevent a larger number of people moving", UN refugee chief Filippo Grandi told reporters.
The newest US arms package features 18 more 155mm howitzers and 36,000 rounds of ammunition two land-based Harpoon anti-ship missile systems and additional rockets for four Himars precision rocket artillery systems that Ukraine is soon to put in the field.
Zelensky said later in his evening address to the people of Ukraine that he was grateful for the package.
The leaders of France, Germany and Italy are expected to visit Kyiv on Thursday, a day after the United States announced $1 billion worth of new arms for embattled Ukrainian forces. Kyiv's troops are resisting a fierce onslaught in the Donbas region by Russian forces, which are pushing to seize a swathe of eastern and southern Ukraine.
The visit by the three European leaders has taken weeks to organise with the heads of state looking to overcome criticism within Ukraine over their response to the war.
The three leaders left in the morning, according an AFP video, which showed the trio sitting together in a train compartment.
"The United States announced new strengthening of our defence, a new $1 billion support package," Zelensky said. "I am grateful for this support, it is especially important for our defence in Donbas."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Wednesday that he was "grateful" for the latest $1 billion arms package promised by US President Joe Biden, even as troops showed off freshly delivered French artillery on the battlefield in the fierce fight for the eastern Donbas region.
White House national security spokesperson John Kirby said that if the reports are true, the United States "will do everything we can" to get them back.
"If you ask me how many ... I don't know, but it will be pretty big numbers."
If the pair have been captured, they would be the first confirmed US citizens to have been taken as prisoners of war in the conflict.
Ukrainian officials also met in Brussels Wednesday with Western allies, hoping to obtain more ammunition and more lethal weapons to turn the tables on the invaders.
Two US citizens who travelled to Ukraine as volunteer fighters against Russian forces have been missing for a week and are feared captured, family members said on Wednesday.
It is the first time that the leaders of the three European Union countries have visited Kyiv since Russia's February 24 invasion of Ukraine.
"This is a message of European unity addressed to Ukrainian men and women, of support," Macron said as he descended from the train. He said he came "to talk about both the present and the future since the coming weeks, we know, will be very difficult."
Reports that the two men have been taken prisoners of war by Russia are unconfirmed, the families and a US State Department spokesperson said.
Alexander Drueke, 39, of Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Andy Huynh, 27, of Hartselle, Alabama, were last in contact with their families on June 8 and did not return from a mission around the Kharkiv region of eastern Ukraine.
Russia's war in Ukraine has pushed the number of people who are displaced around the world above 100 million for the first time, and the UN warns a deepening food crisis could force many more to flee their homes.
The matter was important for global security and Russia's military operation in Ukraine was no reason to avoid its discussion, Peskov added.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi arrived in Kyiv on Thursday for their first visit to Ukraine since the Russian invasion.
Russian forces continued to pressure Kyiv's troops in Donbas, but Ukrainian forces pushed back, shelling Russian targets in Donbas with newly arrived French Caesar howitzers.
Macron told reporters in Kyiv that he will pass on a message of "European solidarity" to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Reuters reports.
"What we know officially at this point from the State Department is that Andy and Alex are missing," Joy Black, Andy's fiancee, said by phone.
Kyiv has criticised France, Germany and to a lesser extent Italy for alleged foot-dragging in their support for Ukraine, accusing them of being slow to deliver weapons.
They are due to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, and the visit comes as Kyiv is pushing for membership in the EU.
In a show of support, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi are expected in Kyiv. While there has been no official announcement about the trip, Macron is already in the region, having visited Ukraine's neighbours Romania and Moldova in recent days.
Russia and the United States must discuss the extension of the START nuclear arms reduction treaty, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the RIA news agency in an interview on Thursday.
"We do not have confirmation for anything beyond that. Obviously the longer the search goes the more we start to consider other scenarios," she added.
