Macron meets Zelensky in Kyiv after visit to warhit Irpin
20220616
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272588298/macron-meets-zelensky-in-kyiv-after-visit-to-war-hit-irpin
France's Ambassador to Kyiv, Etienne de Poncins, earlier tweeted a photo taken by Italy's La Repubblica paper of the three leaders in a train en route to the Ukrainian capital.
Kyiv has accused France, Germany and, to a lesser extent, Italy, of foot-dragging in their support for Ukraine, saying they were slow to deliver weapons and put their own prosperity ahead of Ukraine's freedom and security.
"It's here, among other places, that the Ukrainians stopped the Russian army descending onto Kyiv," Macron said. "It represents the heroism of the army, but also of the Ukrainian population. And alongside that, you have traces of barbarism."
Irpin is the closest Moscow's army got to the capital at the start of the war. Residential buildings and civilian infrastructure remain damaged in the suburb following Russian troops' attempts to capture Kiev.
Macron visits Romania, Moldova as show of support for Ukraine Von der Leyen meets Zelensky to discuss Ukraine EU membership bid
The three European leaders met with Zelensky in Kyiv on Thursday, after Macron a trip to the war-scarred town of Irpin.
This comes as Macron visited Romania and Moldova earlier this week, underlining the proximity of the Ukraine war and the potential spill-over of the conflict into the disputed Transnistria region.
The trio's visit has taken weeks to organise with the men looking to overcome criticism within Ukraine over their response to the war.
The meeting with Zelensky in Kyiv marks the first time the two leaders have met physically since Russia invaded Ukraine in February.
French President Emmanuel Macron met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv on Thursday after visiting the war-scarred town of Irpin, where Macron praised Ukrainians for their "heroism" in the face of the Russian invasion. The French leader, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi arrived in Ukraine earlier Thursday to deliver "a message of European unity", Macron said.
