Package of tough sanctions against Russia from EU is approaching says Ukraine President Zelensky
20220224
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272333190/package-of-tough-sanctions-against-russia-from-eu-is-approaching-says-ukraine-president-zelensky
"We are creating an anti-Putin coalition. I spoke withvonderleyen, EmmanuelMacron, karlnehammer and RTErdogan about concrete sanctions and concrete assistance for our military. We are waiting for decisive action," tweeted Zelensky.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday recognized Ukraine's breakaway regions - Donetsk and Luhansk - as independent entities escalating the ongoing tensions between the two countries. Ukraine gained independence in 1991 after the disintegration of the Soviet Union.
Leaders from a number of countries including the UK, the US, Canada, and the European Union have condemned Russia's military operations in the Donbas region. ANI
"A package of additional tough sanctions against Russia from the EU is approaching. Discussed all the details with Emmanuel Macron," Zelensky tweeted.
He said that he has spoken to French President Emmanuel Macron, President of EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Karl Nehammer about concrete sanctions and assistance for the military.
"We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities," tweeted Zelensky.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday said that special military operations are being launched "to protect" the people in the Donbas region. He also warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to "consequences".
"We demand the disconnection of Russia from SWIFT, the introduction of a no-fly zone over Ukraine and other effective steps to stop the aggressor," Zelensky added.
Kiev Ukraine, February 24 ANI: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday said that a package of additional tough sanctions against Russia from the European Union is approaching amid Moscow's ongoing military operations in Ukraine as discussed with French President Emmanuel Macron.
Earlier in a series of tweets, the Ukrainian President said that he will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country and lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend the country.
