Putin Plans to Recognize Separatist Regions in Eastern Ukraine
20220222
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272321657/putin-plans-to-recognize-separatist-regions-in-eastern-ukraine
NATO countries, including the U.S, say they are willing to negotiate placement of missiles in Eastern Europe and military exercise in countries closest to Russia, but have refused to accept Putin's key demand to rule out NATO membership for Ukraine and other former Soviet states.
The separatists want Russia to sign friendship treaties and give them military aid to protect them from what they contend is an ongoing Ukrainian military offensive.
About 14,000 people have been killed in the flashpoint Donbas territory since 2014 in fighting between pro-Moscow separatists and Kyiv's forces, trench warfare battles that started after Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula.
The U.S. and its Western allies say they will impose swift and punishing economic sanctions against Russia if it invades Ukraine.
Whether a new Biden-Putin summit occurs is uncertain. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov would first hold talks this week in Europe.
U.S. President Joe Biden agreed 'in principle' late Sunday to meet with Putin to discuss the crisis face to face, as long as Russia does not first invade Ukraine.
Shelling in the Donbas region has ramped up in recent days, with the U.S. and its allies saying they believe Russia is launching 'false-flag' operations it is blaming on Kyiv to justify an invasion. Kyiv says it does not intend to launch a full-scale attack on the region in eastern Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has decided to recognize the Russian-speaking regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine as independent states, a pronouncement that adds to Western fears that Putin is imminently set to invade Ukraine.
But Jake Sullivan, Biden's national security adviser, told ABC's 'Good Morning America' show on Monday, 'All signs look like President Putin and the Russians are proceeding with a plan to execute a major military invasion of Ukraine.'
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters Monday there were not yet any concrete plans for a Biden-Putin meeting, but that such a meeting 'is possible if the leaders consider it feasible.'
The Kremlin said Putin informed the leaders of France and Germany Monday of his decision.
The Russian parliament last week called on Putin to formally recognize the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics, both of which declared independence from Ukraine in 2014, although no other country currently recognizes the republics as sovereign states.
'We have seen just in the last 24 hours further moves of Russian units to the border with no other good explanation other than they're getting into position to attack,' Sullivan said. 'We can't predict the exact time or day, but it certainly looks like the Russians are proceeding.'
Putin said there was 'no prospect' for peace to end the fighting in eastern Ukraine, but Moscow has contended it has no plans to invade Ukraine, even as some 150,000 Russian troops are massed at Ukraine's border.
'We are always ready for diplomacy,' Psaki said. 'We are also ready to impose swift and severe consequences should Russia instead choose war. And currently, Russia appears to be continuing preparations for a full-scale assault on Ukraine very soon.'
RIA, the Russian state news agency, said Russian military and border guards prevented a violation of the border by a sabotage and reconnaissance group from Ukraine and killed five fighters, while not sustaining any losses.
