Russias Bolshoi Scraps Performances by Critical Directors
20220502
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272536370/russias-bolshoi-scraps-performances-by-critical-directors
The Bolshoi performed 'Spartacus' in early April, saying that proceeds would be used to help the families of Russian troops who died in Ukraine.
Speaking to AFP in Berlin last month, Serebrennikov said he felt 'just horror, sadness, shame, pain' about Russia's military campaign in pro-Western Ukraine.
FILE - Russian theater and film director Kirill Serebrennikov walks to a court hearing in Moscow, April 12, 2019.
Moscow - Russia's Bolshoi Theatre has announced it is cancelling the performances directed by Kirill Serebrennikov and Timofey Kulyabin who have spoken out against Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine.
His supporters say the conviction was revenge for his criticism of authoritarianism and homophobia under President Vladimir Putin.
The Bolshoi did not give any reason for the cancellations and spokeswoman Katerina Novikova told AFP on Monday that she had no 'official' comment.
FILE - Bolshoi Ballet soloists and Benois de la Danse laureates Olga Smirnova and Semion Chudin perform the Adagio from the Taming of the Shrew, during a Nominees Gala Concert in the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow, May 26, 2015.
The prestigious theatre also said that instead of 'Don Pasquale,' a comic opera by Gaetano Donizetti directed by Timofey Kulyabin, audiences this week will see a production of Gioachino Rossini's 'The Barber of Seville.'
Kulyabin, 37, who is also believed to be now based in Europe, has spoken out against Putin's decision to send troops to Ukraine.
Late Sunday, Russia's top theatre announced that instead of the three performances of 'Nureev,' a ballet directed by Serebrennikov, the audiences this week will see a production of Aram Khachaturian's ballet, 'Spartacus.'
Serebrennikov, 52, was allowed in March to leave Russia, where he had been found guilty in 2020 of embezzling funds at Moscow's Gogol Centre theatre.
'Nureev' is based on the life of Russian dance legend Rudolf Nureyev, and its use of onstage nudity and profane language outraged Russian conservatives.
