US Embassy in Kyiv calls Russias shelling at Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant as war crime
20220304
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272357946/us-embassy-in-kyiv-calls-russia-shelling-at-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-as-war-crime
The plant is the largest of its kind in Ukraine and contains six of the country's 15 nuclear energy reactors, according to IAEA.
Earlier, IAEA had put its Incident and Emergency Centre IAEAIEC in full 247 response mode due to the serious situation.
However, Russian troops have occupied Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine, where a fire that had threatened potential disaster was extinguished in the early hours of Friday morning, said the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA Rafael Mariano Grossi on Friday.
Meanwhile, the fighting has stopped near the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant on Friday and the radiation levels are currently normal. ANI
International Atomic Energy Agency has said that two people were injured after a fire broke out at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant following heavy shelling from Russian forces.
Director-General of IAEA Rafael Grossi said that the safety systems of the six reactors at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant NPP were not affected by the fire, adding that adding there was no radiation release.
Ukraine informed the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA today that the site of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant NPP had been shelled overnight and Director-General Rafael Mariano Grossi immediately spoke with Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal as well as the country's national nuclear regulator and operator about the serious situation.
"It is a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant. Putin's shelling of Europe's largest nuclear plant takes his reign of terror one step further. TheHague Zaporizhzhia StandwithUkraine," the Embassy said in a tweet.
Kyiv Ukraine, March 4 ANI: US Embassy in Kyiv on Friday local time said that Russia's shelling of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant NPP is a "war crime".
