USfunded biolabs in Ukraine at the heart of ongoing propaganda war
20220311
https://www.russiaherald.com/news/272379822/us-funded-biolabs-in-ukraine-at-the-heart-of-ongoing-propaganda-war
The Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland confirmed that Ukraine "has biological research facilities," which, the US is "now quite concerned Russian forces may be seeking to gain control of, so we are working with the Ukrainians on how they can prevent any of those research materials from falling into the hands of Russian forces should they approach".
Did the US build a cluster of shady, top- secret biolabs in Ukraine aimed at developing bioweapons that are equipped with agressive strains of anthrax or the plague, as Russian propagada claims?
Funds for most of the labs cites the US Ministry of Defense as "donor," according to the documents.
It added that Russia itself "has a long and well-documented track record of using chemical weapons, including in attempted assassinations and poisoning of Putin's political enemies like Alexey Navalny."
Recipients include the Ukraine's Ministry of Health 8 cases and the Ukraine State Veterinary and Phytosanitary Service 4 cases.
Or are these theories just part of a "false flag" operation to cover up possible plans by the Russian army, to "use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine," as White House press secretary Jen Psaki, wrote on Twitter?
In all cases, according to the documents, the head contractor is the Kansas-based company Black  Veatch.
But the unexplained disappearance of the documents triggered an avalanche of conspiracy theories on twitter and QAnon related websites trying to prove that the Russian invasion was, in fact, aimed at destroying the US-funded labs with elaborate maps comparing Russian artillery attacks with the location of the labs.
On 9 March, White House Press Secretary Jan Psaki tweeted that the US "took note of Russia's false claims about alleged U.S. biological weapons labs and chemical weapons development in Ukraine," adding that "we've also seen Chinese officials echo these conspiracy theories," calling the allegations "preposterous" and shooting back that they form "the kind of disinformation operation we've seen repeatedly from the Russians over the years,".
A clue may be found on the website of the US Embassy in Kyiv. Buried on the site is a page which highlights the mission's Defense Threat Reduction Office DTRO.
From the beginning, the labs attracted suspicion and comments from Moscow, culminating in an article in Russian daily Izvestia published on 26 May 2020, which mentions "eight laboratories that were built and modernized with the participation of the US Defense Special Weapons Agency DTRA as part of the Special Biological Engagement Program between 2005 and 2014 and which provided "assistance to Ukraine in preventing the spread of ... pathogens."
In Ukraine, the DTRO runs four programs. One of them now sits at the heart of the current propaganda war between Russia and the US. The program in question is the Biological Threat Reduction Program.
On 6 March, Moscow's propaganda machine itself went into overdrive. Russian news agency Tass carried a report that Russian Defense Ministry spokesperson Igor Konashenkov "revealed evidence of a US-financed military biological program developed in Ukraine," adding that the "Kiev regime" had applied "hasty measures" to "conceal any traces" of the program.
Since the 1990s, Washington and Kiev have cooperated in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and fighting the spread of dangerous diseases. However, since the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a group of allegedly US-funded laboratories have become the subject of stepped-up and relentless conspiracy theories which the US is finding hard to debunk.
The article followed charges by Russian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Maria Zakharova, on 17 April 2020, that "the United States may be developing deadly pathogens" in its "overseas laboratories," adding that "the United States is trying to strengthen its biological presence, including in the post-Soviet space."
According to early reporting by CNBC, the Ukraine program is "meant to make the world a safer place," with Black  Veatch helping to "enhance the partner nation's sustainable capacity to detect, diagnose, report, and respond to infectious disease outbreaks."
This may may be factually true, as the US Department of Defense functioned as "donor" for the millions for the biolabs which are currently all operated by Ukrainian entities, according to the documents.
On 26 February, two days after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Bulgarian journalist Dilyana Gaytandzhieva tweeted that she had found out that the 15 links to pdf documents describing the Ukranian biolabs "were just deleted" from the website of Washington's embassy in Kyiv.
It also built on the 2005 Agreement between the US and Ukraine on weapons proliferation, signed by representatives of the US Department of Defense and the Ukranian Ministry of Health.
In 2010, the company also completed Ukraine's first Bio-Safety Level 3 laboratory under a contract with the DTRA in Odessa. This was not mentioned on the US embassy's website.
The next day, Chinese government spokesperson Zhao Lijian said during a regular press conference on 8 March, without offering any further evidence that " ... US biological labs in Ukraine have indeed attracted much attention. According to reports, a large quantity of dangerous viruses are stored in these facilities. Russia has found during its military operations that the US uses these facilities to conduct bio-military plans."
The US initially tried to play down the rumors, but was in the end forced to react. during a Senate hearing on 8 March.
The program is an offspring of the 1991 Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act: The act was desiged to "reduce the risk of bioterrorism and prevent the proliferation of biological weapons BW technology, expertise, and extremely dangerous pathogens" in former Soviet states."
But whatever the status of the biolabs, the war of words over them has no winner yet.
"The labs were developing biological weapons, and the most dangerous pathogens were destroyed to prevent violations of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention by Ukraine and the United States from being exposed," according to Moscow's Interfax News Agency.
On 10 March, the 15 links to the documents on the US Kyiv embassy website started working once again, clumsily coinciding with a US State Department statement which insisted that the US "does not own or operate any chemical or biological laboratories in Ukraine."
Zhao added that "according to data released by the US, it has 26 bio-labs and other related facilities in Ukraine, over which the US Department of Defense has absolute control."
At the time, RFI found that the documents had indeed disappeared from the US embassy website, but that they were still available via de internet archive Wayback Machine.
"I have no doubt about it," added Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said during a press conference in Istanbul on 10 March. "We asked details and wait for answers."
In the end, Black  Veatch was awarded all contracts for labs mentioned by the US Kyiv website.
The DTRO answers to the Pentagon's Defense Threat Reduction Agency, which, its website reads, has its origins in the notorious 1942-1947 Manhattan Project that gave birth to world's first atomic bomb.
One day later, on 7 March, Russia's state controlled media outlet Ria Novosti quoted Igor Kirillov, the head of the radiation, chemical and biological defense of the Armed Forces as saying that "the Russian military has discovered 30 biolaboratories in Ukraine producing, possibly, bioweapons."
But today the agency and its offices is not about making apocalypse-creating bombs, but rather preventing the spread of them.
The Kyiv embassy's page describing the program explains that it "collaborates with partner countries to counter the threat of outbreaks deliberate, accidental, or natural of the world's most dangerous infectious diseases."
In a list of 15 downloadable PDF documents, the embassy gives detailed information about 12 different laboratories and institutions which have, or are in the process of obtaining, a "permit to work with non-specified pathogens."
At the request of Russia, the UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting on 11 March on alleged manufacture of biological weapons in Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky dismissed Russia's allegations in a video address on 10 March, saying, "No one is developing any chemical or any other weapons of mass destruction" in Ukraine. In 2018, Moscow accused the United States of secretly conducting biological weapons experiments in a laboratory in Georgia, another former Soviet republic. The Security Council meeting Friday on "threats to international peace and security" is scheduled to begin at 1600 GMT.
