Senedd members come together to condemn Russian  invasion of Ukraine
20220227
https://www.tivysideadvertiser.co.uk/news/19954889.senedd-members-come-together-condemn-russian-invasion-ukraine/
Paul Davies, Sam Kurtz and Jane Dodds have all spoken out about the crisis this week.
Ukraine has undergone a dramatic transition since the fall of the Soviet Union into a vibrant democracy," she added.
Russias invasion may seem like a far-flung conflict for many in Wales, but we must be unwavering in our support for the freedom of Ukraine or come to face the consequences in the future.
The UK Government has imposed a severe package of sanctions that will hit the Russian economy  sending a strong signal that the UK will not stand by in the face of an unprovoked, illegal and premeditated attack against a sovereign democratic state," he added.
Mr Davies described Russias attack as deplorable, Mr Kurtz saidRussia was acting as a bully and Ms Dodds said the rules-based international order is under threat like never before.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Conservative MS for Preseli Pembrokeshire Paul Davies said the attack on Ukraine is illegal and must be stopped.
Senedd Constituency Member for Welsh Conservative Party representing Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire, Mr Kurtz said the UK must respond by every means possible to support Ukraine.
The Russian attack on Ukraine is deplorable and its vital that action is taken to condemn Putins actions.
The country is not the property of Russia, or more specifically Putin despite the effort of Putins regime to invoke imperialist propaganda of Russians and Ukrainians being one people.
Ukrainian sovereignty has been violated and innocent civilians will be killed by Russias desire for conflict," he said.
Ms Dodds went on to say Ukraine is a free independent country and not the property of Russia.
She said: The rules-based international order is under threat like never. After years of hybrid warfare, threats and provocations, which tragically have seen over 13,000 casualties in the last few years, a further Russian invasion into Ukraine is now underway.
Putins Russia is behaving like a bully, and all bullies must be stood up to.
Welsh Liberal Democrat and Senedd Regional Member for Mid and West Wales, Dodds said this was a critical time in European history.
The liberal values that have underpinned European peace security for generations, namely the respect for a rules-based international order, the right to national self-determination, international law and democracy are now directly under threat.
