Russia Will Teach Compulsory Patriotic Education To Students As Young As Seven
20220420
https://www.ladbible.com/news/latest-russia-compulsory-patriotic-education-for-7yearolds-20220420
The move was, of course, endorsed by Russian President Vladimir Putin, who wanted to ensure that children were taught the 'correct'version of Russian history.
The plan will see the current age of compulsory history lessons in Russia reduced by three, seeing historical education incorporated into parts of the school curriculum.
Russia's education officials say the country will now begin lessons in history at the first grade. Currently, schoolchildren don't start this subject until the fifth grade. Prepare to see a lot of 6-year-olds reciting odes to the USSR's WWII feats. pic.twitter.comqzYwxEFZJF
The problem is the audience of the state propaganda. We cannot reach them, and, to be honest, they do not have any demand for independent information.
Natalia Sindeeva, who co-founded the popular independent channel Dozhd TV, warned the majority of the population believes the state media coverage.
Russia is getting set to ramp up its patriotic education amid the war in Ukraine, in a move that will see compulsory historical education introduced to children as young as seven.
She said: These people watch propaganda. They have completely opposite footage, they think it is Ukrainians who bomb Mariupol, they believe that Ukrainians killed people in Bucha.
He said: A deep understanding of our history and a respectful, thoughtful attitude to the great patriotic, spiritual and cultural heritage of the Fatherland enables us to draw correct conclusions from the past.
To accelerate the childrens patriotism, schools in Russia will also start each week by singing the national anthem and raising the Russian flag.
We will never allow it to be written that we somehow treated other nations  our fraternal nations of Ukraine and Belarus  poorly. We will do everything in our power so that historical memory is preserved.
Russian Education Ministry made the announcement at the opening of an exhibition called Everyday Nazism, set to be shown at a nationwide schools forum, The Power is in the Truth.
Ensuring children are taught an altered view of historical events isnt the only form of manipulation to incite patriotism that Putin has employed since his invasion of Ukraine.
Russias actions on Ukraine cant even be described as an invasion or war, and must instead be called a special military operation.
It is a majority of the people  they support the war, they support Putin, they make it easier for him.
Last month, the Kremlin passed a law criminalising any public opposition or news reporting that doesnt support Putins narrative on the war.
The ironically named forum The Power is in the Truth will be the first of its kind in Russia, set to take place on the day Russia celebrates the anniversary of Nazi Germanys surrender to Soviet troops on May 9, 1945.
Russian Education Minister Sergei Krastov said: Historical education will begin in schools from the first grade.
