Sajid Javid Says Russian Invasion Of Ukraine Has Begun
20220222
https://www.ladbible.com/news/sajid-javid-says-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-has-begun-20220222
Just after 2.00am local time, he said: We are not afraid. We wont cede anything.
We are committed to peace and diplomacy. We are on our land, we are not afraid of anyone or anything, and we will not give anything to anyone, and we are sure of that."
Dame Barbara Woodward, the UKs ambassador to the United Nations, has also said that Russia has brought us to the brink of full-scale war, claiming that Putins actions will have severe and far-reaching consequences.
In reference to the Ukraines military might when Russia took Crimea eight years ago, he said: Its not February 2014, but February 2022.
Last night, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky delivered an address to the country.
"The humanitarian impact will be terrible on civilians fleeing the fighting. We know that women and children will suffer most, she said.
"We have seen that he has recognised these breakaway eastern regions in Ukraine and from the reports we can already tell that he has sent in tanks and troops.
An invasion  she claimed  would bring forth the forces of war, death, and destruction to those in Ukraine.
The UKs Health Secretary Sajid Javid has said that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has begun as the UK prepares further sanctions against Vladimir Putins country.
He told BBC Breakfast: "We've always preferred dialogue and still continue to do so but it's clear from President Putin's actions that he has chosen confrontation over dialogue."
Speaking on Sky News, the Cabinet minister said: "We are waking up to a very dark day in Europe and it's clear from what we have already seen and found out today that the Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity.
Javid said it currently remains the case that the UK will not be sending troops to Ukraine.
Last night, Putin gave an address to the Russian people in which he said that he plans to officially recognise the Peoples Republics of both Luhansk and Donetsk, which is viewed by Ukraine and most countries worldwide as Ukrainian sovereign territory.
