Northeast medic witnesses Russian tank blow up after opening fire on Ukraine hospital
20220517
https://www.pressandjournal.co.uk/fp/news/scotland/4301531/montrose-medic-ukraine/
People are clearly concerned about my being here, but they all understand that this is what I want to do and the reasons why it is important we help.
He said: Ive been in a couple of war zones before  but not on this scale.
Now our vital humanitarian support will help save lives and deliver medical expertise to the frontline.
The attack is thought to be one of more than 130 on healthcare facilities since the start of Russias invasion.
There were people with traumatic amputations, flesh burns, blast injuries, just horrific injuries. Its the volume that is genuinely astounding.
He was then shown the devastation inside the hospital, which now cannot be used, from the shelling.
I was shown round the wards and there was just devastation everywhere where the tank shells had hit.
Foreign secretary Liz Truss said: The Kremlin continues to lie about deliberate attacks on Ukraines hospitals and the indiscriminate targeting of civilians.
I dont think you ever get used to going into conflict zones. Im reasonably comfortable with seeing limb injuries having worked in South Sudan and other places, but oh my God, the scale of this.
The Foreign, Commonwealth  Development Office has given UK-Med cash and supplies to help Ukraines medics deal with mass casualties.
You are used to humanitarian deployments to conflict zones in Africa, but I never, ever expected to be doing this work in Europe. This situation is unfathomable.
The tank is being guarded as evidence of a war crime and I could not believe what I was seeing.
People break down in tears and you are almost in tears with them. I think its probably the strongest feelings Ive had going anywhere.
David Anderson says he was left reeling when he saw the tanks burnt out wreckage.
David said he is aware of the risks he faces and is driven by his determination to help.
He is no stranger to working on humanitarian missions in crisis countries, having been in Myanmar and Beirut after the explosion in 2020.
David has been in Ukraine since March 14 and is helping deliver the UKs aid in the country.
Very possibly this depth of feeling is because Ive never been involved in a crisis like this that is so close to home.
David, who is from Montrose and a volunteer and humanitarian health advisor with frontline aid charity UK-Med, said: I find it unbelievable and depressing that a hospital would be deliberately attacked.
A north-east nurse volunteering in Ukraine has spoken of his shock after seeing a Russian tank blow up as it fired at a hospital.
We walked into one hospital, and they said there were 200 people, but it felt like more.
Have I personally felt scared? Id be a fool to say that I havent, but I wouldnt say that Ive been asked to go anywhere or do anything I dont want to do, he said.
