Ukrainian RGU student says he faces being thrown off course after bank accounts in homeland frozen
20220328
https://www.pressandjournal.co.uk/fp/news/aberdeen-aberdeenshire/4098725/ukrainian-student-rgu/
They are not afraid POTUS! The speech was a disaster for Ukraine. Followed by Russia air raids on Lviv Lutsk and Rivne regions. pic.twitter.comZYZZDfCLzT
A Ukrainian student at Robert Gordon University RGU in Aberdeen fears he is facing the possibility of being thrown off his course due to his bank accounts being frozen while his country is being invaded.
The student plans to set up a bank account in the UK that will let him take out 500 as a loan, and is hoping to pay RGU incrementally. He first contacted RGU on March 14 to ask if alternative financial arrangements could be made but is still waiting for a response.
In the early days of the conflict RGU launched a dedicated support fund for Ukrainian students in Aberdeen.
Lynn Kilbride, the universitys vice principal for academic development and student experience said: RGU is committed to supporting our Ukrainian students and staff and has set up a dedicated Ukraine crisis support service through our Ask RGU platform where students can contact our student finance team directly.
Its frustrating that my bank account has been frozen but I can appreciate why the Ukrainian government did that, and I would do the same if I was in their place.
The students home region of Rivne has been repeatedly under attack by the Russians. Last week, a Ukrainian military facility was bombed by the Russians.
He said: The Ukrainian government froze my bank account because they dont want any money leaving Ukraine.
I want to go home and fight but there are a lot of things keeping me here.
The Ukranian added: It is annoying that last month RGU sent emails around saying they stand with Ukraine, but they have not yet replied to my email about my financial situation.
She added: The university has also launched an emergency financial support fund, which any student affected by the crisis can apply to.
While we cannot comment on the specifics of an individual students situation for data protection purposes, all supportincluding financialis prioritised per case with the priority being students who are in immediate crisis.
It has also stressed no Ukranian student is at risk of being removed from the course  adding that students in crisis are being prioritised.
Meanwhile, he says he faces the possibility of having his career ambitions thrown into tatters by being thrown off the course due to his bank account being frozen.
The student, who wishes to remain anonymous, believes he must pay an outstanding sum of student fees in two months time  but has no access to his money.
Were providing practical advice, wellbeing services, and support to Ukrainian, Russian, and Belarusian staff and students.
Where necessary, we are also directing students to RGUs counselling and support service, which includes trained counsellors and wellbeing staff. This is available to all of our students, regardless of their location or mode of study.
He added: Russians are no longer talking to me anymore even though we used to be friends. Now when they see me they ignore me like I dont exist.
My home was bombed and there was some really rare stuff that I collected such as knives, old Ukrainian money, old Soviet money and a really old pure gold Greek coin. Now that is all gone.
The Ukrainian student at RGU is currently torn between continuing with his studies or returning home to fight for his homeland.
The Ukrainian government froze all bank accounts on February 27 when they imposed martial law  with no sign of when money will be allowed to be used overseas again.
