Seafood industry braces for losses of jobs fish due to sanctions
20220331
https://hickoryrecord.com/news/national/seafood-industry-braces-for-losses-of-jobs-fish-due-to-sanctions/article_15cfffed-7d68-5720-a012-7f6b8134307b.html
"We're a massive part of U.K. culture and it would be a shame to see that go," he told broadcaster ITV.
WarnerMedia is also pausing all new business in Russia, ceasing broadcast of its channels, halting all new content licensing with Russian entities, and pausing planned theatrical and games releases.
The impact is likely to be felt globally, as well as in places with working waterfronts. One of those is Maine, where more than $50 million in seafood products from Russia passed through Portland in 2021, according to federal statistics.
He added that "our licensed partner has agreed to immediately pause store operations and will provide support to the nearly 2,000 employees in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood."
"We are deeply concerned by how the crisis keeps escalating in Ukraine," the company added.
In the U.S., the dependence on foreign cod stems to the loss of its own once-robust Atlantic cod fishery that cratered in the face of overfishing and environmental changes. U.S. fishermen, based mostly in New England, brought more than 100 million pounds 45.4 million kilograms of cod to the docks per year in the early 1980s, but the 2020 catch was less than 2 million pounds 900,000 kilograms.
The credit giant, which has operated in Russia for more than 25 years, had previously announced that it had "blocked multiple financial institutions" from its network as a result of anti-Russian sanctions, and would "continue to work with regulators in the days ahead."
In the U.K., where fish and chips are a cultural marker, shop owners and consumers alike are bracing for price surges. British fish and chip shops were already facing a squeeze because of soaring energy costs and rising food prices.
PORTLAND, Maine AP  The worldwide seafood industry is steeling itself for price hikes, supply disruptions and potential job losses as new rounds of economic sanctions on Russia make key species such as cod and crab harder to come by.
Airbus followed Boeing with a similar move. In a statement, the company said it has "suspended support services to Russian airlines, as well as the supply of spare parts to the country."
A company spokesperson said that the decision was made "in light of the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine," and that the company hoped "for a swift and peaceful resolution to this tragedy."
Disney is also suspending the release of its theatrical films in Russia, citing "the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine."
The film is one of the biggest blockbusters of the year, and is being released in most countries by Warner Bros. which, like CNN, is a unit of WarnerMedia.
The entertainment giant had multiple films set for release in Russia in the coming months. That includes Marvel's "Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness" on May 5 and Pixar's "Lightyear" on June 16.
The company stated that "our hearts are with the people who are enduring unconscionable effects from these tragic events in Ukraine," adding that it will monitor the situation as things change.
UPS and FedEx have suspended operations in Russia and Belarus. FedEx said it suspended operations to "support the people of Ukraine." DHL said it has suspended inbound shipments to Russia and Belarus.
U.S. consumers are most likely to notice the impact of sanctions via price and availability of fish, said Kanae Tokunaga, who runs the Coastal and Marine Economics Lab at Gulf of Maine Research Institute in Portland.
Regulators have tried to save the fishery with management measures such as very low fishing quotas, and many fishermen targeting other East Coast groundfish species such as haddock and flounder now avoid cod altogether.
"We might be able to bring in more from Norway, a little more from Canadian fisheries," Golet said. "It really is driven by the price of those imports."
The latest round of U.S. attempts to punish Russia for the invasion of Ukraine includes bans on imports of seafood, alcohol and diamonds. The U.S. is also stripping "most favored nation status" from Russia. Nations around the world are taking similar steps.
"Maybe this is a time to use haddock or hake or maybe monkfish, something different," Martens said. "If it's going to disrupt supply chains it does present an opportunity for other species to fill that void."
A company spokesperson confirmed the aircraft maker was pausing "parts, maintenance and technical support services for Russian airlines," and had also "suspended major operations in Moscow and temporarily closed our office in Kyiv."
For U.S. producers of seafood staples such as fish and chips, the lack of Russian cod could mean pivoting to other foreign sources, said Walt Golet, a research assistant professor at the University of Maine's School of Marine Sciences.
Russia is one of the largest producers of seafood in the world, and was the fifth-largest producer of wild-caught fish, according to a 2020 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Russia is not one of the biggest exporters of seafood to the U.S., but it's a world leader in exports of cod the preference for fish and chips in the U.S.. It's also a major supplier of crabs and Alaska pollock, widely used in fast-food sandwiches and processed products like fish sticks.
"We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation," a Disney spokesperson said.
Mastercard said it was suspending its network services in Russia. Cards supported by Russian banks will not work in the company's network, and any cards issued outside of Russia will not work within the country.
In a Tuesday message to employees, Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson said that "today, we have decided to suspend all business activity in Russia."
A spokesperson for the US satellite carrier told CNN Business that it had already been reviewing whether to renew the outlet's carriage agreement, which was due to expire later this year. Russia's war on Ukraine sped up its decision, according to the representative.
Andrew Crook, head of the National Federation of Fish Friers, said earlier this month that  even before the war  he expected a third of Britain's fish and chip shops to go out of business. If fish prices shoot up even higher, "we are in real dire straits," he said.
"As the stability and safety of our operations is already being directly and indirectly impacted by sanctions, new Maersk bookings to and from Russia will be temporarily suspended, with exception of foodstuffs, medical and humanitarian supplies," the Denmark-based company said in a statement.
Russia exported more than 28 million pounds 12.7 million kilograms of cod to the U.S. from Jan. 1, 2020, to Jan. 31, 2022, according to census data.
CNBC reports that on March 11, President Biden issued an executive order halting imports of Russian products, such as diamonds, seafood and alcohol.
American Express said in a statement that globally issued American Express cards will no longer work in Russia, and cards issued in Russia won't work outside the country. The company also said it is ending its business operations in Belarus.
WarnerMedia said on February 28 that it would pause the release of "The Batman" in Russia.
In mid-March, the U.K. slapped a 35 tariff hike on Russian whitefish, including chip-shop staples cod and haddock.
Visa said it is suspending all of its operations in Russia. It will end all Visa transactions within its borders, and Visa cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside of the country. In addition, all Visa cards worldwide "will no longer work within the Russian Federation," Visa said.
As an alternative, producers and consumers could try underutilized fish species caught domestically, such as Atlantic pollock and redfish, said Ben Martens, executive director of Maine Coast Fishermen's Association.
The European Union and United Kingdom are both deeply dependent on Russian seafood. And prices of seafood are already spiking in Japan, a major seafood consumer that is limiting its trade with Russia.
Seafood processors in Massachusetts are concerned about job losses due to loss of Russian products, Democratic U.S. Sen. Ed Markey, who does support sanctions on Russia, said.
"If you're getting cod from Russia, it's going to be a problem," said Glen Libby, an owner of Port Clyde Fresh Catch, a seafood market in Tenants Harbor, Maine. "That's quite a mess. We'll see how it turns out."
"Because seafood is a global commodity, even if they are not harvested in Russia, you will notice the price hike," Tokunaga said.
"I have heard from seafood processors in my home state with concerns about potential sudden effects of a new, immediate ban on imports on their workforce, including hundreds of union workers in the seafood processing industry," he said on the Senate floor in February.
