Anxiety grows for Ukraines grain farmers as harvest begins
20220710
https://mynorthwest.com/3555717/anxiety-grows-for-ukraines-grain-farmers-as-harvest-begins/
In eastern and southern regions near the front line, farmers continue to work their fields despite the threat to their lives.
Meanwhile, many farmers in Ukraine could go bankrupt. They are facing the most difficult situation since gaining independence in 1991, Horbachov said.
Ukraine has about 65 million to 67 million tons of commercial grain storage capacity, according to Horbachov, although 20 of that is in Russian-occupied territories. Farmers themselves can store 20 million to 25 million tons, but some of that is also in occupied areas.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said his country is working with the U.N., Ukraine, and Russia to find a solution, offering safe corridors in the Black Sea for wheat shipments.
Without opening the Black Sea ports, I dont see any solution for Ukrainian farmers to survive, he said. And if they dont survive, we wont be able to feed African countries.
The green spikes of wheat are already ripening. Soon, the horizon will look like the Ukrainian flag, a sea of gold beneath a blue sky. Chubuk expects to reap 500 tons, but for the first time in his 30 years as a farmer, hes uncertain about what to do with it.
Before the invasion, Chubuk could sell a ton of wheat from his Kyiv region farm for $270. Now he cant find a buyer even at $135 per ton.
By the end of September, when the harvest of corn and sunflower seeds begins, Ukraine will face a shortage of storage capacity.
With Russias blockade of Ukraines Black Sea ports, the fate of the upcoming harvest in Ukraine is in doubt. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization says the war is endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
Before Russias invasion, Ukraine could export 6 million to 7 million tons of grain per month, but in June it shipped only 2.2 million tons, according to the Ukrainian Grain Association. Normally, it sends about 30 of its grain to Europe, 30 to North Africa and 40 to Asia, said Mykola Horbachov, head of the association.
The war has trapped about 22 million tons of grain inside Ukraine, according to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a growing crisis for the country known as the breadbasket of Europe for its exports of wheat, corn and sunflower oil.
Russias invasion also caused transportation costs to soar. The price to deliver this years harvested barley to the closest Romanian port, Constanta, is now $160 to $180 per ton, up from $40 to $45. And yet a farmer selling barley to a trader gets less than $100 per ton.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
For now, Ukraine is trying less-effective alternatives to export its grain, at least to Europe. Currently, 30 of exports go via three Danube River ports in southwestern Ukraine.
Now, in the best-case scenario, farmers will harvest only 70 million tons of grain this year, Horbachov estimated.
Ukraine had a record-breaking grain harvest last year, collecting 107 million tons. Even more had been expected this year.
ZHURIVKA, Ukraine AP  Oleksandr Chubuks warehouse should be empty, awaiting the new harvest, with his supply of winter wheat already shipped abroad. Instead, his storage bins in central Ukraine are piled high with grain he cannot ship out because of the war with Russia.
Most of the farmers are running the risk of becoming bankrupt very soon. But they dont have any other option but to sell their grain cheaper than its cost, Horbachov said.
His workers risk their lives for little return, with storage facilities now refusing to take their grain, Vakulenko said.
The whole system backs up, including storage options, said James Heneghan, senior vice president at Gro Intelligence, a global climate and agriculture data analytics company. The system was meant to keep Ukraines exports flowing, not store them.
It can be finished in a moment by bombing, or as we see now, the fields are on fire, said Yurii Vakulenko in the Dnipropetrovsk region, black smoke visible in the distance.
Without money coming in for grain, future harvests are challenging. Farmers need to purchase fertilizers, seeds, diesel, pay the salary, Horbachov said. Ukrainian farmers cant print money.
The country also is trying to ship grain via 12 border crossings with European countries, but trucks must wait in line for days, and Europes infrastructure cannot yet absorb such a volume of grain, Horbachov said.
Francesca Ebel, Valerii Rezik and Oleksandr Stashevskyi in Ukraine and Aya Batrawy in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, contributed.
The FAO recently announced a $17 million project to help address the storage deficit. Heneghan of Gro Intelligence noted that one temporary solution could be providing farmers with silo bags for storage.
