AP PHOTOS A POWs legacy of Mariupol siege pictures
20220521
https://mynorthwest.com/3481882/ap-photos-a-pows-legacy-of-mariupol-siege-pictures/
Kozatsky posted a selection of images on Twitter before joining the stream of troops laying down their arms this week. They marched out of the Azovstal mill in their hundreds, carrying the wounded. They were following orders from the Ukrainian high command to save their lives, because theyd fulfilled their previous mission to hamper Russias advance.
For nearly three months, Azovstals garrison clung on, refusing to be winkled out from the tunnels and bunkers under the ruins of the labyrinthine mill. Because of its tenacious defense, not only were Russian troops who had captured the rest of Mariupol unable to declare victory, they couldnt even all be peeled away to fight in battles on other Ukrainian fronts.
One shows a soldier smoking a cigarette to its nub. Was it to be his last?
Squeezed against a concrete wall in heavy combat boots and camouflage fatigues, he was surely uncomfortable  but too engrossed to care. Or to notice the photographer hovering to his right, immortalizing the moment inside this last bastion of Ukrainian resistance, the pulverized Azovstal steel mill.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine AP  Somewhere inside the grimly defended Mariupol steel plant, where he and his comrades were making their last stand, one Ukrainian soldier was tackling a crossword puzzle.
Send them to all journalistic awards and photo contests, he said. If I win something, it will be very nice after the release.
With reading glasses perched on the end of his nose and deep in concentration, he looked peaceful  in this war-torn city and amid a violent siege that was anything but.
But Kozatskys photos tell stories that cant be razed so easily, immortalizing the defenders in lulls between fighting.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
One more shows two members of the garrison lost in thought, staring into a wood fire. Its easy to imagine that they were conjuring up memories of happy familiar faces and calmer times miles away.
Once they are also in Russian hands, the fall of Mariupol will be complete. Russia will be in full control of a bombarded city that now hardly stands.
Well, thats all. Thank you from the shelters of Azovstal  the place of my death and my life, he wrote.
Nearly 2,000 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered this week, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said. An unknown number of others remain inside, seemingly not yet ready to give up the mill, for which their brothers and sisters gave up their lives.
In another, with an electric strimmer one fighter calmly trims a comrades silver hair. Life, even here, must go on, it seemed to whisper, gaining power from its mundaneness.
Photographer-soldier Dmytro Kozatsky was among them, on the Ukrainian side. He is now a prisoner of war. His photos are his legacy.
