Dori Local woman born in Ukraine calls Russian attacks on children a new kind of sick
20220301
https://mynorthwest.com/3371955/dori-local-woman-born-in-ukraine-calls-russian-attacks-on-children-a-new-kind-of-sick/
This, her family tells her, is when they feel the support from everyones prayers, Soltys said.
When you want to take a country, invade. Take their industrial zones, take what you need  the big things. I can almost understand that, Soltys continued. But when you start attacking pediatric oncology units, child care, hospitals, big high-rise residential zones  that is sick. That is a new kind of sick. You dont do that. You dont touch the children in any war.
Not long after the initial assaults, Russian attacks soon got dirty and inhumane, Soltys said, her voice catching as she fought through emotions.
Listen to the Dori Monson Show weekday afternoons from noon  3 p.m. on KIRO Newsradio, 97.3 FM. Subscribe to the podcast here.
I am getting my information straight from there, she said. Regularly, I am hearing about Ukrainian citizens who are feeding Russian soldiers  not killing them. Many Russian soldiers say, We didnt understand where we were coming. So many of them didnt understand the mission. Russian leaders took their cell phones away.
Meanwhile, Soltys told Doris listeners that she is getting reports about missiles going into space without hurting civilians or destroying buildings.
Born and raised in Ukraine before moving to the United States when she was 5 years old, Soltys still has close ties with her extended family in eastern Europe. She described some family members hunkering down in windowless bathrooms for protection  and others fighting from the ground.
News from her Ukrainian aunts, uncles, and cousins caught in Russias invasion of her homeland alternately grip Covington resident Kristina Soltys in a whirlwind of fear and ethnic pride.
While many in the West have called Ukrainians strong and brave, Soltys wants Americans to understand their depth of kindness.
Listen to Doris entire interview with a Ukrainian-American Covington womans war stories from her homeland:
Learning of the initial invasion shook me more than I expected  far more than I expected, Soltys told Dori and his listeners Monday.
But it was her anger that spilled over on The Dori Monson Show when she described her familys stories about Russian attacks targeting locations with Ukrainian children.
