Everything is on fire Ukraine region weathers bombardment
20220621
https://mynorthwest.com/3526366/everything-is-on-fire-ukraine-region-weathers-bombardment/
The Russian military currently controls about 95 of the Luhansk region. But Moscow has struggled for weeks to overrun it completely, despite deploying additional troops and possessing a massive advantage in military assets.
Geopolitical tensions stemming from Russias invasion returned to Lithuania. Due to European Union sanctions on Moscow, the Baltic country earlier this month banned rail traffic from crossing its territory from Russia to the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad.
It is a sheer catastrophe, Haidai told the AP in written comments about the plant. Our positions are being fired at from howitzers, multiple rocket launchers, large-caliber artillery, missile strikes.
The relevant measures are being drawn up in an interagency format and will be adopted shortly, Patrushev said, without elaborating. He added: Their consequences will have a significant negative impact on the population of Lithuania.
In the city of Sievierodonetsk, the hot spot of the fighting, Ukrainian defenders held on to the Azot chemical plant in the industrial outskirts. About 500 civilians are sheltering at the plant, and Haidai said the Russian forces are turning the area into ruins.
The defense of the chemical plant recalled the besieged Azovstal steel mill in the brutalized city of Mariupol, where Ukrainian troops were pinned down for weeks.
The airstrikes on Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk ruined more than 10 residential buildings and a police station. In the city of Avdiivka in the Donetsk region, a school burned down as the result of the shelling, the presidents office said. The Luhansk and Donetsk regions make up the Donbas.
 John Kirby, a national security spokesman for the White House, said it was appalling that the Kremlin suggested two Americans captured by Russian forces in Ukraine could be sentenced to death. Kirby declined to say what steps the U.S. would take if Russia does not treat Alex Drueke and Andy Huynh, both from Alabama, as prisoners of war under the Geneva Conventions. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said it depends on the investigation, when asked during an NBC interview whether the Americans could be sentenced to death like two Britons and a Moroccan captured while fighting for Ukraine.
Speaking Tuesday to graduates of Russian military academies at a lavish Kremlin reception, Russian President Vladimir Putin hailed the Russian armed forces as heirs to the countrys legendary military traditions. The country is now going through another series of trials, he said, expressing confidence that Russia will overcome all the challenges.
Today everything that can burn is on fire, Serhiy Haidai, the governor of Ukraines eastern Luhansk region, told The Associated Press.
Russias war has caused alarm over food supplies from Ukraine to the rest of the world and gas supplies from Russia, as well as raising questions about security in Western Europe.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russian attacks laid down a curtain of fire Tuesday across areas of eastern Ukraine where pockets of resistance are denying Moscow full military control of the region, almost four months after the Kremlin unleashed its invasion.
With the help of tactical movements, the Ukrainian army is strengthening defenses in the Luhansk region, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address. That really is where the toughest situation is now.
Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, also came under heavy Russian shelling on Tuesday. Gov. Oleh Syniehubov said 15 civilians were killed and 16 wounded in Kharkiv and elsewhere in the region.
Separately, U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland met for about an hour at a Ukrainian-Polish border post with Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova. They discussed how the U.S. can help identify, apprehend and prosecute anyone involved in war crimes and other atrocities in Ukraine.
Garland also tapped Eli Rosenbaum  a 36-year Justice Department veteran who headed efforts to identify and deport Nazi war criminals  as counselor for war crimes accountability. He will coordinate efforts to hold accountable those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities in Ukraine.
 Zelenskyy said he spoke with leaders from nine European Union members  Croatia, Denmark, Hungary, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Portugal, Slovakia and Spain  in anticipation of Fridays meeting of EU leaders to decide whether to grant Ukraine candidate status. He said his agenda for Wednesday is just as full. We are expanding the circle of those who support Ukraines candidacy and making it more likely that Fridays decision will be positive, he said.
Kaliningrad, with a population of around 430,000 people, is wedged between Lithuania and Poland, both EU countries, and is isolated from the rest of Russia.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Neighboring Lysychansk, the only city in the Luhansk region that is still fully under Ukrainian control, also was targeted by multiple airstrikes.
We and our partners will pursue every avenue available to make sure that those who are responsible for these atrocities are held accountable, Garland said in a statement.
Zelenskyy said the attacks in the Kharkiv region were especially cruel and cynical because they brought no clear benefit to the Russian forces. The Russian army is deaf to any rationality. It simply destroys, simply kills, and in this way it shows its command that it is not really standing in place, he said in his video address.
 The U.S. State Department confirmed the death of a U.S. citizen in Ukraine who is believed to be only the second American to have been killed while fighting in the conflict.
Nikolai Patrushev, the powerful secretary of the Kremlins Security Council and a hard-liner, visited Kaliningrad on Tuesday and vowed to respond to the ban.
 Britains Ministry of Defense said in an intelligence report that Ukraines coastal defenses have largely neutralized Russias ability to project maritime force in the northwestern Black Sea. This has undermined the viability of Russias original operational design for the invasion, which involved holding the Odesa region at risk from the sea, the report said.
International support for Ukraine was demonstrated once more when a Nobel Peace Prize medal auctioned off by Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov sold Monday night for $103.5 million, shattering the old record for a Nobel. The auction aimed to raise money for Ukrainian child refugees.
 Russian authorities blocked the website of British newspaper The Telegraph over an article it published, the internet rights group Roskomsvoboda reported Tuesday. It said Russias media and internet regulator, Roskomnadzor, blocked Russian access to a story that alleged that Russian forces had prepared a mobile crematorium for use in its war with Ukraine, possibly to hide its military casualties. The move made the entire Telegraph website inaccessible for some Russians.
