EXPLAINER A mediating role for Erdogan in Ukraine crisis
20220203
https://mynorthwest.com/3335752/explainer-a-mediating-role-for-erdogan-in-ukraine-crisis/
Speaking to reporters before his departure, Erdogan would not provide information on Turkeys possible mediation plans, saying he first needs to meet with both leaders.
Turkey would be hard pressed to join in potential sanctions or operations against Russia. The country, which is struggling to cope with a major currency crisis, banks on tourism revenue to help its economy and provide vital foreign exchange, and Russia is Turkeys main tourism market. Moscow has exploited that situation in the past, stopping flights carrying tourists to Turkey  and halting agricultural imports  after Ankara downed a Russian military jet deployed in Syria in 2015.
Heres a look at Turkeys ties to Ukraine and Russia, and Erdogans possible role as a mediator:
Eight agreements, including a free trade pact, were signed during Thursdays visit  which coincides with the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between Turkey and Ukraine.
The Turkish president has voiced fears that the situation could turn into a new crisis.
Turkey has historic relations with Ukraine and strong ethnic ties with Ukraines Crimean Tatar community.
ANKARA, Turkey AP  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has again offered to mediate between Russia and Ukraine after talks with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Thursday, as Turkey walks a tightrope balancing its relations with both countries.
The situation over Ukraine has put Turkey in a bind. The NATO member has been trying to repair its frayed ties with the U.S. and other alliance members, following its controversial decision to buy advanced Russian air defense technology. But at the same time it cannot afford to damage its ties with Moscow.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Ankara has close ties to both Kyiv and Moscow, and Erdogan believes his country can play a key role in defusing the tensions. He has suggested in the past that Turkey could be a venue for possible peace efforts and renewed an offer to host tension-reducing talks during his meeting with Zelenskyy.
Turkey also needs to tread carefully with Russia in Syria. Ankara needs Moscows approval to continue its presence in northern Syria, despite the two supporting opposite sides in Syrias civil war. In 2020, 37 Turkish soldiers were killed in Russian-backed airstrikes against rebels in Syrias last rebel-held Idlib province.
Turkey is prepared to undertake its part in order to end the crisis between two friendly nations that are its neighbors in the Black Sea, Erdogan said after his meeting. I have stressed that we would be happy to host a summit meeting at a leadership level or technical level talks.
A key NATO member in the strategically important Black Sea region, Turkey has been urging a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
Ankara has increased defense cooperation with Ukraine in recent years. It has sold Kyiv armed Bayraktar TB2 drones which have been used against pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraines Donbass region, angering Moscow. The two countries also plan joint defense industry production projects.
Last week, Erdogan said it would not be rational for Russia to invade Ukraine, and that Turkey would do whatever is necessary as a NATO member. However, he has also spoken of a need for a meaningful dialogue with Russia to resolve any reasonable security concerns it may have and to explain to Moscow why some of its requests are not acceptable.
To further complicate matters, Russia is a major source for Turkeys natural gas and is currently building the countrys first nuclear power station.
After seeing Zelenskyy, Erdogan hopes to host Russian President Vladimir Putin in Turkey. He has said Putins visit is likely to take place after the Russian president returns from China, where he will attend the Beijing Winter Olympics.
Ankara has spoken out against Russias 2014 annexation of the Crimea, vowing never to recognize it. In Kyiv, Erdogan underlined Turkeys commitment to Ukraines territorial integrity and sovereignty, including Crimea.
