Live Updates  Zelenskyy Train station strike was war crime
20220408
https://mynorthwest.com/3427853/live-updates-russia-acknowledges-significant-troop-losses/
Besides Turkish carriers, Air Serbia remains the only European airline to maintain its regular flights to Russia after an international flight ban was imposed.
Germanys top security official had said earlier this week that the diplomats were chosen because they were linked to Russian intelligence agencies.
The Rome-based agency says the war in Ukraine was largely responsible for the 17.1 rise in prices for cereals, including wheat and all coarse grains. Russia and Ukraine together account for around 30 and 20 respectively of global wheat and maize exports.
WASHINGTON  President Joe Bidens chief spokesperson on Friday called the Russian missile attack on a train station in eastern Ukraine another horrific atrocity by Russian forces but stopped short of calling the action a war crime.
Ukrainian officials have repeatedly warned of the dangers of mines and explosive traps left by Russian forces in formerly occupied areas.
ROME  The United Nations says prices for world food commodities like grains and vegetable oils reached their highest levels ever last month due to fallout from the war in Ukraine.
Speaking Friday at a news conference with Germany Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Johnson said he would give Ukraines military more Starstreak anti-aircraft missiles, another 800 anti-tank missiles, and precision munitions capable of lingering in the sky until directed to their target.
Germany ordered the expulsion after dozens of civilians were found killed in the Ukrainian town of Buch following the withdrawal of Russian troops there.
WASHINGTON  A senior U.S. defense official says the Pentagon has determined that some of the Russian combat units that retreated from the Kyiv area in recent days are so heavily damaged and depleted that their combat utility is in question.
LONDON  A military expert has rejected Russias effort to deny responsibility for the missile strike on a Ukrainian railway station, saying the denial follows a standard formula the Kremlin uses to muddy the waters after attacks on civilian targets.
Reduction of Russian fossil fuel imports is a difficult choice for resource-poor Japan, and could mean a shift for its energy policy toward more renewables and nuclear power. Russia accounts for about 11 of Japanese coal imports.
The bank said Friday it lowered its benchmark rate from 20 to 17, effective Monday. It had raised the rate from 9.5 on Feb. 28  four days after the invasion  as a way to support the rubles plunging exchange rate.
Britain says it has sanctioned more than 1,200 Russian individuals and businesses since the invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, including 76 oligarchs and 16 banks.
Zonneveld said the company was interested in putting an end to the conflict in this European country as soon as possible.
Serbian officials said that on Wednesday a NATO jet flew close to an Air Serbia flight from Moscow to the Serbian capital, Belgrade, near the Latvian border.
The statement stood out because Russian companies have generally remained silent about the war amid rigorous suppression of opposition by Russian authorities and state-controlled media narratives.
Where we are now is were going to support efforts to investigate the attack as we document Russias actions, hold them accountable, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters.
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization said Friday its Food Price Index, which tracks monthly changes in international prices for a basket of commodities, recorded a double-digit percentage-point increase in March from the record level already set the previous month.
It says Western nations have collectively frozen 275 billion pounds $360 billion, amounting to 60 of Russian foreign currency reserves.
There are pilots in prison who had maps with civilian targets to bomb. There are also investigations being conducted based on the remains of the dead, he said in a translation provided by CBS.
At least 52 people were killed in the attack and about 4,000 civilians were in and around the station at the time of the strike, according to the office of Ukraines prosecutor-general said. Most were women and children heeding calls to leave the area before Russia is anticipated to launch a full-scale offensive in the countrys east.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said Friday that 18 bodies had been located so far, 16 with bullet wounds and two with bullet and shrapnel wounds. Two were women and the rest were men, she said.
Biden has already accused Russian forces of committing war crimes outside of Kyiv, including in the town of Bucha.
Bronk told the Associated Press that the strike was entirely in line with how Russian forces operate by terrorizing civilians to try and increase pressure on the Ukrainian government to agree a cease fire. He added this would allow them to consolidate their gains and try and stabilize their military position, which is not great.
Scores of people were injured in the strike, and local hospitals were overwhelmed in dealing with the influx of patients.
He had said earlier this week that Russia no longer controlled any settlements in the region.
BRUSSELS  Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger and two top European Union officials are in Kyiv looking to shore up the blocs support for war-torn Ukraine.
LONDON  Britain has added two adult daughters of Russian President Vladimir Putin to its sanctions list, following similar moves by the U.S. and the European Union.
WASHINGTON  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his countrys security service has intercepted communications of Russian troops that provide evidence of war crimes.
The artwork and artifacts  which were returning to Russia from Italy and Japan, where they were on loan  have a total insured value of around 42 million euros $46 million.
Additionally, Germany and the Netherlands have agreed to send troops armed with Patriot missiles to Slovakia as part of 2,100-strong force made up of soldiers from several NATO members states, including the US. The force will form a battlegroup on Slovak territory to boost NATO defenses on the alliances eastern flank.
The government said Friday it is imposing asset freezes and travel bans on Putins daughters Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova, as well as Yekaterina Vinokurova, daughter of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
Speaking in an exclusive interview with British broadcaster Sky on Thursday, Peskov also hinted that the operation might be over in the foreseeable future. He said that Russian forces were doing their best to bring an end to that operation.
Dmytro Zhyvytskyy warned Friday on the messaging app Telegram that locals are still in danger because of mines and other ammunition that the Russian forces left behind.
Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote on social media that 38 people had died at the scene, and another 12 in hospital.
Earlier Friday, Japans Foreign Ministry announced it was expelling eight Russian diplomats and trade officials, joining similar moves in European countries.
Zelenskyy said he spoke with EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen Friday and urged the EU to impose a full embargo on Russian oil and gas.
The official said some combat units that withdrew from the Kyiv area are beginning to move toward the Russian towns of Belgorod and Valuyki for refitting and resupplying before likely deploying to the Donbas region of Ukraine. The official also said the U.S. has seen thousands of additional Russian troops added to the combat force that Moscow has been using in and around the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv.
The prosecutor generals office is investigating the deaths, and other mass casualties involving civilians, as possible war crimes. Venediktova said the European Union is involved in the investigation and we are coordinating our actions.
Justin Bronk, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, said Friday that railroads in eastern Ukraine are a significant military target for Russia because destroying this kind of infrastructure makes it more difficult for Ukraine to reinforce its forces in the region. He added that Ukraine has little incentive to deliberately kill its own people during a war of attrition.
He also promised more helmets, night vision and body armor. The items were in addition to some 200,000 pieces of non-lethal military equipment from the UK that had already been promised.
BUCHA, Ukraine  The Ukrainian prosecutor generals office says approximately 67 bodies were buried in a mass grave near a church in Bucha, a northern Kyiv suburb where journalists and returning Ukrainians discovered scores of bodies on streets and elsewhere after Russian troops withdrew.
He said Japan will also ban imports of Russian lumber, vodka and other goods, and will prohibit new Japanese investment in Russia. It will also step up sanctions against Russian banks and freeze assets of about 400 more individuals and groups.
Like the massacres in Bucha, like many other Russian war crimes, the missile attack on Kramatorsk should be one of the charges at the tribunal that must be held, he said during his nightly video address to the nation Friday.
It is energy exports that provide the lions share of Russias income and allow the Russian leadership to believe in their impunity, Zelenskyy said.
The official described these units as for all intents and purposes eradicated, with only a small number of functioning troops and weapons remaining. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal U.S. military assessments, did not say how many units sustained such extensive damage.
The amendment to the sanctions makes it possible to grant an exceptional permit for transports between museums. Finlands customs agency said the Foreign Ministry can grant a permit enabling the release of works of art.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced the missile strike on an eastern train station as another Russian war crime and said Ukraine expects a tough global response.
The rate increase shows how the central bank has managed to stabilize key aspects of the economy with severe controls, artificially propping up the ruble to allow it to rebound to levels seen before the invasion of Ukraine  even as the West piles on more sanctions.
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has said such actions endanger civil aviation and lives of passengers.
Rusal Chairman Bernard Zonneveld, an independent non-executive director, didnt address who was responsible or even directly say anyone was killed in Bucha. But he said in a statement this week that the reports shocked us and that we support an objective and impartial investigation of this crime.
In a message apparently directed to local residents, Zhyvytskyy said any explosions in the area in the short term were likely to be sounds of rescuers and mine-clearing specialists at work deactivating the ammunition and other explosives.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia  Slovakias Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad says the United States will deploy a Patriot air defense system in his country next week.
The pledge of new weaponry came as Johnson condemned the attack on train station in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk earlier Friday. Women and children gathering on a train platform perished in the blast.
Zelenskyy said everyone who made a decision, who issued an order, who fulfilled an order is guilty of a war crime. Asked whether he held Russian President Vladimir Putin responsible, he said: I do believe that hes one of them.
The decision indicates the bank thinks strict capital controls and other severe measures are stabilizing Russias currency and financial system despite intense pressure from Western sanctions over the war in Ukraine.
LONDON  Russias central bank says its lowering a key interest rate, and said more cuts could be on the way.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and other Ukrainian leaders have accused Russias military of deliberately targeting a location where only civilians were assembled. Russias Defense Ministry denied any Russian role in the attack.
This means that they killed civilians, shot them, Venediktova said, speaking as workers pulled corpses out under spitting rain. Black body bags were laid in rows in the mud.
He adds that the three want to help Ukraine on its path toward closer ties with the EU by creating a ReformTeam. Ukraine has applied to join the EU, but was already sorely in need of reforms, notably to root out rampant corruption, years before Russian troops invaded in February.
MOSCOW  Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has acknowledged that Russia has suffered significant losses of troops during its military operation in Ukraine.
BELGRADE, Serbia  Serbia is seeking explanations from NATO on why its jets have allegedly shadowed Serbian passenger planes flying back from Russia.
KYIV, Ukraine  The regional governor of Ukraines Sumy region that borders Russia is urging local residents to avoid using forest roads, walking on roadsides, or approaching destroyed military equipment after Russian troops pulled out of the region.
Fridays announcement came shortly after Slovakia donated its Soviet-era S-300 air defense system to Ukraine at its request. Nad previously said his country was willing to provide its S-300 long-range air defense missile system to Ukraine on condition it has a proper replacement.
They were seized at the Vaalimaa border crossing on April 1-2 under European Union sanctions imposed on Russia due to the invasion of Ukraine.
Russias defense ministry rejected claims that Russia was responsible for the attack, saying it no longer uses the type of missile that hit the railway station.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  A shipment of valuable art destined for Russian museums that was seized on the Finnish-Russian border can be released under an amendment to sanctions that went into effect on Friday, Finnish customs officials said.
Part of that, Heger says is to offer options for transporting grains, including wheat. Ukraine is a major world wheat supplier and Russias war on Ukraine is creating shortages, notably in the Middle East.
 Russia is moving troops and focus toward the east, but that strategy  carries risks as well
It said the workers were traveling Thursday to restore electricity to the area when their vehicle struck the mine outside the village of Bilka.
The diplomats were picked up Friday by a Russian government plane that had received special permission to land at Berlins Schoenefeld Airport despite a ban on flights from Russia in the European Union.
Ukrainian officials have said as many as 4,000 people were at the station, where trains were evacuating civilians westward from the Ukraine-held town ahead of an expected Russian offensive.
The president told Ukrainians that great efforts would be taken to establish every minute of who did what, so that those behind the attack would be held responsible.
TOKYO  Japan is expelling eight Russian diplomats and trade officials and will phase out imports of Russian coal and oil.
Heger said in a tweet Friday that he, EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief have come with trade and humanitarian aid proposals for President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his government.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of Ukraines eastern Donetsk region says the death toll from a missile strike on a rail station in the eastern town of Kramatorsk has risen to 50, including five children.
Serbia has voted in favor of UN resolutions condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine but has refused to join international sanctions against its ally Moscow.
Johnson said both the U.K. and Germany shared the revulsion at the brutality being unleashed, including the unconscionable bombing of refugees fleeing their homes, adding that the train station attack shows the depths to which Putins vaunted army has sunk.
He said: And we do hope that in coming days, in the foreseeable future, this operation will reach its goals, or well finish it by the negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian delegations.
A currency collapse would worsen already high inflation for Russian shoppers by ballooning the cost of imported goods.
BERLIN  Officials say 40 Russian diplomats declared persona non grata by Germany earlier this week have left the country.
A similar incident was reported by Serbian media on Friday when reportedly a NATO Belgian Air Force fighter jet escorted another Air Serbia plane flying from St. Petersburg to Belgrade.
Peskov said: Yes, we have significant losses of troops and it is a huge tragedy for us.
LONDON  U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged another 100 million pounds $130 million in high grade military equipment to Ukraine, saying Britain wants to help Ukraine defend itself.
FAO said the index came in at 159.3 points last month, up 12.6 from Februarys all-time high since the index was created in 1990.
Psaki added that the targeting of civilians would certainly be a war crime and that the U.S. would support efforts to investigate exactly what happened.
There are soldiers talking with their parents about what they stole and who they abducted. There are recordings of prisoners of war who admitted killing people, Zelenskyy said in an excerpt of an interview with CBS 60 Minutes that aired Friday.
LONDON  The board chairman of Russian metals company Rusal has called for an investigation into events in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where Ukrainian forces and journalists discovered scores of bodies after Russian troops withdrew.
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Friday that Moscow must be held accountable for war crimes in Ukraine and pointed to a critical moment now in efforts to get Russias government to end its invasion of Ukraine.
The Prosecutor-Generals Office said Friday the incident happened near Trostianets, a town in northeastern Ukraine which was occupied by Russian troops for around a month until they withdrew in late March.
The official says that the U.S. believes Russia has lost 15 to 20 percent of the combat power it had assembled along Ukraines borders before launching its invasion Feb. 24.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian prosecutors say a war crimes investigation has begun after one utilities worker was killed and two injured by a mine that retreating Russian forces left behind.
