Live updates  Putin warns on NATO troops in Sweden Finland
20220629
https://mynorthwest.com/3537408/live-updates-nato-chief-alliance-in-biggest-challenge/
So far, two peaceful protests have been held against the summit on Sunday and Monday in Madrid.
The group posed for a family photograph on either side of Diego Velazquezs Las Meninas, the museums crown jewel, before sitting down to eat in the Jernimos Cloister annex.
Meeting Wednesday with NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg in Madrid for the alliances annual summit, Biden says: NATO is strong and united, and the steps were taking during this summit, were going to further augment our collective strength.
Italian Premier Mario Draghi says plans for an increased U.S. military presence in Europe dont amount to a military escalation within NATO.
Some grain was transported west by rail out of Ukraine, but experts say restoring Ukraines ability to export grain through the Black Sea is necessary to have a significant effect on easing global food shortages.
Macron praised the deal reached on Tuesday with Turkey, which agreed to lift its opposition to Sweden and Finland joining the alliance.
The women then whizzed back by bullet train to central Madrids Puerta de Atocha station and crossed the road to the Reina Sofa art museum.
The move echoes French President Emmanuel Macrons push to develop more EU defense autonomy. Macron, whose rotating presidency of the bloc of 27 is ending on Friday, has long been championing the idea of making the EU security less dependent on the U.S. and NATO.
Today Im announcing the United States will enhance our force posture in Europe and respond to the changing security environment as well as strengthening our collective security, Biden said, detailing the announcements.
NATO has said it will boost its rapid response force from 40,000 to 300,000 troops for its eastern flank, which includes Polands borders with Ukraine and Belarus, a Russian ally.
He also asked Wednesday for more modern artillery systems to fend off the Russias invasion, now entering its fifth month.
The summits opening work session on Wednesday will focus on how NATO can give more support to Ukraine.
Speaking on the sidelines of the summit, Truss said that with China extending its influence through economic coercion and building a capable military, there is a real risk that they draw the wrong idea which results in a catastrophic miscalculation such as invading Taiwan.
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said a nuclear missile test by North Korea should be met with a coordinated reaction from the three countries present at the meeting.
U.S. President Joe Biden attended the event with his two granddaughters. The mayor of the Ukrainian city of Kyiv Vitali Klitschko and his brother, Wladimir were also there.
Local authorities have recommended that Madrid residents work from home if possible and avoid further complicating the traffic problems caused by the security apparatus.
The demonstration on Wednesday brought together some 50 people in a Madrid neighborhood close to where the two-day NATO summit is being held.
Thousands of police officers and security forces are guarding the capital ahead of the NATO summit and preventing demonstrations getting close to the summit site.
Biden discussed the threats from Pyongyang with Washingtons Asian allies Japan and South Korea on Wednesday, on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Spain.
Stoltenberg said at the start of the NATO summit in Madrid on Wednesday that the allies are meeting in the midst of the most serious security crisis we have faced.
The document specifies that initiatives to increase defense spending and develop coherent, mutually reinforcing capabilities, while avoiding unnecessary duplications, are key to our joint efforts to make the Euro-Atlantic area safer.
Macrons office said that during a meeting at the NATO summit on Wednesday with Turkeys President Recep Tayyip Erdogan the pair stressed the importance of sending a message of unity and strength amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Zelenskyy told a NATO summit in Madrid by video link that the alliances leaders either had to provide Ukraine with the help it needed to defeat Russia or face a delayed war between Russia and yourself.
Russian President Vladimir Putin is warning Finland and Sweden that if they welcome NATO troops and military infrastructure onto their territory, Russia will respond in kind.
Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenskyy is expected to address the 30 leaders via video link Wednesday, as Russias invasion stretches into its fifth month.
The gathering of 40 world leaders, including U.S. President Joe Biden, is taking place behind roadblocks formed by police vans and armored cars.
He said Wednesday that Russia will have to create the same threats for the territory from which threats against us are created.
Chopyk called for a redoubling of efforts with the supply of more weapons and military equipment.
Biden says the U.S. is establishing a permanent headquarters in Poland, sending two additional F-35 fighter jet squadrons to the UK and will send more air defense and other capabilities to Germany and Italy.
French President Emmanuel Macron says Sweden and Finland will bring a significant contribution to the NATO alliance.
Biden stood front-and-center alongside NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, all three sporting blue ties to capture the colors of NATO.
Wednesdays dinner  prepared by Spanish-US chef, Jos Andrs  was preceded by a live performance by the Kyiv Symphony Orchestra, which has been in exile because of the war.
Speaking during a meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden on the margins of the NATO summit, Erdogan said, We are trying to solve the process with a balancing policy. Our hope is that this balance policy will lead to results and allow us possibility to get grain to countries that are facing shortages right now through a corridor as soon as possible.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has deplored NATOs failure to embrace his country and asked the alliance for more weapons.
The U.S. is also beefing up its military assets in Romania and the Baltic region.
He added: And we are doing that because we have decided to increase defense spending by 200 billion euros in the following years  But its not enough.
NATO leaders say bolstering the alliances forces in Eastern Europe as a bulwark against Russia is a key priority for the Madrid summit.
Polish President Andrzej Duda said NATOs commitment to greatly increase its rapid reaction force for members nearest to Russia will make Europe safer.
NATO had to stop this war, because they are killing us, destroying the whole country, destroying the Ukrainian nation, he said.
A day earlier, Biden announced that the U.S. would base two additional destroyers at its naval base in Rota, Spain.
Charles Michel, President of the European Council, said the EU and the military alliance held common values which would be on show at the NATO summit starting Wednesday.
The photo came minutes after President Biden announced that he will deploy more troops, planes and warships to Europe to boost NATOs rapid response force from 40,000 to 300,000 soldiers.
The comments came as NATO leaders held a summit in Spain, where they are expected to identify China as a challenge for the alliance.
Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen are invited to a working dinner held with the leaders of the 30 members of NATO and other national leaders from Europe and the Pacific later at the Prado Museum in Madrid. The leaders of the six non-NATO members belonging to the EU will also attend the dinner, including Sweden and Finland who have asked to join the military alliance.
The gathering has already seen a breakthrough agreement between Turkey and Finland and Sweden for the Nordic countries to begin their accession process.
Stoltenberg said the alliance is going to agree on deterrence to be able to deploy more combat formations and get more pre-positioned equipment in Eastern Europe by next year.
NATO says a stronger and more capable European Union defense architecture can be complementary and interoperable with the alliance.
NATO country leaders and European Union heads of state and government got to admire some of the worlds greatest art and listen to a Ukrainian classical orchestra live as they gathered to dine at Madrids Prado Museum.
Yuriy Chopyk, president of the Ukrainian Community in Spain, thanked NATO members and allied countries for their help but said the aid supplied so far is insufficient to defeat Russian troops.
Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said NATO should give up the cold war mentality, zero-sum game and the practice of creating enemies, and not to try to mess up Asia and the whole world after disrupting Europe.
There, they saw Picassos large, black and white Guernica oil masterpiece, an iconic work that depicts the horror of a Nazi and Italian fascist air bombing of a Basque town during the 1936-1939 Spanish Civil War.
NATO is expected to identify China as a challenge for the alliance when it sets out its strategy for the coming decade at a summit in Madrid.
His remarks follow a recent interception of a surveillance aircraft from NATO member Canada by a Chinese fighter in international airspace, which Canadian officials described as reckless on the part of the Chinese pilot.
Draghi said overall Italy is committing 10,000 troops to NATO. That includes 2,000 divided among the Italian command of NATO in Bulgaria, its presence in Romania and staffing of air patrols over the Baltics. Another 8,000 are on standby in Italy if eventually necessary.
He accused NATO members of creating tension and provoking conflicts by sending warships and aircraft into areas close to the Asian mainland and the South China Sea.
And U.S. ally Australia on May 26 said China committed a dangerous act of aggression against an Australian air force plane conducting aerial surveillance in the South China Sea.
We want to make a big appeal, NATO has to help stop this Ukrainian genocide that Russia is doing, he said.
Tens of millions of people across the world are at risk of hunger as the four-month war has disrupted shipments of grain from Ukraine.
The menu included a desert of strawberries from the Spanish city of Cuenca dressed in anis, violet caramel and with a typical Madrid barquillo finger wafer biscuit.
Accompanied by Spanish first lady Begoa Gmez, the group zipped north on one of Spains bullet AVE trains to the city of Segovia where the queen showed them around the luxurious royal palace and gardens of La Granja de San Ildefonso.
A senior European Union official is welcoming the chance for the bloc to strengthen its ties with NATO.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is expressing optimism that humanitarian corridors could be opened to enable the export of Ukrainian grain to the rest of the world amid Russias war.
Turkey has played a central role in negotiations with Russia and Ukraine to try to reach an agreement that would allow for an increase of the amount of grain that can get out of Ukraine amid the conflict.
During their meeting, Biden praised Erdogan for dropping his opposition to Finland and Sweden joining NATO and for all the incredible work youre doing to try to get the grain out of Ukraine.
Ukrainians living in Spain held a peaceful protest in favor of the alliance, welcoming its support of Ukraine during Russias invasion.
Both leaders also discussed the need to find ways to allow Ukrainian grain exports. They agreed to continue to coordinate and work with the United Nations to achieve conditions to ensure the security of the port of Odesa and maritime convoys in the Black Sea.
Thats why its right that the countries gathering here, and many others, are contributing with financial means, humanitarian aid, but also by providing weapons that Ukraine urgently needs to defend itself, Scholz said.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss says NATO must make clear to China that invading Taiwan would be a catastrophic miscalculation.
BEIJING  China is rebuking NATO for what it calls the alliances Cold War mentality.
He asked: Hasnt our contribution to defending Europe and the entire civilization been sufficient? What else is necessary?
He said: Russia is a threat for Europe and not only for Europe, but for all of NATO.
The tour Wednesday included a group photograph in front of Pablo Picassos famous Guernica anti-war painting.
They are ringing Madrids vast IFEMA conference center on the edge of the city, where the talks open Wednesday.
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says Russias attack has strengthened the resolve of democratic nations around the world to work in favor of a rules-based order.
The asked to join the alliance after witnessing Russias brutal attack on its neighbor Ukraine, but Turkey had some misgivings that were overcome Tuesday.
U.S. President Joe Biden has lined up alongside the NATOs secretary-general and 29 other national leaders for a photo at the highly anticipated summit of the military alliance in Madrid.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says the war in Ukraine has brought the biggest overhaul of our collective defense since the end of the Cold War.
We will continue to do this for as long and as intensively as necessary, so Ukraine can defend itself, he added.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said NATO members and others will continue to support Ukraines ability to defend itself against Russia for as long as necessary.
The starting course included cod with orange and beetroot along with a lobster-based cold soup with a fragrance of Spanish olive oil and basil. The main course was to be slow-roasted lamb with lemon puree.
Australias prime minister is calling on China to condemn Russias invasion of Ukraine and is welcoming NATOs interest in Asia-Pacific security.
Zhao also criticized sanctions brought against Russia, whose invasion of Ukraine it has refused to condemn or even describe as an act of aggression.
Albanese had what he called a very successful meeting with the leaders of Japan, South Korea and New Zealand on Wednesday in Madrid before all four joined the NATO summit being held in the city.
Spains Queen Letizia has played tour guide to some of the first ladies of world leaders attending the NATO summit in Madrid.
The leaders then filed into a meeting room to start the opening session Wednesday, which is to focus on NATOs plans to boost its support for Ukraines amid Russias invasion.
There were concerns that North Korea might test a missile while Biden visited South Korea and Japan last month. It ended up firing three ballistic missiles shortly after Biden left for home.
She said Wednesday that Chinas growing global influence and military clout was an issue for Euro Atlantic security.
Speaking Wednesday at the start of the NATO summit in Madrid, Scholz said the military alliance and many, many other nations agreed that Russia had breached Ukraines territorial integrity and sovereignty when it attacked on Feb. 24.
Odesa is a major gateway for grain shipments and its blockade by Russia threatens global food supplies.
The two formerly nonaligned Baltic countries were formally invited Wednesday to join the Western military alliance.
Spains National Police have deployed surveillance drones, while the flying of civilian drones is prohibited during the event.
U.S. President Joe Biden says he is deeply concerned that North Korea might test a nuclear weapon.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said as he arrived for talks Wednesday that NATO needed to learn the lessons of the last few months and the need for NATO to revise its posture on its eastern flank.
Draghi says the increase announced Wednesday by the White House would amount to just 70 additional U.S. troops on Italian soil and an air defense system that had already been planned.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says the military alliance faces its biggest challenge since World War II amid the war in Ukraine.
Asked if EU members should boost their defense spending in response to the Russian threat following the invasion if Ukraine, Michel said: Yes! Yes! Yes!
U.S. President Joe Biden says Americas military presence in Europe is about to get bigger, as NATO responds to the threat from Moscow following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
In its new Strategic Concept- the alliances once-in-a-decade establishment of priorities and goals  NATO at its annual summit Wednesday described the EU as a unique and essential partner.
