Putinlinked elites yachts firms targeted for sanctions
20220602
https://mynorthwest.com/3501997/putin-linked-elites-yachts-firms-targeted-for-sanctions/
The U.S. has worked closely with allied governments in Europe, Asia and elsewhere to impose thousands of sanctions on Russian elites, oligarchs and banks. Allied governments have done everything from barring individuals from trading in Russian gold in the U.S. to banning companies from providing accounting, legal and consulting services to anyone located in Russia.
Imperial Yachts SARL, a Monaco-based yacht brokerage and yachts including the Russia-flagged Graceful and Cayman Islands-flagged Olympia, are identified as blocked property connected to Putin.
Western allies have also begun considering whether to allow Russian oligarchs to buy their way out of sanctions and using the money to rebuild Ukraine, according to government officials familiar with the matter.
Russias elites, up to and including President Putin, rely on complex support networks to hide, move, and maintain their wealth and luxury assets, Brian Nelson, undersecretary of the Treasury for terrorism and financial Intelligence, said in a statement.
Treasury officials have said investigative collaborations with partners in other countries have been imperative to identifying properties across the world.
Also included in the announcement by the departments of Treasury, State and Commerce are sanctions on God Nisanov, one of the richest men in Europe, and Alexey Mordashov, one of Russias wealthiest billionaires, along with his wife and two adult children.
A representative from Imperial Yachts said in an emailed statement that the accusations made against us by the U.S. Government and in the press are false. We will pursue all available legal remedies to resolve this matter promptly. The company added that we are not involved in our clients financial affairs.
The actions are part of President Joe Bidens promise, after the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February, to pursue Russian elites ill-gotten gains and to ramp up support for the Ukrainians. On Wednesday, the U.S and Germany pledged to equip Ukraine with some of the advanced weapons it has long desired for shooting down aircraft and knocking out artillery, as Russian forces close in on a key city in the east.
Nate Sibley, a research fellow at Hudson Institutes Kleptocracy Initiative, said the U.S. could do more to impose sanctions on wealthy Russians, including Vladimir Potanin, who is the richest documented person in Russia worth roughly $30 billion, and Roman Abramovich, who recently sold his stake in Chelsea, a Premier League football club in London.
WASHINGTON AP  The U.S. announced new sanctions Thursday on Russian oligarchs and elites, including some of the richest men in Europe and their families, as well as penalties targeting more Kremlin officials, businessmen linked to President Vladimir Putin and their yachts, aircraft and firms that manage them.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen told reporters at the Group of Seven finance ministers meetings in Germany this month that more options are on the table to reduce Russias influence  including secondary sanctions or forming an oil buyers cartel.
The European Union Council has imposed sanctions on Abramovich, which he is fighting in court. Potanin has largely escaped sanctions.
The latest U.S. penalties imposed over Russias invasion of Ukraine also include Sergei Roldugin, considered a custodian of Putins offshore wealth.
Until recently, the U.S. and EU have largely allowed Russias oil and natural gas to continue to flow freely to the rest of the world. However, EU leaders agreed late Monday to cut Russian oil imports by about 90 over the next six months, a move that was considered unthinkable just months ago.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Mordashev is the main shareholder and chairman of Severstal, Russias largest steel and mining company. Acting under earlier sanctions, Italian police seized one of his yachts.
Earlier this year, Treasury, the Justice Department and other agencies convened a task force known as REPO  short for Russian Elites, Proxies and Oligarchs  to work with other countries to investigate and prosecute oligarchs and individuals allied with Putin.
It begs the question, why is U.S. Treasury dragging its feet on this, Sibley said.
Others included in the latest round of sanctions are Yury Slyusar, president of United Aircraft Corp. Vitaly Savelyev, Russias transport minister Maxim Reshetnikov, the countrys minister of economic development Irek Envarovich Faizullin, the minister of construction, housing and utilities and Dmitriy Yuryevich Grigorenkothe, deputy prime minister and chief of the government staff.
The Commerce Department added 71 more people and entities located in Russia and Belarus to its sanctions list, with the intent of restricting the Russian militarys ability to obtain technologies needed to further its invasion.
We will continue to enforce our sanctions and expose the corrupt systems by which President Putin and his elites enrich themselves, he said.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement, Ukraine is fighting valiantly to defend its people and its independence with unprecedented assistance from the United States and countries around the world. The United States will continue to support the people of Ukraine while promoting accountability for President Putin and those enabling Russian aggression.
