Russia declares Ukrainian military unit a terrorist group
20220802
https://mynorthwest.com/3581769/russia-declares-ukrainian-military-unit-a-terrorist-group/
The Azov Battalion drew its initial fighters from far-right circles and elicited criticism for some of its tactics. Its current members rejected accusations of nationalism and radicalism.
Russias Prosecutor Generals office filed a motion to designate the regiment as a terrorist organization in May.
The Russian Supreme Court on Tuesday declared Ukraines Azov Regiment a terrorist organization banned in Russia, a designation that fuels the Kremlins narrative of the war in Ukraine and that may expose Ukrainian prisoners of war held by Moscow to terrorism charges.
Russia has been proving this status for many years with its daily actions, the statement said.
Last week, dozens of Ukrainian POWs were killed in an explosion at a barracks at a penal colony in Olenivka, an eastern town controlled by pro-Russian separatists. Moscow and Kyiv have have traded blame for the strike, with Kyiv saying Russia blew up the barracks to cover up torture against the POWs.
Scores of Azov fighters are being held captive by Moscow. The Russian authorities have opened multiple criminal cases against them, accusing them of killing civilians.
Russian state media have repeatedly shown what is claimed to be Nazi insignias, literature and tattoos associated with Azov, but no evidence has surfaced to back up the assertions about their treatment of civilians.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Azov, which played a key part in the defense of the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, has been repeatedly portrayed by Russian officials and state media as a Nazi formation allegedly committing atrocities against Ukraines civilians.
The Azov Regiment is a unit within Ukraines National Guard. It grew out of a group called the Azov Battalion, formed in 2014 as one of many volunteer brigades that rose to bolster Ukraines underfunded and questionably led military in the fight against Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
Azov in an online statement Tuesday dismissed the Supreme Courts ruling, accusing Russia of looking for new excuses and explanations for its war crimes. Azov urged the U.S. and other countries to declare Russia a terrorist state.
