Russias isolation over Ukraine war grows at UN rights body
20220304
https://mynorthwest.com/3379125/russias-isolation-over-ukraine-war-grows-at-un-rights-body/
Gatilov said history will show who is right when asked whether the countries that condemned Russias invasion were on the wrong side of history.
Such a tribunal  whose creation remains uncertain  could help fill a legal gap and complement the ICCs work. The Netherlands-based ICC can investigate crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes but Russia hasnt signed up to an ICC statute under which countries pledge not to commit crimes of aggression.
Brown said the call for a body to investigate the crime of aggression was based on the tribunals that prosecuted senior Nazis after World War II.
The experts will be tasked to collect and analyze evidence that could be used by a court, such as the International Criminal Court, which has launched its own investigation over Russias invasion.
The decision demonstrates growing international unity against Russias invasion of Ukraine and Moscows increasing international isolation.
China, Cuba and Venezuela abstained Friday, despite having joined Russia and Eritrea in voting down on Monday a proposal by Ukraines government to hold an urgent debate on the rights situation in Ukraine. The debate took place Thursday and culminated in Fridays vote.
I wouldnt say that we are isolated, Gennady Gatilov, Russias ambassador in Geneva, told the U.N. Geneva press association ACANU after the vote. He accused the United States and Western allies of putting pressure on many countries.
Mauritania, Senegal, Somalia, and the United Arab Emirates which abstained Monday supported the resolution on Friday.
Fridays vote was an important bellwether of international sentiment about the invasion. It came two days after the U.N. General Assembly in New York voted 141-5, with 35 abstentions, to demand an immediate halt to Moscows attack on Ukraine in a non-binding vote.
GENEVA AP  The U.N.s top human rights body overwhelmingly approved a resolution Friday that aims to set up a three-member panel of experts to monitor human rights in Ukraine.
Some 32 of the 47 member states of the U.N. Human Rights Council voted in favor of the resolution while 13 abstained. Only Russia and Eritrea voted against the resolution that was proposed by Western states and others who have spoken out against the invasion.
Ukraines ambassador Yevheniia Filipenko was visibly moved by the result, telling delegates after the vote: I thank all those who voted for the right course.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
During the debate, country after country spoke out against Russias invasion. Many Western envoys sported blue or yellow ties, scarves, jackets or ribbons on their lapels  honoring the colors of the Ukrainian flag. Even observer countries including Gambia and Malaysia also decried Russias actions.
In another development aiming to boost accountability, the Ukrainian government and former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown on Friday called for the creation of a special criminal tribunal to prosecute Russian President Vladimir Putin and his allies over the invasion of Ukraine.
The councils resolution seeks the immediate operationalization of a three-person team of experts known as a Commission of Inquiry  the councils most powerful tool of scrutiny. Its members are to be appointed by U.N. human rights chief Michelle Bachelet.
Several countries that had either openly or tacitly supported Moscow appeared to have backed off from offering that support.
