Russia claims control of pivotal eastern Ukrainian province
20220703
https://mynorthwest.com/3544319/governor-russians-gaining-foothold-in-pivotal-ukraine-city/
Attacks were also reported inside Russia, in a revival of sporadic apparent Ukrainian strikes across the border. The governor of the Belgorod region in Western Russia said fragments of an intercepted Ukrainian missile killed four people Sunday. In the Russian city of Kursk, two Ukrainian drones were shot down, according to the Russian Defense Ministry.
Earlier, Zelenskyy said Kyivs forces were still battling Russian soldiers on Lysychansks outskirts in a very difficult and dangerous situation.
These are homes and these are livelihoods and indeed lives that have been lost here in this town, he said.
The General Staff of Ukraines military reported that its forces had withdrawn from Lysychansk in Luhansk province. President Volodymr Zelenskyy acknowledged the withdrawal but said the fight for the city was still raging on its outskirts.
Since failing to take Kyiv and other areas in northern and central Ukraine early in the war, Russia has focused on the Donbas, unleashing fierce shelling and engaging in house-to-house combat that devastated Lysychansk, neighboring Sievierodonetsk and nearby villages. Few details emerged from either city during the battles, which decimated their populations as people were killed or fled.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia claimed control Sunday over the last Ukrainian stronghold in an eastern province that is key to achieving a major goal of Moscows grinding war.
As is typical with such descriptions, the Russian statement characterized the victories as the liberation of the Luhansk Peoples Republic. Separatists in Luhansk and neighboring Donetsk, which make up the Donbas and are home to significant Russian-speaking populations, declared independence from Kyiv in 2014 and their forces have battled Ukrainian troops there ever since. Russia formally recognized the self-proclaimed republics days before its Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyy noted the withdrawal. But he added that Ukraine does not give anything back and vowed to return with more modern weapons. Citing his forces success in recapturing other territory, he promised, There will be a day when we will say the same about Donbas.
Meanwhile, the exiled mayor of the Russia-occupied city of Melitopol said Sunday that Ukrainian rockets destroyed one of four Russian military bases in the city.
Far from the fighting in the east, Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese on Sunday visited a town near the capital that was severely damaged early in the war. Albanese called the destruction in Irpin devastating.
We cannot give you the final judgment. Lysychansk is still being fought for, Zelenskyy told a news conference in Kyiv given alongside Australias visiting prime minister. He noted that territory can move quickly from one side to the other.
Already Russian forces appeared to be pushing their advance in Donetsk, concentrating rocket attacks on the sizable Ukrainian-held city of Slovyansk, where at least six people were killed, regional government spokeswoman Tatyana Ignatchenko told Ukrainian TV.
If Russia prevails in the Donbas, Ukraine would lose not only land but perhaps the bulk of its most capable military forces, opening the way for Moscow to grab more territory and strengthen its ability to dictate terms to Kyiv.
Ukrainian and Russian forces fought fiercely for Lysychansk in recent days after the neighboring city fell last week. On Sunday evening, the General Staff of Ukraines military confirmed on social media that its forces had withdrawn from Lysychansk to preserve the lives of Ukrainian defenders.
Russian forces maintain an advantage in the area, he acknowledged, calling it a Ukrainian military weak spot.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
If confirmed, Russias complete seizure of Luhansk would provide its troops with a stronger base from which to press their advance in the Donbas, a region of mines and factories that President Vladimir Putin is bent on capturing in a campaign that could determine the course of the entire war.
The capture of Lysychansk would give the Russians more territory from which to intensify attacks on Donetsk. In recent weeks, Russian forces were thought to hold about half of Donetsk, but its not clear where things stand now.
Kursk regional governor Roman Starovoit said the town of Tetkino, on the Ukraine border, came under mortar fire.
Kramatorsk, another major city in the Donetsk region, also came under fire, the regional administration said.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu told Putin that Russias troops, with a local separatist militia, have established full control over the city of Lysychansk and now hold all of Luhansk, according to a ministry statement published Sunday.
