Russia Belarus to hold joint war games early next year
20211129
https://mynorthwest.com/3294505/russia-and-belarus-to-hold-joint-war-games-early-next-year/
MOSCOW AP  Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that Russia and Belarus will hold joint war games early next year.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has described Lukashenkos offer as a serious warning prompted by reckless Western policy.
Putins announcement comes amid a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine that raised Western fears of an invasion. Some officials in Ukraine have voiced concern that Russia may attack the country from Belarusian territory.
Russia and Belarus have a union agreement envisaging close political, economic and military ties, and Moscow has staunchly backed Lukashenko amid Western pressure. That pressure intensified after a brutal crackdown on domestic protests fueled by Lukashenkos reelection to a sixth term in an August 2020 vote that the opposition and the West say was rigged.
Putin welcomed Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenkos proposal to hold another round of military drills, saying that they could be held in February or March. Speaking during a meeting with Lukashenko in St. Petersburg, he added that military officials will coordinate details.
The Belarusian leader hasnt elaborated on what kind of Russian atomic weapons Belarus would be willing to accommodate, but noted that the ex-Soviet nation has carefully preserved the necessary military infrastructure dating back to the time of the USSR.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
In a show of support for Lukashenko, Russia conducted massive war games with Belarus in September that involved 200,000 troops. In recent week, Moscow has repeatedly sent its nuclear capable bombers on patrol over Belarus in recent weeks.
Tensions have escalated further since the summer over the arrival of thousands of migrants and refugees on Belarus border with EU member Poland. The EU has accused Lukashenko of retaliating for its sanctions by using desperate asylum-seekers as pawns and tricking them into trying to enter Poland.
Russia has denied having plans to attack its neighbor, but urged the U.S. and its allies to provide guarantees that NATO doesnt expand to Ukraine or deploy its weapons there  demands the West has rejected.
