Ukraine leader hopes for talks with Russia amid tensions
20211210
https://mynorthwest.com/3276471/ukraine-leader-hopes-for-talks-with-russia-amid-tensions/
Tensions between Moscow, Kyiv and its Western allies have worsened in recent weeks over the invasion fears.
In an interview aired Friday by the Ukrainian TV channel 11, Zelenskyy said that, thanks to the U.S., one more platform for talks with Russia may appear, in addition to the so-called Normandy format that involves France and Germany.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Ukraines president said Friday that more opportunities for talks with Russia may arise thanks to the U.S. diplomatic effort to help de-escalate tensions after Moscow massed troops near Ukraines border, stoking fears of a possible invasion.
The U.S. president proposed joining the Europeans in negotiations not just to settle the conflict in eastern Ukraine but to address Putins larger strategic objections to NATO expanding its membership eastwards.
The two European countries in 2015 brokered a peace agreement that helped end large-scale hostilities in Ukraines east, where Ukrainian forces have been fighting with Russia-backed separatists since 2014. But efforts to reach a political settlement of the conflict that has since killed more than 14,000 people have failed, and sporadic skirmishes have continued along the tense line of contact.
Zelenskyy said Friday that the message he got from Biden during Thursdays call was the Russia assured the U.S. and the whole world that it doesnt intend to continue the escalation against the territory of our independent state.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Russian officials have repeatedly denied plans to attack Ukraine, and in turn blamed Kyiv for its own allegedly aggressive designs. Putin has urged the West to provide guarantees that would preclude NATO from expanding to Ukraine or deploying troops and weapons there.
I see the support for this path from both our European partners and the U.S., Zelenskyy said.
Zelenskyy said Friday that, with the support of the U.S. and Ukraines European allies, he doesnt rule out direct talks between him and Putin  something he has proposed to the Russian leader several times to no avail.
U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with both Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Russian President Vladimir Putin this week, as the United States moved to take a more direct role in diplomacy between Kyiv and Moscow.
