UkraineRussia crisis What to know on hopes of averting war
20220215
https://mynorthwest.com/3351155/ukraine-russia-crisis-what-to-know-on-hopes-of-averting-war/
In a rare bipartisan accord, Senate leaders issued a joint statement Tuesday signaling solidarity with an independent Ukraine and issuing a stern warning that Russia would pay a severe price of sanctions if it invades.
Scholz didnt say whether Germany had any evidence a troop pullback was in fact happening.
Senators of both parties have been eager to show a unified front from the U.S. But they shelved for now their own sanctions legislation, unable to resolve differences over the scope and timing and deferring to the White House strategy for edging Russia away from the crisis.
Biden said 150,000 Russian forces are now massed near Ukraine and in neighboring Belarus, an increase from an earlier U.S. estimate of 130,000 troops.
But the U.S. and NATO agreed to discuss a range of security measures that Russia had previously proposed.
Russian lawmakers called on Putin to recognize rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine, the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk peoples republics, as independent states. The State Duma, Russias lower house of parliament, voted Tuesday to submit an appeal to Putin to that effect, put forward earlier by Russias Communist Party.
However, Stoltenberg said there are some grounds for cautious optimism for diplomatic efforts given the signals coming from Moscow.
Putin noted after his talks with Germanys Scholz that the U.S. and NATO rejected Moscows demand to keep Ukraine and other ex-Soviet nations out of NATO, halt weapons deployments near Russian borders and to roll back alliance forces from Eastern Europe.
He said Russia continued to build field hospitals in Belarus near the Ukrainian border, which can only be construed as preparation for an invasion.
Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau of Poland, currently the chair of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, met Lavrov in Moscow. Rau said the OSCE has offered multilateral talks aimed at easing tensions.
Stoltenberg said Russia has in the past moved into areas, like Belarus, with troops and equipment, then pulled back while leaving military material in place for rapid use later. He said that NATO wants to see a significant and enduring withdrawal of forces, troops, and not least the heavy equipment.
Speaking alongside Putin in Moscow, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said: That we are now hearing that some troops are being withdrawn is in any case a good signal, and we hope that more will follow.
Kyiv isnt fulfilling the Minsk agreements, mediated by Germany and France in an effort to bring peace to eastern Ukraine, and our citizens and compatriots that live in Donbas need help and support, State Duma speaker Vyacheslav Volodin said on the Telegram messaging app.
Russia constantly makes various statements, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said. Thats why we have the rule: We wont believe when we hear, well believe when we see. When we see troops pulling out, well believe in de-escalation.
The Kremlin has cast the U.S. warnings of an imminent attack as hysteria and absurdity, and many Russians believe that Washington is deliberately stoking panic and fomenting tensions to trigger a conflict for domestic reasons.
A series of cyberattacks on Tuesday knocked the websites of the Ukrainian army, the defense ministry and major banks offline, Ukrainian authorities said.
Putins angry rhetoric about NATOs plans to expand to Russias doorstep and its refusal to hear Moscows concerns has struck a chord with the public, tapping into a sense of betrayal by the West after the end of the Cold War and widespread suspicion about Western designs.
French government spokesman Gabriel Attal said France was trying to confirm the information about Russian troop movements and he would speak carefully.
Scholz said a process to shore up that agreement should be supported by everyone and held up by no one.
In this dark hour, the 12 Democratic and Republican senators declared, they wanted to make sure the strong U.S. position was clear to the people of Ukraine and to Putin.
But U.S. President Joe Biden said the U.S. had not verified Russias claim and that an invasion was still a distinct possibility. He said the U.S. would give diplomacy every chance to prevent a Russian invasion, but he struck a skeptical tone about Moscows intentions.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said that so far, we have not seen any de-escalation on the ground, not seen any signs of reduced Russian military presence on the borders of Ukraine.
We are seeing Russian openness to conversations, Johnson said after a meeting of his governments COBRA crisis committee. On the other hand, the intelligence we are seeing today is still not encouraging.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Of course, if the resolution the Russian parliament agreed to today became reality, that would mean flouting the Minsk agreement, Scholz added. I think all involved know that  then the process would be broken off and ended, and that would be a political catastrophe.
Russias Defense Ministry announced that some units participating in exercises would begin returning to their bases. But it wasnt immediately clear where exactly these troops were deployed or how many were leaving.
BERLIN AP  Russian President Vladimir Putin said after hosting Germanys chancellor that Moscow was ready for talks with the United States and NATO on military transparency, missile deployment limits and other security issues.
The Ukrainian Information Ministrys Center for Strategic Communications and Information Security suggested Russia could be behind the attacks. But quick attribution in cyberattacks is typically difficult, as aggressors often try to hide their tracks.
Still, there was no indication the relatively low-level distributed-denial-of-service attacks might be a smokescreen for more serious and damaging cyber mischief.
Dasha Litvinova in Moscow, Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv, Ukraine, Sylvie Corbet in Paris, Lorne Cook in Brussels, Jill Lawless in London and Lolita C. Baldor, Aamer Madhani and Matthew Lee in Washington contributed to this report.
But if confirmed, thats obviously a good thing. That would be a sign of de-escalation, which we have been calling for for several weeks. That would also confirm that we were right to reinitiate dialogue, Attal said. French President Emmanuel Macron met with Putin in Moscow last week and spoke with Biden on Tuesday.
Putins statement on Tuesday added to signs of easing tensions over a Russian military buildup near Ukraine and fears of a possible invasion. Hours earlier, Russia announced that some units participating in military exercises would begin returning to their bases.
Putin said Russia was ready to engage in talks on limiting the deployment of intermediate range missiles in Europe, transparency of drills and other confidence-building measures. But he reemphasized the need for the West to heed Russias main demands.
At least 10 Ukrainian websites were unreachable, including those of the Defense Ministry, the Foreign Ministry, the Culture Ministry and Ukraines two largest state banks.
Putin said the motion reflects the Russian publics concern about people living in eastern Ukraine. He noted, however, that Russia continues to believe that a 2015 peace deal brokered by France and Germany should serve as the main vehicle for resolving disputes over eastern Ukraine.
The announcement came a day after Western officials said some forces and military hardware were moving toward the Ukrainian border, muddying the picture. Russia denies it has any plans to invade Ukraine, despite placing troops on Ukraines borders to the north, south and east and holding major exercises.
While the U.S. has warned that Russia could invade Ukraine any day, the drumbeat of war is  all but unheard in Moscow, where pundits and ordinary people alike dont expect Putin to attack Russias ex-Soviet neighbor.
Ukraines foreign minister hosted his Italian counterpart. Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said he conveyed to Zelenskyy during a phone call Japans strong support for diplomatic efforts and sanctions against Russia in case of aggression.
