Ukraine Russia said to be using more deadly weapons in war
20220611
https://mynorthwest.com/3512747/uk-military-russia-using-anti-ship-missiles-on-land-targets/
He added that no one knows how long the war will last, but Ukraine should do everything it can so the Russians regret everything that they have done and that they answer for every killing and every strike on our beautiful state.
The city council said via Telegram that the man was there with his wife and son despite warnings to stay away from beaches. He was testing the waters temperature and depth when the explosion erupted.
While the use of flamethrowers on the battlefield is legal, Luhansk Gov. Serhii Haidai alleged the overnight attacks in Vrubivka caused widespread damage to civilian facilities and an unknown number of victims.
It was not clear if the farmers whose grain was being sold by Russia were getting paid. Balitsky said his administration would not forcibly appropriate grain or pressure producers to sell it.
For me this is a truly historic moment. I have always thought that we are one country and one people, the news agency quoted Gov. Volodymyr Saldo as saying.
Nearly 800 children have been killed or wounded in Ukraine since the beginning of Russias invasion, Ukrainian authorities said Saturday.
According to a statement by the Office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, at least 287 died as a result of military activity, while at least 492 more have been hurt. The statement stressed the figures were not final.
There was no immediate information about the cause of the explosion, and Gov. Volodymyr Trush told residents not to take pictures or comment on social media.
The office said children in Donetsk province have suffered the most, with 217 reported killed or wounded, compared with 132 and 116, respectively, in the Kharkiv and Kyiv regions.
Russian bombers have likely been launching heavy 1960s-era anti-ship missiles in Ukraine, the U.K. Defense Ministry said. The Kh-22 missiles were primarily designed to destroy aircraft carriers using a nuclear warhead. When used in ground attacks with conventional warheads, they are highly inaccurate and therefore can cause severe collateral damage and casualties, the ministry said.
Remember how in Russia, in the beginning of May, they hoped to seize all of the Donbas? the president said. Its already the 108th day of the war, already June. Donbas is holding.
As Russia also sought to consolidate its hold over territory seized so far in the 108-day war, the U.S. defense secretary said Moscows invasion of Ukraine is what happens when oppressors trample the rules that protect us all.
At night, the enemy used a flamethrower rocket system  many houses burnt down, Haidai wrote on Telegram on Saturday. His claim could not be immediately verified.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Ukrainian and British officials warned Saturday that Russian forces are relying on weapons able to cause mass casualties as they try to make headway in capturing eastern Ukraine and fierce, prolonged fighting depletes resources on both sides.
Zelenskyy said Russian forces are being pushed out of parts of the Kherson region they occupied early in the war. He also reported some success in the Zaporizhzhia region.
Russian-installed officials in Ukraines southern Zaporizhzhia region have set up a company to buy up local grain and resell it on Moscows behalf, a local representative told the Interfax news agency on Saturday.
Hundreds of Ukrainian troops remained blockaded inside a chemical plant on the outskirts of Sievierodonetsk, but some of the civilians with them have started to come out, an envoy for Russian-backed separatists said Saturday.
He said the grain will be Russian and we dont care who the buyer will be.
Soldiers also started giving out passports in the occupied city of Melitopol, according to Russian state news agency Tass, which cited a Russian-installed local official as the source of the information. It did not specify how many residents had requested or received Russian citizenship.
Zelenskyy said later, in his nightly video address, that fierce street battles were continuing in Sievierodonetsk and he was proud of the Ukrainian defenders who for weeks have held back the Russian advance.
Sievierodonetsk and neighboring Lysychansk are the last major areas of Luhansk remaining under Ukrainian control. Haidai said Russian forces destroyed railway depots, a brick factory and a glass factory.
He said local officials decided to turn off supplies of natural gas while dealing with the consequences of the explosion.
He spoke during a brief appearance with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen at the heavily guarded presidential office compound in Ukraines capital.
In the Kherson region, 23 residents accepted the documents, including the new Moscow-installed governor, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti reported.
Russia and Ukraine each have accused the other of laying mines in the Black Sea.
Von der Leyen said the EUs executive arm was working day and night on an assessment of Ukraines eligibility as a candidate. The goal is to share it with existing members next week.
Von der Leyen described the membership process as a merit-based path and appealed for Ukraine to strengthen its rule of law, fight corruption and modernize its institutions. She said the EU would assist with the countrys reconstruction.
Russian forces occupying parts of southern Ukraine began handing out Russian passports to local residents Saturday.
Our soldiers are putting out the fires, but Russias food terrorism must be stopped, Yermak wrote Saturday on Telegram.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Both sides have expended large amounts of weaponry in what has become a grinding war of attrition for the eastern region of coal mines and factories known as the Donbas, placing huge strains on their resources and stockpiles.
In the western Ternopil province, which has largely been spared from the fighting, an explosion rocked the town of Chortkiv late Friday, the governor said.
Luhansk Gov. Haidai said the Russians shelled the plant for hours and a big fire broke out. He made no mention of the troops or civilians referenced by Miroshnik.
The head of Ukraines presidential office accused Russias military of shelling and burning grain fields ahead of the harvest. Andriy Yermak alleged Moscow is trying to repeat a Soviet-era famine that claimed the lives of over 3 million Ukrainians in 1932-33.
Ukraine and the West have accused Russia of stealing Ukraines grain and causing a global food crisis that could cause millions of deaths from hunger.
A Ukrainian governor accused Russia of using incendiary weapons in a village in the eastern province of Luhansk, southwest of the fiercely contested cities of Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk.
The Ukrainian army said Saturday that Russian forces also were to launch an offensive on the city of Sloviansk in Donetsk province, which together with Luhansk makes up the Donbas,
Zelenskyy called for them to target more Russian officials, including judges, and to hamper the activities of all Russian banks, including that of gas giant Gazprom, as well as all Russian companies helping Moscow in any way.
As the circle around the Ukrainian troops tightens, he said, the civilians will be able to leave and Russian forces are preparing transportation for their evacuation. The troops will be allowed to leave only if they lay down their arms and surrender, he added.
Yevgeny Balitsky, the head of Zaporizhzhias pro-Russian provisional administration, said the new state-owned grain company has taken control of several facilities.
Russia is likely using the 5.5-tonne 6.1-ton anti-ship missiles because it is running short of more precise modern missiles, the British ministry said. It gave no details of where exactly such missiles are thought to have been deployed.
The pair discussed Ukraines aspirations for EU membership. Zelenskyy, speaking through a translator, said Ukraine will do everything to integrate with the bloc.
Its what happens when big powers decide that their imperial appetites matter more than the rights of their peaceful neighbors, Lloyd Austin said during a visit to Asia. And its a preview of a possible world of chaos and turmoil that none of us would want to live in.
During a visit to Kyiv by the European Unions top official, Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyy called for a new round of even stronger EU sanctions against Russia.
Several hundred civilians could still be inside the Azot plant, where they sought safety from the shelling in underground shelters, Rodion Miroshnik said via Telegram.
Officials in the city of Odesa said Saturday that a man was killed by an explosion while visiting a beach on the Black Sea, where mines are a growing concern.
