UN nuclear agency again asks to visit Ukraine nuclear plant
20220823
https://mynorthwest.com/3604709/un-nuclear-agency-again-asks-to-visit-ukraine-nuclear-plant/
Nobody who is at least conscious can imagine that Ukraine would target a nuclear power plant at tremendous risk of nuclear catastrophe and on its own territory, he said. Such a catastrophe would lead to many deaths and pollution for many years to come.
The Zaporizhzhia plant has been under the control of Russian forces since early March, soon after their invasion of Ukraine. Technical experts from Ukraine continue to operate the nuclear equipment.
Kyslytsya stressed that Ukraine would like to see the IAEA mission bolstered by incorporating military and political components, and having IAEA experts remain at the plant until it is returned to Ukraine.
Ukraines U.N. Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya welcomed the readiness of the IAEAs Grossi to send a mission to Zaporizhzhia. He said earlier Tuesday Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba responded to Grossis letter with the proposed IAEA itinerary saying it is in compliance with Ukrainian legislation and in general might be accepted.
Nebenzia accused Ukraine of using nuclear blackmail by shelling the plant and called Western proposals for Russian forces to withdraw and to create a demilitarized zone irresponsible. He said they dont take into account the need for the safe functioning of the plant.
DiCarlo said the U.N. has the logistics and security capacity in Ukraine to support any IAEA mission to the plant from Kyiv, provided Ukraine and Russia agree.
Ukraines Kyslytsya said Russia needs Zaporizhzhia to wage war against his country and accused Moscow of turning the issue of nuclear safety at the facility into a farce, a circus.
Russias U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia told the council that since its last meeting on the operation of Zaporizhzhia about two weeks ago, the nuclear safety situation has further deteriorated.
UNITED NATIONS AP  The U.N. nuclear agency renewed its request Tuesday to assess the safety and security at Europes largest nuclear plant in southeastern Ukraine which Russia and Ukraine accuse each other of shelling, sparking warnings of a possible nuclear catastrophe.
Nebenzia cited Russian Defense Ministry reports alleging Ukrainian shelling and said a whole slew of such photographic evidence was sent to Security Council members on Tuesday.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
After last weeks high-level meeting in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv involving U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the presidents of Ukraine and Turkey, it appeared progress had been made on an IAEA mission to the plant. But there had been no sign of progress until DiCarlos announcement.
The armed forces of Ukraine continue basically every day to shell the territory of the nuclear power plant and the town of Enerhodar and this creates a real risk of a radiation accident, he said.
He also reiterated Ukraines demand for Russian troops to withdraw from Zaporizhzhia and for a demilitarized zone around the plant.
U.N. political chief Rosemary DiCarlo announced at the start of an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on the situation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant that Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, requested to send an IAEA mission to carry out essential safety, security and safeguard activities at the site.
Grossi said in a statement that the mission is expected to take place within the next few days if ongoing negotiations succeed.
Preparations for the mission are proceeding and the IAEA is in active consultations with all parties regarding its efforts to send such a mission as soon as possible, DiCarlo said. We welcome Ukraine and Russias recent statements indicating support for the IAEAs aim to send a mission to the plant, which would be the IAEAs first to that site since the start of the war.
DiCarlo called the situation in and around the plant dangerous and warned that if the almost daily reports of alarming incidents involving the plant continue or escalate, we could face a disaster.
We expect that the IAEA trip mission will take place in the very near future and the agency experts will confirm the real situation at the station, Nebenzia said. We stand ready to extend maximum support possible to resolve all organizational issues.
He insisted that Russia has no heavy weapons at the plant, and that a disaster has been avoided because of the smooth joint work between the Ukrainian workers, fire squads, emergency people and Russian military.
Addressing Western members of the council, he said: Once again, we appeal to you to stop covering up what your Kyiv protegees are doing and compel them to stop attacking the Zaporizhzhia plant which is fraught with risk of accident and radioactive contamination of European countries.
Kyslytsya said Russia also needs the plant for propaganda purposes because the de-occupation of the plant will mean a failure of Putins campaign in the south of Ukraine.
The Russian and Ukrainian ambassadors accused each others country of responsibility for the attacks in an around Zaporizhzhia.
Further arrangements are to be made based on the security conditions and require communication of detailed route plans and other logistical aspects as soon as possible, Kyslytsya said.
DiCarlo told the council that the U.N. chief had discussed the issue of the plants safety during a phone call with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu on Aug. 15, and with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy during the Aug. 18 Lviv meeting.
