US defense secretary underlines support for Ukraine
20211019
https://mynorthwest.com/3193340/us-defense-secretary-underlines-support-for-ukraine/
U.S. support for Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity is unwavering, Austin said. So we again call on Russia to end its occupation of Crimea, to stop perpetuating the war in eastern Ukraine, to end its destabilizing activities in the Black Sea and along Ukraines borders, and to halt its persistent cyberattacks and other malign activities against the United States and our allies and partners.
The Kremlin has described Ukraines bid for prospective membership in NATO as a red line and a major threat to its security.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin visited Ukraine on Tuesday, underlining Washingtons support for the countrys sovereignty and territorial integrity amid a tense standoff with Russia.
Ukraine, as you have heard me saying earlier, has the right to decide its own future foreign policy and we expect they will be able to do that without any outside interference, he said. And again, we continue to work together with our partner to make sure that right things are at place, to ensure that Ukraine can defend itself and protect its territories.
The annexation of Crimea and Russias support for the rebels in eastern Ukraine has driven Moscow-West relations to post-Cold War lows.
Speaking after his talks in Kyiv on Tuesday, Austin underlined that no third country has a veto over NATOs membership decisions.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy hailed the U.S. as the countrys chief partner in security and defense during a meeting with Austin.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Austin emphasized that the U.S. and its allies remain committed to supporting Ukraines right to decide its own future foreign policy.
The tensions rose once again earlier this year when Russia increased troop numbers near its borders with Ukraine, including in Crimea, fueling international concerns.
Russia annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula in 2014 following the ouster of the countrys Moscow-leaning president. Moscow also has thrown its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine that erupted weeks after the annexation of Crimea and has killed more than 14,000.
