Vatican Pope clearly condemns Russias repugnant war
20220823
https://mynorthwest.com/3612523/vatican-pope-clearly-condemns-russias-repugnant-war/
Francis has said he wants to go to Ukraine if that could further the cause of peace but so far logistics have made that trip impossible for the 85-year-old pontiff who has mobility issues.
ROME AP  The Vatican on Tuesday moved to defend Pope Francis from allegations he hasnt come down hard enough on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, saying the pontiff clearly views the war launched by Moscow as senseless, repugnant and sacrilegious.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba summoned the Vatican ambassador to Kyiv last week and told reporters that the Ukrainian heart is torn apart by the popes words.
On the same day that the Ukraine slammed the popes remarks, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church cancelled a planned meeting with Francis for September.
In his remarks, Francis also said orphans in Ukraine and Russia were among the innocents who have been victimized by the insanity of war.
In recent days, public discussions have arisen about the political significance to attribute to comments by Francis, the statement said.
The words of the Holy Father on this dramatic question should be read as a voice raised in defense of human life and of the values linked to that, and not taken as a political position, the Vatican said. As for as the war of wide dimensions in Ukraine, begun by the Russian Federation, the interventions of the Holy Father Francis are clear and unequivocal in condemning it as morally unjust, unacceptable, barbaric, senseless, repugnant and sacrilegious.
Copyright  The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Last week, Ukraine summoned the top papal diplomat to complain about recent comments by Francis. At an audience a day earlier at the Vatican, Francis had referred to a national Russian TV commentator who was killed by a car bomb in Moscow as a poor girl.
Francis was speaking about the slaying of Darya Dugina, the daughter of right-wing Russian political theorist Alexander Dugin, who fiercely backs the war.
