Saudi Aramco says profit more than doubled in 2021
20220320
https://news.rthk.hk/rthk/en/component/k2/1639961-20220320.htm
Since Mohammed bin Salman's appointment as crown prince in 2017, Saudi Arabia has sought to diversify its oil-dominated economy.
Aramco floated 1.7 percent of its shares on the Saudi bourse in December 2019, generating US$29.4 billion in the world's biggest initial public offering.
"We recognise that energy security is paramount for billions of people around the world, which is why we continue to make progress on increasing our crude oil production capacity, executing our gas expansion programme and increasing our liquids to chemicals capacity."
The crown prince said last year that Aramco was in talks to sell a one percent stake to a foreign energy giant.
The announcement came hours after Yemen's Houthi rebels  against whom Saudi Arabia leads a military coalition  targeted several locations, including Aramco facilities, in cross-border armed drone attacks.
"Although economic conditions have improved considerably, the outlook remains uncertain due to various macroeconomic and geopolitical factors," he said.
Russia is the world's largest producer of gas and one of the biggest oil producers and is grappling with mounting Western sanctions.
In February, the kingdom  one of the world's top crude exporters  moved four percent of Aramco shares worth US$80 billion to the country's sovereign wealth fund.
The transfer was also as a sign that Saudi Arabia wants to further open up the oil giant and "crown jewel" of the Saudi economy, the Arab world's largest.
Brent crude is currently selling at more than US$100 per barrel  in part due to Russia's operation in Ukraine.
Oil-rich Gulf countries, including Saudi Arabia, have so far resisted Western pressure to raise oil output to rein in prices, stressing their commitment to the OPEC alliance of oil producers, which Riyadh and Moscow lead. AFP
Energy giant Saudi Aramco said on Sunday its 2021 net profit soared by more than 120 percent, due to higher crude prices, as global economic growth recovered from a pandemic induced downturn.
A strong rebound last year saw oil prices recover from their 2020 lows, and they have soared to highs not seen since 2014 this year, amid global supply shortages and Russia's attack on Ukraine.
Aramco achieved a net income of US$88.2 billion in 2019 before the coronavirus pandemic hit global markets, resulting in huge losses for the oil and aviation sectors, among others.
"But our investment plan aims to tap into rising long-term demand for reliable, affordable and ever more secure and sustainable energy," he added.
"Aramco's net income increased by 124 percent to US$110.0 billion in 2021, compared to US$49.0 billion in 2020," the company said in a statement.
"Our strong results are a testament to our financial discipline, flexibility through evolving market conditions and steadfast focus on our long-term growth strategy," Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser said in a statement.
