Biden Announces New Russia Sanctions For Beginning Invasion Of Ukraine  World News
20220223
https://www.rashtranews.com/biden-announces-new-russia-sanctions-for-beginning-invasion-of-ukraine-world-news/
Kyiv recalled its top diplomat from Moscow as President Volodymyr Zelensky warned Putins recognition of the breakaway regions heralded further military aggression against Ukraine.
In some capitals there has been debate over whether sending troops into an area that was already controlled by Russian-backed rebels amounts to the kind of all-out invasion that would justify imposing the harshest sanctions.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said EU foreign ministers unanimously agreed on an initial sanctions package, as he cancelled a meeting with his Russian counterpart planned for Friday.
In the frontline town of Shchastya on Tuesday, shellfire rang out around an electric power station as fearful residents awaited the Russian deployment.
US officials say there is a 150,000-strong Russian force poised to launch an all-out assault on Ukraine.
Biden announced what he called the first tranche of sanctions, including steps to starve Russia of financing and target financial institutions and its elites.
But Putins rhetoric about the borders of the separatist regions was sure to raise concerns.
A shell hit the roof of 59-year-old Valentyna Shmatkovas apartment block overnight, shattering all the windows in her two-room apartment.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance had every indication that Moscow continues to plan for a full-scale attack on Ukraine.
The announcement followed a wave of sanctions announced by Britain and the European Union, after Putin recognized the self-declared Donetsk and Lugansk rebel republics.
After a dramatic televised meeting with his top officials, Putin spoke to the Russian people in a 65-minute address from his Kremlin office.
Speaking to journalists, Putin said the Minsk peace agreements on Ukraines conflict no longer existed and he recognized claims by the separatists to more territory than they currently control.
Biden said in his White House address the United States would continue to supply defensive weapons to Ukraine and deploy more US troops to reinforce NATO allies in Eastern Europe.
Theres no question that Russia is the aggressor, so were clear eyed about the challenges were facing, the president said in a nationwide address from the White House.
Germany also announced it was halting certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia.
And Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov sent congratulations to his counterparts in the Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Lugansk Peoples Republic.
The best solution would be if the current Kyiv authorities themselves refused to join NATO and maintained neutrality, Putin said.
US President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced tough new sanctions on Russia for beginning an invasion of Ukraine but said there was still time to avoid war, even as Vladimir Putin signaled plans to send troops beyond Russias borders.
We spent the war in the basement, she said, referring to the 2014 fighting that saw the region break away from Ukraine.
The sanctions will hurt Russia and will hurt a lot, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell told reporters, adding that targets for asset freezes and visa bans included 351 members of Russias lower house State Duma.
Russias upper house, the Federation Council, gave Putin unanimous approval to deploy peacekeepers to two breakaway Ukrainian regions now recognized by Moscow as independent, and potentially into other parts of Ukraine.
In an often angry hour-long address from his Kremlin office, the Russian leader railed against Ukraine as a failed state and puppet of the West, accusing Kyiv of preparing a blitzkrieg to retake the separatist regions.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by RashtraNews.com and is published from a syndicated feed.
Nonetheless, there is still time to avert the worst case scenario that will bring untold suffering to millions of people if they move as suggested.
Putins plans remained unclear, but Western officials have been warning for weeks he has been preparing for an all-out invasion of Ukraine, a move that could spark a catastrophic war in Europe.
But we werent expecting this. We never thought Ukraine and Russia wouldnt end up agreeing.
But he left the door open to a final effort at diplomacy to avert a bloody full-scale Russian invasion.
Kyiv showed no sign of backing down to Moscow, with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba meeting Biden to appeal for more military aid.
But he added that the deployment of Russian troops would depend on the specific situation on the ground and appeared to offer Ukraine a way out by giving up on its hopes to join the US-led NATO military alliance.
Fighting appeared to have eased slightly on Tuesday, with the Ukrainian military saying there had been 47 ceasefire breaches between midnight and 5-00 pm.
The Russian foreign ministry said it would soon evacuate its diplomatic staff from Moscow to protect their lives.
 News Source :Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by Rashtra News staff and is published from a www.ndtv.com feed.
Russia said it had established diplomatic relations at the level of embassies with the separatist-controlled regions.
Putin announced he was recognizing the territories, which broke away from Kyivs control in 2014 in a conflict that cost 14,000 lives.
