Joe Biden announces sanctions forbidding Russia to raise funds from the West  World News
20220222
https://www.rashtranews.com/joe-biden-announces-sanctions-forbidding-russia-to-raise-funds-from-the-west-world-news/
 News Source :Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by Rashtra News staff and is published from a www.indiatoday.in feed.
US President Joe Biden announced the first tranche of sanctions on Russia, effectively cutting off Moscow from Western financing.
In an address to the nation on Russias actions against Ukraine, Biden said, Were imposing sanctions on 2 Russian financial institutions. Russia can no longer raise money from the West or no longer trade in Western markets. From tomorrow well also impose sanctions on Russian elites and their families.
US President Joe Biden in his address to the nation on Russias actions announced first tranche of sanctions. Photo: Reuters
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz suspended the certification process for the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline, which directly links Russian gas to Europe via Germany. The UK imposed tough sanctions against five Russian banks and three businessmen, which Prime Minister Boris Johnson described as the first tranche of measures.
US President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced sanctions that will effectively cut Russia off from Western financing.
Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the deployment of troops to the two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine.
On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised the independence of two separatist regions of Ukraine  Donetsk and Lugansk. Putin also signed friendship and aid agreements with the Russia-backed separatist leaders of Ukraine, which means Moscow can now move its troops in the breakaway regions as a peacekeeping measure.
The USs announcement of sanctions comes after Germany and Britain moved sanctions on Russia earlier in the day.
The European Union has also imposed sanctions on several Russian officials as well as banks financing the Russian armed forces.
