Russia wins Chinas backing in NATO showdown over Ukraine  World News
20220204
https://www.rashtranews.com/russia-wins-chinas-backing-in-nato-showdown-over-ukraine-world-news/
Our partners believe in Ukraine and that means Moscows intimidation strategy is not working. Russia has lost this round, Kuleba said.
They are only making things worse, Erdogan said, adding that Joe Biden has not yet been able to demonstrate a positive approach.
In a long strategy document, Moscow and Beijing hit out at what they said was Washingtons destabilising role in global security.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz was the latest European leader to announce a visit to the region on Friday, saying he would go to Ukraine on February 14 and Russia the next day.
ALSO READ: Russia engages New Delhi to abstain hours before vote on Ukraine at UNSC
This is fundamentally not about NATO expansion. This is about respecting the right of every sovereign nation to choose their own path, he told MSNBCs Morning Joe.
French President Emmanuel Macron will visit Moscow on Monday and Kyiv on Tuesday for talks with his Russian and Ukrainian counterparts.
These tensions have been aggravated by plans for joint military exercises between Russia and neighbouring Belarus, where Washington claims Moscow is preparing to send 30,000 troops.
The parties oppose the further expansion of NATO and call on the North Atlantic Alliance to abandon the ideological approaches of the Cold War era, the document read, urging respect for the sovereignty, security and interests of other countries.
 News Source :Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by Rashtra News staff and is published from a www.indiatoday.in feed.
Erdogan has tried to position Turkey, which is a member of NATO, as a neutral mediator close to both Moscow and Kyiv.
Nearly eight years of fighting between Kyiv and the pro-Moscow fighters has cost more than 13,000 lives and seen the West and Russia exchange waves of tit-for-tat sanctions.
The document released by Beijing and Moscow on Friday also set out criticisms of Washingtons negative impact on peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region.
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Friday welcomed the displays of support, saying they had prevented Russia from further aggravating the security situation.
Russia won Chinas backing in its showdown with the West over Ukraine on Friday, as Beijing agreed with Moscow that the US-led NATO military alliance should not admit new members.
Western capitals have accused Russia of amassing some 100,000 troops on the borders of pro-Western Ukraine in preparation for an invasion and have vowed to impose devastating sanctions on Moscow if it attacks.
Unfortunately, the West until now has not made any contribution to resolving this issue, he said in comments published by local media Friday.
Russias relationship with the West was severely damaged in 2014 when it annexed the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine and threw its political weight behind armed separatists in the east the country.
In the most recent diplomatic flare-up, Putin has demanded guarantees that Ukraine will not join NATO and has implicitly threatened the former Soviet state with the massive military build-up.
Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said the US had information that the Russians are likely to want to fabricate a pretext for an invasion, but did not provide evidence.
Russia and China also said they were seriously concerned by the AUKUS defence alliance including Australia, the UK and the United States.
The delusional nature of such fabrications  and there are more and more of them every day  is obvious, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.
Russia also wants NATO and the United States to foreswear the deployment of missile systems near Russias borders and to pull back NATO forces in eastern Europe.
Washingtons claim came on the back of visits from European leaders to shore up their backing for Kyiv, including from British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Putins meeting with Xi  hours ahead of the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympic Games  came after the United States said it had evidence of a plan by Moscow to film a fake Ukrainian attack on Russians to justify an attack on its neighbour.
The demand for NATO to stop expanding came after a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping in Beijing that saw Putin hail the two countries dignified relationship.
The call echoes demands from Russia that have been at the centre of weeks of intensive negotiations between Moscow and the West, under the shadow of a potential conflict.
During Erdogans visit on Thursday, he and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky signed an agreement expanding the production of parts in Ukraine for a Turkish combat drone whose sale to Kyiv has angered Moscow.
