Russian shells slam into eastern Ukraine killing three
20220815
https://www.somersetcountygazette.co.uk/news/national/20659022.russian-shells-slam-eastern-ukraine-killing-three/
But so far, Russia believes in terror, remains in the grip of its propaganda illusions and still hopes that it can supposedly achieve something through various forms of blackmail. It wont.
He emphasised that we must defend ourselves, adding that the stronger Ukraine will be, the weaker Russia will be, and therefore, the less time this war will last.
Speaking at the opening of an arms show outside Moscow, Russian President Vladimir Putin hailed the militarys action in Ukraine, declaring that it fights for Russia  and fulfilling all the tasks that were set, liberating the Donbas step by step.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Regional officials said at least three people died and another 13 were wounded by Russian shelling that hit numerous towns and villages in the Donetsk region during the last 24 hours.
At least three Ukrainian civilians have been killed and nearly 20 others wounded in the latest artillery barrages from the Russian military, Ukrainian officials said on Monday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Sunday: Ukraine has always longed and longs for peace and many times in various negotiation formats has offered the Russian leadership to end the war and free Ukrainian land from occupation.
He also dismissed the heads of three regional branches of Ukraines top security agency, SBU, in the Kyiv, Lviv and Tarnopil regions.
Last month, he dismissed SBU chief Ivan Bakanov and a chief prosecutor, saying their departments had too many people who faced accusations of collaborating with the Russians.
For their part, the Ukrainian military claimed to have destroyed more than 10 Russian warehouses with ammunition and military equipment in the past week.
The eastern region of Donetsk, one of the two provinces making up the countrys industrial heartland of Donbas that has been the focus of a Russian offensive, has faced the most intense shelling.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian parliament, Verkhovna Rada, extended martial law and the countrys general mobilisation for another 90 days.
In the countrys second-largest city of Kharkiv, five civilians were wounded in the latest Russian shelling early on Monday, according to the citys mayor, Ihor Terekhov.
