Ukraine Ian LiddellGrainger condemns Russian invasion
20220224
https://www.somersetcountygazette.co.uk/news/19948919.ukraine-ian-liddell-grainger-condemns-russian-invasion/
Mr Putin said in a televised address this morning that Russia would conduct a "military operation" in the Donbas region of Ukraine but said "plans do not include occupying Ukrainian territory".
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Russias actions were a "grave breach of international law" and that allies would meet to address the "renewed aggression".
He said: "It has probably come as no great surprise to many people after all the posturing and manoeuvring of the last few weeks.
He also said Russia is acting in self-defence and aims for the "demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine".
"But what it has demonstrated is that Putin has lost every shred of international respect he ever had and has shown his true colours: someone whose word cannot be trusted.
"And we simply cannot let a tyrant wreck the strenuous efforts that have been employed over the last decades to make Europe a more stable and peaceful community after generations of conflict."
Mr Putin warned other countries that any attempt to interfere would "lead to consequences you have never seen in history".
Ian Liddell-Grainger has described Russian leader Vladimir Putin as "someone whose word cannot be trusted". Picture: Parliament UK   Image: UK Parliament
"Many people will die because of his actions but clearly that counts for nothing as far as he is concerned.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
"But we must do everything possible to thwart his ambitions because once he has Ukraine in his grasp, there is nothing to say he wont be eying Poland or the Baltic states next.
RUSSIAN leader Vladimir Putin has "lost every shred of international respect he ever had" by launching a large-scale invasionof Ukraine, says Ian Liddell-Grainger.
Ian Liddell-Grainger, who has served as Bridgwater's MP since 2010, has issued a statement on the invasion.
British foreign secretary Liz Truss has condemed the "appalling, unprovoked attack", and Boris Johnson is expected to address the nation this morning and speak to MPs this afternoon about the invasion.
The sound of distant blasts were picked up in a live broadcast from US outlet CNN, causing reporter Matthew Chance to put on a flak jacket.
