Russia says it will scale back near Kyiv as talks progress
20220329
https://www.klkntv.com/russia-says-it-will-scale-back-near-kyiv-as-talks-progress/
Ukraine said it would also be willing to hold talks over a 15-year period on the future of the Crimean Peninsula, seized by Russia in 2014.
While Moscow portrayed it as a goodwill gesture, its ground troops have become bogged down and taken heavy losses in their bid to seize Kyiv and other cities. Last week and again on Tuesday, the Kremlin seemed to roll back its war aims, saying its main goal now is gaining control of the predominantly Russian-speaking Donbas region in eastern Ukraine.
Rob Lee, a military expert at the U.S.-based Foreign Policy Research Institute, tweeted: This sounds like more of an acknowledgment of the situation around Kyiv where Russias advance has been stalled for weeks and Ukrainian forces have had recent successes. Russia doesnt have the forces to encircle the city.
Fomin suggested there had been progress this time, saying negotiations on preparing an agreement on Ukraines neutrality and non-nuclear status, as well as on giving Ukraine security guarantees, are turning to practical matters.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia announced Tuesday it will fundamentally scale back military operations near Ukraines capital and a northern city, as talks to end the grinding war brought the outlines of a possible deal into view.
Its terrible. They waited for people to go to work before striking the building, said regional governor Vitaliy Kim. I overslept. Im lucky.
The Kremlin has demanded among other things that Ukraine drop any hope of joining NATO, which it sees as a threat.
There is what Russia says and there is what Russia does, and were focused on the latter, Blinken said in Morocco. And what Russia is doing is the continued brutalization of Ukraine.
Ukraines military said it has noted withdrawals of some forces around Kyiv and Chernihiv. Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told CNN we havent seen anything to corroborate reports of Russia pulling back significant forces from around Kyiv. But what we have seen over the last couple of days is they have stopped trying to advance on Kyiv.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he had not seen anything indicating talks were progressing in a constructive way, and he suggested Russian indications of a pullback could be an attempt by Moscow to deceive people and deflect attention.
Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin said the change on the battlefield was meant to increase trust at the talks after several rounds of negotiations failed to halt what has devolved into a bloody campaign of attrition.
He added, If they somehow believe that an effort to subjugate only the eastern part of Ukraine or the southern part of Ukraine  can succeed, then once again they are profoundly fooling themselves.
Vladimir Medinskiy, the head of the Russian delegation, said on Russian TV that the Ukrainian proposals are a step to meet us halfway, a clearly positive fact. He cautioned that the parties are still far from reaching an agreement, but said: We know now how to move further toward compromise. We arent just marking time in talks.
Even as negotiators from the two sides assembled in Istanbul, Russian President Vladimir Putins forces hit an oil depot in western Ukraine late Monday and blasted a gaping hole Tuesday morning in a nine-story government administration building in the southern port city of Mykolaiv. At least seven people were killed in that attack, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.
Fomin said Moscow has decided to fundamentally  cut back military activity in the direction of Kyiv and Chernihiv to increase mutual trust and create conditions for further negotiations. He did not immediately spell out what that would mean in practical terms.
The meeting Tuesday in Istanbul was the first time negotiators from Russia and Ukraine talked face-to-face in two weeks. Earlier talks, held in person in Belarus or by video, made no progress toward ending the more than month-long war that has killed thousands and driven over 10 million Ukrainians from their homes, includingalmost 4 million who have fled the country.
Ukraines team set out a detailed framework for a peace deal under which the country would remain neutral but its security would be guaranteed by a group of third countries, including the U.S., Britain, France, Turkey, China and Poland, in an arrangement similar to NATOs an attack on one is an attack on all principle.
