Blinken will visit Ukraine as USRussia tensions escalate
20220118
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-01-18/blinken-to-visit-ukraine-as-us-russia-tensions-escalate
The White House said Friday that U.S. intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had already deployed operatives to rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine to carry out acts of sabotage there and blame them on Ukraine to create a pretext for possible invasion.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that Moscow will take unspecified military-technical measures if the West stonewalls its demands.
Blinkens travel and consultations are part of the diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the tension caused by Russias military buildup and continued aggression against Ukraine, the State Department said in a statement.
Blinken will meet with Zelensky and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Wednesday to reinforce the United States commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, the State Department said.
Blinken will be in Kyiv on the hastily arranged trip to show U.S. support after talks between Moscow and the West in Europe last week failed to resolve stark disagreements over Ukraine and other security matters.
Ukraine says Russia was behind a cyberattack that defaced government websites and it alleged Russia is engaged in a hybrid war against the country.
Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken will visit Ukraine this week and meet with President Volodymyr Zelensky as tensions between the U.S. and Russia escalate over a possible Russian invasion of its neighbor, the State Department said Tuesday.
Speaking Monday on a visit to Kyiv, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock warned that any further escalation would carry a high price for the Russian regime  economic, political and strategic, and she emphasized the need to continue negotiations.
We are prepared to have a serious dialogue with Russia, because diplomacy is the only way to defuse this highly dangerous situation at the moment, she said.
Stash food and cash, Facebook-unfriend Russia nationalists: yes. Learn that bomb shelter map: maybe. Ukraine hopes for best and readies for the worst.
Our bipartisan congressional delegation sends a clear message to the global community: the United States stands in unwavering support of our Ukrainian partners to defend their sovereignty and in the face of persistent Russian aggression, Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said in a statement.
Ahead of Blinkens visit to Kyiv, a delegation of U.S. senators was visiting Ukraine to emphasize congressional support for the country.
The trip follows extensive diplomacy with our European Allies and partners about a united approach to address the threat Russia poses to Ukraine and our joint efforts to encourage it to choose diplomacy and de-escalation in the interests of security and stability, the department said.
U.S. officials say Russia aims to create a pretext to invade Ukraine and has placed operatives for a false flag operation.
On Monday, Russias top diplomat rejected the U.S. allegations that it was preparing a pretext to invade Ukraine. Speaking to reporters, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov dismissed the U.S. claim as total disinformation.
Russia seized the Crimean peninsula after the ouster of Ukraines Moscow-friendly leader and in 2014 also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting between the Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the Donbas region, the countrys industrial heartland.
Washington and its allies firmly rejected Moscows demands during last weeks Russia-U.S. negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels.
Instead, those meetings appear to have increased fears of a Russian invasion, and the Biden administration has accused Moscow of preparing a false flag operation to use as a pretext for intervention. Russia has angrily denied the charge.
From Kyiv, Blinken will travel to Berlin, where he will meet with his German, British and French counterparts to discuss a possible response to any Russian military action. Russia has massed about 100,000 troops with tanks and other heavy weapons near the Ukrainian border in what many observers believe may be preparation for an invasion.
Lavrov reaffirmed that Russia expects a written response this week from the U.S. and its allies to Moscows request for binding guarantees that North Atlantic Treaty Organization will not embrace Ukraine or any other ex-Soviet nations or station its forces and weapons there.
