China shuts business center of Shenzhen to fight coronavirus surge
20220313
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-03-13/china-shuts-business-center-shenzhen-coronavirus-surge
About three-quarters, or 1,412 cases, were in Jilin province in the northeast, where the industrial metropolis of Changchun was placed under lockdown on Friday and families were told to stay home after a spate of infections.
Authorities in Jilin are stepping up anti-disease measures after concluding their earlier response was inadequate, according to Zhang Yan, deputy director of the provincial Health Commission.
In Shanghai, Chinas most populous city with 24 million people, the number of cases in the latest surge rose by 15 to 432.
People should not get the wrong impression that the virus situation is now under control, said Dr. Albert Au, an expert with the governments Center for Health Protection. Once we let our guard down, its possible that infections will bounce back and rise again.
Chinas government responded Sunday to a spike in coronavirus infections by shutting down its southern business center of Shenzhen, a city of 17.5 million people, and restricted access to Shanghai by suspending bus service.
Those who come or return to Shanghai must have a negative nucleic acid test report within 48 hours before arrival, said a city health agency statement.
Case numbers in Chinas latest infection surge are low compared with other countries and with Hong Kong, which reported more than 32,000 on Sunday. But mainland authorities are enforcing a zero tolerance strategy and have locked down entire cities  to find and isolate every infected person.
Shenzhen is home to some of Chinas most prominent companies, including telecom equipment maker Huawei Technologies Ltd., electric car brand BYD Auto, Ping An Insurance Co. and Tencent Holding, operator of the popular WeChat message service.
Everyone in Shenzhen, a finance and technology center that abuts Hong Kong, will undergo three rounds of testing after 60 new cases were reported Sunday. All businesses except those that supply food, fuel and other necessities were ordered to close or work from home.
The city government called on the public not to leave unless necessary. It said intercity bus service would be suspended starting Sunday.
The emergency response mechanism in some areas is not sound enough, Zhang said at a news conference, according to a transcript released by the government.
Hong Kong, a crowded financial hub of 7.4 million, is trying to contain an outbreak that has killed 3,993 people, most of them in the latest surge driven by the Omicron variant, and swamped hospitals.
Also Sunday, some residents of Cangzhou, south of Beijing, were told to stay home after nine cases were reported there, according to a government notice. It wasnt clear how many of its 7.3 million people were affected.
In Hong Kong, a health official warned the public not to assume the territorys deadly coronavirus surge was under control as the government reported 190 new fatalities, most of them elderly people, and 32,430 new cases. Thats down from more than 50,000 after stringent travel and business curbs were imposed.
Construction crews sent from the mainland have built temporary isolation centers in Hong Kong for thousands of patients.
Russias missile attack in western Ukraine on a military training facility near Poland brings the war closer to NATO territory.
China, where the first coronavirus cases were detected in late 2019 in the central city of Wuhan, has reported a total of 4,636 deaths on the mainland out of 115,466 confirmed cases since the pandemic started.
On the mainland, 831 new cases were reported Sunday in Changchun, 571 in the nearby provincial capital city of Jilin and 150 in the eastern port city of Qingdao.
