How to find cheap gas in Southern California
20220307
https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2022-03-07/how-to-find-cheap-gas-california-prices-soar
When you first download the app, it will ask you to sign up for an account. You can use the app with or without doing so, though.
The price difference is usually a few cents per gallon. To get the cheaper price, you need to prepay with a cashier before filling up your tank.
In California, the average price of a gallon of regular-grade gasoline on Monday was $5.34  and even higher in Los Angeles County, which was averaging $5.43 a gallon, according to the American Automobile Assn.s price tracker. The national average is now $4.06, a staggering $1.30 more than a year ago and the highest it has been since July 2008, according to AAA.
Already-high gas prices are headed higher because of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, a painful blow for L.A.s lower earners who must drive to survive.
Gas prices are reported by other users or the owner of the gas station. As a user, you can also report prices.
One of the cheapest gas stations in L.A. County is Noil USA Inc. at 1234 W. Cowles St. in Long Beach. On Monday, the price for a gallon of regular-grade fuel was $4.74 with cash or $4.84 with card.
Geicos website includes a search page where you can type in your address and find the cheapest gas prices and stations in your area.
After picking a fuel type, the app will display a list of nearby gas stations and their fuel prices. You can sort by lowest to highest or by distance. You also can choose to display only credit and debit card prices, or cash prices as well.
Gasoline prices depend on global supply and demand, which has been out of whack since the pandemic started. California drivers pay a premium for special blends.
Many gas stations such as Arco, 76 and Mobil offer a cheaper price for gas if you pay in cash.
The app GasBuddy can help you find gas stations closest to you with the lowest prices.
Prices had already been climbing because of supply chain issues, but Russias invasion of neighboring Ukraine has caused them to spike even higher.
When you search for gas on Google Maps  either online or in the app  the price of regular gas is often listed in the search results, along with the hours, address and other information of the stations listed.
