Large explosions rock a Russian military air base in Crimea
20220710
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-08-09/explosions-russian-military-air-base-crimea-ukraine
Officials in Moscow have long warned Ukraine that any attack on Crimea would trigger massive retaliation, including strikes on decision-making centers in Kyiv.
Drones are playing a crucial role in Ukraines military operations in the southern Mykolaiv region, where Russian shelling has been escalating in recent weeks.
In other Donbas sectors where Russia was attempting to break through, its forces have not gained more than 3 km less than two miles during this 30-day period almost certainly significantly less than planned, the ministry said.
We are actively informing the world about Russian nuclear blackmail  about the shelling and mining of the Zaporizhzhia NPP facilities, Zelensky said. Russia will not pay attention to words and concerns. ... The Chernobyl disaster is an explosion in one reactor the Zaporizhzhia NPP is six power units.
Earlier Tuesday, the office of Ukraines president reported that at least three Ukrainian civilians were killed and 23 others wounded by Russian shelling in 24 hours, including an attack not far from a Russian-occupied nuclear power plant.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky invoked the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine, which at the time was a Soviet republic. He called for new sanctions against Russia for creating the threat of another nuclear disaster.
The plant is operating normally but, of course, with an increased degree of security, Balitsky said.
This is a war of artillery and drones, Baton told reporters, as he observed smoke rising after an attack on a Russian position a few miles away on a monitor with the feed sent from the vehicle.
A Russian-installed official in the partially occupied Zaporizhzhia region said an air-defense system at the plant would be reinforced in the aftermath of last weeks shelling. Evgeny Balitsky, the head of the Kremlin-backed administration, told Russian state TV on Tuesday that power lines and damaged blocks of the plant were restored.
Powerful explosions rocked a Russian air base in Crimea on Tuesday, and at least five people, including a child, were wounded, authorities said.
The ministry cautioned that, despite the new attention to southern Ukraine, Russia had maintained attacks on Ukrainian positions in the east.
Ukraine and Russia have accused each other in recent days of shelling the nuclear plant, which is the largest one in Europe, and increasing the risks of a nuclear accident.
The Kremlin claimed Monday that Ukraines military was attacking the plant and urged Western powers to force Kyiv to stop the activity.
The governor of eastern Ukraines Donetsk province, Pavlo Kyrylenko, said the Russians were trying to press their offensive in several areas. Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city, came under Russian shelling four times over the last 24 hours, and some city infrastructure was damaged.
Crimeas leader, Sergei Aksyonov, said that ambulances and medical helicopters were sent to the Saki air base and that the area within a radius of three miles was sealed off.
The Russians fired more than 120 rockets from Grad multiple-rocket launchers at the southern town of Nikopol, which is across the Dnieper River from the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, Dnipropetrovsk Gov. Valentyn Reznichenko said. Several apartment buildings and industrial facilities were damaged, he said.
A strike last week in a separatist region of eastern Ukraine killed dozens of Ukrainian prisoners of war.
Tymophiy, 12, lost his mother and stepfather in a hail of Russian fire and is now in the care of relatives. His diary is a record of fury and grief.
Russias Defense Ministry said that munitions blew up at the Saki base, and it emphasized that the installation had not been shelled. Ukrainian social networks were abuzz with speculation that it was hit by Ukrainian-fired long-range missiles.
The British Defense Ministry said Tuesday that Russian forces had made the most progress in the past month in moving toward the town of Bakhmut  an advance limited to  slightly more than six miles.
The Saki base was used by Russian warplanes to strike areas in Ukraines south at short notice.
Videos posted on social networks showed sunbathers fleeing a nearby beach as huge clouds of smoke from the explosions rose over the horizon.
If the base was, in fact, struck by the Ukrainians, it would mark the first known major attack on a Russian military site on the Crimean peninsula, which was annexed by the Kremlin in 2014. The headquarters of Russias Black Sea Fleet in the Crimean port of Sevastopol was hit by a small-scale explosion delivered by a makeshift drone last month in an attack blamed on Ukrainian saboteurs.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has upended the operations of what was the worlds fourth-largest grain exporter, with global consequences.
Stealth operations and assistance from Ukrainian guerrilla forces pose a growing challenge to Russias grip on occupied areas in southeastern Ukraine.
A Ukrainian counteroffensive and Russian defensive actions in occupied areas have increasingly drawn firepower to southern Ukraine.
The leader of a Ukrainian reconnaissance team named Fireflies  who goes by the nom de guerre Baton  said his unit was using drones to monitor and combat any Russian attempt to seize more territory in the region.
After failing to capture Ukraines capital, Kyiv, early in the war, the Russian military focused its strength on trying to seize all of the countrys eastern Donbas region. Pro-Moscow separatists have fought Ukrainian forces in the region for eight years and control some territory as self-proclaimed republics.
Five people were wounded, and one of them was hospitalized, said Konstantin Skorupsky, the head of Crimeas healthcare department. He said the others were treated for cuts from shards of glass and were released.
Get breaking news, investigations, analysis and more signature journalism from the Los Angeles Times in your inbox.
