Pakistan flooding deaths pass 1000 in climate catastrophe
20220828
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-08-28/pakistan-flooding-deaths-pass-1-000-in-climate-catastrophe
Flash flooding from the heavy rains has washed away villages and crops as soldiers and rescue workers evacuated stranded residents to the safety of relief camps and provided food to thousands of displaced Pakistanis.
Pope Francis on Sunday said he wanted to assure his closeness to the populations of Pakistan struck by flooding of disastrous proportions. Speaking during a pilgrimage to the Italian town of LAquila, which was hit by a deadly earthquake in 2009, Francis said he was praying for the many victims, for the injured and the evacuated, and so that international solidarity will be prompt and generous.
This is something that is a global crisis and of course we will need better planning and sustainable development on the ground. ... Well need to have climate resilient crops as well as structures, she said.
We are at the moment at the ground zero of the front line of extreme weather events, in an unrelenting cascade of heat waves, forest fires, flash floods, multiple glacial lake outbursts, flood events and now the monster monsoon of the decade is wreaking non-stop havoc throughout the country, she said. The on-camera statement was retweeted by the countrys ambassador to the European Union.
Deaths from widespread flooding in Pakistan topped 1,000 since mid-June, officials said Sunday, as the countrys climate minister called the deadly monsoon season a serious climate catastrophe.
Shelling hit areas near a nuclear power plant as fears persisted that fighting in the vicinity could damage the plant and cause a radiation leak.
Flooding from the Swat River overnight affected northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, where tens of thousands of people  especially in the Charsadda and Nowshehra districts  have been evacuated from their homes to relief camps set up in government buildings. Many have also taken shelter on roadsides, said Kamran Bangash, a spokesperson for the provincial government.
Rehman told Turkish news outlet TRT World that by the time the rains recede, we could well have one-fourth or one-third of Pakistan under water.
Sherry Rehman, a Pakistani senator and the countrys top climate official, said in a video posted on Twitter that Pakistan is experiencing a serious climate catastrophe, one of the hardest in the decade.
Thank God we are safe now on this road quite high from the flooded area, he said. Our crops are gone and our home is destroyed but I am grateful to Allah that we are alive and I will restart life with my sons.
The unprecedented monsoon season has affected all four of the countrys provinces. Nearly 300,000 homes have been destroyed, numerous roads rendered impassable and electricity outages have been widespread, affecting millions of people.
Prime Minister Shabaz Sharif visited flooding victims in city of Jafferabad in Baluchistan. He vowed the government would provide housing to all those who lost their homes.
Bangash said some 180,000 people have been evacuated from Charsadda and 150,000 from Nowshehra district villages.
Khaista Rehman, 55, no relation to the climate minister, took shelter with his wife and three children on the side of the Islamabad-Peshawar highway after his home in Charsadda was submerged overnight.
The government has deployed soldiers to help civilian authorities in rescue and relief operations across the country. The Pakistani army also said in a statement it airlifted 22 tourists trapped in a valley in the countrys north to safety.
Pakistans National Disaster Management Authority reported the death toll since the monsoon season began earlier than normal this year  in mid-June  reached 1,061 people after new fatalities were reported in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and southern Sindh provinces.
In May, Rehman told BBC Newshour that both the countrys north and south were witnessing extreme weather events because of rising temperatures. So in north actually just now we are ... experiencing what is known as glacial lake outburst floods, which we have many of because Pakistan is home to the highest number of glaciers outside the polar region.
