Russian attacks intensify in Ukraine Zelensky again pleads for nofly zone
20220306
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-03-06/russian-attacks-intensify-in-ukraine-zelensky-again-pleads-for-no-fly-zone
The enemy continues to fire on houses, cars, killing civilians and even children, looting shops. It is impossible to deliver humanitarian goods: the community is under siege, the statement said. Residents are asking to help the sick, those who have not been able to find relatives for several days. A significant number of residents are in basements.
A no-fly zone, many officials say, would draw the U.S. and its NATO allies into direct combat with Russia  an escalation many liken to a world war. Air combat missions would have to be supported by ground-based operations and the U.S. and its NATO allies would have to be prepared to go in over land, making it a slippery slope from there to a shooting war.
But European Union leader Charles Michel, in an interview Sunday, acknowledged that deploying fighter jets to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine could be seen by Russia as NATOs entry into the war and therefore risk World War III.
But civilians are increasingly caught up in the onslaught. Irpin, a town on Kyivs northwestern flank close to where a Russian column is bearing down on the capital, had been quiet earlier last week but was the site of fierce clashes Sunday, with Russian and Ukrainian troops trading artillery and mortar attacks throughout the day.
On Sunday, American Express said it was suspending operations in Russia, a day after Visa and Mastercard made similar announcements. Netflix, the streaming service, said it will do the same. In addition, TikTok, a Chinese-owned firm, announced Sunday that its users will not be able to post new videos in Russia in response to the Kremlins crackdown on social media.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said late Sunday that the House is exploring legislation that would ban Russian oil and energy products from coming into the U.S. In a letter to Democrats, Pelosi said the legislation under consideration would also repeal normal trade relations with Russia and begin the process of denying Russia access to the World Trade Organization.
The scene was also turning dire for civilians in Bucha, Irpins neighboring town to the north. Buchas city council said in a post on Facebook that residents havent had electricity, heat or communications for several days, adding that surviving is a struggle.
That adds to the more than 66,000 Ukrainian men who have returned to join the fight as well, according to Ukrainian Defense Minister  Oleksii Reznikov in a tweet on Saturday. The figures could not be independently verified.
The International Committee of the Red Cross confirmed that the estimated evacuation of some 200,000 people from Mariupol failed, saying the city was enduring devastating scenes of human suffering.
The conflict has spurred a mass exodus of Ukrainians fleeing either to the countrys western regions or neighboring nations. On Sunday, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Filippo Grandi, said the number of Ukrainians who have crossed the border to the countrys neighbors surpassed 1.5 million.
Both cities have in recent days suffered cutoffs of electricity, heat and food amid the encirclement by Russian forces who have expanded their reach across the south.
Ukrainians have been forced to flee their homes or fight back as Russian forces attack their cities. These photos and maps tell the story.
He added that the United States is toughening sanctions against Russia virtually every day, and is considering a ban on Russian oil  a move resisted until now because it could send energy prices surging.
The world has the power to close our sky from Russian missiles. From Russian combat aircraft, helicopters, he said. If anyone still doubts, Ukraine needs planes. In fact, its simple. When you have the will. To make the sky safe. The sky of Ukraine. The sky of Europe.
Several organizations in California, as well as international aid groups, are helping refugees, wounded soldiers and others in and around Ukraine. Heres how you can contribute.
The United States is encouraging military aid to Ukraine through Poland, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Poland could supply the Ukrainian resistance with Soviet-era fighter jets, while the United States can backfill anything that they provide to the Ukrainians to compensate for any resulting gap in Polands security, U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said Sunday on CNN.
It is extremely dangerous to take people out under such conditions, he said, adding that a humanitarian convoy was heading toward Mariupol from the city of Zaporizhzhia, more than 120 miles away, but had yet to reach its destination.
He added that Russia was obliterating Ukrainian infrastructure and that it was the responsibility of Western leaders to create a no-fly zone. If you do not do that, if you dont at least give us aircraft for us to be able to protect ourselves, there can be only one conclusion: You also want us to be slowly killed. This is also the responsibility of the worlds politicians. Western leaders. Today and Forever.
With Moscows offensive reaching dense urban areas and casualties among civilians spiking, Zelensky exhorted Western powers in another video released earlier Sunday  to close the skies over Ukraine and deny the Russians the freedom to operate their aircraft.
His pleas came as Ukrainian authorities tried and failed for a second consecutive day to evacuate civilians from Mariupol and Volnovakha, two cities in eastern Ukraines Donetsk region. Mariupol, a port city of half a million people, is a key part of Russias offensive to deny Ukraine any exit to the sea. An earlier cease-fire on Saturday broke down with both the Ukrainian and Russian sides accusing the other of violations.
Meanwhile, tens of thousands have come to the country for its defense. Following Zelenskys speech  last week when he  urged those who want to fight Russia to join Ukrainians in an international legion,  Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Sunday that the number of volunteers who have signed up was approaching 20,000 people hailing from 52 countries.
Russians have always visited Odesa, felt only warmth in Odesa.... And now what? Bombs on Odesa? Artillery on Odesa? Zelensky said in an impassioned video address.  It will be a war crime. It will be a historical crime.
The clashes continued even as evacuees ran to a severed bridge on Irpins southern edge before reaching what were supposed to be safer areas on the highway leading to Kyiv. Three members of a family  were killed by an incoming mortar round that struck about 100 yards past the bridge. Similar attacks wound into the early afternoon, with mortar rounds smacking houses and kicking up soil even amid the exodus.
Ukrainian authorities insist Russian forces are targeting civilians. Videos and witness accounts of airstrikes on cities also offer evidence of such targeting. Moscow denies such attacks, blaming the casualties instead on what it describes as Ukrainian nationalists and neo-Nazis holding civilians hostage.
Mykolaiv, another coastal city that Russian forces have thus far been unsuccessful in capturing ahead of a push on Odesa,  continued its defense. Mayor, Oleksandr Senkevich said in a post on his official Facebook page that the city remained in Ukrainian hands and thanked employees of a local company who helped prepare Czech hedgehogs  the large, caltrops-shaped antitank obstacles.
Times staff writers Christopher Goffard in Orange County and Tracy Wilkinson in Washington contributed to this report.
But the cease-fire didnt materialize Sunday. Though a  regime of silence, or cease-fire, was set to begin at 10 a.m.  and last for 11 hours, it had collapsed by afternoon. Pavlo Kirilenko, head of the Ukrainian governments military-civilian administration in Donetsk, said the evacuation convoy couldnt leave, blaming the situation on Russian troops who he said were regrouping their forces and conducting powerful shelling of the city.
There are set definitions and processes for determining whos a war criminal and how they should be punished. The investigations into Putins actions already have begun. The U.S. and 44 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, and theres another inquiry by the International Criminal Court.
Later in the day, Zelensky posted another video message after reports of an eight-rocket barrage hitting the Vinnytsia regional airport, some 110 miles southwest of Kyiv: Against our city against our peaceful Vinnytsia  which has never posed a threat to Russia in any way  a brutal, cynical missile strike has completely destroyed the airport.
The Times Marcus Yam, no stranger to war photography, gives a first-person account from Ukraine.
We are now talking to our European partners and allies to look in a coordinated way at the prospect of banning the import of Russian oil while making sure that there is still an appropriate supply of oil on world markets, Blinken said.
With Russian troops besieging cities in Ukraines south, spurring a humanitarian catastrophe even as they press their offensive around the capital, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned Sunday that the strategic coastal city of Odesa would soon be under attack and he repeatedly  urged Western countries to create a no-fly zone.
Today, our team began opening up the evacuation route from Mariupol before hostilities resumed, the group said in a statement. We remain in Mariupol and are ready to help facilitate further attempts  if the parties reach an agreement.
We very much support them, providing MIGs, SUs, planes that Ukrainians can fly, to the Ukrainians, Blinken said.
Ukraine won its independence in 1991 with the fall of the Soviet Union. Russian President Vladimir Putin contends it was never a state.
The U.N.s human rights office said 364 civilians have been killed and 759 wounded since the start of the Russian invasion Feb 24. The number, the office said, is likely an undercount.
