The Oscars fleeting tribute to Ukraine was just a series of written text
20220328
https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/movies/story/2022-03-27/ukraine-russia-oscars-2022-statement
I am not afraid to go there, she told talk-show host Drew Barrymore, but its not me producing the Oscars.
The Oscars telecast observed a moment of silence Sunday in solidarity with Ukraine as Russian forces continue to invade the country.
In a red-carpet interview with Variety, Oscars producer Will Packer confirmed that the show would acknowledge the war in Ukraine, which has been under attack since late February.
So we certainly are going to have an acknowledgement of the tumultuous times that were in right now and the people of Ukraine, so when you watch youll see.
In reaction to the Oscars moment of silence Sunday, one person tweeted, Something tells me thats not gonna be good enough for Sean Penn.
A night like tonight  it is about fun. It is about revelry, but we are so grateful ... to be able to even put on a night like this, Packer told Variety ahead of the show.
Also on the red carpet, several celebrities paid homage to Ukraine by wearing blue-and-gold accents. Among the stars who showed their support outside the Dolby Theatre were Jamie Lee Curtis, Diane Warren, Jason Momoa and Yuh-Jung Youn.
Wed like to have a moment of silence to show our support for the people of Ukraine currently facing invasion, conflict and prejudice within their own boundaries, a title card read midway through the program.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has pushed the Ukrainians featured in The Distant Barking of Dogs and A House Made of Splinters out of their homes.
They also wondered why the film academy has failed to show the same level of sympathy for people living in other, non-European countries that have been ravaged by war in recent years.
Im still processing the fact that this was followed by a call to donate sponsored by crypto dot com https:t.coNTNUxQ2Quf
Nice thoughts from TheAcademy towards suffering in Ukraine . Should display further solidarity  allow President ZelenskyyUa address the audience following The Oscars PeaceForUkraine  https:t.coajPJbtSlke
In a recent interview with CNN, actor Sean Penn seconded Schumers motion and even threatened to smelt his own Oscars trophies if Zelensky was not included in the show. Penn, who won Oscars for Mystic River and Milk, has been in Europe filming a documentary about Russias attack on Ukraine.
A third slide then asked viewers to support Ukraine in any way you are able while sharing the hashtag StandWithUkraine. Immediately after the Oscars statement appeared, a Crypto.com ad said the company would be matching donations to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine.
CODA became a feel-good best picture winner and Jessica Chastain triumphed for Tammy Faye, but all was overshadowed by best actor winner Will Smith.
But its not me producing the Oscars, said Amy Schumer of her wish to include Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in the 2022 ceremony.
yeah thats not enough babes, wrote another. people are literally being slaughtered rn and you literally chosen silence and passiveness.
damn thats crazy like what about the people in Palestine? Yemen? Syria?other countries devastated by American imperialism? or is that like chill with yall cos they aint first world countries or whatever  https:t.co5e1ZCa4XcB
While film is an important avenue for us to express our humanity in times of conflict, the reality is millions of families in Ukraine need food, medical care, clean water, and emergency services. Resources are scarce, and we  collectively as a global community  can do more.
Others questioned why actor Mila Kunis  who is of Ukrainian descent and has raised more than $35 million for Ukrainian relief along with her husband, Ashton Kutcher  did not directly mention Ukraine while presenting original song nominee Somehow You Do from the film Four Good Days.
Earlier this week, Oscars co-host Amy Schumer made headlines by suggesting that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky should participate in the Oscars broadcast.
There is nothing greater that the Academy Awards could do than to give Zelensky that opportunity to talk to all of us, Penn told CNN.
Yet when you witness the strength and dignity of those facing such devastation, its impossible to not be moved by their resilience. One cannot help but be in awe of those who find strength to keep fighting through unimaginable darkness.
