Thousands gather on National Mall to demand gun law changes
20220611
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-06-11/thousands-stream-to-national-mall-to-demand-gun-law-changes
Right now we are angry, said Mariah Cooley, a March for Our Lives board member and a senior at Washingtons Howard University. This will be a demonstration to show that us as Americans, were not stopping anytime soon until Congress does their jobs. And if not, well be voting them out.
We want to make sure that this work is happening across the country, said Daud Mumin, co-chairman of the marchs board of directors and a recent graduate of Westminster College in Salt Lake City. This work is not just about D.C., its not just about senators.
The Parkland students then took aim at gun laws in other states and nationally, launching March for Our Lives and holding the big rally in Washington on March 24, 2018.
The House has passed bills that would raise the age limit to buy semiautomatic weapons and establish federal red flag laws. But such initiatives have traditionally stalled or been heavily watered down in the Senate. Democratic and Republican senators had hoped to reach agreement this week on a framework for addressing the issue and talked Friday, but they have not announced an accord.
Officials warn that Russia is relying on weapons with the potential to cause mass casualties as it tries to make headway in Ukraines east.
Mumin said the goal is to send a message to lawmakers that public opinion on gun control is shifting under their feet. If theyre not on our side, there are going to be consequences  voting them out of office and making their lives a living hell when theyre in office, he said.
Despite rain in the nations capital, scores turned out on the mall well before the rally began, holding signs, including one that said, Children arent replaceable, senators are. Vote. A middle school-age girl carried a sign that said, I want to feel safe at school.
Now, with another string of mass shootings bringing gun control back into the national conversation, organizers of this weekends events say the time is right to renew their push for a national overhaul.
The first march was spurred by the Feb. 14, 2018, killings of 17 people by a gunman at a high school in Parkland, Fla. That massacre sparked the creation of the youth-led March for Our Lives movement, which successfully pressured the Republican-dominated Florida state government to enact sweeping gun control reforms.
Survivors of mass shootings and other incidents of gun violence have lobbied legislators and testified on Capitol Hill this week. Among them was Miah Cerrillo, an 11-year-old girl who survived the shooting at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde. She described for lawmakers how she covered herself with a dead classmates blood to avoid being shot.
On Tuesday, actor Matthew McConaughey appeared in the White House press briefing room to advocate for gun legislation and made highly personal remarks about the violence in his hometown of Uvalde.
The group did not match the Florida results at the national level, but has persisted in advocating for gun restrictions since then, as well as participating in voter registration drives.
The protest comes at a time of renewed political activity on guns and a crucial moment for possible action in Congress.
Organizers hoped the second March for Our Lives rally would draw as many as 50,000 people to the Washington Monument. While that would be far fewer than the original 2018 march that filled downtown Washington with more than 200,000 people, they decided to focus this time on smaller marches at an estimated 300 locations.
Thousands of people streamed to the National Mall for the highest-profile of countrywide demonstrations Saturday marking a renewed push for gun control after recent mass shootings in Buffalo, N.Y., Uvalde, Texas, and elsewhere that activists say should compel Congress to act.
