Ukraines Zelensky urges maximum sanctions on Russia in Davos address
20220523
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-05-23/ukraine-zelensky-urges-maximum-sanctions-russia-davos
Zelensky said sanctions needed to go further to stop Russian aggression, including an oil embargo, blocking all of its banks and cutting off trade with Russia completely. He said that it would be a precedent that would work for decades to come.
We are fighting, first of all, for values and to be part of the democratic world, the Ukrainian capitals mayor said. And right now everyone has to be proactive because we pay for that  the biggest prize, human lives every day.
Instead, efficiencies, such as reducing leaked methane and even lowering thermostats by a few degrees this winter in Europe would help ensure adequate energy supply.
Ukraine, along with Russia, is a major exporter of wheat, barley and sunflower oil, and the interruption of those supplies is threatening food insecurity in countries in Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia.
If such supplies remain off the market, the world could face a food availability problem in the next 10 to 12 months, and that is going to be hell on earth, World Food Program Executive Director David Beasley told the Associated Press.
He also pushed for the complete withdrawal of foreign companies from Russia to prevent supporting its war and said Ukraine needed funding  at least $5 billion per month.
Russian officials have not been invited to Davos this year, with what was dubbed the Russia House having been transformed by critics  including Ukrainian tycoon Victor Pinchuk and the countrys Foreign Ministry  into what they call the Russia War Crimes House. The venue features photos of crimes and cruelties that Russian forces are accused of inflicting.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for maximum sanctions on Russia during a virtual speech on the first day of the World Economic Forum gathering of corporate executives, government officials and other elites in Davos, Switzerland.
He said that if Ukraine had received 100 of our needs at once, back in February, in terms of weapons, funding, political support and sanctions against Russia, the result would be tens of thousands of lives saved.
Russia is a major supplier of oil and natural gas, with the invasion sending European countries scrambling to reduce their reliance on Moscows supplies.
He warned that there were 49 million people knocking on famines door right now in 43 countries, including Yemen, Lebanon, Mali, Burkina Faso, Egypt, Congo, Guatemala and El Salvador.
Zelenskys speech was a key focus Monday at Davos, the village in the Swiss Alps that has been transformed into a glitzy venue for the four-day confab ostensibly dedicated to making the world a better place. The event is resuming in person after a two-year hiatus because of the COVID-19 pandemic, which also delayed this years meeting from its usual winter slot.
Zelensky, who received a standing ovation after his remarks, reiterated that Russia was blocking critical food supplies, such as wheat and sunflower oil, from leaving its ports, and also stealing some.
The head of the United Nations World Food Program called for Ukraines ports to reopen, saying the regions farmers grow enough food to feed 400 million people.
This war is really a turning point of history, and it will reshape our political and our economic landscape in the coming years, said the events founder, Klaus Schwab.
We should not try to justify a new wave of long-term fossil-fuel investments on the basis of what Russian President Vladimir Putin did, Fatih Birol said on an energy panel.
Russia scores its first major win with the takeover of the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol. But will it change the course of the war?
Its been almost two months since Russian forces retreated from the outskirts of Kyiv, ending plans for a quick takeover, but devastation lingers.
The 21-year-old soldier had pleaded guilty to fatally shooting a Ukrainian civilian, which he said was an order from a superior officer.
Beasley called on the worlds top mega-billionaires to aid efforts to prevent hunger: The world is in real serious trouble. This is not rhetoric and B.S. Step up now, because the world needs you.
For the attendees, theres much to tackle amid soaring food and fuel prices, Russias war in Ukraine, climate change, inequality and persistent health crises. But its hard to predict if the high-minded discussions will yield substantial announcements that make headway on the worlds most pressing challenges.
This is what sanctions should be: They should be maximum, so that Russia and every other potential aggressor that wants to wage a brutal war against its neighbor would clearly know the immediate consequences of their actions, Zelensky said through a translator.
The amount of work is enormous: We have more than half a trillion of dollars in losses tens of thousands of facilities were destroyed. We need to rebuild entire cities and industries, Zelensky said, days after the Group of 7 leading economies agreed to provide $19.8 billion in economic aid. The U.S. has also approved $40 billion more in aid to the government in Kyiv.
Meanwhile, the head of the International Energy Agency urged countries and investors not to use energy shocks from the war as a reason to increase fossil-fuel investments  connecting the invasion to another major theme at Davos: climate and environmental issues.
Theres a sizable Ukrainian government delegation attending the Davos forum in person, making its case for more Western support in the countrys fight against Russia.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko pointed to the audience during a panel with his brother, Wladimir, and said: We are defending you personally.
