Ukraine Russia continue to trade blame on threats to nuclear plant
20220827
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-08-27/russia-attacks-cities-not-far-from-nuclear-plant-ukraine-says
Ukrainian authorities were distributing iodine tablets to residents who live near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station in case of radiation exposure, which can cause health problems depending on the amount a person absorbs.
Much of the concern centers on the cooling systems for the plants nuclear reactors. The systems require power to run, and the plant was temporarily knocked offline Thursday because of what officials said was fire damage to a transmission line. A cooling system failure could cause a nuclear meltdown.
The British government said it was giving Ukraine underwater drones and training sailors to use them to clear mines from the ravaged countrys coastline. Mines laid in the Black Sea during the war have hampered seaborne exports of Ukrainian grain to world markets, although an agreement reached in July has allowed shipments to resume along a single corridor.
But Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said Ukrainian forces had fired on the plant from Marhanets. Over the last days, 17 Ukrainian shells hit the plant, with four striking a building that stores nuclear fuel, he said.
The dispute over the plant led Russia late Friday to block agreement on the final document of the four-week-long review of the U.N. treaty that is considered the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament. The draft document of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty review conference criticized Russias takeover of the Zaporizhzhia plant.
More than 1 million metric tons of Ukrainian foodstuffs have been shipped since the start of August under the Black Sea grain deal, the United Nations said Saturday.
The situation remains precarious and dangerous, Zelensky said in his latest nightly address. Any repetition of Thursdays events, i.e., any disconnection of the station from the grid or any actions by Russia that could trigger the shutdown of the reactors, will once again put the station one step away from disaster.
The deputy head of Russias delegation said the conference became a political hostage to countries that were trying to settle scores with Russia by raising issues that are not directly related to the treaty.
Fears about the potential for a radiation leak at Europes largest nuclear power plant persisted Saturday as both sides traded blame for nearby shelling. Ukraine said Russian forces fired on areas just across the river from the plant, and Russia said Ukrainian shells hit a building where nuclear fuel is stored.
It was not immediately possible to verify either account given restrictions on journalists movements and the ongoing fighting.
The U.N.s atomic energy agency has tried to work out an agreement to send a team in to inspect and help secure the plant. Officials said preparations for the visit were underway, but it remained unclear when it might take place.
The governor of the eastern region of Donetsk, Pavlo Kyrylenko, said Saturday that two people were killed in Russian firing on the city of Bakhmut, a significant target for Russian and separatist forces seeking to take control of the parts of the region they do not already hold.
Elsewhere in Ukraine, one person was killed and another wounded in Russian firing in the Mykolaiv region, local government officials said. Mykolaiv city is an important Black Sea port and shipbuilding center.
In the latest conflicting attack reports, the governor of Ukraines Dnipropetrovsk oblast, or province, Valentyn Reznichenko, said Saturday that Grad missiles and artillery shells hit the cities of Nikopol and Marhanets, each located about six miles and across the Dnieper River from the plant.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said it was essential for International Atomic Energy Agency representatives to get to the plant as soon as possible and to help keep it under permanent Ukrainian control.
Russian forces occupied the nuclear plant complex early in the 6-month-old war in Ukraine, and Ukrainian workers have kept it running. The Ukrainian and Russian governments have repeatedly accused the other of shelling the complex and nearby areas, raising fears of a possible catastrophe.
Ukraine has said Russia is using the power plant as a shield by storing weapons there and launching attacks from around it. Moscow, for its part, accuses Ukraine of recklessly firing on the nuclear complex.
Periodic shelling has damaged the stations infrastructure, Ukraines nuclear power operator, Energoatom, said Saturday. There are risks of hydrogen leakage and sputtering of radioactive substances, and the fire hazard is high, it said.
