Ukraine seeks to join EU as round of talks with Russia ends
20220228
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-02-28/ukraine-seeks-to-join-eu
A no-fly zone, many officials say, would draw the U.S. and its NATO allies into direct combat with Russia  an escalation many liken to a world war. Air combat missions would have to be supported by ground-based operations and the U.S. and its NATO allies would have to be prepared to go in over land, making it a slippery slope from there to a shooting war.
A top Zelensky adviser, Mykhailo Podolyak, said the the talks, held near the Ukraine-Belarus border, were focused on a possible cease-fire and that a second round could take place in the near future.
The Russian military has denied targeting residential areas despite abundant evidence of shelling of homes, schools and hospitals
But while Ukraine sent its defense minister and other top officials, the Russian delegation was led by Putins adviser on culture  an unlikely envoy for ending the war and perhaps a sign of how seriously Moscow views the talks.
Ukraine won its independence in 1991 with the fall of the Soviet Union. Russian President Vladimir Putin contends it was never a state.
Messages aimed at the advancing Russian soldiers popped up on billboards, bus stops and electronic traffic signs across Kyiv. Some used profanity to encourage Russians to leave. Others appealed to their humanity.
But that did little to calm Russian fears. In Moscow, people lined up to withdraw cash as the sanctions threatened to drive up prices and reduce the standard of living for millions of Russians.
However, a senior U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the United States had yet to see any appreciable change in Russias nuclear posture.
It wasnt immediately clear what Putin is seeking in the talks, or from the war itself, though Western officials believe he wants to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, reviving Moscows cold war-era influence.
They wanted to have a blitzkrieg, but it failed, so they act this way, said 83-year-old Valentin Petrovich, using just his first name and his Russian-style middle name because of fear for his safety. He described watching the shelling from his downtown apartment.
Russian President Vladimir Putins assault on Ukraine is turning his fears of a more resolute Europe and NATO alliance into a self-fulfilling prophecy.
A top Putin aide and head of the Russian delegation, Vladimir Medinsky, said that the discussions lasted nearly five hours and that the envoys found certain points on which common positions could be foreseen. He said they agreed to continue the talks in the coming days.
Russian soldier  Stop! Remember your family. Go home with a clean conscience, one read.
Russian and Ukrainian officials held their meeting on Day 5 of the war under the shadow of Putins nuclear threats, and with Moscows invasion of Ukraine running into unexpectedly fierce resistance and Western sanctions beginning to wreak havoc on the economy at home.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys social media savvy has helped give Ukraine a fighting chance against the Kremlins massive army and disinformation juggernaut.
In other fighting, strategic ports in the countrys south came under assault from Russian forces. Mariupol, on the Sea of Azov, is hanging on, said Zelensky adviser Oleksiy Arestovich. An oil depot was reported bombed in the eastern city of Sumy. Ukrainian protesters demonstrated against encroaching Russian troops in the port of Berdyansk.
Several organizations in California, as well as international aid groups, are helping refugees, wounded soldiers and others in and around Ukraine. Heres how you can contribute.
For many, the nuclear high alert stirred up memories of the 1962 Cuban missile crisis and fears that the West could be drawn into direct conflict with Russia.
At this stage, Ukraine is many years away from reaching the standards for achieving EU membership. An addition to the 27-nation bloc must be approved unanimously.
Russian President Vladimir Putin needs the former Soviet republic Ukraine for his dream of returning superpower days.
I sit and pray for these negotiations to end successfully, so that they reach an agreement to end the slaughter, and so there is no more war, said Alexandra Mikhailova, weeping as she clutched her cat in a makeshift shelter in the strategic southeastern port city of Mariupol. Around her, parents sought to console children and keep them warm.
Also, the 193-nation U.N. General Assembly opened its first emergency session in decades in order to deal with the Ukraine invasion, with Assembly President Abdulla Shahid calling for an immediate cease-fire, maximum restraint by all parties and a full return to diplomacy and dialogue.
The negotiations at Mondays talks met at a long table with the blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flag on one side and the Russian tricolor on the other.
For the second day in a row, the Kremlin raised the specter of nuclear war, reporting that its land, air and sea nuclear forces had been put on high alert following Putins weekend order. And stepping up his rhetoric, Putin denounced the U.S. and its allies as an empire of lies.
An embattled Ukraine moved to solidify its bond with the West on Monday by applying to join the European Union, while the first round of Ukraine-Russia talks aimed at ending the fighting concluded with no deal but an agreement to keep talking.
More than a half-million people have fled the country since the invasion, another U.N. official said, with many of them going to Poland, Romania and Hungary. And millions have left their homes.
Meanwhile, social media video from Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, showed residential areas being shelled, with apartment buildings shaken by repeated, powerful blasts. Authorities in Kharkiv said at least seven people had been killed and dozens injured. They warned that casualties could be far higher.
There are set definitions and processes for determining whos a war criminal and how they should be punished. The investigations into Putins actions already have begun. The U.S. and 44 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, and theres another inquiry by the International Criminal Court.
As the discussions wrapped up, several blasts could be heard in Kyiv, though no details were immediately known. Russian troops, who are attacking Ukraine on multiple fronts, were advancing slowly on the capital city of 3 nearly million people and were about 15 miles from the city center, according to a senior U.S. defense official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss military assessments.
A woman reacts as she stands in front of a house burning after being shelled in the city of Irpin.
As the sanctions on Russian banks and other institutions took hold, Russias Central Bank scrambled to shore up the tanking ruble, and Putin signed a decree on foreign currency, in a bid to stabilize the ruble.
The U.N. human rights chief said at least 102 civilians have been killed and hundreds wounded in more than four days of fighting  warning that figure is probably a vast undercount  and Ukraines president said at least 16 children were among the dead.
Overall, the consensus has been that Ukraines deep-seated corruption could make it hard for the country to win EU acceptance. Still, in an interview with Euronews on Sunday, EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said, We want them in the European Union.
In a war being waged both on the ground and online, cyberattacks hit Ukrainian embassies around the world, and Russian media.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky posted photos of himself signing the EU application, a largely symbolic move for now that could take years to become reality and is unlikely to sit well with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has long accused the West of trying to pull Ukraine into its orbit.
