Opinion  Why the Donbass is the Key to Putins Gambit in Ukraine
20220202
https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2022/02/02/putins-gambit-donbas-ukraine-west-doesnt-understand-00004616
If youve been listening to statements coming out of the Kremlin, youve probably noticed that Russian officials, including President Vladimir Putin, repeatedly talk about something called the Minsk Protocols or the Minsk agreements. And you might also know that those agreements have to do with the status of two allegedly pro-Russian regions of the Donbass, a coal-mining region of Ukraine that borders Russia and that Russia has occupied since 2014. You might even be aware that some experts in the West consider those two regions something of a bargaining chip  perhaps, such experts think, letting Russia annex or control those two regions might be part of a compromise that could mollify Putin and prevent a full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Unfortunately, thats exactly what Putin wants you to think, and its a serious misreading of how he plans to use Donbass. What Putin knows and the West hasnt yet understood is that any move by Ukraine to formally recognize some kind of independence for Donbass will set off mass protests across Ukraine.
Oleksandr Danylyuk served as special advisor to the head of Ukraines Foreign Intelligence Service, and as an advisor to Ukraines Minister of Defense. He currently heads the Center for Defense Reforms in Kyiv and is a coordinator of the NATO-Ukraine intergovernmental platform for early detection and countering hybrid threats.
Vladimir Putin meeting with the leaders of Ukraine, France and Germany to discuss implementation of the Minsk Protocol in Berlin, Germany in October 2016.  Adam BerryGetty Images
According to my understanding of Russian strategy, which I developed in the national security sector of Ukraine including working with NATO to monitor and detect Russian threats, Russias real goal is to use such protests to internally destabilize Ukraine  to organize attacks on the government and military command-and-control system using attackers disguised as protesters and to assassinate top officials. Such chaos would disorganize the Ukrainian armed forces and justify its military invasion of Ukraine in the guise of restoring order. That would set off a string of events that would likely end in a partition of Ukraine.
