Barrow residents send heartfelt messages to the people of Ukraine
20220302
https://www.nwemail.co.uk/news/19960969.barrow-residents-send-heartfelt-messages-people-ukraine/
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Gemma Elizabeth said her best friend is half Ukrainian, she said: "Her mum's family are there, my heart is breaking for her."
The leader ofBarrowBorough Council said she was 'sure' a council leadership meeting this week would decide to support refugees coming to Barrow.
Bob Farrer said: "I have been to Odessa twice, its a beautiful place. I have friends there who i have messaged but i haven't heard anything back."
Lori Robinson said: "I feel for all the innocent people that are caught up in this barbaric act and i pray for them."
Paul Griffiths said: "When Liverpool played in the Champions League Final a few years ago, in Kiev, the hotels took the mick on prices and cancelled bookings last minute.
To show solidarity with the Ukrainian people, the Barrow Council building was lit up in blue and yellow to mark the colours of the Ukrainian flag.
"My experience was that they were generally lovely, kind people and Kyiv is a beautiful city."
Karen Smith said: "Absolutely awful, heartbreaking for them. My prayers are with you all in Ukraine."
RESIDENTS send their heartfelt messages to the people of Ukraine after Russia has invited the country.
Since the Russian invasion, community groups have been sending messages of support to people in Ukraine.
"Many of them even picked up fans from the airport and dropped them off again, free of charge.
"The local residents got together and via social media offered fans their spare rooms, usually free of charge and included food.
The support comes at a time when Cllr Anne Thomson said that her'heart goes out' to the Ukrainian people and that she expects the borough council to resolve to welcome refugees from the country at a meeting on Wednesday.
