Russian troops were killed after being given poisoned food and alcohol by Ukrainian civilians officials say
20220327
https://www.newsbreak.com/news/2560257272816/russian-troops-were-killed-after-being-given-poisoned-food-and-alcohol-by-ukrainian-civilians-officials-say
Ukrainian officials also said on Saturday that  Ukrainian forces regained control  of areas around Kyiv.
Stories of Ukrainian civilians resisting Russian forces have continued to emerge. Even before the invasion began  regular Ukrainian civilians were training for combat  and learning how to make  molotov cocktails  .
Izium is located in the Kharkiv region of eastern Ukraine, where the city of  Kharkiv  has experienced some of the heaviest fighting and bombardment since Russia launched its full-scale invasion on February 24.
The post also said that Ukrainian civilians were resisting the Russian forces by all available means.
The soldiers were from the 3rd Russian motor rifle division, according to a  Facebook post  from Ukraine's Main Directorate of Intelligence.
Videos  have  captured  Ukrainians confronting and blocking Russian tanks, resulting in images reminiscent of the  Tiananmen Square "tank man."  Last month, a grandmother in the capital city of Kyiv said she  took out a suspicious drone by throwing a jar of pickled tomatoes at it  .
But Russian troops have also taken major losses since the war began. NATO said last week an estimated  7,000 to 15,000 Russian soldiers were killed  in the first month of the war.
Some Russian troops were killed and many more were injured after being given poisoned food and alcohol by civilians in the Kharkiv Region, Ukrainian officials said on Saturday.
Izium is located in the Kharkiv region, which has experienced some of the worst bombardment.
The post said two Russian troops were killed and 28 were in intensive care after being given poisoned cakes in the city of Izium. Another 500 Russian troops were taken to hospitals due to heavy alcohol poisoning, according to the post.
