THINGS YOU SHOULD CARE ABOUT How Ukraine was Betrayed in Budapest Memorandum
20220224
https://humanevents.com/2022/02/24/things-you-should-care-about-how-ukraine-was-betrayed-in-budapest-memorandum/
Eliminating the nuclear threat was a big deal for the United States because the nuclear weapons were ultimately designed, built and deployed to attack America during the Cold War. The 1,900 strategic nuclear warheads Ukraine possessed had enough power to destroy every U.S. city with a population of more than 50,000 three times.
While the specifics were never hashed out, U.S. officials urged that there would be some kind of response.
Indeed, the Budapest Memorandum of 1994 was when the U.S., Britain and Russia offered security assurances to Ukraine after the Soviet Union collapsed. Those assurances ultimately persuaded the Ukrainian government to give up the worlds third largest nuclear arsenal.
Many argue that since the U.S. didnt ever invade Ukraine, it upheld its Memorandum commitments. However, U.S. officials told Ukrainian officials that if Russia were to ever invade, the U.S. would respond.
Unfortunately, Russia broke essentially every commitment it made to Ukraine. This ongoing invasion isnt the first time Putin went against his word. He first disregarded the Memorandum when he invaded Ukraines Crimean peninsula in 2014.
The countries said that Ukraine had committed to eliminate all nuclear weapons from its territory within a specific period of time. They pledged to refrain from economic coercion against Ukraine and to seek immediate United Nations Security Council action to provide assistance to Ukraine in the event of an act of aggression against the country.
The short answer: U.S. officials promised Ukraine in the Budapest Memorandum 25 years ago that the U.S. would assist if Russia were ever to invade.
Since Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, the United States has provided Ukraine with $3 billion in reform and military assistance and $3 billion in loan guarantees.
Long story short, this is why Americans should care about whats going on in Ukraine.
Amid the ongoing Russian invasion in Ukraine, it is critical to dive deeper into the countrys backstory of betrayal.
