A Russian Invasion of Ukraine An Unlikely Game Changer
20220215
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/russian-invasion-ukraine-unlikely-game-changer-200595
However, a Russian invasion of Ukraine, which would be a game-changer and fundamentally different from previous incursions, is unlikely.
NATO is unlikely to let any nation that does not control its territory join the alliance. With no end in sight for the current status quo in Ukraines Donbas, it appears that Russia is achieving its strategic objective at a fairly low cost. An invasion would only increase the costs, with no additional gain. And if the occupation became costly, as it likely would, the domestic repercussions could lead to Putins demise. Thus, invasion, though still possible, seems unlikely.
Nevertheless, an invasion is also unlikely. Putin behaves rationally, even if he routinely operates outside of widely accepted international norms. He recognizes that he would pay a high economic cost for an invasion. Sanctions against Russia following its seizure of Crimea in 2014 have been estimated to have cost Russia roughly $50 billion per year. With President Joe Biden signaling to Russia that it would pay a heavy price for any invasion, Putin knows that sanctions would be swift and severe if it were to invade.
Since World War II, the number of nations in the world has more than doubled. yet the prevalence of interstate war has declined. Nowhere is that trend more evident than in Europe. Yet Russias invasion of Georgia in 2008 and its subsequent seizure of Crimea and active support for separatists in Ukraines east in 2014 has led some to question whether interstate war in Europe is truly dead. Today, Russia has amassed over 100,000 troops along its nearly 1,200-mile land border with Ukraine, leading to speculation that a Russian invasion could be imminent.
A Russian invasion today would be game-changing because it would represent the first undeniable and telegraphed invasion in Europe since the end of World War II, when Russia gobbled up Eastern Europe. In 2008, President Vladimir Putin tried to convince the world that he was protecting Ossetians from Georgian genocide to justify Russias invasion under the pretense of the international norm of the responsibility to protect. The evidence, however, indicated that the war was premeditated and Georgia acted preemptively, similar to what Israel did in the 1967 Six-Day War. Unsurprisingly, the international community did not buy Putins justification back then.
When Putin sent T-90 tanks across the border in 2014, they were almost impenetrable. Since then, the United States has provided Ukraine with Javelin anti-tank missiles, and additional missiles are arriving from Estonia. Since 2014, the United States has also spent nearly $2.7 billion on training and equipment to reform Ukraines defense establishment. Putin recognizes that he would face a much tougher enemy than he did in 2014.
Col. Liam Collins U.S., Ret.is a publishingcontributorwithThe MirYam Institute.A retired Special Forces Colonel, Liam served in a variety of special operations assignments and conducted operational deployments to Afghanistan, Iraq, Bosnia, the Horn of Africa and South America.
What makes an invasion of Ukraine in 2022 fundamentally different from Russias previous invasions is that this one is being telegraphed by Moscow. Russias invasion of Georgia came as a complete surprise, as did its seizure of Crimea. A second major difference is that Russia lacks even an implausible justification for the invasion. In both previous wars, Russia attempted to justify its interventions under the responsibility to protect.
Learning from this experience, Putin avoided the overt use of Russian military force in Ukraine in 2014. Instead, he used Little Green Men and other hybrid means to seize and annex Crimea without firing a shot. After Ukraine had Russian-backed separatist forces on the ropes, Putin was forced to send smaller formations into Ukraines east, but he continued to deny Russian support.
Thus, if Russia were to invade, it would be an unequivocal declaration of war. It would demonstrate the weakness of the international system that was unable to deter conflict. It would also erode confidence in various international institutions, in particular, and the West, in general. Russia, no doubt, would pay a steep political price, but in a battle of relative gains, it is not clear that Russias price would be any higher than the Wests pricea clear demonstration of the Wests impotence.
Putin also realizes that he would likely pay a domestic cost for the victory. Russian mothers do not like their sons coming home in body bags any more than Western mothers. And while Putin is likely confident that he would score an initial victory, albeit at heavy costs, he also must recognize that he would face a costly insurgency. Ukraine recently adopted a law enshrining civilian resistance as part of Ukraines national defense and has been training volunteers.
Neither of these conditions exists today. While Putin has yet to directly threaten an invasion, he has threatened appropriate retaliatory military-technical measures if the Wests aggressive approach continues. Likewise, Putin lacks even the feeblest pretense for invasion. There is no population that Putin can claim that he needs to defend. Quite the contrary. Ukrainians have seen the devastation and the lack of opportunity in the Donbas and want no part of it.
Finally, an invasion would seem to accomplish little in terms of broader policy objectives. Crimea was unique since it was strategic territory that provided Russia access to the Black Sea and housed its naval base in Sevastopol. Russia could have attempted to annex Georgias South Ossetia or Ukraines Donbas, but it did not. Russias objective was not about capturing territory, instead, it was about control: preventing both countries from joining NATO.
Likewise, Putin knows that an invasion would come at a significant military cost. In its five-day war with Georgia, Russia lost as many as twenty-two aircraft. This was a price that Russia seemed unwilling to pay because it caused Russia to significantly decrease its air support after losing so many aircraft in the opening days. With Stinger missiles being transferred to Ukraine from Lithuania and Latvia, Putin realizes that he would likely lose a significant number of aircraft with any invasion.
