Biden Authorizes E15 Gas Sales to Counter Putins Price Hike
20220504
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/politics/biden-authorizes-e15-gas-sales-counter-%E2%80%98putin%E2%80%99s-price-hike%E2%80%99-202187
As many Americans continue to feel the pain at the pump, the trucking industry is also being hit hard, according to Fox Business.
So, you are paying for high prices of fuel both at the pump and at the grocery checkout line, he concluded.
To cover the increased cost of diesel, truckers must increase the rates charged to haul freight. These increased rates are then passed on to consumers via higher costs at the retail level, Ron Faulkner, the president of Faulkner Trucking and 2022 president of the California Trucking Association, wrote in an op-ed for the Fresno Bee.
Ethen Kim Lieser is a Washington state-based Finance and Tech Editor who has held posts at Google, The Korea Herald, Lincoln Journal Star, AsianWeek, and Arirang TV. Follow or contact him on LinkedIn.
As promised last month, President Joe Biden has issued an emergency fuel waiver allowing E15 gas to be sold across the country this summer in an effort to blunt sky-high fuel prices.
The sale of E15 gasolinewhich contains a 15 percent ethanol blendis generally prohibited from June to mid-September because of air-quality concerns.
We may not see consistently below $5 a gallon until theres some long-term resolution between Russia and Ukraine, Patrick De Haan, the head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy, told the Times.
On Sunday, the price of diesel reached an all-time high in the United States at $5.296 per gallonup more than 4 percent from one week ago and nearly twofold compared to last year.
The prices are skyrocketing, and we still dont get good prices for the loads, Michal Agboire, who works for Maitland Trucking, told WNCN in Raleigh, North Carolina. If it goes any higher than this, and the price of the load not coming up, then maybe we just call it quits, he added.
In more bad news for Americans, the high cost of diesel is being passed on to consumers.
The president is committed to doing everything he can to address the pain Americans are feeling at the pump as a result of Russian president Vladimir Putins price hike and his unjustified wars impact on global fuel supply, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Friday, calling the fuel waiver a critical step to address the fuel supply crisis.
The market is trying to digest all these factors that are significantly driving prices but changing day to day, he continued.
Meanwhile, as reported by the Los Angeles Times, any sizable relief from high gas prices is unlikely to be seen in the near term. In Los Angeles, the average price for a gallon of regular gas climbed above $5.75 on March 9 and it hasnt gone below that since. Nationally, the average price is $4.19, according to AAA data.
Unpredictable crude oil prices and uncertainty in China over COVID outbreaks and lockdowns are adding more volatility to gas prices. The volatility weve seen is wild, De Haan said.
The result is that gas stations are deciding to keep prices high in such an environment. Stations would rather not lower prices than dip down and have to go back up later, De Haan concluded.
At current prices, E15 can save a family 10 cents per gallon of gas on average and many stores sell E15 at an even greater discount and todays waiver will allow families to pay that lower price for months to come, Psaki continued.
