Cannon Fodder Putin Accuses US of Prolonging Ukraine War
20220817
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/%E2%80%98cannon-fodder%E2%80%99-putin-accuses-us-prolonging-ukraine-war-204276
Putin also claimed that the invasion had been launched in full conformity with the Charter of the United Nations, although the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution condemning itwith 141 member states in favor and only five, including Russia, opposedin the first week of March.
Russian defense minister Sergei Shoigu, who also spoke at the conference, claimed that the Wests assistance to Ukraine also included detailed intelligence sharing and training.
The situation in Ukraine shows that the United States is trying to drag the conflict out by providing weapons in concert with its European allies, the Russian president claimed.
Many Western experts have asserted that Russias initial invasion of Ukraine in Februarya campaign that Putin referred to as a special military operation, the Kremlins preferred phraseology, in his remarkswas planned as a short-term campaign and expected minimal resistance from Ukrainian forces. After invading northern Ukraine through Belarus, however, Russian forces were forced to retreat, leading Moscow to refocus its efforts on fully capturing the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine. Although Russian forces have made slow advances in the south and east, their efforts have been obstructed by extensive Western assistance to Ukraine, including $50 billion from the United States alone. This assistance has included both financial aid and advanced Western weapons systems, notably the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS.
Russian leader Vladimir Putin accused the United States on Tuesday of intentionally prolonging the Russo-Ukrainian Warwhich began roughly six months ago on February 24 after the Kremlin invaded its western neighboras part of a plan to weaken Russia and maintain U.S. global hegemony, according to the Kremlin.
Putins remarks came during the opening ceremony of the Tenth Moscow Conference on International Security, an annual security conference held in the Russian capital with delegations from Africa, Asia, and Latin America. In his speech, he claimed that the collective West sought conflicts in order to retain their hegemony, but opposed the personal involvement of U.S. and NATO personnel, preferring instead to export weapons to Ukraine and train Ukrainians to use thema pattern of behavior that Putin claimed had destined the Ukrainian people to being used as cannon fodder.
Western intelligence agencies not only have provided target coordinates for launching attacks, but Western specialists also have overseen the input of those data into weapons systems, Shoigu claimed, suggesting that these actions amounted to the Wests direct participation in the war.
The United States has implemented the anti-Russia project and connived at the dissemination of the neo-Nazi ideology, Putin said, claiming that the Ukrainian government was substantially influenced by neo-Nazism, an allegation that has been widely condemned in the Western world.
