Heres How Ukraine Kept its Old Planes in the Air
20210925
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/reboot/heres-how-ukraine-kept-its-old-planes-air-193241
The invasion had a similar effect on Ukraines overall air power. In early 2014, before Russian forces invaded, Kiev possessed 400 military aircraft, according toFlights annual survey of world warplanes for 2015.
When the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991, Ukraine inherited a handful of the 32-ton seaplanes. But Kiev could never afford to maintain the increasingly geriatric patrollersespecially considering what saltwater does to metal.
As Russian troops swept into Crimea in late February 2014, Ukrainian crews raced to get as many of their planes as possible airborne and out of the way.
In one fell swoop, the Russians apparently reduced Ukraines seaplane force to a single plane.
Andas the war expandedto Ukraines east, Kievs pilots found themselves conducting air attacks against pro-Russian separatists armed with high-tech surface-to-air missilesone of which destroyed a Malaysian airliner over Ukraine in July 2014, killing 298 people.
The rebels also took a toll on Ukraines air force,armyaviation andnavalair arm. After nearly a year of battle, Aviation International NewstalliedKievs combat lossesat least twenty-two aircraft, and possibly many more. Twenty-one fell to surface-to-air missiles.
But in a curious display of convivialityespecially in light of Moscows overt support for Ukrainian separatists fighting on the mainlandthe Russians actually returned many of the planes they had captured in Crimea  including venerable Be-12 Yellow 02.
A U.S. Navy photographerspottedthe aged Beriev soaring over the assembled warships. The two Be-12s remained in service as of 2019.
David Axe is defense editor at The National Interest. He is the author of the graphic novelsWar Fix,War Is BoringandMachete Squad. This article is being republished due to reader interest.
On April 14, Russian troops on the peninsula allowed a Ukrainian crew to fly Yellow 02 back to Mykolayiv. Despite the not superb state, the crew deemed the condition of the aircraft good enough for flight, the blog Airheadsfly reported.
The Soviet Union designed the Beriev Be-12 seaplane in the late 1950s to hunt NATO submarines. But improving enemy air defenses doomed the slow, ungainly amphibian in that role, so it switched to patrol and search-and-rescue mission.
But it was the Russian invasion of Crimea in the spring of 2014 that really did in the Ukrainian seaplane force. And it was Russian largessfor lack of a better termthat helped Kiev coax one Beriev back into the air.
In 2012, Ukrainian naval aviation possessed seven Be-12s at the Saky air base in Crimea, from where at least some of the twin-engine, gull-wing seaplanes patrolled the Black Sea. Its not clear how many of the seven planes could actually fly.
The naval aviation brigade managed to evacuate a number of its assets to safety in early March before they could be seized, including a Kamov Ka-29 and three Mi-14 helicopters, two Antonov An-26 transports and one Beriev Be-12 amphibian,Janes reported.
Here's What You Need to Remember:The rebels also took a toll on Ukraines air force,armyaviation andnavalair arm.
Kiev was working hard to get mothballed warplanes back in fighting condition. Mechanics appear to have paid some attention to Yellow 02, as well. When NATO ships returned to the Black Sea for Sea Breeze 2014 in September, Yellow 02 was there.
One Be-12 with the fuselage number 02, painted in yellow, participated in the annual Sea Breeze war game with NATO in July 2012.
