Russias EverShifting Red Lines in Ukraine
20211203
https://nationalinterest.org/feature/russia%E2%80%99s-ever-shifting-red-lines-ukraine-197382
But it is not the first time Kremlins red lines with regards to Ukraine have shifted. Already back in 2014 for the Kremlin, it was not about a formal prospect of NATO accession per se. Ukraine's 2014 provisional post-Euromaidan government did not take any active steps to enhance NATO integration, nor did it make any bold declarations on this topic. Serious discussions ofUkraine's NATO membership in2014 started, if anything, in the aftermath not prior to Russia's aggression against Ukraine. And yet right after the Euromaidan revolution Russia launched a war with Ukraine and annexed Crimea. Why? Because of the possibility of Ukraines active integration with the European Union following the initialingofUkraines EU accession agreement. Further integration with Europe risked depriving Putin ofthe leverage he had over Kiev, which was deemed unacceptable. So the 2014 red line was not about NATO, it was about the EU membership.
Until 2008 Moscow had been developing an active partnership with NATO, participating in joint military exercises in Afghanistan and peacekeeping operations. In 2007, Moscow went as far as ratifying an agreement allowing NATO troops and arms to pass through Russia's territory in case of a military need. Up to 2009, Kremlin-linked politicians in Russia even raised the possibility of Russias own future NATO accession. At multiple meetings with President Barack Obama in 2009-2012, Putin and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev never raised concerns over NATO expansion.
The continuous shift of the red lines that Putin draws for Ukraine stems from the fact that Russia is yet to pay a serious price for its incursion in neighboring countries. The international community avoided openly interfering in the conflicts Russia launches in the post-Soviet space nor did it provide foreign military aid that would fundamentally alter the existing power balance in the region. The economic sanctions imposed on Russia have slowed down its economic growth, but not in a way that would seriously constrain its economic and military capabilities. Frequent predictions about Russias inevitable decline, are yet to come true. This dynamic of Western responses has taught the Kremlin to demand more, and hence its red lines with regards to Ukraine keep shifting.
What explains another round of military buildup? For many years the Kremlins official line emphasized Ukraines NATO formal membership as a red line, which made many analysts blame Russias 2014 war with Ukraine on the alleged NATO expansion into the East.
The main takeaway that follows from this analysis is that the appeasement options offered by some analysts do not really exist for the West. There is hardly any option presuming an independent existence of Ukraine that would satisfy the Kremlin. No matter how much the West is prepared to concede to Russia, the Kremlins appetites will keep growing over time unless it is faced with strong resistance.
Yet the recent official statements suggest that Kremlins red lines for Ukraine have shifted. Now even informal Ukrainian military cooperation with the West appears off the table for the Kremlin. For example, in a recent interview, Vladimir Putin suggested that Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyys use of drones violates the Minsk accords and other agreements, and claimed that its naval drills with NATO in the Black Sea risk further escalating tensions in the region. It looks like the Kremlin now draws the line at any Ukrainian defense cooperation with Western military alliances, be it their troops' presence in the country, arms transfers, or use of the territory. All of the above is now deemed unacceptable by the Kremlin.
For the second time this year, Russia has launched a military buildup at Ukraines borders. Back in April 2021 Russia already deployed over 100,000 troops on the border with Ukraine. But the new developments look different, and potentially even more dangerous. Unlike the fairly open buildup in the spring, the recent Russian military deployment is covert, often taking place at night, is by elite ground units, and accompanied by much tougher rhetoric of the Russian leadership. Moreover, the current Russian military presence is expanding not only in Crimea and near the separatist republics border, but also along all of Ukraines perimeter. These developments launched a heated debated in the U.S. policy community about the goals Moscow is trying to achieve and ways to deter it.
Maria Snegovaya is a Postdoctoral Fellow in Political Science at Virginia Tech andan IERES Visiting Scholar at George Washington University.
In general, scholars tend to overstate the Kremlins objection to NATO expansion. After NATO expanded into the Baltic region in 2004, Russias land border with NATO countries has become more than twice as large as its land border with Georgia, yet Putin was not too concerned at the time. In fact, in 2002, he stated that NATO enlargement to include the Baltics was no tragedy, as long as no new military infrastructure was introduced. In the 2002 Rome Summit Declaration, NATO members and Russia reaffirmed their determination to build together a lasting and inclusive peace in the Euro-Atlantic area on the principles of democracy and cooperative security. In 2004, Putin again stated that he had no concerns about the expansion of NATO because todays threats are such that the expansion of NATO will not remove them.
In other words, for the Kremlin, it has never been about NATO expansion per se. It was about the control over Ukraine which precludes any formal or informal Ukraines collaboration and integration with Western alliances. Putins desire to reassert Russias dominance and control in the post-Soviet space makes him unhappy with any arrangement that takes Ukraine out of Russias sphere of influence.
