Secretary of State Antony Blinken Warns Russia Not to Recognize Donbas Governments
20220217
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/secretary-state-antony-blinken-warns-russia-not-recognize-donbas-governments-200650
Blinken said on Wednesday, however, that Russian recognition of the DPR or LPR would violate the Minsk II Protocol, a multilateral agreement on the process of ending the war in Ukraine signed in the capital of Belarus in 2015.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned on Wednesday that the United States would have a swift and firm response to the Kremlin if it moved to recognize the independence of the Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR and the Luhansk Peoples Republic LPR. The DPR and LPR are pro-Russian self-declared states in Ukraines eastern Donbas region engaged in a conflict against the Ukrainian central government in Kyiv.
Blinken did not specify what the response would be. He said the response would be done in full cooperation with our Allies and partners.
Russian leaders have said that they do not intend to invade Ukraine and claimed they would remove the troops if the West firmly committed to refusing Kyivs admission into NATO  a demand that the United States and other NATO nations have refused. Diplomatic talks between both sides are ongoing and have been vocally supported by both Putin and Biden.
The secretarys warning came after the State Duma, Russias lower house of parliament, appealed directly to Russian President Vladimir Putin to extend recognition to the two self-declared states. Putin has indicated that he would not immediately recognize either, but some observers have noted that recognition or non-recognition could be used as a bargaining chip in ongoing negotiations between Russia and the West over the status of Ukraine.
Enactment of this resolution would further undermine Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, constitute a gross violation of international law, call into further question Russias stated commitment to continue to engage in diplomacy to achieve a peaceful resolution of this crisis, Blinken said.
In recent months, Russia has concentrated its troops along the border with Ukraine, raising fears that it intends to invade its western neighbor. Precise estimates on the number of troops vary, but President Joe Biden claimed in a speech on Tuesday that 150,000 Russian soldiers were positioned near the border, in addition to the troops engaged in an ongoing set of military exercises in neighboring Belarus, on Ukraines northern flank. Moscows recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent nations  albeit independent nations heavily reliant on Russia for political and economic support  could clear the path for them to justify a deployment of Russian troops into the Donbas region, potentially igniting a broader conflict.
