Tanks for Nothing Will Russia Go to War
20211229
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/tanks-nothing-will-russia-go-war-198691
The T-72 has spawned a constant stream of updated variants in the decades following its entry into service. The 1985 T-72B revision added a new main gun, upgraded engine, fire control system improvements, and slight tweaks to the armor construction. The T-72B3M is the latest iteration of the T-72 platform, bringing further fire control system updates with modern thermal imaging, digital display,Reliktexplosive-reactive armor, and the newest version of the 125-millimeter2A46M smoothbore gun.
Russias armed forces have taken delivery of a new batch of modernized T-72B3M tanks, according to a state media report.
The T-72 platform has seen action in dozens of conflicts across the world, including the civil war inTajikistan, Yugoslav Wars, andChechen Wars. More recently, several of these tanks were reportedly spotted in eastern Ukraine during the early stages of the War in Donbass.
TheT-90third-generation MBT was formally introduced in the early 1990s as the successor to the T-72, but upwards oftwo thousandmodels of the T-72 family continue to serve in Russias armed forces. Despite its aging foundation, the T-72 platform remains a staple in Russias heavy armor roster. Several thousand more remain active across the post-Soviet sphere, former Warsaw Bloc, Africa, and the Middle-East notably, Iraq signed an import deal in 2009 for as many astwo thousandrefurbished T-72 tanks.
Uralvagonzavod part of the state corporationRostec has delivered a batch of T-72B3M tanks to the Defense Ministry of Russia,according to a press statement issued by the manufacturer.The vehicles have undergone a full set of trials, have been accepted by the customers in compliance with technical specifications and are ready for their operational service in the Russian Army. The report did not specify where these tanks were delivered, nor how many units were part of this batch. The delivery comes amid an increasingly tense military standoff between Russia and Ukraine, with Kiev and the West accusing Moscow of massing as many asone hundred thousandtroops on Ukraines border in anticipation of what could be a major military offensive. Russias Defense Ministry published adraft agreementearlier this month asking for sweeping security guarantees from Washington and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO.
TheT-72is a second-generation Soviet-era main battle tank MBT,which isa development of the innovative-but-flawedT-64tank. The original T-72 model boasted a top speed of aroundsixtykilometers per hour and an operational range of aroundfive hundredkilometers.
