UN World Is One Miscalculation Away From Nuclear Annihilation
20220802
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/un-world-one-miscalculation-away-%E2%80%98nuclear-annihilation%E2%80%99-203961
Humanity is just one misunderstanding, one miscalculation away from nuclear annihilation, Guterres said on Monday during his opening address at a United Nations UN conference intended to review the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, or NPT. The conference was originally scheduled to be held in March 2020, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the treatys entry into force, but was delayed for two years after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic.
In remarks preceding the conference, Russian leader Vladimir Putin appeared to walk back previous warnings that he might use nuclear weapons in Ukraine, writing in a message on the Kremlins website that he believed that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. Representatives from Russia are expected to speak at the conference on Tuesday, as are Chinese officials.
Blinken suggested in his remarks that Russia was primarily responsible for the Zaporizhzhia crisis, as it had stationed troops and artillery at the plant and fired at Ukrainian positions with minimal danger of returning fire due to concerns about nuclear fallout. Russia has denied these allegations.
Although Grossi largely refrained from direct criticism of Russia, he observed that nuclear power plants within Ukraineincluding the Zaporizhzhia plant in the countrys southeast, the largest nuclear plant in Europehad been the site of recent battles within Ukraine. Clashes near nuclear plants risked the possibility that either side could damage the plant and release toxic radiation, Grossi said, creating a situation that was becoming more perilous by the day.
United Nations secretary-general Antonio Guterres warned that repeated escalations of nuclear threats around the worldincluding the conflict in Ukraine, the impending nuclearization of Iran, and rising tensions in Asiameant that the world was closer than it had ever been to a hostile nuclear incident, risking the onset of World War III and the destruction of modern civilization.
Officials from Germany, Japan, and the United States made similar arguments against the use of nuclear weapons on Monday during the conferences opening, as did Rafael Grossi, the director of the UNs International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA. U.S. and allied officials also used their statements to criticize Russia, which has publicly speculated that it might use tactical nuclear weapons to break the deadlock in its six-month invasion of Ukrainerhetoric that U.S. secretary of state Antony Blinken described as reckless, dangerous nuclear saber-rattling. German foreign minister Annalena Baerbock concurred, claiming that Moscow had engaged in reckless nuclear rhetoric that putat risk everything the NPT has achieved in five decades.
In his remarks at the event, Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida also noted that the proliferation of nuclear weapons across the world had grown since 2015, the last time the United Nations had met to review the NPT. That session, Kishida observed, had ended without a consensus document on the future direction of global nonproliferation efforts. The Japanese leader also obliquely criticized Russia, noting that its statements on nuclear escalation during the Ukraine conflict had led to worldwide concern that yet another catastrophe by nuclear weapon use is a real possibility.
