Will JudeoChristian Values Save us from Armageddon
20220723
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/will-judeo-christian-values-save-us-armageddon-203762
A perennial leftist gadfly, Chomsky has been savaged for noting that fortunately there is one Western statesman of stature who is pushing for a diplomatic solution to the war in Ukraine rather than looking for ways to fuel and prolong it: His name is Donald J. Trump.
Judging from statements from the White House, Congress, and various war hawks, this is exactly what is currently happening. However, if America is indeed a democracy, the voices of people must be heard and, according to the latest Gallup poll, around 90 percent of Americans believe that the country is moving in the wrong direction and do not approve the job done by Congress.
The list of people in the know with similar views is long and keeps growing, but since we are trying to get religion into the discussion, why not quote Pope Francis, who didnt mince words by saying that the barking of NATO at the door of Russia might have led to the invasion of Ukraine and that he didnt know whether other countries should supply Ukraine with more arms.
If a movement led by a true moral majority of citizens awakens before we pass the point of no return, perhaps we can stop at the edge of the abyss and return to the life where our values correspond to Ten Commandments rather than lunatics desire for hegemony and world domination. U.S. currency bears the statement, In God We Trust. Maybe we dont have much time left to make that more than just a slogan.
Official Washington and its transatlantic loyalists call this war unprovoked and blame it all on Vladimir Putin. However, there is another America which disagrees, including many well-known experts both, on the Right and Left, who can hardly be dismissed as Putins bootlickers or useful idiots.
However, the Biden administration is packed with the very same folks who somehow manage to balance their supposed Judeo-Christian values with their endless wars. Having done so much to provoke Russias invasion of Ukraine, the chances that theyll repent and change course before the inevitable fires spread across the globe are admittedly close to zero.
Edward Lozansky is President and Founder of the American University in Moscow and the U.S.-Russia Forum and a Professor at Moscow State and National Research Nuclear Universities.
Jared Peterson from American Thinker is correct when he states that the Wests interest in Ukraine is merely a neocon, U.S. hegemony adventure, seeking to assert U.S. top dog dominance in Eastern Europe, and thereafter the world.
Mixing religion with politics is generally not a good idea, but it looks like that is one of the few remaining options to avoid what Senator Sam Nunn and a growing number of foreign policy experts describe as a continuing sleepwalk towards a nuclear catastrophe.
Ironically, most of them claim their adherence to Judeo-Christian values but in reality, they just inherited Trotskys theory of Permanent Socialist Revolution after the collapse of the Russian Empire in 1917, and converted it into Permanent Worlds Conquest after the collapse of the USSR in 1991.
Id add neolibs to this team but, in any event, are we to believe that these ideas correspond to Judeo-Christian values? Everyone knows of Moses and the Ten Commandments, but not a single one of them justifies any of the disastrous policies.
So, what is left for those of us who are not ready to face a rendezvous with extinction? Here, it may be useful to take recourse to the power of religion. According to Pew Religious Landscape Study, nearly nine-in-ten American adults say they believe in God or a universal spirit. At the same time, unlike in the previous two decades of disastrous wars led by the United States and NATO in the Middle East, the current war in Ukraine involves no militant Islamic factor. Those now in the drivers seat are wholly composed of self-identified Christians and Jews.
But who knows what would happen if their priests, rabbis, as well as parishioners in their churches and synagogues, plus those in the electorate representing the overwhelming majority of Americans who believe that the country is going in the wrong direction, started to raise their voices in protest?
Columbia University Professor Jeffrey Sachs in his recent article, Ukraine is the Latest Neocon disaster, didnt hesitate mentioning some specific names of those who got us into this quagmire when they declared that the United States must dominate the world and must confront rising regional powers that could someday challenge U.S. global or regional dominance.
For example, University of Chicagos Professor John Mearsheimer explains the strategic situation eloquently in Why John Mearsheimer Blames the U.S. for the Crisis in Ukraine or according to MITs Professor Noam Chomsky: The core issue for 30 years has been Ukraines entry into NATO.
