Russian cosmonaut assumes command of space station ahead of SpaceXs Crew3 departure
20220504
https://www.space.com/iss-change-of-command-spacex-crew3-departure
The NASA astronaut handed command of the International Space Station ISS over to cosmonaut Oleg Artemyev today May 4,the last day aboard the orbiting lab for Marshburn and the other three members of SpaceX's Crew-3 mission.
"Oleg, you're a very strong and experienced cosmonaut," Marshburn told Artemyev. "I know we'll be leaving the space station in good hands with you."
Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: communityspace.com.
"Thank you for the key, and thank you for the friendship," Artemyev responded in English. "It was an unbelievable time together," he added, stressing the importance of such cooperation and friendship for "family, our children and peace between our countries."
Crew-3 is scheduled to leave the station Thursday May 5 at 1:05 a.m. EDT 0505 GMT.
For example, Dmitry Rogozin, the head of Russia's federal space agency Roscosmos, has repeatedly threatened to withdraw from the ISS program unless sanctions imposed on Russia after the Ukraine invasion are lifted. It's hard to know how seriously to take such threats, however, given that bluster is perhaps Rogozin's base setting.
Marshburn then said some words to the cosmonaut in Russian and handed him the ceremonial key to the ISS.
Mike Wall is the author of "Out There opens in new tab" Grand Central Publishing, 2018 illustrated by Karl Tate, a book about the search for alien life. Follow him on Twitter michaeldwall opens in new tab. Follow us on Twitter Spacedotcom opens in new tab or on Facebook opens in new tab.
The Crew-3 mission consists of Marshburn, fellow NASA astronauts Kayla Barron and Raja Chari, and the European Space Agency's Matthias Maurer. The quartet arrived at the ISS in November aboard a SpaceX Dragon capsule named Endurance, and their time in orbit is nearly up.
"I think the lasting legacy of the space station is very likely to be international cooperation and a place of peace," Marshburn said during a webcast change-of-command ceremony this afternoon.
The coverage will start tonight at 11 p.m. EDT 0300 GMT on May 5, with the closing of the hatches between Endurance and the ISS expected to occur about 20 minutes later. Coverage will resume at 12:45 a.m. EDT 0445 GMT on Thursday, 20 minutes before the scheduled undocking.
Endurance is scheduled to depart the ISS Thursday morning at 1:05 a.m. EDT 0505 GMT and splash down off the Florida coast about 24 hours later, at 12:43 a.m. EDT 0443 GMT on Friday May 6. You can watch all of this action live here at Space.com, courtesy of NASA.
Michael Wall is a Senior Space Writer withSpace.com opens in new taband joined the team in 2010.He primarily covers exoplanets, spaceflight and military space, but has been known to dabble in the space art beat.His book about the search for alien life, "Out There," was published on Nov. 13, 2018. Before becoming a science writer, Michael worked as a herpetologist and wildlife biologist. He has a Ph.D. in evolutionary biology from the University of Sydney, Australia, a bachelor's degree from the University of Arizona, and a graduate certificate in science writing from the University of California, Santa Cruz. To find out what his latest project is, you can follow Michael on Twitter.
It was a powerful moment, given all that is happening down here on Earth. Most of Russia's space partnerships have splintered in the aftermath of the country's invasion of Ukraine, and its status as a key ISS partner has come into question.
Thomas Marshburn just checked off one of the last tasks on his orbital to-do list.
