Amid war and brutality Ukrainians are transformed and united
20220312
https://www.bendbulletin.com/nation/amid-war-and-brutality-ukrainians-are-transformed-and-united/article_a97d50ce-ca04-5952-9996-be9777174902.html
Posters from before the war  opera schedules stretching into the spring, reminders to wear masks indoors  have been plastered over with exhortations to join the resistance.
I dont know how realistic it is, Dikiy, 22, said at the time, but Id like to hear in a few hours some news saying: We have survid. Kharkiv has been saved. Everythings great. There are no more occupiers. Everyone caven go back home and keep living their normal lives.
Potikha said the war had made her realize how beautiful her country and countrymen are.
The cities of Kharkiv and Mariupol have been crushed as Ukraines enormous neighbor continues its devastating campaign of shelling across the country. Once known for their grand boulevards and architecture, these cities have joined Dresden and Aleppo as symbols of the utter destruction of war.
After decades working as an anesthesiologist, she lived alone. Her husband had died, her son had emigrated to New Zealand. A soldier had helped her get to the citys railway station, where thousands frantically jostled for space.
Two weeks ago Diachenko was a film student. Now she is volunteering as a kitchen worker to help feed volunteer troops.
Despite the horrors of the war unfolding around her, taking on her new role was actually the first time I felt less depressed, she said, glancing at the yellow tape stuck to her jacket sleeve, signaling that she belonged to the volunteer territorial defense forces. I just knew what I had to do.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
Ahead of her was a crowd of shivering civilians who had been lined up for hours in freezing conditions. With supplies dwindling, they prayed that the medications they needed would be in stock.
Then, on the platform, an angel appeared, she said. At first, Butenko was so exhausted that she didnt notice 25-year-old Marynas fuchsia-dyed hair. But the unlikely pair  the punk girl and the babusia  stayed together on the train until Lviv. There, Maryna left Butenko at a shelter in a converted warehouse where, before the war, Goths and geeks and techno-heads threw raves and made art.
Amid the chaos, even the most basic facets of life have changed. No one says Hello anymore they say Glory to Ukraine. Adults dont have offices. Children dont have schools.
In Lviv, the historic western city now filled with the displaced, Halyna Butenko, 65, smiled as she recounted her 650-mile journey from Kharkiv, focusing on the silver linings.
With only a five-day supply of her antidepressants left, Sasha Diachenko, 24, joined a line snaking outside a jam-packed pharmacy in central Kyiv on Thursday.
In interviews across the nation, Ukrainians described unthinkable changes in their lives that would have seemed absurd less than a month ago, when President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was still reassuring his country that Russia would not launch a full-scale invasion.
Grocery stores and pharmacies are the only businesses open. Sales of alcohol, in a country that loves to drink, are banned. Bars have become bunkers.
But she said only he could do it. She said she trusted him fully, that she knew he was the right choice.
More than 2 million people have fled Ukraine  with countless more displaced inside the country  in the fastest and most thorough exodus Europe has seen since World War II. Lviv and other cities in the west, and even tiny villages in the Carpathian Mountains, are overrun with people who have abandoned their homes elsewhere.
She reached into her backpack and pulled out an embroidered purse. Somehow, one of her creations had made it, she said with wonder. It would become a good-luck charm.
Im an old woman now, Butenko said. But the war has meant that Ive kept learning. Ive learned how to distinguish the sounds of different missiles. Ive learned how to survive without my husband and my son. Ive learned how to make these vests.
Half of Kharkivs population has fled, as have hundreds of thousands more from the capital, Kyiv, and the cultural capital and seaport of Odessa, which are bracing for brutal sieges that seem all but inevitable.
Volodymyr Iksar would have normally found it strange that his high school classmate Valya, whom he had seen only occasionally over the past 40 years, called to ask him to do something dangerous  to drive her elderly mother from the city of Odessa to the Moldovan border, at least a three-hour journey each way.
The trust  and the sense of unity  has become a source of strength even among those who once felt weak.
She was an experimental artist, not given to patriotism. She described herself as motherly  and she still drives around the city of Bila Tserkva, 50 miles south of Kyiv, spreading cheer with her wide smile and enveloping hugs, delivering homemade pickles, cured pork fat and freshly baked bread to soldiers manning checkpoints. She has cleared out her art studio, where soldiers now sleep on the floor. But the thought of all the children who are suffering enrages her.
Throughout western Ukraine, where Russian shelling is less regular, every bed and couch is occupied as virtually everyone helps host and feed the unending stream of refugees who arrive each day from the east.
He did it without hesitation. This is the time where people just help without asking questions, he said. It doesnt matter how well you do or dont know the person. You just reach out your hand and help.Trust, once hard-won, is now freely given and received out of necessity. Some have become guardians of family heirlooms belonging to people they barely know. Fighters on the front lines, at the request of worried mothers, never let their sons out of their sight.
Im ready to kill for my country, and Im ready to kill violently, she said, even though she had not taken up a weapon yet. Thats something new for me.
In Kyiv, once-teeming squares are almost empty at midday as air raid sirens blare and Russian troops work to encircle the capital. Most streets are blocked by makeshift barriers to slow down the tanks most believe will soon flood the city.
This has to end at some point, right? he said when reached by phone Thursday.
Two weeks later, Dikiy had fled and was sleeping on a relatives floor, his life, along with every other Ukrainians, transformed as the nation has gone from tense peace to total war at blinding speed.
Butenko is now under the tutelage of Sasha Horondi  a man who has the Chinese character for respect tattooed on his neck and who would not look out of place in Brooklyn or Berlin. He ran a hugely successful business making fashionable backpacks. His sewing machines are now devoted to stitching body-armor vests for the front line.
LVIV, Ukraine  In the first hours of the Russian invasion, Stas Dikiy joined hundreds of people crammed into an underground metro station in Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, to shelter from thunderous missile strikes shaking the ground above him.
The most important thing Ive learned, she said, is that being Ukrainian means fighting to the end.
In her retirement, she had taught herself how to embroider by watching YouTube videos, and she carried a suitcase full of her creations, which she hoped to sell to keep cash in her pocket. But it was too heavy. She deserted it on a staircase. And amid the crush of people, she almost gave up.
Potikha is typical of a national transformation in which people have shifted from normal lives to spending every minute on the war effort. Suddenly, everyone is willing to help one another.
In some places, much of life is now happening underground: Babies are being born in basement maternity wards. Wounded fighters are being treated in bunkers. Entire apartment buildings full of families have relocated their lives to subterranean parking garages.
