Meaningful ways you can help Ukraine right now
20220302
https://www.asiaone.com/lifestyle/meaningful-ways-you-can-help-ukraine-right-now
Five days ago, the world woke to horror as Russia  launched brutal airstrikeson its peaceful neighbour Ukraine  kicking off Europes biggest armed conflict since WWII. Hospitals and airports have been shelled, tanks have invaded Ukraine on three fronts, and thousands of Ukrainians have already been left homeless. Its an attack on democracy that can only result in catastrophic human suffering.
Yet like David against Goliath, Ukraine has proven its mettle in defending itself ferociously, thus far  repelling heavy attackon its capital Kyiv. To support Ukraines army, citizens have set up Army SOS  an initiative raising funds to purchase essential ammunition, shields, combat uniforms, food, and more.
A non-profit born from the fires of Ukraines Revolution of Dignity in 2014, Razom champions Ukraines progress toward democracy  away from the stifling stranglehold of Russian influence.
Currently, theyve established a safe corridor from the US to Ukraine via Poland, through which critical supplies can reach those in need within days. Theyve issued an urgent call for support to fund their emergency response, in order to purchase lifesaving medical supplies such as resuscitators, survival wrap packs, and combat gauzes.
You can support them in their fight to speak truth to power, as they put their lives on the line to bring whats happening on the ground to the world.
Through his non-profit World Central Kitchen, Spanish-American chef Jos Andrs has dedicated himself to providing meals for communities and displaced peoples in the wake of humanitarian crises. Right now, his team is on the ground at the Ukraine-Poland border, helping to feed meals for thousands of Ukrainian refugees fleeing across the border.
Support Unicefs efforts to secure essentials for children and families in crisis, from safe water to healthcare, and emergency education supplies. Funds will also go towards providing psychosocial care for children suffering from trauma and separation from family.
The Ukrainian chapter of the Red Cross has teams across the nation in the thick of the conflict, and theyve raised an appeal for donations. All funds will go towards a range of essential services, from repairing infrastructure hit by airstrikes to securing medicine and equipment for hospitals.
If youve been following the news with horror, youre probably wondering what you can do to help Ukraines people. While we might not be able to, say, impose sanctions on Russia, we can make our help count with donations to organisations and non-profits currently on the ground. Heres where you can make a difference.
Given the war of misinformation that Russia has been waging to discredit the Ukrainian government, hard-hitting journalism on the ground is more crucial than ever.The Kyiv Independent is an English-language publication created by a team of former journalists from the Kyiv Post, who were allegedly  fired  for defending editorial independence.
Theyve also set up a kitchen in the heart of Ukraines war-torn city of Odessa, serving up fresh meals to residents and those defending the city. All donations will go toward supporting their food relief efforts.
Based in the besieged region of eastern Ukraine, Unicefhas worked there for the past eight years to help families threatened by ongoing conflict with pro-Russian separatists. Now, their work has become more important than ever as Russian president Putin orders troops into the Donbas region.
One of the worlds largest and oldest humanitarian organisations, Careis stepping up its emergency response together with People In Need  a non-profit which has provided aid since the early days of the Russo-Ukrainian conflict in 2014.
Their Ukraine Crisis Fund aims to reach four million vulnerable women, families, and the elderly, fulfilling urgent needs such as food, water, hygiene kits and cash for daily essentials. With so many to help, every donation big or small matters.
The numbers look grim for Ukraine. Russia has a massive army of nearly a million active military personnel, while Ukraine has  less than a quarterof those troops. Russia has five times as many tanks, and a tenfold advantage in aircrafts compared to its smaller neighbour.
Other lifesaving work that the Red Cross is doing includes organising blood donation drives to help casualties of conflict, as well as providing first-aid training to people taking refuge in bomb shelters.
