Ukraines UN ambassador tweets Majulah Singapura in thanks to Singapores support
20220303
https://www.asiaone.com/singapore/ukraines-un-ambassador-tweets-majulah-singapura-thanks-singapores-support-russia-conflict
Many in the UN are ready to defend the Charter to ensure that the voice of the UN General Assembly is heard, he added.
Kyslytsya continued to express his gratitude to Singapore during apress conference, with a short clip of his speechsurfacing on Reddit on Thursday.
On Monday, Singapore's UN ambassador Burhan Gafoor delivered a speech condemning Russia's military invasion of Ukraine, saying that it is a "clear and gross violation" of the fundamental norms of international law and the UN Charter.
Singapore willblock certain Russian banks and financial transactions connected to Russia, as well as impose export controlson items that couldbe used as weapons to inflict harm orsubjugate Ukrainians, he said.
Ukraine's UN ambassadorSergiyKyslytsyatook to Twitter on Wednesday March 2 tothank Singapore for its support in the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict.
In addition, Singapore's foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan told Parliament on Monday that the nation will impose sanctions on Russia as it continues to take a strong stance against the invasion of Ukraine.
As Gafoor stepped off the stage after making his speech,Kyslytsya was seen walking up to his Singaporean counterpart for a hug.
Thetweet included a photograph of him standing before thePermanent Mission of the Republic of Singapore - United Nations in New York, which waslit inUkrainian flag colours.
After thanking the citizens of New York, he said: "Go to the Mission of Singapore at night and see the Ukrainian colours. Tiny nation, small nation, brave as a tiger when it comes to the principles."
Kyslytsya added a bit of local flavour to his tweet by mentioning Singapore's national anthem, writing:"'Majulah Singapura'- 'Onward Singapore'and only Onward!Amazing display of solidarity bySingaporeUNwith Ukraine".
