EU pledges US500m for Ukraine G7 vows support
20220514
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2022/05/14/2003778178
On day two of a meeting of G7 foreign ministers in Germany, French Minister of Europe and Foreign Affairs Jean-Yves le Drian said the nations were very strongly united in their will to continue in the long term to support Ukraines fight for its sovereignty until Ukraines victory.
Leading democracies yesterday pledged unwavering support for Ukraine in its war with Russia and the EU promised to hike military support for Kyiv by more than US$500 million, while Moscow faces mounting accusations of war crimes.
Local resident Denys, 40, said he saw the barrel of a tank turn toward him.
Separately, investigators and witnesses on Thursday said that Russian forces on March 27 shelled a residential home in the village of Stepanki outside Kharkiv, killing three civilians.
They were joined yesterday by Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba, who praised their resolve to help Kyiv, but urged them to go further.
At a meeting of the worlds most powerful democracies, EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell promised Ukraine an extra 500 million euros US$519.28 million, bringing the blocs total military aid to 2 billion euros.
He also urged the EU to ensure that an embargo is placed on Russian oil, warning that an omission of the ban on the blocs next package would mean its unity was broken.
More than 6 million people have fled Ukraine, more than half of them going to neighboring Poland, the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said on Thursday, adding that women and children make up 90 percent of the refugees.
The killings took place on March 16 and are being investigated as a war crime, CNN said.
Someone said: Lets go hide inside the house, Denys said. I entered last and as soon as I entered, the tank fired. Everything collapsed, I couldnt see anything
The US on Thursday said that Russia was forcibly taking tens of thousands of Ukrainians to filtration camps in Russia or Russian-controlled territory where they are subjected to brutal interrogations.
CNN and the BBC on Thursday released what they said was security camera footage showing Russian soldiers with rifles shooting two Ukrainian civilians in the back.
The recipe is clear  more of the same, Borrell said. More pressure on Russia, with economic sanctions.
The men appeared unarmed  the footage showed the soldiers frisking them before allowing them to walk away at a business premises on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv.
Today I asked G7 countries to adopt legislation and put in place all necessary procedures needed to seize Russian sovereign assets and give them to Ukraine to use this money to rebuild our country, he said.
The UN Human Rights Council voted 33-2 on Thursday to investigate alleged atrocities by Russian troops in Ukraine.
These actions amount to war crimes, US Ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Michael Carpenter said.
