EU to discuss Russia sanctions
20220717
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2022/07/18/2003781969
Donetsk separatist official Daniil Versonov said rebel fighters were clearing eastern districts of Siversk in small groups.
The situation at the captured Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant is extremely tense, Ukraines atomic energy agency head Petro Kotin said, adding that the Russians had installed missile launchers and used the facility to shell the Dnipro region.
In the embattled Donbas region, grinding trench battles and artillery duels have morphed into a war of attrition.
Hundreds of kilometers from the front line, missile strikes caused heavy civilian casualties in the central city Vinnytsia, with the death toll raised to 24 on Saturday.
Describing a deluge of fire, regional Governor Valentyn Reznichenko on Saturday said Grad missiles had pounded residential areas.
Brussels is expected to hold initial sanctions discussions today, but not make a same-day decision, a senior EU officials said.
While the heaviest fighting has continued to focus on the industrial Donbas region in the east, in the northeast near Ukraines second-largest city Kharkiv, the bombardments have been fast and hard in recent days. A Russian missile attack killed three in the town of Chuguiv over the weekend and destroyed a residential house and a local school.
Russian Minister of Defense Sergei Shoigu gave the necessary instructions to further increase military pressure, the Russian Ministry of Defense said.
With the conflict grinding on and increasingly spilling out into global energy and food crises, the EUs foreign ministers are considering banning gold purchases from Russia, which would align with sanctions already imposed by G7 partners.
Why me? Just because I was born in Ukraine? asked resident Raiysa Kuval as she sat on the rubble. We were leaving peacefully, and they tore apart mother from father, child from mother, brother from sister... Its unbearable.
Moscow-backed separatists said on Friday that they were closing in on their next target, Siversk, after wresting control of sister cities Lysychansk and Severodonetsk about 30km to its east.
More than 20 weeks since Russia invaded its neighbor, killing thousands and displacing millions of Ukrainians, Moscow announced on Saturday that it would step up its military operations.
In his Saturday evening address, Zelenskiy said Ukraine has withstood Russias brutal blows and managed to take back some of the territory it lost since the start of the war, and will eventually recapture more occupied land.
Unfortunately, one woman died in hospital today, she was 85 percent burned, said Sergei Borzov, the governor of Vinnytsia region, adding that 68 people were still receiving treatment, including four children.
The EU is today to discuss tightening sanctions against Russia, as Moscow is accused of using the continents largest nuclear power plant to store weapons and launch missiles on the surrounding regions of southern Ukraine.
Rescuers found two dead people under the ruins in the riverside city of Nikopol, he said.
In the face of international condemnation, the Russian defense ministry said it had targeted a meeting in Vinnytsia of the command of the Ukrainian Air Force with representatives of foreign arms suppliers.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has accused Russia of seeking to inflict maximum damage, but pledged that Ukraine would endure.
Moscow must continue to pay a high price for its aggression, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said after forwarding the proposed measures.
However, a senior US defense official said on condition of anonymity that he had no indication there was a military target nearby.
