North Koreans could rebuild Donbas Russian envoy
20220719
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2022/07/20/2003782097
In response, a furious Ukraine cut diplomatic ties with North Korea and accused it of undermining Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Ukraine had already suspended its political and economic contact with North Korea as part of UN-led sanctions aimed at pressuring Pyongyang to dismantle its nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
Matsegora said that sanctions could frustrate attempts to establish a trade link between the republics and North Korea, but said economic ties were absolutely justified, NK News said.
North Korea has traditionally earned much-needed foreign currency by sending its citizens to work overseas. Under UN-sanctions they were supposed to have been repatriated by the end of 2019, but significant numbers of North Korean laborers have reportedly continued to work in Russia and China, as well as in Laos and Vietnam.
This would contravene a UN ban, imposed in late 2017, on North Korea acquiring industrial machinery, electronic equipment and other items.
Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba said Russias appeal to North Korea for support showed that Moscow had no more allies in the world, except for countries that depend on it financially and politically.
Ukraine has no the right to raise issue or dispute our legitimate exercise of sovereignty after committing an act that severely lacks fairness and justice between nations by actively joining the US unjust and illegal hostile policy in the past, the North Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
North Korea could send workers to two Russian-controlled territories in eastern Ukraine, Russian Ambassador to North Korea Alexander Matsegora said  a move that would pose a challenge to international sanctions against the Norths nuclear weapons program.
Matsegora said there were potentially a lot of opportunities for economic cooperation between the North and the self-proclaimed republics in Ukraines Donbas region, despite UN sanctions.
NK News said he told the Russian newspaper Izvestia in an interview that highly qualified and hard-working Korean builders, who are capable of working in the most difficult conditions, could help us restore our social, infrastructure and industrial facilities.
His comments come days after North Korea became one of only a few countries to recognize the two territories, accusing the Ukrainian government of being part of Washingtons hostile stance toward Pyongyang.
Once Russia violates the very sanctions it had authorized, the security council would be critically undermined, Go said.
Go Myong-hyun, a research fellow at the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul, was quoted by NK News as saying that economic cooperation would confirm that Russia  a permanent member of the UN security council that has imposed sanctions on the North  had become a rogue state.
Matsegora left open the possibility for another showdown with the UN over sanctions after he said that North Korean factories and power stations built during the Soviet era could use equipment built in the Donbas region, where Moscow-backed forces have been fighting Ukraine since 2014.
NK News, a Seoul-based Web site, reported that Matsegora said North Korean workers could help rebuild the war-shattered infrastructure in the self-proclaimed peoples republics in Donetsk and Luhansk.
