Occupied Ukraine marks Russia Day
20220613
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2022/06/14/2003779881
RIA Novosti posted video of a Moscow-backed official congratulating new Russian citizens and telling them: Russia will not go anywhere. We are here for good.
At one of the central squares in the city of Kherson, Russian bands played a concert to celebrate Russia Day, the holiday that marks Russias emergence as a sovereign state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russias state news agency RIA Novosti reported.
Russia Day was also celebrated in other occupied parts of Ukraine, including the ravaged southern port of Mariupol, where a new city sign painted in the colors of the Russian flag was unveiled on the outskirts and Russian flags were flown on a highway leading into the city.
Ukrainian media reported that few, if any, local residents attended the Russia Day festivities in the two cities.
Russian soldiers have taken most of Sievierodonetsk, having pulverized parts of the city in one of the bloodiest assaults since they invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, and victory there could give them momentum in a wider battle for control over the Donbas region.
The Kremlins administrators in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions have voiced plans to incorporate the areas into Russia, despite protests and signs of an insurgency among local residents.
Zelenskiy said the image of a 12-year-old wounded in a Russian strike was now the enduring worldwide face of Russia.
In Pokrovsk, southwest of Sievierodonetsk, women, children and elderly people, some in wheelchairs, boarded the only train evacuating people on Saturday.
In the neighboring Zaporizhzhia region, Moscow-installed officials raised a Russian flag in Melitopols city center.
These very facts will underscore the way in which Russia is seen by the world, he said.
Kremlin-installed officials in occupied southern Ukraine celebrated Russia Day on Sunday and began issuing Russian passports to residents who had requested them, as Moscow sought to solidify its rule over captured parts of the country.
In captured cities in the south and east, Moscow has also introduced the ruble as official currency, aired Russian news broadcasts and taken steps to introduce a Russian school curriculum.
The Russia-aligned administration in Melitopol also began handing out Russian passports to those who applied for Russian citizenship.
In Sievierodonetsk, Ukrainian defenders were fiercely fighting for every meter, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said, as Russian forces destroyed a bridge to another city across the river, leaving civilians with just one way out.
We held on until the last moment, we didnt want to leave, but life has forced us to survive, Lyuba, a woman from Lysychansk, told Reuters Television as she waited for the train to depart. We are leaving, we dont know where, to whom, but we are leaving.
