Putin praises unity of Russian troops
20220319
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2022/03/20/2003775107
Putin addressed the packed Luzhniki Stadium, saying the troops had fought shoulder to shoulder and supported each other.
Putin said the actions he ordered were necessary to prevent genocide  an idea flatly rejected by leaders around the globe.
The invasion of Ukraine has touched off a burst of anti-war protests inside Russia, and the rally was surrounded by suspicions that it was a Kremlin-manufactured display of patriotism. The event happened as Russia is facing heavier-than-expected losses on the battlefield and increasingly authoritarian rule at home.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday appeared at a rally in Moscow to lavish praise on Russian forces.
Seeking to portray the war as just, Putin paraphrased the Bible to say of Russias troops: There is no greater love than giving up ones soul for ones friends.
Video feeds of the event cut out at times, but showed a loudly cheering crowd.
Putins appearance marked a change from his relative isolation of the past few weeks, when he has been shown meeting with world leaders and his staff either at extraordinarily long tables or via videoconference.
Police said more than 200,000 people were in and around the stadium for the event, which included patriotic songs such as Made in the USSR, referring to a shorthand for the Soviet Union, with the opening lines: Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
Taking to the stage where a sign read For a world without Nazism, he railed against his foes in Ukraine with a baseless claim that they are neo-Nazis.
In the wake of the invasion, the Kremlin instituted tough prison sentences for what is deemed to be false reporting on the war, which Moscow refers to as a special military operation.
We have not had unity like this for a long time, he told the cheering crowd.
Several Telegram channels critical of the Kremlin reported that students and employees of state institutions in a number of regions were ordered by their superiors to attend rallies and concerts marking the eighth anniversary of Moscows annexation of Crimea, which was seized from Ukraine.
