The mirage of the rulesbased order amid Vladimir Putins war
20220326
https://taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2022/03/27/2003775518
On one side, Russia has been carrying out a brutal conventional military assault on Ukraine, in an apparent effort to bring the country  which Russian President Vladimir Putin believes is rightly part of Russia  back into the Kremlin fold. On the other side, NATO, led by the US, has been waging a comprehensive hybrid war against Russia.
Chinese global dominance would amount to the final nail in the coffin of the rules-based order. Since its establishment in 1949, the Peoples Republic of China has displayed blatant contempt for international law, more than doubling its land mass by annexing Xinjiang and Tibet and detaining more than a million Muslims.
Yet China has paid no tangible price. The Kremlin, for its part, probably did not think twice about rejecting the International Court of Justice order to suspend its military operations in Ukraine.
It is when the rulemakers disagree that the greatest risks arise. The Ukraine war  the first conflict of the post-Cold War period that pits great powers against each other  is a case in point.
The West has also implemented ever-escalating economic and financial sanctions, virtually expelling Russia from the Western-led financial order and sequestering the assets of many wealthy Russians. It has also sought to shape international opinion, with many countries blocking access to Russian state media.
Brahma Chellaney is a professor of Strategic Studies at the New Delhi-based Center for Policy Research and a fellow at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin.
Russias invasion of Ukraine, and the Wests unprecedented response, represent a watershed in international relations, marking the formal end of the post-Cold War era and setting the stage for seismic geopolitical and geo-economic shifts.
China, which dwarfs Russia in terms of economic power and military spending, would likely lead this process. In fact, China is set to emerge as the real winner of the NATO-Russia conflict. An overstretched the US renewed preoccupation with European security could create space for China to press its strategic objectives  its leaders have been as clear about absorbing Taiwan as Putin was about claiming Ukraine  and bolster its global influence, at the expense of the US.
The Wests war has included the supply of huge quantities of weapons to Ukrainian forces. US President Joe Biden alone has authorized the transfer of US$1.35 billion worth of lethal weapons since the war began, with much more to come.
The Iron Curtains revival might also hasten the emergence of a militarily robust, neo-imperial Russia. Putin, who has called the Soviet Unions collapse a tragedy and the end of historical Russia, has indicated that Kazakhstan, like Ukraine, is not a country.
How can the UN Security Council fulfill its mandate of upholding international peace and stability if its five veto-wielding permanent members are arrayed into two opposing camps?
Of course, the notion that countries would rather trade than invade has never been unassailable. Economic interdependence has not stopped China, for example, from engaging in relentless expansionism, from the South and East China Seas to the Himalayas.
It is true that leaders and observers around the world often speak of strengthening or defending the rules-based international order, but that order was always more aspirational than real. Countries that possess military or economic might reserve the right not only to make and enforce the rules, but also to break them.
However, economic interdependence even today has forced rulemakers to exercise some restraint. Despite the raft of financial and economic sanctions it has imposed on Russia, Europe continues to support the Russian economys mainstay: oil and gas exports. This undermines the Wests own mission, especially as the confrontation drives up energy prices, but Europes longstanding dependence on Russian energy supplies has left it with no good alternatives  at least for now.
This is probably the beginning of a broader bifurcation of the global economy. At a time when economic power has shifted eastward while the West still controls the worlds financial architecture  including the main international payments system, the primary currencies for trade and financial flows, and the leading credit-ratings agencies  the establishment of parallel arrangements seems imminent.
For all the talk of a rules-based order, the worlds rulemakers have reverted unhesitatingly to unilateralism. The risks are legion. The flood of weapons the West is sending to Ukraine  a country with a long history of weak governance and widespread corruption  could eventually flow westward, fueling organized crime, narcotics trafficking and terrorist violence across Europe.
However, one defining feature of international relations is likely to remain: to paraphrase Thucydides, the strong will continue to do what they can, and the weak will continue to suffer what they must.
It is not just Russia that is becoming isolated. The Ukraine war could trigger the unraveling of decades of broader global economic engagement, long viewed as a key deterrent against great-power conflict.
Such a tradeoff might not arise in the future. The EU had already vowed to eliminate its dependence on Russian energy by 2030. At the same time, countries that want to uphold trade ties with Russia are seeking solutions outside Western-controlled channels. For example, India is buying Russian oil with rupees and Saudi Arabia is considering renminbi-based oil sales to China, moves that threaten to erode the US dollars global supremacy.
International law might be powerful against the powerless, but it is powerless against the powerful. The League of Nations, created after World War I, failed because it could not deter important powers from flouting international law. Its beleaguered successor, the UN, might be facing a similar reckoning.
The world is headed for an era of greater upheaval. However it plays out, the pretense of a shared commitment to international law will be the first casualty.
