Ukraine Conflict Kherson rally dispersed
20220322
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2022/03/23/2003775312
In Kherson, Russian war criminals opened fire at unarmed people who peacefully protested against invaders, Kuleba wrote.
Despite everything, the protesters did not disperse! And tomorrow they are going to gather again! he wrote on Twitter.
This is the ugly face of Russia, a disgrace to humankind. We must stop Russia! Sanction them, isolate them, hold war criminals to account, he wrote.
Videos posted on social media and the Telegram messaging app showed people gathering in Khersons Freedom Square protesting against Russias recent seizure of the city.
People in Kherson have held regular demonstrations against Russian control of the city, a direct challenge to Russias claim to have liberated it.
Russian soldiers can be seen firing multiple volleys of gunfire into the air, with no immediate evidence their rifles were trained directly at civilians.
Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba posted a video of the incident on Twitter.
Kherson, a city of almost 300,000 people before the war, was the first major Ukrainian city to fall to Russian forces, with Moscow capturing it within the first week of its invasion.
Local official Yuriy Sobolevsky said that the elderly mans leg was badly injured and he lost a lot of blood.
However, video footage also showed a group of people treating a stunned and bleeding elderly man, before carrying him away.
Ukraines leaders yesterday accused Russian forces of firing on unarmed protesters in the occupied southern city of Kherson, with videos appearing to show residents fleeing flash-bang grenades and sustained gunfire.
Dozens of men and women wrapped in Ukraines blue-and-yellow flag are heard chanting: Go home and: Glory to Ukraine, before stun grenades force them to flee.
Occupiers shot at people who went out peacefully, without weapons, to protest. For freedom  our freedom, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said.
