West readies new Russia sanctions
20220405
https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2022/04/07/2003776147
Western powers have already pummeled Russia with debilitating economic sanctions, which yesterday forced Moscow to make foreign debt payments on dollar-denominated bonds in rubles.
Thousands of people have been killed and more than 11 million displaced as refugees or within Ukraine since Russias invasion on Feb. 24.
Zelenskiy called for Russias exclusion from the UN Security Council, where it is one of five members with veto power, saying it was blocking the UN from carrying out the functions for which it was created.
Washington, in coordination with the G7 and the EU, was yesterday expected to announce measures including a ban on all new investments in Russia.
Meanwhile, the EU was poised to implement a fifth round of sanctions cutting off Russian coal imports  and European Council President Charles Michel said that sooner or later, it must also impose oil and gas sanctions.
Calling the deaths war crimes, Michel said: There must be, and there will be, severe consequences for all those responsible.
The measures follow an international outcry over hundreds of civilians found dead in areas from which Russian troops have withdrawn around Ukraines capital, including the town of Bucha.
They cut off limbs ... slashed their throats. Women were raped and killed in front of their children, he said, after earlier comparing Russias assault to the 1937 Nazi bombing of the town of Guernica.
We still need to convince Europe that Russian oil cannot feed the Russian military machine with new sources of funding, Zelenskiy said, as he also called for the total exclusion of Russian banks from Western finance.
The Kremlin called the mass expulsions a short-sighted move that would complicate efforts to negotiate an end to the hostilities.
The UN General Assembly announced later that it would vote today on suspending Russia from the bodys Human Rights Council, after moves by the US and Britain to have it excluded.
In other moves to isolate Moscow, a string of EU countries  including Germany, France, Italy and Spain  have expelled more than 200 Russian diplomats and staff this week.
In a video address to the UN Security Council on Tuesday, Zelenskiy showed harrowing images of corpses  including of children  that he said were victims of Russian atrocities.
You can expect ... that they will target Russian government officials, their family members, Russian-owned financial institutions, also state-owned enterprises, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told a briefing on Tuesday.
The Kremlin has denied any civilian killings, claiming the images emerging from Bucha and other sites are fakes produced by Ukrainian forces, or that the deaths occurred after Russian soldiers pulled out.
However, addressing the Irish parliament yesterday, Zelenskiy condemned the indecisiveness of EU nations, which are dependent on Russian energy.
Western powers were yesterday readying new sanctions against Russia after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy called for tougher action and accused Moscow of atrocities during the six-week war.
However, the killings in Bucha and elsewhere have galvanized support for Kyiv, with Washington announcing another US$100 million in military aid, and produced new momentum for additional sanctions on Moscow.
