Ukraine Russia trade blame on ceasefire
20220305
https://www.riverineherald.com.au/world/ukraine-russia-trade-blame-on-ceasefire/
There was still no power, water, heating or mobile phone links and food was scarce.
One woman, struggling to carry half a dozen bags, wept when the snacks she had packed for her and her young son, who was clutching a green dinosaur toy, fell to the ground.
Only 17 people left Mariupol on Saturday and no one had left Volnovakha, Tass cited pro-Russian separatists as saying.
"The scenes in Mariupol and in other cities today are heart-breaking. Any initiative from the parties that gives civilians a respite from the violence and allows them to voluntarily leave for safer areas is welcome."
"This night the shelling was harder and closer," a staff member from Doctors without BordersMedecins sans Frontieres said.
Ukraine says Russian forces have focused efforts on encircling Kyiv and Kharkiv while aiming to establish a land bridge to Crimea.
Russia says its aim is to disarm its neighbour, counter what it views as NATO aggression and capture leaders it calls neo-Nazis.
The number of refugees could rise to 1.5 million by the end of the weekend from a current 1.3 million, the head of the United Nations refugee agency said on Saturday.
The war, which began with Russia's invasion on February 24, has sent nearly 1.5 million refugees fleeing westward into the European Union and provoked unprecedented international sanctions on Russia and warnings of a global recession.
Russia and Ukraine have blamed each other for a failure to provide safe passage to civilians fleeing two cities besieged and bombarded by Russian forces, on the 10th day of a war that has fuelled Europe's biggest humanitarian disaster in decades.
Women and small children crossed at the Medyka checkpoint in southeastern Poland in freezing conditions.
A man crossing the other way yelled at the crowd that men should return to Ukraine and fight.
The Ukrainian government said the plan was to let about 200,000 people leave Mariupol and 15,000 to depart Volnovakha.
But in Mariupol, the city council said Russia was not observing the ceasefire and it asked residents to return to shelters and await further information.
The Russian defence ministry said its units had opened humanitarian corridors near the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha, which have been encircled by its troops.
Despite the limited ceasefire plans, the Russian defence ministry said a broad offensive would continue in Ukraine, where it denies targeting civilians or invading, calling its actions a "special military operation".
The southeastern port has endured heavy bombardment, a sign of its strategic value to Russia due to its position between separatist-held eastern Ukraine and the Black Sea Crimean peninsula, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Russian forces were carrying out strikes on military infrastructure and forces from separatist-held Donetsk were tightening the encirclement of Mariupol, Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
The conflict has also shaken international diplomacy over Iran's nuclear program, one of the few areas where Russia and the United States had been working together to curb what the US suspects is an Iranian plan to develop nuclear arms.
On Saturday it accused the US and its allies of acting like a bandit and threatened to retaliate without giving details.
"As you understand, there must be a corresponding response to economic banditry," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said it understood that relocation of civilians from Mariupol and Volnovakha would not start on Saturday because of the conflict.
"We remain in dialogue with the parties about the safe passage of civilians from different cities affected by the conflict," the ICRC said.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Saturday the new sanctions imposed on his country had become a stumbling block for clinching a nuclear deal with Iran.
