Radiation leak fears as cities near Ukrainian nuclear plant shelled
20220828
https://www.times-series.co.uk/news/national/20811559.radiation-leak-fears-cities-near-ukrainian-nuclear-plant-shelled/
In eastern Ukraine, where Russian and separatist forces are trying to take control, shelling hit the large and strategically significant cities of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk, but no casualties were reported, said Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the Donetsk region.
Periodic shelling has damaged the power stations infrastructure, Ukraines nuclear power operator, Energoatom, said on Saturday.
Much of the Donetsk region is held by Russian and separatist forces. It is one of two Ukrainian regions that Russia has recognised as sovereign states.
Officials said preparations for the visit are under way, but it remains unclear when it might take place.
The Ukrainian and Russian governments have repeatedly accused each other of shelling the complex and nearby areas, raising fears of a possible catastrophe.
Russian forces occupied the nuclear plant complex early in the six-month-old war, but local Ukrainian workers have kept it running.
There are risks of hydrogen leakage and sputtering of radioactive substances, and the fire hazard is high, it said.
The UNs atomic energy agency has tried to work out an agreement to send a team in to inspect and help secure the plant.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said on Sunday that Ukrainian forces had shelled the plant twice over the past day and that some shells had fallen near buildings storing reactor fuel and radioactive waste.
Heavy firing during the night left parts of Nikopol without electricity, said Valentyn Reznichenko, governor of the Dnipropetrovsk region.
Downriver from the nuclear plant, the Kakhovka hydroelectric plant and the city adjacent to it were hit by Ukrainian rockets three times on Sunday, Vladimir Leontyev, the head of the Russia-installed local administration, said.
Rocket strikes damaged about a dozen residences in Marhanets, according to Yevhen Yevtushenko, the administration chief for the district that includes the city of about 45,000 people.
Russian rocket and artillery strikes hit areas across the Dnieper River from Europes largest nuclear power plant, Ukrainian officials said on Sunday, as fears persisted that fighting in the vicinity could damage the plant and cause a radiation leak.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The plants dam is a major roadway across the river and a potentially key supply route for Russian forces. The dam also forms a reservoir that provides water for the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant.
Russian forces took control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant soon after the war began and hold adjacent territory along the left bank of the wide river.
Ukraine controls the right bank, including the cities of Nikopol and Marhanets, each of them about six miles 10km from the plant.
The city of Zaporizhzhia, about 25 miles 40km upriver from the nuclear plant, also came under fire during the night, wounding two people, city council member Anatoliy Kurtev said.
Authorities last week began distributing iodine tablets to residents who live near the Zaporizhzhia plant in case of radiation exposure, which can cause health problems.
Much of the concern centres on the cooling systems for the plants nuclear reactors. The systems require power to run, and the plant was temporarily knocked offline on Thursday because of what officials said was fire damage to a transmission line. A cooling system failure could cause a nuclear meltdown.
