Kosovo Serb voting within Kosovo in Serbias elections joint statement
20220323
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/kosovo-serb-voting-within-kosovo-in-serbias-elections-joint-statement
We acknowledge that it is the Kosovo Governments prerogative to decide whether or not to permit facilitation of voting in another countrys elections. While we appreciate Serbias availability to find a solution, it is with great disappointment that we take note of the Kosovo Governments decision to reject a constructive proposal presented by the Quint. With this decision, Kosovos Government failed to demonstrate its commitment to the principle of protecting the civil and political rights of all its citizens, including of members of minority groups.
Contact the FCDO Communication Team via email monitored 24 hours a day in the first instance, and we will respond as soon as possible.
Joint statement by the governments of France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States:
Such an attitude of the Kosovo Government is not in line with our values and principles and will undermine their European aspirations.
We expect the Kosovo Government to act in the interests of all its citizens, to work to decrease tensions and to engage constructively in the EU-facilitated Dialogue on normalisation of relations with Serbia. This is crucial to achieve progress towards a comprehensive normalisation agreement that will ultimately unlock the EU perspective of Kosovo.
We reiterate our strong call upon Kosovo and Serbia to refrain from any actions and rhetoric that increase tensions and may lead to incidents.
France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States have intensely engaged with the governments of Kosovo and Serbia in the past months in order to find a pragmatic solution to allow eligible Kosovo citizens to exercise their right to participate in Serbias elections on 3 April 3 2022.
Following Russias invasion of Ukraine, we welcomed Kosovos alignment with the statements and declarations EU and the Quint members adopted. However, Kosovo is also expected to uphold its core values and responsibility towards regional stability and respect democratic processes, as well as to commit to protection of the rights of members of minority groups.
