OSCE meeting on Russias military operation against Ukraine UK Foreign Secretarys statement
20220225
https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/osce-meeting-on-russias-military-operation-against-ukraine-uk-foreign-secretarys-statement
Today we are announcing an unprecedented package of sanctions, imposing increasingly severe costs for Russias aggression.
We are urgently convening discussions with our allies and partners to coordinate our collective response. Together we will hold the Russian government to account and meet this illegal action through unity and strength.
Those around President Putin will soon realise  if they dont already  that his decisions this week were a colossal mistake.
We must continue to support the government and people of Ukraine in the face of this assault on their sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Chairman, colleagues, as I speak, Russia is conducting an unprovoked and premeditated invasion of a sovereign, democratic European country.
We will continue to provide political, economic and military support to Ukraine to help them defend themselves in this fight that they did not choose.
President Putins so-called precision strikes have already destroyed apartment blocks and killed, wounded, and displaced innocent civilians.
And together with our allies we will continue to squeeze Putin and those around him.
And we must continue to stand up for the rule of law and the stability and security of Europe, against those who would tear it apart.
The OSCE treats all States as equals, with an equal responsibility to implement and to protect our shared commitments. The Kremlin has turned its back on those commitments, with devastating implications for Ukraine and the wider region.
It is an egregious violation of international law, the UN Charter and core principles of the OSCE.
In contrast, Ukraine has shown dignity, restraint and fortitude. We are absolutely unwavering in our support for Ukraine and its people.
The UK and our international partners stand united in condemning this reprehensible attack on Ukraine.
When I visited Moscow on the 10th February Foreign Minister Lavrov looked me in the eye and said that Russia had no plans to invade Ukraine.
We call on Russia to withdraw its forces completely from Ukrainian territory immediately, and to refrain from further aggression.
Over recent weeks, the Russian government repeatedly denied their hostile intent towards their neighbour. At the same time, they massed troops, launched cyber-attacks, and staged false pretexts and provocations.
Here at the OSCE they have repeatedly failed to fulfil their commitments, and failed to show up to meetings  and they have hidden away from the dialogue that they pretended to seek.
