Ukrainian children brought to England for cancer treatment
20220313
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/ukrainian-children-brought-to-england-for-cancer-treatment
We stand together with the people of Ukraine and will continue to do all we can to help them.
The sickening suffering of innocent civilians in Ukraine is truly horrific. This vital lifesaving medical care is another important step in our support for the people of Ukraine and their resistance against Putins illegal invasion.
I am appalled by the atrocities weve seen in Ukraine and the despicable attacks being carried out on innocent civilians.
I know that the incredible staff in the NHS will ensure they get the best possible care. I am hugely grateful to our partners and our Polish friends for their support in bringing these children to the UK.
In addition, the UK has pledged approximately 400 million in humanitarian aid and funds to bolster the Ukrainian economy and reduce Ukraines reliance on Russian gas  making the UK the second biggest bilateral humanitarian donor behind the US.
Twenty-one Ukrainian children will receive life-saving cancer treatment in England after being brought over by the UK government with the support of Polish authorities and clinicians.
I am hugely grateful to our fantastic NHS staff as well as our partners, including our Polish friends, for their support in bringing these children to the UK and we will continue to do all we can to support them as they continue their critical treatment here.
I am proud that the UK is offering lifesaving medical care to these Ukrainian children, who have been forced out of their home country by the Russian invasion while undergoing medical treatment.
The UK is at the forefront of the humanitarian response to Ukraine. The government has already sent seven aircraft to the region to deliver more than 650,000 medical items, including wound care packs, equipment for intensive care and vital medicines.
The 21 children and their immediate family members landed in England this evening from Poland and will be triaged by NHS clinicians to understand their health needs before being sent to NHS hospitals in England to continue their care.
The UK partnered with St Jude Childrens Research Hospital, a non-profit American organisation which specialises in paediatric diseases, to arrange an urgent flight for the children.
The situation in Ukraine is deeply shocking and saddening, and the NHS will continue to help in any way we can, whether that is by working with government to provide medical supplies directly to Ukraine, or in this instance, by making sure these children with life-threatening cancers get the crucial treatment they need.
Russias assault on the innocent people of Ukraine is reprehensible and barbaric. Working with our partners in the region we continue to be at the forefront of the joint humanitarian effort to provide the best medical care and support for these children and their families.
The vital and in many cases lifesaving cancer treatment will be provided free of charge by the health service across hospitals in England.
It is fantastic that colleagues at paediatric hospitals around the country have gone above and beyond to help these children during their greatest hour of need and I would like to thank the NHS staff, volunteers, charities and other partners involved who have come together to make this happen at breakneck speed.
The Department of Health and Social Care has collaborated with the Department for Transport, Home Office, and the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office FCDO to facilitate the transfer of the children from Poland to the UK.
Hospitals in Poland have taken in many children needing healthcare who have arrived from Ukraine. With more children crossing the border requiring immediate treatment, the UK has responded to Polands call for support from international partners to provide additional care.
