UKs support for Ukraine Lord Ahmad statement to the UN General Assembly
20220223
https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/lord-ahmad-sets-out-the-uks-support-for-ukraine-to-the-un-general-assembly
We know this would take a terrible toll on Ukrainians and Russians alike  both victims of an unnecessary war of the Kremlins choosing.
We must highlight the human cost and respond to the humanitarian consequences of any further Russian military action.
If Russia continues its campaign of aggression, we have a further package of sanctions ready to go.
At every step, Russia has rebuffed offers of diplomacy and discarded its international commitments  commitments it has agreed and signed up to  rather it has decided to pursue a campaign to redraw Ukraines internationally-recognised borders by force.
Let us pause for a moment to reflect that this very week marks 8 years since Russias illegal annexation of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol.
The United Kingdom is unwavering in its support for Ukraines sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity.
Mr Putin has ordered his troops into Ukrainian territory. This amounts to a further invasion of Ukraine.
Together, we must call on Russia to uphold the very founding principles of the United Nations, established precisely, as you said yourself Mr President,  to end the scourge of war. Peace must prevail.
Their actions are a fundamental challenge to global peace and security, and a challenge to the international order on which we all rely  and equally important, it is for all of us to protect.
We stand with the people of Ukraine. We stand with their right to determine their own future.
We must hold Russia to its commitments under the UN Charter, and say to Russia pull back  choose peace, not war  whilst also sending a clear message to the people of Ukraine that in your hour of need, we the international community, we the United Nations, stand with you.
Yet 8 years on, tragically, here we are again. Confronted by Russian aggression against the sovereignty of Ukraine.
President Putins decision to recognise the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic as independent states, proves beyond doubt that Russia has chosen the path of confrontation over the path of diplomacy and dialogue.
Yesterday, the UK announced new sanctions targeting billions of Russian assets. This is the largest sanctions package against Russia in British history, and it is part of our coordinated sanctions effort, alongside our allies.
And it is therefore essential that we must meet Russias aggressive acts with solidarity, with strength, including co-ordinated sanctions, to impose a severe cost on Russias interests and their economy.
It also marks 8 years since Russia forcibly seized 10,000 square miles of sovereign Ukrainian territory, in flagrant violation of international law and Russias own international commitments.
But Mr President we are clear, acting together with our allies, that this is just the start.
As the Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has made clear, Russias unilateral measures conflict directly with the principles of the UN Charter.
We urge the wider international community to join us in this effort. The Kremlin must understand the strength of the worlds condemnation of President Putins war of choice.
And its also 8 years since we, the General Assembly, recalled through resolution 68262 the obligations of all States under Article 2 of the UN Charter, to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State of the United Nations.
