UKs commitment to the rights of women and girls National Statement to the UN Commission on the Status of Women
20220316
https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/uks-commitment-to-the-rights-of-women-and-girls-national-statement-to-the-un-commission-on-the-status-of-women
First, the UK remains steadfast in our commitment to using our COP Presidency to advance gender equality and social inclusion in climate action and finance.  This means strengthening implementation of the UNFCCC Gender Action Plan, in line with the Glasgow Climate Pact and supporting the climate leadership of women, girls and marginalised people, while building their resilience to climate impacts. We were delighted that so many governments and other actors came forward - in the run-up to COP26 and at COP26 itself - with commitments to deliver gender-responsive climate policies, programmes and actions. We continue to call on others to do the same.
The UK and our international partners stand united in condemning the Russian governments reprehensible actions, which are an egregious violation of international law and the UN Charter.
My governments priorities include going further still on pay transparency, increasing our support for women entrepreneurs, and identifying ways to get more women into STEM careers.
Second, as we recover from the pandemic, we must reflect on both the new and existing challenges that women and girls have faced.
It is the responsibility of governments, like mine, to take steps to provide the support that women need to recover - in terms of their health, their economic situation and their well-being.
The UK is committed to preventing sexual violence in conflict, and we are exploring options for strengthening the international consensus on tackling this vital issue.
We have launched a range of programmes to support women to build back better, and I am pleased that I have been able to speak about these initiatives during CSW.
And third, we look forward to achieving consensus on an ambitious and progressive outcome document that truly delivers for women and girls. We will approach negotiations positively and constructively, with a view to agreeing a text that clearly sets out the issues that climate change causes for women and girls, and the steps that we must all take to tackle it.
Russias actions should concern everyone at the Commission on the Status of Women. This war of choice will set back human rights and gender equality. As UN Women have said, we know the conflict will affect women and girls differently and disproportionately. A majority of the already 1.5 million refugees are women and girls. Women and girls will be more exposed to the risk of violence, particularly sexual and gender-based violence. We acknowledge the vital work of civil society organisations on the ground in Ukraine  and I am proud that on International Womens Day, we launched new funding for womens rights organisations and civil society actors working to support the critical needs of women and children both inside and displaced outside of Ukraine.
