NATO to boost forces in Europe as Ukraine war rages
20220324
https://www.ghanaiantimes.com.gh/nato-to-boost-forces-in-europe-as-ukraine-war-rages/
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO said that it would deploy more ships and fighter jets to some of its easternmost members, while the European Commission said it would provide Ukraine with a new financial assistance package worth 1.2 billion.
Western powers pledged to provide Ukraine with more money and send additional ships and fighter jets to Eastern Europe amid tensions with Russia.
In December, Russia sent a list of demands to the US and its allies, including that NATO did not expand to Ukraine or any other former Soviet countries.
The foreign office said that Ukrainian Member of Parliament MP, Yevheniy Murayev, was a possible candidate. The Russian foreign ministry dismissed the UK statement as nonsense.
Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. Around the same time, two regions in eastern Ukraine broke away from government control. A subsequent conflict between Russian-backed separatists and Ukrainian forces has killed more than 13,000 people.
The United States and its allies have increasingly warned in recent weeks that Russia could invade Ukraine after the Kremlin 100,000 troops at the two countries shared border. Russia began building up more troops there in November after a similar move in March 2021.
Amid the fears of a possible invasion, the United Kingdoms foreign office said in a statement that they had information indicating Russia was looking to install a pro-Russian leader in Kyiv as it considers whether to invade and occupy Ukraine.
We are firm in our resolve, European Union EU Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, said. As ever, the EU stands by Ukraine in these difficult circumstances.
Those demands were dismissed by the US and NATO as nonstarters. Instead, NATO appears to be doubling down on deterrence. euronews.com
Moscow also insisted that the alliance withdraw forces from some eastern European member states that joined after 1997, including Bulgaria and Romania.
The United States, NATO and EU have called for Russia to de-escalate tensions by drawing down its troops on the Ukrainian border. US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, spoke with his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, in Geneva on Friday, a day after warning of massive consequences in the event of any Russian military incursion into Ukraine.
