No fuel imports to UK from Russia for first time
20220825
https://www.ghanaiantimes.com.gh/no-fuel-imports-to-uk-from-russia-for-first-time/
Overall, exports to Russia dropped by almost 70 per cent, to 168m, compared with the monthly average in the 12 months to February.
This data doesnt include services, where the UK has in the past made large sums through consultants, accountants and lawyers in London advising Russian companies and wealthy individuals.
The UK imported no fuel from Russia in June for the first time on record, according to official figures.
The ONS said that apart from government-stipulated sanctions, trade between Russia and the UK was lessened as businesses voluntarily sought alternatives to Russian goods.
The only products to see a slight rise were chemicals, driven by an increase in exports of medicinal and pharmaceutical products, which are exempted from sanctions.
But insofar as were talking about imported goods, it looks like sanctions have been highly effective. -BBC
As a result of Russias invasion, the European Union EU has said it will cut gas imports from Russia by two-thirds within a year and has also agreed to ban all Russian oil imports which come in by sea by the end of the year.
The figures were released as Ukraine marked its day of independence, exactly six months since the Russian invasion began.
In 2021, the UK imported around 4 per cent of its gas from Russia, and 11 per cent of its oil, according to the International Energy Agency.
Fuel imports from Russia fell by 499m  or 100 per cent  compared with the average for the previous 12 months to February.
Imports of goods from Russia also fell to 33m in June, the lowest level since records began in January 1997, the Office for National Statistics ONS said.
Exports of most goods to Russia had also decreased substantially by June, with machinery and transport equipment sales slashed by 91.3 per cent to 118m.
The UK has pledged to phase out Russian oil imports by the end of the year and gas imports as soon as possible.
