Putins daughters targeted by Western sanctions
20220407
https://www.ghanaiantimes.com.gh/putins-daughters-targeted-by-western-sanctions/
Before the new raft of sanctions were announced in Washington, Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, said he could not tolerate any indecisiveness.
Josep Borrell, the European Union EUs chief diplomat, separately acknowledged on Wednesday that the one billion euros $1.09bn 833m Europe spent on Russian energy every day put into sharp perspective the billion euros given to Ukraine in military assistance since the start of the invasion.
The measures follow new revelations of atrocities by Russian troops in Ukraine, including images of bodies of civilians scattered on the streets of Bucha, near the capital, Kyiv.
He added that Russian oil cannot feed the Russian military machine, with Ukraines foreign minister arguing on Twitter that an embargo on gas and oil was needed to truly impact Russias ability to finance the war.
The US has imposed sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putins inner circle, including his daughters.
The European Union was also debating cutting off Russian coal imports as concern over alleged war crimes increased.
Even though satellite images have shown that civilians were killed when Russians were in control of Bucha, Mr Putin on Wednesday described the event as a crude and cynical provocation by the Kyiv regime.
Speaking to the Irish parliament on Wednesday, he said there was still a need to convince some in Europe who believedwar and war crimes were not as horrific as financial losses to back tougher sanctions.
Sentiments appeared to change after evidence of Russian war crimes emerged, with French President, Emmanuel Macron, joining calls for a ban on coal earlier this week. -BBC
Some European member states, including Germany, were heavily reliant on Russian energy and had been reluctant to directly target the sector.
However, in a first, theEuropean Commission proposed a potential ban on imports of Russian coal on Tuesday, which must be agreed by all 27 members. Europe buys around 4bn $4.4bn 3.3bn worth of coal from Moscow every year.
Meanwhile, the UK has announcedfurther sanctions against eight oligarchs and Russian banks, including the countrys largest, Sberbank, and Credit Bank of Moscow.
