Russia to curb Kyiv assault as peace talks progress
20220330
https://www.ghanaiantimes.com.gh/russia-to-curb-kyiv-assault-as-peace-talks-progress/
In a face-to-face interview withThe Economistin Kyiv, Ukraines President, Volodymyr Zelensky, spoke powerfully of the pitilessness of Russias war machine. Vladimir Putin, he said, is throwing Russian soldiers like logs into a trains furnace.
Ukrainian negotiator, Oleksandr Chaly, told reporters in Istanbul that its offer of neutrality was a chance to restore the territorial integrity and security of Ukraine through diplomatic means. Ukraines aim was to fix its status as a de facto non-bloc and non-nuclear state in the form of permanent neutrality.
Mr Zelensky also renewed his calls for more military help from the West and discussed what victory for Ukraine would mean: Victory is being able to save as many lives as possible. -BBC
Ukrainian forces have recaptured towns to the north-west of the capital including Irpin and Makariv, while Russian forces have encircled Chernihiv. Officials in the northern city say up to 400 people have been killed and some 130,000 residents are without heating, electricity or water supplies.
Russia launched the invasion to stop Ukraine from joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO alliance.
While Russia is focusing on capturing areas of eastern Ukraine and a southern land corridor to Crimea, its military assault on Kyiv has been bogged down for weeks.
Russias chief negotiator, Vladimir Medinsky, said talks had been meaningful and Ukraines proposals on neutrality would be put to President Vladimir Putin, holding out the possibility of a summit involving Ukraines Volodymyr Zelensky.
The decision to scale back operations around the capital, Kyiv, and the northern city of Chernihiv is the first sign of tangible progress in talks since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
Russia has announced it will drastically reduce military combat operations in two key areas of Ukraine to boost mutual trust in peace talks.
Deputy Defence Minister, Alexander Fomin, who was taking part in the talks, told Russian TV that as Ukraines neutrality and non-nuclear status and security guarantees had progressed, the defence ministry had taken the decision to cut its operations dramatically in the two areas to create the necessary conditions for further negotiations and for the signing of the aforementioned agreement.
