Russia warns Lithuania over rail transit blockade
20220622
https://www.ghanaiantimes.com.gh/russia-warns-lithuania-over-rail-transit-blockade/
Russian officials were furious with Lithuania  and the EU  over the ban on the transit of some goods to Kaliningrad. Theyre likening it to a blockade. -BBC
The western territory was annexed from Germany after World War Two in 1945, and was bordered by EU and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO members, Lithuania and Poland.
Earlier on Tuesday, the EU ambassador was summoned to the Russian foreign ministry over the blockade.
The secretary of Russias Security Council warned that appropriate measures would be taken in the near future.
As a member of the NATO military alliance, Lithuania was protected by collective defence treaties.
The EU has echoed Lithuanias statement, saying that the country was just implementing sanctions imposed by the EU as a result of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Their consequences will have a serious negative impact on the population of Lithuania, he added, without giving any further details.
Russia has warned Lithuania of serious consequences after it banned the rail transfer of some goods to the Russian territory of Kaliningrad.
Kaliningrad  a strategic region where Russias Baltic Fleet was headquartered  has no border with mainland Russia.
Regional Governor, Anton Alikhanov, said the ban would cover around 50 per cent of the items that Kaliningrad imported.
Lithuania said it was only following the European Union EU sanctions imposed over Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
Lithuanian Foreign Minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis, said: Its not Lithuania doing anything: its European sanctions that started working from June17 It was done with consultation from the European Commission and under European Commission guidelines.
During a visit on Tuesday to Kaliningrad, Mr Patrushev said the blockade by Lithuania was instigated by the West in violation of international law.
Last week, the Lithuanian authorities announced they would ban goods subjected to EU sanctions from passing through their territory to Kaliningrad.
The region  where an estimated one million people lived  relied heavily on imports of raw materials and spare parts from Russia and the EU.
