They were shooting civilians says Ukrainian who fled to Poland for safety
20220310
https://www.ealingtimes.co.uk/news/19983209.shooting-civilians-says-ukrainian-fled-poland-safety/
Over 2.3 million people have been forced to flee to neighboring countries, including 112,000 third-country nationals.
The International Criminal Court prosecutor last week launched an investigation that could target senior officials believed responsible for war crimes, after dozens of the courts member states asked him to act. Evidence collection has begun.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
At least one million people have been displaced within Ukraine in addition to the growing number of refugees, said International Organisation for Migration IOM director general Antonio Vitorino.
I am afraid, said Anna Potapola, a mother of two who arrived in Poland from the city of Dnipro.
It was very eerie, said Ihor Diekov, one of the many people who crossed the Irpin river outside Kyiv on the slippery wooden planks of a makeshift bridge after Ukrainians blew up the concrete span to slow the Russian advance.
City officials in the blockaded port city of Mariupol have said 1,200 residents have been killed there, including three in the bombing of a childrens hospital.
Most have been caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, it said. It believes the real toll is considerably higher and noted that its numbers do not include some areas of intense hostilities, including Mariupol.
More and more, the people who are turning up at border crossings are survivors who have fled some of the cities hardest hit by Russian forces.
More evacuations were announced for Thursday as desperate residents sought to leave cities where food, water, medicines and other essentials were running out.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday said three such corridors were operating from bombarded areas.
When we had to leave Ukraine my children asked me, will we survive?. I am very afraid and scared for the people left behind.
In Ukraines second largest city, Kharkiv, the prosecutors office has said 282 residents have been killed, including several children.
Fewer than 1,000 visas have been granted out of more than 22,000 applications for Ukrainians to join their families there.
The Russians promised to provide a humanitarian corridor which they did not comply with. They were shooting civilians, he said. Thats absolutely true. I witnessed it. People were scared.
Such testimonies will increasingly reach the world in the coming days as more people flow along fragile humanitarian corridors.
People left Sumy, in the north-east near the Russian border suburbs of Kyiv and Enerhodar, the southern town where Russian forces took over a large nuclear plant. In all, about 35,000 people got out, he said.
As more than two million refugees from Ukraine begin to scatter throughout Europe and beyond, some are carrying valuable witness evidence to build a case for war crimes.
The United Nations human rights office said on Wednesday it had recorded the killings of 516 civilians in Ukraine in the two weeks since Russia invaded, including 37 children.
Some countries continued to ease measures for refugees. Britain said that from Tuesday, Ukrainians with passports no longer need to travel to a visa application centre to provide fingerprints and can instead apply to enter the UK online and give fingerprints after arrival.
The scale of the humanitarian crisis is so extreme that the worst case scenario in the IOMs contingency planning has already been surpassed, he said.
Nationwide, thousands of people are thought to have been killed across Ukraine, both civilians and soldiers, since Russian forces invaded two weeks ago.
Russian and Ukrainian-speaking trained psychologists are badly needed, Mr Vitorino said, as more traumatised witnesses join those fleeing.
Some of the latest refugees have seen those deaths first-hand. Their testimonies will be a critical part of efforts to hold Russia accountable for targeting civilians and civilian structures such as hospitals and homes.
