Baths MP condemns Russia as terrible human tragedy unfolds on darkest day
20220224
https://www.somersetlive.co.uk/news/local-news/baths-mp-condemns-russia-terrible-6715078
Boris Johnson is expected to talk in parliament at 5pm today February 24 as the situation between Russia and Ukraine escalates. There have been reports of fatalities after air strikes.
United States President Joe Biden said the world will hold Russia accountable and Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged a decisive response from the UK and its allies. Ms Hobhouse said parliament must sit "day and night" to get legislation to hinder Russia through as quickly as possible.
Bath's liberal democrat MP Wera Hobhouse has condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine saying a "terrible human tragedy" is now unfolding on the "darkest day" for our continent since WW2.
The Liberal Democrat MP for Bath said: This is the darkest day for our continent since the Second World War. A terrible human tragedy is now unfolding before our eyes. We must stand with the people of Ukraine. It is time to let rip with the most severe of punitive sanctions.
Late last night Russian troops moved into Ukraine, which has imposed a nationwide state of emergency and urged its citizens to leave Russia. Ukraine's foreign minister has accused Russia of starting a full-scale war and called on the UK to do "everything possible" to stop it.
The UK has a proud history of providing sanctuary to those forced to flee war and persecution. We must not turn our backs on the people of Ukraine in their hour of need.
"The era of Russian interference in this country must come to an end. Much of the legislation needed is ready to go - it must be brought before MPs immediately. Parliament must sit this weekend, day and night if we have to, to pass the necessary measures and impose the most punitive of sanctions on Putins regime.
She continued: "We must stand with the people of Ukraine and provide them with humanitarian and military aid, while unleashing the severest of sanctions against Putin and his cronies.
Wera Hobhouse has said parliament must sit "day and night" to pass legislation that sanctions Russia
READ MORE: Inquest date set for 15-year-old Bath student who died on exchange program in Spain
Our Ukrainian friends and neighbours across Bath will be seeing a nightmare scenario taking place in their home country. My thoughts are with them today, and I urge everyone in our community to keep them in your thoughts in the coming days.
