Biden Russia war amounts to genocide and Putin trying to wipe out Ukraine
20220412
https://www.somersetlive.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/biden-says-russia-committing-genocide-6944740
Yes, I called it genocide, he told reporters in Iowa shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington. Its become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian.
Past American leaders have often dodged formally declaring bloody campaigns such as Russias in Ukraine as genocide, hesitating to trigger an obligation under an international genocide convention that requires signing countries to intervene once genocide is formally identified. That obligation was seen as blocking President Bill Clinton from declaring Rwandan Hutus killing of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis in 1994 as genocide, for example.
Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter
Just last week Mr Biden had said he did not believe Russias actions amounted to genocide, just that they constituted war crimes. During a trip to Europe last month, the US president faced controversy for a nine-word statement seemingly supporting regime change in Moscow, which would have represented a dramatic shift towards direct confrontation with another nuclear-armed country.
For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power, Mr Biden said. He clarified the comments days later, saying: I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man. I wasnt articulating a policy change.
More evidence is coming out literally of the horrible things that the Russians have done in Ukraine, and were only going to learn more and more about the devastation and let the lawyers decide internationally whether or not it qualifies, he said.
At an earlier event in Menlo, Iowa, addressing spiking energy prices resulting from the war, Mr Biden had implied that he thought Mr Putin was carrying out genocide against Ukraine, but offered no details. Neither the president nor his administration announced new consequences for Russia or assistance to Ukraine following Mr Bidens public assessment.
Mr Biden said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russias conduct met the international standard for genocide, but said it sure seems that way to me.
US President Joe Biden has said Russias war in Ukraine amounts to genocide, accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian.
The US president said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russias conduct met the international standard for genocide
