British man reportedly killed fighting in Ukraine showed commando spirit until the end
20220429
https://www.somersetlive.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/british-man-reportedly-killed-fighting-7014794
Sadly on the 23rd April 2022, Scott Sibley Sibs was taken from us all. On behalf of Sibs and his family Im setting this Gofundme page up, to try and raise funds to help cover funeraladditional costs, for our fallen hero and dear friend.
Meanwhile, the Foreign Office confirmed another British national is missing in Ukraine. The families of both are being supported, a spokesperson said, declining to give names or further details.
"His life may have been cut short but he lived to the full and did things the Sibs way, right until the end
A small number of serving British personnel are believed to have gone absent without leave to join the resistance against the Russian invasion, while veterans and Britons without combat experience are thought to have also travelled to Ukraine. There was initially confusion on the Governments position after Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, in comments during an interview to the BBC on February 26, said she would absolutely support UK nationals who chose to fight for Ukraine.
Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter
A separate fundraising page titled In Loving Memory of Scott Sibley SIBS had almost reached its 1,000-goal in one day. Organiser Kate Barker, who was directing the funds to Mrs Sibley, posted: Rest in peace, Sibs, we will never forget you.
A British military veteran reportedly killed in Ukraine while fighting against Russian forces has been remembered as the bravest person and someone who showed commando spirit until the end. Tributes have been paid to Scott Sibley after the Foreign Office confirmed a British national had died in Ukraine.
Craig and Sabrina Gant have organised a fundraiser for Mr Sibleys widow Victoria Sibley, with the goal of 5,000 almost doubled to more than 9,500 in one day. Mr Gant wrote on the Gofundme page titled Covering funeral cost of a fallen hero: Hi, my name is Craig, however, many of you know me as Ganty.
Tributes were also left on the Logistic Support Squadron Facebook page, where a picture was posted alongside the comment: This week the Sqn has lost a former serving soldier. A man that showed Commando spirit until the end. RIP. Scott Sibley.
Scott was a son, father, brother and uncle. To me he was a friend like no other and the bravest person Ive had the pleasure to have known, he was as good as a brother to me. His life may have been cut short but he lived to the full and did things the Sibs way, right until the end.
