Drivers in rural areas could be hit with new pay per mile road tax
20220308
https://www.somersetlive.co.uk/news/local-news/drivers-rural-areas-could-hit-6768709
Transport Committee chair High Merriman said: We need to talk about road pricing. Innovative technology could deliver a national road-pricing scheme which prices up a journey based on the amount of road, and type of vehicle, used.
It comes as MPs warn that the government will be facing a 35billion black hole of lost tax revenue if the current system continues.
READ MORE: How Bansky, Upfest and Luke Jerram have turned Weston-super-Mare into UK's newest cultural hub
With the sale of petrol and diesel estimated to cease by 2030, the Government will have to generate revenue in ways such as pay-per-mile.
The committee report suggested that some groups could be given a concession such as free miles which would protect them from initial payments.
City-dwellers have in many cases much shorter journeys to reach essential services such as shops and hospitals.
The proposed new road pricing system would be based on the type of vehicle used and the distance travelled.
Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter
Concerns have been raised that it could penalise people who live in remote rural areas and the disabled who rely on their cars to get around.
The motoring organisation said one in 10 drivers said they were planning to buy an electric car as their next vehicle within five years.
He said: Drivers choosing to go electric deserve to know what is coming next  particularly if the promise of cheap per-mile running costs is set to be undermined by a future tax change.
But the motoring organisation the RAC Foundation says delaying the new system risked a "furious backlash" from motorists switching to battery-powered cars to save money.
Commenting on the committee report, Steve Gooding, director of the RAC Foundation , said the Chancellor was fast approaching a financial cliff-edge with fuel duty from cars down by 5billion a year by 2028.
It wants the government to set up an advisory body to come up with proposals for a new road charging system by the end of the year.
A committee of MPs say road pricing is the only viable option to replace the current duty and that the new pay per mile system tracked by technology would apply to all vehicles and replace the current tax system, reports Devon Live.
Want our best stories with fewer ads and alerts when the biggest news stories drop? Download our app oniPhoneorAndroid
Electric vehicles are exempt from road tax and as more motorists switch over, its tax income is expected to fall.
The report by Parliaments transport select committee says change needs to come before the ban in 2030 on the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicles.
That is a major part of the governments strategy to become carbon neutral by 2050, in an attempt to limit global warming and climate change.
If the Treasury is thinking it can leave this issue for another day but still recoup their losses from electric vehicles they risk a furious backlash from drivers who made the choice to go electric expecting to save money.
That would include electric cars, and maintain the principle that motorists pay for the upkeep of the roads they use, the MPs say.
As with many new motoring introductions, there can be frustration from drivers that the new rules are unfair.
A spokesperson for  LeaseElectricCar.co.uk  said: It has become clear that at some point drivers will have to be accustomed to a new way of being taxed.
Whilst some services are increasingly moving online, the patchy availability of mobile phone signal and fast internet limits access in some remote areas.
Of the 35billion raised from road tax and fuel, only around 7billion goes back into the roads, with the rest diverted to other services.
The number of new electric cars bought last year almost doubled from 2020, amounting to 11.6 of registrations, according to the AA.
It is likely that there will be a number of schemes to help those who are physically or geographically disadvantaged, otherwise, there could be a massive outcry.
The mileage covered could be recorded by black box technology which would supply a report for a bill to be generated.
Motorists living in remote areas of the Westcountry could soon see a new pay per mile road tax system come into replace the current road tax and fuel duty.
