Putin more likely to start WW3 than accept defeat in Ukraine Russia state TV claims
20220501
https://www.somersetlive.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/putin-more-likely-start-ww3-7024500
Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter
Now, speaking to LBC, Wallace warns that Putin may ramp up his rhetoric in the coming days.
The comments are one of many from Russia warning the West of "consequences" for interfering its ongoing invasion. It follows foreign minister Sergei Lavrov who claimed the threat of nuclear conflict must not be underestimated. This is our key position on which we base everything. The risks now are considerable, Mr Lavrov said on state TV on Tuesday.
The remarks, made on Wednesday night, stated that the Russian leader unleashing a nuclear strike is "more probable" than failure. Ms Simonyan said: "Either we lose in Ukraine or the Third World War starts. "I think World War Three is more realistic, knowing us, knowing our leader," the Daily Star reports.
Russian troops first crossed the border into Ukraine on February 24, claiming they wanted to "denazify" the country. Putin has also threatened to use nuclear weapons against western powers if they get in his way, with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov saying the threat of nuclear war "is serious".
The possibility of World War III is 'more probable' and 'more realistic' than Putin accepting defeat in Ukraine, according to Russian state TV. The shocking claims were made by TV editor Margarita Simonyan.
The Daily Star yesterday reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin could declare World War 3 in just two days' time, according to the UK defence secretary. Ben Wallace said that the despot will "probably" attempt to "mobilise the Russian people" amid his failing "special military operation".
The most incredible outcome, that all this will end with a nuclear strike, seems more probable to me than the other course of events. This is to my horror on one hand, she told a panel of experts, but on the other hand, it is what it is. We will go to heaven, while they will simply croak... We're all going to die someday, she continued.
I would not want to elevate those risks artificially. Many would like that. The danger is serious, real. And we must not underestimate it, he said, referring to the risk of nuclear war.
