About 130 rescued from rubble of Mariupol theater Biden tells Chinas Xi consequences if they support Russia Live Ukraine updates
20220318
https://www.providencejournal.com/story/news/politics/2022/03/18/ukraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/7087167001/
Intentionally targeting civilians is a war crime, he said at a White House news briefing. I find it difficult to conclude that the Russians are doing otherwise.
The House of Representatives voted Thursday in a bipartisan effort to suspend normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus, a decision the Senate is also likely to pass.
Russian U.N. ambassadorVassily Nebenzia said Thursday he wouldn't seek a vote on the humanitarian resolution, which U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield called "farcical" and "doomed to fail."
Moscow police said more than 200,000 people were in and around the Luzhniki stadium. The event included patriotic songs, including a performance of Made in the U.S.S.R., with the opening lines Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
The House voted overwhelmingly, with a vote of 424-8, torevoke a most favored nation status for Russia. If passed, the suspension would be mostly symbolic: earlier sanctions of Russian oil, gas, and coal imports already cut around 60 of American imports.
He said more than 9,000 people were able to leave besieged Mariupol in the past day, and in all more than 180,000 people have been able to flee to safety through humanitarian corridors.
This is a totally deliberate tactic, Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation, filmed outside in Kyiv, with the presidential office in the lamplight behind him.
The General Staff said the Russian forces were still trying to storm Mariupol and the fighting was ongoing. It was unclear from its statement whether the Russians have seized the city.
Several Telegram channels critical of the Kremlin reported that students and employees of state institutions in a number of regions were ordered by their superiors to attend rallies and concerts marking the anniversary. Those reports could not be independently verified.
A British defense official on Friday said Russia's strategy in the war was becoming one of attrition as it has not moved as swiftly as it once estimated it would.
Shoulder to shoulder, they help and support each other, the Russian president said of the Kremlins forces in a rare public appearance since the start of the war. We have not had unity like this for a long time, he added to cheers from the crowd.
"My brother Jimmy Hill was killed yesterday in Chernihiv, Ukraine. He was waiting in a bread line with several other people when they were gunned down" by Russian military forces, his sister, Cheryl Hill Gordon, wrote on Facebook. "His body was found in the street by the local police."
The fighting has led more than 3.27 million people to flee Ukraine and 6.5 million displacedwithin the country, the U.N. estimates. More than 2 million people have gone to Poland, the country's border agency said Friday.The death toll remains unknown, though Ukraine has said thousands of civilians have died.
I can say with conviction that there will be accountability for any war crimes that are determined to have occurred, he said.
In an eveningaddress to the nation Thursday,Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked President Joe Bidenfor additional military aid but avoided detailing specificsover concerns of tipping Russian forces.
The shift "will involve the reckless and indiscriminate use of firepower. This will result in increased civilian casualties, destruction of Ukrainian infrastructure and intensify the humanitarian crisis," he added.
Vladimir Putin appeared at a huge flag-waving rally at a Moscow stadium Friday and lavished praise on his troops fighting in Ukraine, three weeks into the invasion that has led to heavier-than-expected Russian losses on the battlefield and increasingly authoritarian rule at home.
With the invasion in its fourth week, Russian strikes targeted a residential building in Kyiv, killing one and injuring19, according to emergency services and mayor Vitali Klitschko, and amilitary aircraft repair facility in Lviv.
Mariupol is the key commercial port on the Azov Sea, which is connected to the much larger Black Sea by a narrow strait.
Describing the recent attack on Ukrainians waiting in bread lines and the bombing of a theater where children were sheltered, Blinken said the U.S. is helping document potential war crimes for prosecution.
ANTI-TANK WARFARE:As Russian troops close in on major cities in Ukraine, anti-tank weapons can make a major difference
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Thursday that he agrees with President Joe Biden that war crimes have been committed in Ukraine.
China is among a number ofnations, including India and South Africa, that have remained neutral or critical of NATO, keepingties with Russia as western countries seek to cut off Moscow from the global community as much as possible.
Blinkens comments came a day after Biden called Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal. Thursday, Biden called Putin"a murderous dictator, a pure thug who is waging an immoral war against the people of Ukraine."
Last week, Russia discussed its claims about the alleged biological laboratories in Ukraine, but the United States responded, calling the allegationsdisinformation.
Zelenskyy then asked his audience to picture the stadium filled with the thousands of Russians who have been killed, wounded or maimed in the fighting.
French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to lift thesiege of Mariupol, allow humanitarian access and order an immediate cease-fire during a 70-minute phone call, Macrons office said.Earlier in the day, Putin had a conversation with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who also pressed for an immediate cease-fire.
The shift comes as Russia has not claimed major Ukrainian cities quickly and has begun to attack more civilian infrastructure, saidChief of Defense Intelligence Lt. Gen. Jim Hockenhull.
A JOURNALIST AND A REFUGEE:How one reporter helps cover the war in Ukraine while living through the fallout.
The strike in Lviv was the closest Russia has come to striking the center of the western city. The Ukrainian air force's western command said it shot down two of the six missiles fired at the city from from the Black Sea. Lviv, near the Polish border, has largely been spared from the worst of the fighting, but a strike at a training facility last weekend killed nearly three dozen people. A bus repair facility was also targeted Friday, mayor Andriy Sadovyi said.
At a U.N. Security Council meeting on Friday, Russia will not ask for a vote on its humanitarian resolution concerning Ukraine and instead will discuss its claims of U.S. "biological laboratories"in Ukraine, which the United States has said are baseless.
We know if Russia really cared about humanitarian crises, the one that it created, it could simply stop its attacks on the people of Ukraine, Thomas-Greenfield said.
Former presidents Bill Clinton and GeorgeW.Bush visited a Ukrainian church in Chicago to show solidarity with the people of Ukraine. Both donned yellow and blue ribbons, the colors of the Ukraine's flag, and laid two bouquets of sunflowers at the church.
The Thursday vote would make certain steel, aluminum, and plywood items more expensive to import.
Meanwhile, around 130 were rescued form the bombed theater in the southeastern city of Mariupol, saidLudmyla Denisova, the Ukrainian parliaments human rights commissioner. More than 1,300 people remain under the rubble,Denisova told Ukrainian television on Friday. The theater had been used as a bomb shelter before Russia attacked it amid its siege of the port city.
The White House saidBiden "described the implications and consequences if China provides material support to Russia." After the call, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki wouldn't say whether China weighed in on providing support to the Kremlin or if the country would denounce Putin's actions in Ukraine. She said the U.S. would be closely watching any actions by the Chinese.
He noted that the 200,000 people Putin gathered in and around a Moscow stadium on Friday for a flag-waving rally was about the same number of Russian troops sent into Ukraine three weeks ago.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukraine lost access to the Azov Sea during Russias siege of the southern port city of Mariupol, the Ukrainian General Staff said late Friday.
Chinas Foreign Ministry said in a statement about the video call that conflict was "not in anyones interest." But the country also renewed criticism of sanctions against Russia and avoided using the terms "war" or "invasion."
Ukrainian officials reported that 10 people were killed Wednesday in Chernihiv while standing in the bread line.
An American man was killed in a Russian attack on the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv, where he was seeking medical treatment for his partner. The death of Jim Hill was reported Thursday by his sister.
Dozens of European lawmakers called on the Nobel Peace Prize Committee to reopen nominations so Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy and the people of Ukraine could be nominated for the honor.
The Ukraine military says it hascaptured about a thousand Russian servicemen and that an estimated 14,000 more have been killed in battle.Meanwhile, the U.N.'s human rights office said Friday 816 civilians have been killed and 1,333 injured likely an undercount since the start of the invasion.
US-CHINA 'CROSSROADS':Biden, Xi to speak as US-China relations face 'crossroads' over Russian invasion of Ukraine
TheWorld Health Organization says that's just one of 43confirmed attacks on hospitals and health care facilities by Russian forces since the war began. Those aggressions have killed 12 and injured 34.
Europe wont be attempting to send its first rover to Mars this year because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the European Space Agency confirmed Thursday. The mission was a collaboration with Roscosmos, Russias state space corporation.
As Russia unleashed a new round of strikes in Kyiv and Lviv on Friday, President Joe Biden andChinese President Xi Jinping spoke for nearly two hours about the ongoing crisis in Ukraineas the United States seeks to sway China from support of Russia.
The show of support amid a burst of antiwar protests inside Russia led to allegations in some quarters that the rally  held officially to mark the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea, which was seized from Ukraine  was a manufactured display of patriotism.
Asked what should happen to Putin if hes found guilty, Blinken said he wont get ahead of the investigation, but he promised there will be consequences.
Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on Friday said his country would formally submit a proposal for a peacekeeping and humanitarian mission in Ukraineat a NATO summit next week.Denmark indicated it would be ready to join a similar mission.
Among the most condemned attacks of the Russian invasion was last week's airstrike on a maternity hospital in Mariupol that killed three people and left 17 injured.
In a coordinated move Friday, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuaniaordered the expulsion ofRussian embassy staff members in the Baltic countries.Bulgaria also said 10 Russian diplomats were persona non grata and demanded their expulsion.
He again appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to hold talks with him directly. Its time to meet, time to speak, he said. I want to be heard by everyone, especially in Moscow.
He says Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in the center and southeast of the country.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Russian forces are blockading Ukraines largest cities to create a humanitarian catastrophe with the aim of persuading Ukrainians to cooperate with them.
