Biden says no one knows what Putin will do after White House called Russian invasion of Ukraine imminent
20220118
https://kesq.com/news/2022/01/25/white-house-says-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-remains-imminent/
Psaki said Tuesday displeasure from the Ukrainian government at the US decision to withdraw some embassy staff was misplaced.
This is all Putin.I dont even think his peopleknow for certain what he willdo, Biden said as he made a brief outing in Washington for ice cream and to browse a local store, purchasing gifts for his wife and grandson.
And Biden revealed he could move US troops into Eastern Europe soon to demonstrate American commitment to its NATO allies: I may be moving some ofthose troops in the near termjust because it takes time.And again, its not provocative, he said.
An administration official told CNN after the briefing that there has been no change in where we have been since last week which is that Russia could invade at any time.
On Monday, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video address posted to his official Facebook page that his citizens had no reason to panic as authorities are working for the full de-escalation of the situation in eastern Ukraine.
The threat from Russia is dangerous, but not imminent, the source said, adding if any Russian order to attack is given it would still take one to two weeks for Russian forces near the border to be ready.
In any case, a vast majority of US personnel at the US Embassy in Kyiv are staying at the post and are not taking advantage of voluntary departure, a source familiar with the matter told CNN Tuesday.
Ordinarily, if it were adifferent leader, the fact thathe continues to build forcesalong Ukraines border, fromBelarus all the way around,youd say, Well, that means thathe is looking like he is goingto do something,' Biden went on.But then you look at what hispast behavior is and whateveryone is saying and his teamas well as everyone else as towhat is likely to happen, it allcomes down to his decision.
Biden has spent the past several days receiving updates on the matter, and on Monday ordered 8,500 US troops to stand ready to deploy to eastern Europe. He made clear again Tuesday that no American forces would move into Ukraine.
Last week, Biden predicted Putin would ultimately decide to move into Ukraine, and he said Tuesday that little had changed to alter his view.
Other Ukrainian officials have also sought to project calm, including the defense minister, who said Tuesday there was no need to have your bags packed.
As they seek to demonstrate a level of stability, officials in Ukraine have voiced displeasure at a decision to draw down staffing at the US embassy in Kyiv, calling it unnecessary.
No one can get into the mind of President Putin or Russian leadership. We all know that is the case. What we have seen is a range of preparations, she said, citing the build-up of more than 100,000 troops at the Russia-Ukraine border, bellicose rhetoric and potential false flag operations.
Even as military preparations get underway, diplomatic efforts to defuse the crisis were proceeding. Russian and European officials planned to meet in Paris this week to continue discussions on reviving a ceasefire agreement in Eastern Ukraine, and the US was preparing written responses to Russian security demands that were presented last month.
Further US military assistance to Ukraine arrived Tuesday with approximately 300 Javelins and 79 tons of equipment arriving in the country, the US embassy in Kyiv said in a tweet.
The source said there has not been a significant drawdown as a result of the authorized departure of US personnel.
President Joe Biden acknowledged Tuesday a deeply uncertain situation at the Ukraine border, where Russian troops are amassing but few observers have any definitive knowledge of whether or when they might invade.
Earlier, the White House said a Russian invasion was imminent, and American troops have been placed on high alert to deploy to Europe in a show of reassurance. US and European sanctions have been readied in the event of an invasion. Biden also said hed be willing to apply sanctions on Russian President Vladimir  Putin himself, a step previous presidents have avoided.
Even as tensions mount, however, Biden conceded that one mans opaque decision-making would determine how events unfold.
When we said it was imminent, it remains imminent, press secretary Jen Psaki said during a daily briefing. But again, we cant make a prediction of what decision President Putin will make. Were still engaged in diplomatic discussions and negotiations.
Ukrainian officials said Tuesday the latest military intelligence suggests Russian forces are not yet prepared to stage an invasion into the country, and downplayed the prospect of an impending invasion.
We believe such a step to be a premature one  an instance of excessive caution, a spokesman for the countrys foreign ministry said in a tweet.
Still, Biden made clear Putin remains something of an enigma, whose vague intentions have have proved befuddling to him and other western leaders.
Speaking to CNN, a source close to the Ukrainian leadership said defense and intelligence chiefs are analyzing satellite images of Russian forces from US and other Western agencies on an hourly basis, but are not yet seeing Russia getting into combat mode or positioning themselves to attack.
Were always going to make decisions that are in the security interests of people who are serving as diplomats around the world, and we have assessments that are made by the State Department, hence the decision in the announcement made over the last couple of days, she said.
Earlier, his spokeswoman described a Russian invasion of Ukraine as imminent, though in Kyiv, Ukrainian leaders have sought to downplay the threat.
I will let others assess, but there are 100,000 Russian troops on the border of Ukraine and no clarity that the leader of Russia doesnt intend to invade, she said. That sounds pretty dangerous to me.
Ill be completelyhonest with you, it is a littlebit like reading tea leaves, Biden said after browsing a small gift shop and selecting a sweatshirt for his grandson.
