Tom Crouser Heres why US should side with Ukraine Opinion
20220131
https://www.wvgazettemail.com/opinion/columnists/tom-crouser-heres-why-u-s-should-side-with-ukraine-opinion/article_f83aea79-fafb-52bf-8db7-c0510d86f507.html
The United States has always been the champion of democracy standing firm against authoritarian regimes, which logically propels us to assume Ukraines side. But, granted, we dont know much about the country.
Russia and Ukraine have a long and complicated relationship, starting in the Middle Ages, when the powerful Kievan Rus state ruled modern-day Belarus, Ukraine and part of Russia from part of the 9th century through some of the 13th. In fact, Russia was named after the Rus, a Scandinavian people.
Ukraine suffers from a very high poverty rate and has experienced severe government corruption. However, because of its extensive, fertile farmlands, it is one of the largest grain exporters in the world.
While Ukraine is small compared to Russia, it is the second-largest nation by land mass in Europe, at 233,032 square miles, which is nearly the size of Texas 268,820 square miles. Ukraines border with adversaries Russia stretching 1,426 miles and Belarus 674 miles is about the distance from New York City to Salt Lake City.
Since then, Ukraine has been ruled by various powers, including Poland, Lithuania, the Ottoman Empire and the Tsardom of Russia.
Besides, we should never be on the side of an authoritarian government invading a democracy.
The country has a larger population than California 44 million to 39.5 million, and Chernobyl, home of the 1986 nuclear disaster, is only 60 miles north.
There is nothing in our best interest, either long-term or short-term, that would be achieved by abandoning Ukraine. Most probably, it would increase the odds of Russian aggression with a NATO ally, forcing America into a hot war, which is the real reason for our concern.
After World War II, the country became part of the Soviet Union. Ukraine gained its independence in 1991, after the dissolution of the USSR.
Shortly thereafter, Russia invaded Ukraines Crimean Peninsula and supplied proxies with arms in two of Ukraines eastern provinces, driving an armed conflict that continues to this day.
Kyiv, the capital, sits in the center-north of the country, much like Chicago, and is home to about 2.9 million people, 1.2 million more than in the entirety of West Virginia.
According to the CIAs World Factbook, Ukraine, under President Viktor Yanukovych, backtracked in 2013 on European Union agreements and sought closer ties with Russia, leading to protests and a new, pro- Western government in 2014, with Yanukovych fleeing to Russia.
So, Russia looks as if it will invade Ukraine, while Republicans debate whose side we should be on and argue that there are few logical reasons we should become involved. Yet, here we are.
Since then, NATO added numerous former Soviet bloc countries. These include the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Albania, Croatia, Montenegro and North Macedonia.
