Biden lets yet another cat out of the bag with an offhand remark
20220330
https://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2022/03/biden_lets_yet_another_cat_out_of_the_bag_with_an_offhand_remark.html
Biden appeared to reveal the US is training Ukrainian troops in Poland while trying to explain recent gaffes pic.twitter.comHNuztlCI84
There's Joe saying the U.S. would respond "in kind" to any use of chemical warfare, when the U.S. has a policy of never using chemical warfare.
Then there's Joe in Poland signaling regime change in Moscow, saying "For God's sake, this man Putin cannot remain in power."Usually, three strikes and you're out, at least in America's pastime.That's four already.
There's Joe telling troops in Poland they are going to soon be in Ukraine, where an active war is underway:
Biden made the comments when trying to explain a recent gaffe. In Poland on Friday, President Biden told members of the 82nd Airborne Division that Ukrainians were "stepping up" against the Russian assault and said, "You're going to see when you're there," suggesting that the US soldiers would be entering the war zone.
"You're going to see when you're there and some, some of you have been there, you're gonna see, you're gonna see women, young people standing in the middle, in front of a damn tank!" Biden said.
Then there's Joe in Poland signaling regime change in Moscow, saying "For God's sake, this man Putin cannot remain in power."
The U.S. long had trained and supplied Ukrainian troops in Ukraine, but "before Russia's invasion, the USpulled National Guard troops out of Ukraineandreportedly ordered CIAparamilitaries to leave the country."
But Monday, Old Joe off-handedly revealed American involvement in the war between Ukraine and nuclear superpower Russia that had previously been secret, when being questioned about his previous implication that U.S. troops were going to Ukraine.From the left-wing siteAntiWar.com:
"I was referring to with  being with and talking with the Ukrainian troops who are in Poland," he added.
Explaining his comments on Monday,Biden said, "We were talking about helping train the troops in  that are  the Ukrainian troops that are in Poland.That's what the context."
The U.S. long had trained and supplied Ukrainian troops in Ukraine, but "before Russia's invasion, the USpulled National Guard troops out of Ukraineandreportedly ordered CIAparamilitaries to leave the country."NowPoland has been identified to the Russians as the site where enemy troops in active combat are being trained. In other words, they are now targets in Poland.Amidall the other gaffes, this reveal has barely been noticed, except, of course, by the war-planners in Moscow.Photo credit: Twitter video screen grab.
NowPoland has been identified to the Russians as the site where enemy troops in active combat are being trained. In other words, they are now targets in Poland.Amidall the other gaffes, this reveal has barely been noticed, except, of course, by the war-planners in Moscow.
There's senile old Joe telling the world that sanctions don't work, have never worked, when sanctions were the announced policy.
There's senile old Joe telling the world that sanctions don't work, have never worked, when sanctions were the announced policy.There's Joe saying the U.S. would respond "in kind" to any use of chemical warfare, when the U.S. has a policy of never using chemical warfare.There's Joe telling troops in Poland they are going to soon be in Ukraine, where an active war is underway:
I can't think of another week or so in which a president has sown so much confusion and seemed to reveal so many surprising new policies with off-the-cuff remarks  statements that so alarmed his staff that they had to issue "clarifications" and deny the obvious meaning of what he said.
