Anthony Albanese says hell treat Vladimir Putin with contempt at G20 summit
20220707
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/anthony-albanese-says-hell-treat-vladimir-putin-with-contempt-at-g20-summit/0zjduotsr
Senator Wong is attending a G20 foreign ministers' meeting in Bali this week, and the talks are expected to be overshadowed by the war in Ukraine and Mr Lavrov's presence.
While the prime minister did not want to pre-empt the G20 response to the Russian invasion, discussions had taken place with leaders at the recent NATO summit on how measures would be implemented.
"If you want an example of a nation which has demonstrated its willingness, its disregard for the need for food security for a world recovering from a pandemic, it is Russia," she told reporters in Bali on Thursday.
Her comments came as Russia's ambassador to Australia said the relationship between the two countries had reached its lowest point in decades because of the government's support of Ukraine.
She also welcomed the attendance of Ukraine's foreign minister at the G20, calling it an "important moment" for world leaders to hear about the consequences of the invasion.
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says he will treat Vladimir Putin with "contempt" at the G20 leaders' summit later this year, although he's doubtful Russia's president will attend.
Australia is the largest non-NATO contributor to Ukraine's battle to oust the invading Russian army and has provided a total of $390 million in military and humanitarian assistance. It has also sanctioned 843 individuals and 62 Russian entities.
Indonesia President Joko Widodo said in April that Mr Putin had confirmed his attendance for the November summit that will be held in Bali. It came against the backdrop of Western leaders calling for the Russian president to be excluded from the event.
"Whatever cooperation we had has been destroyed by the Australian side without really giving much thought to what Australia's interests were," Russian ambassador Aleksey Pavlovsky told ABC radio on Thursday.
Mr Albanese said Australia would carry through with its commitments to support Ukraine during the conflict.
"If Ukraine doesn't prevail in the current conflict, if Russia doesn't withdraw from its brutal invasion, the consequences are dire if that does not occur," he said.
"It is Russia in its persistent refusal to comply with the UN charter and international law, and its illegal, immoral invasion of Ukraine.
Mr Albanese's comments come ahead of Foreign Minister Penny Wong coming face to face with her Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Friday for the first time since the invasion began in February.
"I would treat Mr Putin with the contempt that he deserves. If he does attend the G20 summit, which I doubt whether he will is my view, then the world needs to send a very clear message about how we regard him and his behaviour," he told Sky News on Thursday.
Senator Wong said multilateralism and addressing food and energy security will be the main themes of the foreign ministers' meeting.
