Kenyas UN ambassador says Russias breaching of Ukraine echoes Africas colonial history
20220222
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/in-a-powerful-speech-kenya-s-un-ambassador-says-russia-s-breaching-of-ukraine-echoes-africa-s-colonial-history/3d12fb8a-866e-4662-ad36-b14c9b8a1b40
Kenya's ambassador to the United Nations has delivered a powerful speech to the Security Council on the situation in Ukraine, invoking Africa's colonial past todecry Russia's internationally-condemned move into its eastern European neighbour.
, where Martin Kimani said Kenya was gravely concerned by the Russian action and deployment that he said "breaches the territorial integrity of Ukraine".
Across Africa today, Mr Kimani said, live our countrymen with whom we share deep historical, cultural, and linguistic bonds.
Russia's ambassador said it was still "open to diplomacy for a diplomatic solution" - but warned against what he called Ukrainian aggression.
drawing international condemnation and concern amid fears a major war could be around the corner.
Ukraine's ambassador told the crisis Security Council session hiscountry's borders remain "unchangeable" despite Russia's actions.
He said multilateralism  or the process of organising relations between groups of three or more states  is lying on its deathbed.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered the deployment of troops to two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine and recognised them as independent,
At independence, had we chosen to pursue on the basis of ethnic, racial or religious homogeneity, we would still be waging bloody wars these many decades later. Instead, we agreed that we would settle for the borders that we inherited, but we would still pursue continental political, economic and legal integration rather than form nations that looked ever backwards into history with a dangerous nostalgia.
We chose to follow the rules of the Organisation of African Unity and the United Nations Charter, not because our borders satisfied us, but because we wanted something greater forged in peace.
It has been assaulted today, as it has been by other powerful states in the recent past.
Mr Putin said the decision was made as part of "peacekeeping" efforts, a suggestion rubbished by Western powers.
Mr President, this situation echoes our history. Kenya and almost every African country was birthed by the ending of an empire. Our borders are not of our own drawings. They were drawn in the distant colonial metropoles of London, Paris and Lisbon with no regard for the ancient nations that they cleaved apart, Mr Kimani said.
Mr Kimani said Kenya was not only concerned by Russias move, but also by the trend in the last few decades of powerful states, including members of this Security Council, breaching international law with little regard.
