One person couldnt do it all Russia says a Ukrainian killed Daria Dugina Experts arent so sure
20220825
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/one-person-couldnt-do-it-all-russia-says-a-ukrainian-killed-daria-dugina-experts-arent-so-sure/l7wn2fg3z
Ukrainian woman sent to track and eliminate Ms Dugina, and who later fled to Estonia
However he said: "For this type of attack you'd need reconnaissance, to follow her, and then call in a team to carry it out  you'd need two or three people to booby-trap a car  one person alone couldn't do it all."
Experts also noted that Ms Dugina's killing would most likely serve Mr Putin's interests, stirring up anger that could bolster support for a general mobilisation to muster more soldiers for a war that has largely stalled in Ukraine's south and east.
"Could we get 400 grams of TNT into Russia? In theory, yes. Could we set a bomb? Yes," a high-ranking member of Ukraine's intelligence service told news agency AFP on condition of anonymity.
"I think that since March there are Ukrainian logistical and operational networks in place in Russia... There are Ukrainians on the other side of the border," said Gerald Arboit, an international intelligence expert at the CNAM research institute in Paris.
"I don't rule out that Dugina was killed by the Russians to step up the Ukraine war, potentially with non-conventional weapons" such as thermobaric bombs, said a French intelligence source contacted by AFP.
"I still suspect this was done by another entity, including the possibility that this was an inside job."
"I don't see the rationale of such an operation for the Ukrainians, which would be very complex to carry out," said Alexander Grinberg, an analyst at the Jerusalem Institute for Security and Strategy.
Daria Dugina, 29, who died on Saturday outside Moscow, was the daughter of ultranationalist Alexander Dugin, a vocal supporter of
"But at the same time, I think it could be possible... elite Ukrainian special forces or intelligence assets are likely capable of pulling off the attack," he said.
Targeted assassinations of high-profile Russian targets, particularly a young woman, would also be counter-productive for Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who is banking heavily on sympathy and military aid from Western allies.
"But the big problem is, what good would it do? Nobody in Ukraine even really knows about Mr Dugin. Who would have something against his daughter? Killing her makes no sense," the source said.
Getting Ukrainian agents into Russia would also require eluding Russian intelligence agencies presumably on high alert after six months of war.
"And I can't imagine the Americans or British letting them do it," he added. "It seems like an FSB ploy to undermine Kyiv, especially since Dugin doesn't have any real influence at the Kremlin."
Mr Clarke agreed that if Ukraine were to assassinate a high-profile Russian, Ms Dugina would not be its choice.
Since Russia's seizure of the Crimean peninsula in 2014, Ukraine has effectively been waging a clandestine war against Russia, building out spy networks in preparation of future tensions.
Russian authorities quickly blamed Ukraine for the car bomb that killed a Russian journalist last weekend, but intelligence experts say that although Kyiv is capable of orchestrating such an attack, the prospect is unlikely.
He did not dismiss Ukrainian involvement, possibly with domestic Russian opposition groups, noting that Russia's FSB security services had dismantled Ukrainian networks in recent years.
"The assassination of Dugina took place in Moscow, which would be an incredibly hard target for the Ukrainian services to penetrate," said Colin Clarke, research director at the Soufan Center in New York.
