Russia has ordered troops into two Ukrainian separatist regions for peacekeeping efforts
20220222
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/russia-has-ordered-troops-into-two-ukrainian-separatist-regions-for-peacekeeping-efforts/308f81bd-4e4b-4b0b-9a80-d94c8ef43db4
Earlier, Mr Putinpresided over a long and carefully stage-managed meeting of his powerful security council, listening to senior officials say it was time for Russia to recognise the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic as independent.
The sudden and decisive move by Moscow overshadowed last-ditch diplomatic attempts to ease weeks of tensions over fears Russia has been planning an all-out invasion of its pro-Western neighbour.
In a lengthy televised address, Mr Putin, looking visibly angry, described Ukraine as an integral part of Russia's history and said eastern Ukraine was ancient Russian lands and that he was confident the Russian people would support his decision.
He made clear the stakes were bigger than ex-Soviet Ukraine, whose efforts to join NATO and the European Union have deeply angered Moscow.
Western leaders are warning that Russia is planning to invade its pro-Western neighbour after massing more than 150,000 troops on its borders, a claim Moscow has repeatedly denied.
"It will be a war waged by Russia on the Ukrainian people to repress them, to crush them, to harm them," the White House official said.
Russian state television showed Mr Putin, joined by Russia-backed separatist leaders, signing a decree recognising the independence of the two Ukrainian breakaway regions along with agreements on cooperation and friendship.
Western powers have threatened a crippling sanctions package if Russia invades and shortly before Putin's announcement, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said sanctions would also be "on the table" if Russia recognised the separatists.
Ukrainian leader President VolodymyrZelenskyy said he had convened his own National Security and Defence Council after Putin spoke, and also held calls with French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
"He told PresidentZelenskyy that the UK had already drawn up sanctions to target those complicit in the violation ofUkraine's territorial integrity, and that those measures would come into force tomorrow. The Prime Minister also said he would explore sending further defensive support toUkraine, at the request of the Ukrainian Government."
Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent on Monday and ordered the Russian army to launch what Moscow called a peacekeeping operation into the area, upping the ante in a crisis the West fears could unleash a major war.
"I have heard your opinions. The decision will be taken today," he said after the meeting, which aired on state television for more than 90 minutes.
Defying Western warnings against such a move, Mr Putin had announced his decision in phone calls to the leaders of Germany and France earlier, both of whom voiced disappointment, the Kremlin said.
In recent weeks, according to US intelligence, Moscow has massed an invasion force of troops, tanks, missile batteries and warships around Ukraine's borders in Belarus, Russia, Crimea and the Black Sea.
"No, Ukraine did NOT: attack Donetsk or Lugansk, send saboteurs or APCs armoured personnel carriers over the Russian border, shell Russian territory, shell Russian border crossing, conduct acts of sabotage," he said.
The dramatic meeting, with Mr Putin sitting alone at a desk as his government, military and security chiefs took turns addressing him from a podium, came after weeks of tensions between Moscow and the West over Ukraine.
"The embassy had previously relocated from Kyiv to the western city of Lviv. Now they are shifting to Poland," a Bloomberg reporter wrote on Twitter.
These warnings followed an earlierdenouncement by other European leaders of Mr Putin's decision to recognise the independence ofUkraine's separatist regions and warned the bloc will react with sanctions.
The tensions have spiked in recent days after an outbreak of heavy shellfire on Ukraine's eastern frontline with the separatists and a series of reported incidents on the border with Russia.
It comes as the US will reportedly relocate its embassy in Ukraine to Poland amid a warning from UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson that a Russian invasion could happen "in the coming hours".
In a joint statement, Ms von der Leyen and Mr Michel said: "The Union will react with sanctions against those involved in this illegal act."
Mr Biden has said that US intelligence believes that Mr Putin has made a decision to invade Ukraine and that commanders are readying units to attack within days.
Mr Johnson told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in a phone call that Russia could attackwithin hours or days and Britain would explore sending further defensive support toUkraineand announce sanctions on Russia.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the executive order "is designed to prevent Russia from profiting off of this blatant violation of international law".
US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told NBC news that a Russian invasion of its neighbour would be an "extremely violent" operation followed by a brutal occupation.
British foreign minister Liz Truss said in a Twitter post that on Tuesday the government will announce new sanctions on Russia in response to Mr Putin's decision.
NATOSecretary-General Jens Stoltenberg accused Russia of continuing to fuel the conflict in eastern Ukraine and"trying to stage a pretext" for a further invasion. Russia annexed Crimea fromUkrainein 2014.
The recognition will effectively put an end to an already shaky peace plan in the separatist conflict, which has rumbled on since 2014, after Moscow annexed Crimea from Ukraine, and has left more than 14,000 dead.
"The EU and its partners will react with unity, firmness and with determination in solidarity withUkraine," they said.
Mr Putin made clear there was no room for further talks on the separatists, telling the security council there were "no prospects" for the 2015 Minsk peace accords aimed at resolving the Ukraine conflict.
"Ukraine also does NOT plan any such actions. Russia, stop your fake-producing factory now," he wrote.
Mr Putin told Russia's defence ministry to deploy troops into the two regions to "keep the peace" in a decree issued shortly after he announced recognition for Russia-backed separatists there, drawing United States and European condemnation and vows of new sanctions.
"The recognition of the two separatist territories inUkraineis a blatant violation of international law, the territorial integrity ofUkraineand the Minsk agreements," EU chiefs Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel each tweeted.
Also on Monday, local officials said shelling on the government-held village of Novoluganske, 35 kilometres north of the eastern rebel stronghold Donetsk, had killed a civilian there.
Ms Psaki said measures being rolled out in response to Mr Putin's decree were separate from sanctions the US and its allies have been readying if Russia invadesUkraine.
It was not immediately clear whether the Russian military action was the start of an invasion of Ukraine that the US and its allies have warned about for weeks. There was no word on the size of the force Mr Putin was dispatching, when they would cross the border and exactly what their mission would be.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said European Union countries have agreed to impose a limited set of sanctions "targeting those who are responsible" for Russia's recognition of the rebel regions.
"The use of Ukraine as an instrument of confrontation with our country poses a serious, very big threat to us," Mr Putin said.
Kyiv, concerned that Russia is building a narrative to justify an invasion, immediately denied all the allegations, which are being widely broadcast on Russian state media, and Mr Kuleba took to Twitter.
"Outlining his grave concern at recent developments in the region, the Prime Minister told PresidentZelenskyy that he believed an invasion was a real possibility in the coming hours and days," Mr Johnson's office said.
In one of the most potentially dangerous, Moscow claimed, to furious Kyiv denials, that its forces had intercepted and killed five Ukrainian saboteurs who infiltrated Russian territory, and accused Ukraine of shelling a border post.
Meanwhile, US President JoeBiden will issue an executive order soon prohibiting "new investment, trade, and financing by US persons to, from, or in" the two breakaway regions, the White House said. It will "also provide authority to impose sanctions on any person determined to operate in those areas ofUkraine," White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said in a statement.
The move has sparked a United Nations Security Council meeting, which will be held at 9pm EST on Monday 1pm AEDT on Tuesday, a Russian diplomat said, following a request by the US, the UK and France.
European leaders have been urging Mr Putin to hold a summit with his United States counterpart Joe Biden, and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told Mr Putin in the security council meeting that he would meet his US counterpart on Thursday in Geneva.
Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said there was no sign of Russian forces withdrawing from the border and Moscow-backed rebels continued to shell Ukrainian positions.
