Russian missiles cause destruction in Kyiv as Joe Biden says allies wont splinter on Ukraine
20220626
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/russian-missiles-cause-destruction-in-kyiv-as-joe-biden-says-allies-wont-splinter-on-ukraine/4ya6m1yx2
Russia said its strike on Kyiv hit a weapons factory, dismissing as "fake" reports that it struck a residential area of the Ukrainian capital.
US President Joe Biden and his counterparts from the world's most industrialised nations were gathering at Elmau Castle in the German Alps, before talks with NATO partners in Madrid.
Russian strikes hit a residential building in Kyiv, the city's mayor says, in the first attack on Ukraine's capital in almost three weeks.
Russian forces carried out strikes against three military training centres in northern and western Ukraine, including one near the Polish border.
But Mr Johnson cautioned that "any attempt to settle the conflict now will only cause enduring instability".
Her Majesty's Canadian Ships HMCS Kingston and Summerside set sail for a four-month deployment as part of "deterrence measures in Central and Eastern Europe" launched in 2014 after Moscow annexed Crimea, the Canadian navy said in a statement.
World leaders mocked Mr Putin's tough-man image at a G7 lunch in Germany, joking about whether they should strip down to shirtsleeves - or even less.
Among the targets was a military training centre for Ukrainian forces in the Starychi district of the Lviv region, around 30 kilometres from the border with NATO member Poland.
"We have to stay together," Mr Biden told German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, the host of the three-day gathering.
Vladimir Putin had been hoping "that somehow NATO and the G7 would splinter", President Biden said. "But we haven't and we're not going to."
"Jackets on? Jackets off? Do we take our coats off?" Britain's Mr Johnson asked as he sits down at the table in Bavaria's picturesque Elmau Castle, where Mr Scholz was hosting the summit of seven powerful democracies.
One person died and four people, including a seven-year-old girl, were taken to hospital following the early morning strikes, said city mayor Vitali Klitschko.
In talks with French President Emmanuel Macron, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warns "any attempt to settle" the Ukraine conflict now risks prolonging instability and emboldening Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
The Artyom factory "was the target, as military infrastructure", the Russian defence ministry said, adding that it had already been targeted in April.
The top three floors of a building in the Shevchenkivsky neighbourhood were completely destroyed and several fires broke out, spewing thick smoke.
Canada deployed two warships to the Baltic Sea and North Atlantic, joining a pair of frigates already in the region, to reinforce NATO's eastern flank in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"High-precision weapons of Russia's aerospace forces and Kalibr missiles" were used, Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
On the sidelines of the G7 summit, both leaders "agreed this is a critical moment for the course of the conflict, and there is an opportunity to turn the tide in the war", Downing Street said.
World powers agreed to ban gold exports from Russia, kicking off a G7 meeting aimed at taking new steps to deplete Moscow's war chest and bolster Ukraine's defences.
Following strikes on Kyiv, the Ukrainian government called for G7 leaders meeting in Germany to provide more weapons - and impose further sanctions against Moscow.
"G7 summit must respond with more sanctions on Russia and more heavy arms for Ukraine. Russia's sick imperialism must be defeated," Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted
But Kyiv on Saturday said Russia had carried out strikes from Ukraine's northern neighbour Belarus. Moscow did not comment on the claim.
