Russia accused of blackmail after suspending gas supply to Bulgaria and Poland over Ukraine support
20220427
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/australia-joins-us-in-pledging-more-weapons-for-ukraine-as-russia-threatens-gas-supplies-to-poland/n79koxszk
Separately, Moscow also said it was expelling eight Japanese diplomats in a tit-for-tat response to expulsions by Tokyo over the conflict in Ukraine.
"We won't boast about it: we'll use them, if needed. And I want everyone to know that," he said. "We have already taken all the decisions on this."
Mr Putin issued his own warning on Wednesday, saying that if Western forces intervene in Ukraine, they will face a "lightning-fast" military response, after telling Guterres on Tuesday that he still hoped negotiations with Kyiv would bear fruit.
Meanwhile, three people died and 15 others were injured in bombings around the eastern city of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second city, regional governor Oleg Synegubov said.
Fighting continues to rage across Ukraine's east, Kyiv's defence ministry said, as it confirmed Russian forces had seized several villages in their renewed bid to "liberate" the Donbas region.
The first phase of Russia's invasion failed to reach Kyiv and overthrow President Zelenskyy's government after encountering stiff Ukrainian resistance reinforced with Western weapons.
"They blocked from us - or, to put it plainly, stole - a fairly significant amount of our reserves," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. "So there is no question of blackmail here."
Western allies remain wary of being drawn into war with Russia but have stepped up military support as Ukraine has maintained its fierce resistance.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres announced his arrival in Kyiv on Wednesday following talks in Moscow with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
"Despite the fact that the military operation is ongoing, we still hope that we will be able to reach agreements on the diplomatic track," the Russian leader said in televised remarks.
"It comes as no surprise that the Kremlin uses fossil fuels to try to blackmail us... Our response will be immediate, united and coordinated.
On Tuesday, at a summit in Germany of 40 Western allies to discuss arming Ukraine, Washington pledged to move "heaven and earth" to enable Kyiv to emerge victorious from the war.
EU officials said energy ministers from across the bloc will meet on Monday to discuss the situation.
Russia hit hangars at an aluminium plant near the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia with "high-precision long-range sea-based Kalibr missiles", the ministry said.
European powers have imposed massive sanctions on Russia since Putin's decision to invade his neighbour, while shipping weapons to Ukraine's defenders.
The warning came as UN chief Antonio Guterres arrived in Kyiv to meet Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy following talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow to expand humanitarian support and secure civilian evacuations.
The unrecognised region has reported a series of explosions in recent days that it called "terrorist attacks", leading Kyiv to accuse Moscow of seeking to expand the war further into Europe.
Ukraine's Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov predicted "extremely difficult weeks" for the country amid "destruction and painful casualties" during the offensive.
But they have moved slowly on hitting Moscow's vast gas exports, with many EU members - notably industrial giant Germany - reliant on Russian energy to keep their lights on.
The campaign has refocused on seizing the east and south of the country, while increased the use of long-range missile strikes against west and central Ukraine to counter the Western response.
Moscow defended its demand that Western customers buy rubles, saying that sanctions against its central bank had forced it to rebuild its foreign reserves.
In the region, Transnistria, pro-Russian separatists claimed shots were fired across the border towards a village housing a Russian arms depot, after drones flew over from Ukraine.
And in its economic standoff with the West, Moscow cut off gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland, two EU and NATO members backing Ukraine in the conflict.
Russia's defence ministry said its forces had destroyed a "large batch" of weapons and ammunition supplied by the United States and European countries.
Talks had been taking place in Turkey but stalled after the discovery of civilian bodies in areas near Kyiv previously occupied by Russian forces.
In turn, Putin told him he hoped that negotiations could end the conflict which saw Russian troops invading Ukraine on 24 February.
The European Union warned Russia on Wednesday it would not bend to "blackmail" over its support for Kyiv, after the Kremlin cut off gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland.
However later Wednesday In Brussels, Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, said Poland and Bulgaria are now receiving gas from their EU neighbours.
Vladimir Putin has attempted to turn up the pressure by insisting that Russia will only accept payments for gas in rubles - hoping to force his foes to prop up his currency.
At the Moscow talks on Tuesday, Guterres repeated calls for both Russia and Ukraine to work together to set up "safe and effective" humanitarian corridors in war-torn Ukraine.
She described the announcement by Russia's state energy giant Gazprom as "another provocation from the Kremlin" that would be countered.
Russia's military offensive saw it capture a string of villages in the Donbas region, now the immediate target of its invasion force.
Germany announced Tuesday it would send anti-aircraft tanks, in a sharp U-turn on its much-criticised cautious stance.
Britain was set Wednesday to urge Kyiv's allies to "ramp up" military production including tanks and planes to help Ukraine, with Foreign Secretary Liz Truss set to call for a "new approach" to confront Mr Putin.
The ministry said a pair of villages in the north-eastern Kharkiv region and two in the Donetsk region had fallen.
Russia's targeting of Western-supplied arms came as the United States and Europe have started to heed Mr Zelenskyy's call for heavier firepower.
"We have all the tools for this, that no one else can boast of having," the Russian leader told politicians, implicitly referring to Moscow's ballistic missiles and nuclear arsenal.
As the war, which has already claimed thousands of lives, entered its third month, Kyiv conceded that Russian forces had made gains in the east.
It also accused Ukraine of preparing to stage a fake civilian massacre in Lysychansk by disguising the bodies of dead Ukrainian soldiers in civilian clothing and taking them to the city's central market.
Mr Popescu said the Transnistrian authorities announced they would prevent men of fighting age from leaving the region, calling it "a sign we are not yet out of the potential danger zone".
Moscow aims to create a land bridge between territory held by pro-Russian separatists in parts of the Donbas and the Russian-annexed Black Sea peninsula of Crimea.
"We will continue our work to expand humanitarian support and secure the evacuation of civilians from conflict zones. The sooner this war ends, the better -- for the sake of Ukraine, Russia, and the world," Mr Guterres tweeted.
"I have arrived in Ukraine after visiting Moscow," he wrote on his official Twitter account as he landed ahead of talks with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Gazprom announced the halt of gas to both Poland and highly dependent Bulgaria, saying it had not received payment in rubles from the two EU members.
The UN tourism body added to Russia's isolation on the international scene as most of its 159 members on Wednesday voted to suspend it from the agency.
But Ms von der Leyen said that "about 97 per cent" of all EU contracts explicitly stipulate payments in euros or dollars - and warned importing firms off paying in rubles.
The dire threats came as Moscow claimed to have carried out a missile strike in southern Ukraine to destroy a "large batch" of Western-supplied weapons.
The European Commission on Wednesday sought to lend Kyiv economic support by proposing a suspension of import duties on Ukrainian goods, but the idea still needs to be approved in a vote by the bloc's 27 members.
