Toxic smoke concerns after Russian strike hits eastern Ukrainian chemical plant
20220601
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/thousands-of-civilians-caught-in-crossfire-as-russia-takes-most-of-key-eastern-ukraine-city/6di4otfvu
Foreign military analysts say Russia has drained manpower and firepower from across other parts of the front to concentrate on Sievierodonetsk, hoping a massive offensive will achieve one of its stated aims - to secure surrounding Luhansk province for separatist proxies.
"When over 50 days have passed between the fifth and sixth sanction packages, the situation is not acceptable for us," Mr Zelenskyy said, speaking alongside Slovakian President Zuzana Caputova in Kyiv.
Ukraine accuses Russia of war crimes on a huge scale, flattening cities and killing and raping civilians.
European Union leaders agreed to cut imports of Russian oil by 90 per cent by year-end, the bloc's toughest yet response.
A total of 90 per cent of the buildings in the city were damaged and 60 per cent were not worth rebuilding, he said.
Ukraine says Russia has destroyed all of the city's critical infrastructure with unrelenting bombardment, followed by wave after wave of mass ground assaults involving huge numbers of casualties.
Officials said that would halt two-thirds of Russia's oil exports to Europe at first, and 90 per cent by the end of this year as Germany and Poland also phase out imports by pipeline.
An incident at a chemical plant producing nitric acid in the embattled eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk is raising alarm, with reports of a large cloud of potentially toxic smoke.
Separatist representative Rodion Miroshnik said that chemicals had been blown up at the Azot plant.
Ukrainian authorities, who remain in control of parts of the city, spoke of a Russian airstrike on the plant.
In photos published by the governor of the Luhansk region, Serhiy Gaidai, on his Telegram news channel, a large cloud of smoke could be seen.
Russia, responding to sanctions after its 24 February invasion of Ukraine, has widened its gas cuts to Europe on Tuesday with Gazprom saying it would cut supplies to several "unfriendly" countries which have refused to accept Russia's roubles-for-gas payment scheme.
Ukraine and its allies call this a baseless pretext for a war to seize territory.
The country's top prosecutor said Ukraine has identified more than 600 Russian war crime suspects and started prosecuting about 80.
Jan Egeland, secretary general of the Norwegian Refugee Council aid agency which had long operated out of Sievierodonetsk, said he was "horrified" by its destruction.
But Hungary, which relies on Russian oil through a huge Soviet-era pipeline, secured an exemption.
Mr Gaidai said Russian shelling had made it impossible to deliver humanitarian supplies or allow people to leave.
In the south, Ukraine claimed in recent days to have pushed back Russian forces to the border of Russian-held Kherson province.
"The near-constant bombardment is forcing civilians to seek refuge in bomb shelters and basements, with only few precious opportunities for those trying to escape."
In its evening briefing note on Facebook, Ukraine's military command said that Russian forces were "attempting to take full control of Sievierodonetsk" and surround Ukrainian units fighting there.
In the second war crimes trial to be held in Ukraine, two Russian soldiers were jailed on Tuesday for 11 and a half years after pleading guilty to shelling civilian targets.
Fighting was raging in the city but Russian forces were not advancing as rapidly as might have been hoped, he said, claiming that they wanted to "maintain the city's infrastructure" and moved slowly because of caution around chemical factories.
In the east, Ukraine says Russia is trying to assault other areas along the main front, regrouping to press towards the city of Sloviansk.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy welcomed the move but criticised what he called an "unacceptable" delay.
The leader of the Luhansk People's Republic, which Russian President Vladimir Putin recognises as a state, Leonid Pasechnik, said on Tuesday that two-thirds of the city was now under the control of pro-Russian forces.
"Unfortunately... the city has been split in half. But at the same time the city still defends itself. It is still Ukrainian," the head of the city administration, Oleksandr Stryuk, said, advising those still trapped inside to stay in cellars.
"We fear that up to 12,000 civilians remain caught in crossfire in the city, without sufficient access to water, food, medicine or electricity," he said.
