UK sanctions five Russian banks as Ukraine warns of hardship and losses
20220222
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/ukraine-defence-minister-warns-of-hardship-and-losses-as-russia-faces-new-sanctions/bq4xbrt80
The Australian government has condemned Russia's actions and said the Russian personnel sent into the Ukrainian territories were "not peacekeepers".
kicked off late on Monday in New York City, where the US and itsallies rounded on Russia, calling it aviolation of international law and "pretext for war".
The pipe, built to bring gas from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea, has been completed but has yet to win regulatory approval.
It comes as the Ukrainian military said two soldiers were killed and 12 wounded in shelling by pro-Russian separatists in the east in the past 24 hours, the most casualties this year.
"We can, will, and must stand united in our calls for Russia to withdraw its forces, return to the diplomatic table and work toward peace," she said.
Australias diplomats have also been evacuated from Ukraine, withthree staff set to depart a makeshift embassy in Lviv and deploy to neighbouring Poland and Romania.
"We must now brace ourselves for the next possible stages of Putin's plan," Mr Johnson told the lower house of the UK parliament.
The sanctioned banks are Rossiya, IS Bank, General Bank, Promsvyazbank and the Black Sea Bank, Mr Johnson said.
"You can conclude that the invasion ofUkrainehas begun,"Mr Javidsaid."The Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty ofUkraineand its territorial integrity."
Ukraine's defence minister warned his troops on Tuesday of "hardship" and human "losses" after Russia recognised two separatist regions and ordered in troops to back up their independence claims.
"Any assets they hold in the UK will be frozen and the individuals concerned will be banned from travelling here," Johnson said of those being sanctioned.
"We must reassess the situation, in particular regarding Nord Stream 2," Scholz told a news conference in Berlin.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz put the certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany on ice, a measure widely considered the toughest Europe is likely to take against Moscow at this stage.
The UK has threatened to cut off Russian companies' access to US dollars and British pounds, blocking them from raising capital in London and to expose what Mr Johnson calls the "Russian doll" of property and company ownership.
Mr Johnson's comments followed British Health Secretary Sajid Javid's interview on Sky News on Tuesdaywhere he said Russia's "invasion ofUkrainehas already begun".
The United Kingdom has slapped sanctions on five Russian banks and three high-net worth individuals including Gennady Timchenko after President Vladimir Putin ordered the deployment of troops to two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine.
The military said on its Facebook page it had recorded 84 cases of shelling by separatists who it said had opened fire on about 40 settlements along the front line with heavy artillery, in breach of ceasefire agreements.
"This is the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do," Prime Minister Boris Johnson told parliament on Tuesday.
"There will be hardship. There will be losses. We will have to endure pain, overcome fear and despair," Oleksiy Reznikov said in an address to Ukraine's armed forces posted on his ministry's website.
Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the US ambassador to the UN, told reporters after the meeting the US would look to impose fresh sanctions on Russia"for this clear violation of international law andUkrainesovereignty and territorial integrity".
