Biden Russia war a genocide trying to wipe out Ukraine
20220413
https://www.boston.com/news/politics/2022/04/13/biden-russia-war-a-genocide-trying-to-wipe-out-ukraine/
Biden said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russias conduct met the international standard for genocide, as Ukrainian officials have claimed, but said it sure seems that way to me.
DES MOINES, Iowa AP  President Joe Biden has now said Russias war in Ukraine amounts to genocide, accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian.
True words of a true leader POTUS, he tweeted Tuesday. Calling things by their names is essential to stand up to evil. We are grateful for US assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities.
During a trip to Europe last month, Biden faced controversy for a nine-word statement seemingly supporting regime change in Moscow, which would have represented a dramatic shift toward direct confrontation with another nuclear-armed country. For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power, Biden said of Putin.
Yes, I called it genocide, he told reporters in Iowa on Tuesday shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington. Its become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian.
A United Nations treaty, to which the U.S. is a party, defines genocide as actions taken with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group.
Just last week Biden said he did not believe Russias actions amounted to genocide, just that they constituted war crimes.
Macron said its been established that the Russian army has committed war crimes in Ukraine.
I am prudent with terms today, Macron said. Genocide has a meaning. The Ukrainian people and Russian people are brotherly people. Its madness whats happening today. Its unbelievable brutality and a return to war in Europe. But at the same time I look at the facts, and I want to continue to try the utmost to be able to stop the war and restore peace. Im not sure if the escalation of words serves our cause.
He clarified the comments days later, saying: I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man. I wasnt articulating a policy change.
Bidens comments drew praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who had encouraged Western leaders to use the term to describe Russias invasion of his country. French President Emmanuel Macron declined to take his rhetoric that far in comments Wednesday.
Past American leaders often have dodged formally declaring bloody campaigns such as Russias in Ukraine as genocide, hesitating to trigger an obligation that under international convention requires signing countries to intervene once genocide is formally identified. That obligation was seen as blocking President Bill Clinton from declaring Rwandan Hutus killing of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis in 1994 as genocide, for example.
More evidence is coming out literally of the horrible things that the Russians have done in Ukraine, and were only going to learn more and more about the devastation and let the lawyers decide internationally whether or not it qualifies, he said.
At an earlier event Tuesday in Menlo, Iowa, addressing spiking energy prices caused by the war, Biden had implied that he thought Putin was carrying out genocide against Ukraine, but offered no details. Neither he nor his administration announced new consequences for Russia or assistance to Ukraine following Bidens public assessment.
