Live updates  Ukraines leader asks help in Grammys video
20220403
https://www.boston.com/news/politics/2022/04/03/live-updates-zelenskyy-russian-attack-is-genocide/
Zelenskyy told the audience: Fill the silence with your music. Fill it today to tell our story. Tell the truth about the war on your social networks, on TV, support us in any way you can any, but not silence. And then peace will come to all our cities.
Residents say Russian troops would go from building to building, take people out of the basements where they were hiding from the fighting, check their phones for evidence of anti-Russian activity and take them away or shoot them.
We are the first EU country among Gazproms supply countries to gain independence from Russian gas supplies, and this is the result of a multi-year coherent energy policy and timely infrastructure decisions, Minister of Energy Dainius Kreivys said.
Referring to reports of executed civilians, Klitschko told German daily Bild on Sunday that what happened in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv can only be described as genocide.
Italy gets 40 of its natural gas from Russia and officials have said it would take three years to make the transition to other sources.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock pledged to tighten sanctions against Russia but did not give details.
He says regarding a potential Russian occupation of eastern Ukraine: I will tell you, as President Zelenskyy has said, thats not acceptable to him, and we are going to support him with military aid, with economic aid, with humanitarian aid.
LAS VEGAS  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has appeared in a video at the Grammy Awards asking for support in telling the story of Ukraines invasion by Russia.
Europe gets 40 of its gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, and since the war, has scrambled to set out proposals to reduce its dependency. Russia is just as reliant on Europe, with oil and gas its dominant sector and paying for government operations.
Klain says while it will be up to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to decide if the political endgame is to allow Russia to occupy the eastern part of Ukraine, from the U.S. standpoint, the military future of this attack has to be push back.
Kaczynski acknowledged that at the moment, this question does not arise, but that may change soon.
Seeking full energy independence from Russian gas, in response to Russias energy blackmail in Europe and the war in Ukraine, Lithuania has completely abandoned Russian gas, Lithuanias energy ministry said in a statement late Saturday, adding that the measure took effect in the beginning of April.
His comments echoed those by other European leaders, who condemned alleged war crimes and civilian killings by Russian forces in Ukrainian towns including Bucha near Kyiv, the capital.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted Sunday that the killings were deliberate, adding that Russians aim to eliminate as many Ukrainians as they can.
The Ukrainian military said its airborne forces have taken full control of the town of Pripyat just outside the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the section of the border with Belarus. It posted a picture of the Ukrainian soldier putting up the countrys flag with a shelter containing the Chernobyl reactor that exploded in 1986 seen in the background.
Russian forces also withdrew from the Sumy region, in Ukraines northeast, local administrator Dmitry Zhivitsky said in a video message carried by Ukrainian news agencies Sunday. The troops had occupied the area for nearly a month.
Medinsky emphasized that Russias stand on Crimea and rebel regions in Ukraines east remained unchanged. The Kremlin demands that Ukraine acknowledge Russias sovereignty over Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014, and recognize the independence of Russia-backed separatist regions in Donbas, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukrainian military says that its forces have retaken some towns in the Chernihiv region and that humanitarian aid is being delivered.
Lithuaniaa president posted an upbeat tweet on his account and urged other European nations to do the same.
VILNIUS, Lithuania  Lithuania says it has cut itself off entirely of gas imports from Russia and that its the first of the European Unions 27 nations using Russian gas to break its energy dependence upon Moscow.
Klain credits Ukrainians for fighting off Russian troops in the northern part of Ukraine and says the U.S. and its allies are sending weapons into the country almost every single day.
Russias Defense Ministry has rejected the claims of atrocities against civilians in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv as a provocation.
Following Zelenskyys message, John Legend performed his song Free with Ukrainian musicians Siuzanna Iglidan and Mika Newton and poet Lyuba Yakimchuk as images from the war were shown on screens behind them.
How many Buca before we move to a full oil and gas Russia embargo, Enrico Letta wrote on Twitter Sunday. Time is over.
At a logistics compound that residents say was used as a base by Russian forces, the bodies of 8 men could be seen dumped on the ground, some with their hands tied behind their backs.
Arestovych said Ukrainian authorities will investigate the alleged war crimes and track down the perpetrators.
BALAKLIYA, Ukraine  The governor of the Kharkiv region says Russian troops fired on a convoy of buses that was trying to evacuate patients from a hospital that had been heavily damaged in shelling a day earlier.
Vladimir Medinsky, who led the Russian delegation in Tuesdays talks in Istanbul, Turkey, said there is still a lot of work to do to finalize a draft agreement before Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy could meet.
Johnson called the attacks in the towns of Irpin and Bucha despicable and says he will do everything in my power to starve Putins war machine. Johnson added that the U.K. will step up its sanctions and military support for Ukraine, but did not provide details.
Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, told a U.S. television interview Sunday that Russian attacks in Ukraine amount to genocide.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines top diplomat has called for tougher sanctions on Russia over growing evidence of what he called a massacre of civilians in the suburbs of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
The militarys General Staff said in Sundays statement that Russian units have withdrawn from areas in the countrys north to neighboring Belarus, which served as a staging ground for the Russian invasion.
The news agency RBK Ukraina says the road between Chernihiv and the capital of Kyiv is to reopen to some traffic later Monday.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in televised remarks Sunday that the sanctions against Putin were going beyond the edge of reason, adding that they showed that the West is capable of any stupidities.
The mayor, Olga Sukhenko, and her family were shot and thrown into a pit in a forest behind a plot of land with three houses where Russian forces had slept. A fourth body was not yet identified.
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of Polands ruling conservative party, Law and Justice, said Sunday in an interview with German weekly Welt am Sonntag that in principle, it makes sense to extend nuclear participation to the eastern flank.
The reports drew international condemnation. In Britain, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said there is increasing evidence of indiscriminate attacks against innocent civilians and said they must be investigated as war crimes.
The governor, Oleh Synyehubov, said Sunday that about 70 patients needed to be taken away from the damaged hospital in the town of Balakliya but that the buses were not able to enter the town.
German news agency dpa reported that Steinmeier said the images from Bucha shake me, they shake us deeply.
LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Russias attack on Ukranian civilians in towns on the outskirts of Kyiv are yet more evidence that Russian President Vladimir Putin and his army are committing war crimes in Ukraine.
Arestovych said some victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound, and some of the bodies had signs of torture. He accused Russian troops of raping women and trying to burn their bodies.
He urged the West to impose an oil, gas and coal embargo, and close all ports to Russian vessels and goods. He also called for all Russian banks to be disconnected from the SWIFT international payment system.
He tells CNNs State of the Union that its absolutely unacceptable that civilians are targeted and killed and that its Russian President Vladimir Putins responsibility to stop the war.
Chernihiv is a city 80 miles north of Kyiv and it had been cut off from shipments of food and other supplies for weeks. The mayor said Sunday that relentless Russian shelling had destroyed 70 of the city.
Foreign Minister Yair Lapid wrote on Twitter that one cannot remain indifferent after seeing images from the town of Bucha near Ukraine capital.
MOSCOW  Russias top negotiator in talks with Ukraine says its too early to talk about a meeting between the two countries president.
KYIV, Ukraine  A Ukrainian presidential adviser says authorities have found evidence of serious war crimes by Russian troops on the outskirts of Kyiv.
MOTYZHYN, Ukraine  A resident says the mayor of the Ukrainian town of Motyzhyn was killed in an execution-style slaying along with her husband and son.
An AP crew on Sunday saw the bodies of at least nine people who appear to have been executed. At least two of them had their hands tied behind their backs. They were all in civilian clothes and at least three were naked from the waist up. One appeared shot in the chest from close range.
The ministry says that not a single civilian has faced any violent action by the Russian military in Bucha.
French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian says his country will work with Ukrainian authorities and the International Criminal Court to ensure these acts dont go unpunished.
The Polish leader also called for a much stronger presence of U.S. soldiers in Europe in the future, especially on NATOs eastern flank.
Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht said Sunday night on German public broadcaster ARD that there must be a reaction. Such crimes must not go unanswered.
Balakliya is about 75 kilometers 45 miles southeast of the city of Kharkiv, which has been heavily hit by Russian attacks.
BERLIN  Polands most powerful politician says he is open to the permanent stationing of U.S. nuclear weapons in Eastern Europe.
Speaking Sunday in remarks carried by the Interfax news agency, Medinsky reaffirmed that the parties reached a tentative agreement on the need for Ukraine to adopt a neutral status and refrain from holding foreign military bases in exchange for international security guarantees.
BUCHA, Ukraine  Residents of the Ukrainian town of Bucha near the capital of Kyiv have given harrowing accounts of how Russian troops shot and killed civilians without any apparent reason.
Bodies of civilians lay strewn across the northern town, which was controlled by Russian soldiers for about a month.
Israel has walked a tightrope since Russia invaded Ukraine, simultaneously denouncing the invasion while avoiding taking too strident a stance out of concern of angering Moscow, with whom it has security coordination in neighboring Syria. Israel has good relations with both countries and has mediated between them since the invasion on Feb. 24.
Kaczynski added that if the Americans asked us to store U.S. nuclear weapons in Poland, we would be open to it. It would significantly strengthen deterrence against Moscow.
Ukrainian officials said earlier Sunday that scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of Kyiv suburbs of Bucha, Irpin and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. They said that some of the victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound.
WASHINGTON  White House chief of staff Ron Klain says the U.S. remains fully committed to providing a full range of economic and military support to Ukraine in its war against Russia, which he describes as far from over.
BRUSSELS  NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says the graphic images coming out of Bucha, Ukraine, after Russian troops withdrew show a brutality against civilians we havent seen in Europe for decades.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk says the mayor of the village of Motyzhyn in the Kyiv region was murdered while being held by Russian forces. Vereshchuk adds that there are 11 mayors and community heads in Russian captivity across Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukrainian military says Russian troops have completed their pullback from the countrys north.
International leaders have condemned the reported attacks in the Kyiv-area towns after harrowing accounts from civilians and graphic images of bodies with hands tied behind their backs.
JERUSALEM  Israels foreign minister is condemning the reported atrocities in Ukraine, saying deliberate harm to civilians is a war crime.
During the pre-recorded message that aired on the show Sunday night, he spoke in English, likening the attack to a deadly silence threatening to extinguish the dreams and lives of the Ukrainian people, including children.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines prosecutor-general says the bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian troops.
In other areas recently retaken from Russian troops, Ukrainian officials say they have recovered hundreds of slain civilians in the past few days. Ukraines prosecutor-general says the bodies of 410 civilians have been recovered from Kyiv-area towns.
So far, Germany and several other European governments have shied away from an immediate boycott of Russian natural gas over fears of the impact it would have on their economies.
The Recording Academy, with its partner Global Citizen, prior to the ceremony highlighted a social media campaign called Stand Up For Ukraine to raise money and humanitarian support.
Lithuania reduced imports of Russian gas to zero on Saturday, a move seen a milestone in achieving energy independence in the former Soviet republic of 2.8 million, the ministry said.
Estimates of the impact of a gas boycott or embargo on Europe vary but most involve a substantial loss of economic output.
BERLIN  Germanys defense minister says European officials should talk about halting gas supplies from Russia in light of the alleged attacks on civilians in the Ukrainian town of Bucha.
We will not allow Russia to cover up their involvement in these atrocities through cynical disinformation and will ensure that the reality of Russias actions are brought to light, she said.
Another resident of the town 50 kilometers 31 miles west of Kyiv told the The Associated Press on Sunday that Russian troops targeted local officials in a bid to win them over and killed them if they did not collaborate. That man, Oleg, declined to give his full name for security reasons.
In Germany President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin that the war crimes committed by Russia are visible before the eyes of the world.
Other European leaders also condemned the reported attacks on Ukranian civilians in response to images of bodies in the streets and some of the dead with their hands tied behind their backs.
The mayor and her family had been reported by others as kidnapped by Russians on March 23 and taken in an unknown direction.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said Sunday scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of Kyiv suburbs of Irpin, Bucha and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. He compared the scene to a horror movie.
MOSCOW  The Kremlin says that by imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin the West has demonstrated it has abandoned its sense of reason.
He said that Poland would welcome an increase in the American presence in Europe in the future from the current 100,000 soldiers to 150,000 soldiers because of Russias increasing aggressiveness.
He said that especially for Germany, there can only be one consequence: Not a penny should go to Russia anymore, thats bloody money used to slaughter people. The gas and oil embargo must come immediately.
Asked about Ukrainian negotiator Davyd Arakhamias claim that Moscows negotiators had informally agreed to most proposals by Ukraine during the talks in Istanbul this week and the two presidents could discuss the draft deal, Medinsky said he doesnt share Arakhamias optimism. He said the talks will continue online Monday.
Iryna Venediktova says on Facebook that the bodies were recovered Friday, Saturday and Sunday. She says 140 of them have undergone examination by prosecutors and other specialists.
In his words: Our musicians wear body armor instead of tuxedos. They sing to the wounded in hospitals, even to those who cant hear them. But the music will break through anyway.
Klitschko said Russian President Vladimir Putin was responsible for the cruel war crimes, adding that civilians had been shot with tied hands.
But he also tells ABCs This Week that there are signs that Russian President Vladimir Putin is redeploying Russian troops to the eastern part of Ukraine.
Peskov added that Putins meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is hypothetically possible once negotiators from the two countries prepared a draft agreement to be discussed.
BERLIN  The mayor of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, has expressed shock at what he called cruel war crimes committed by Russian soldiers in the town of Bucha northwest of the capital.
ROME  The head of Italys Democratic Party called for a full oil and gas embargo in reaction to images emerging of atrocities against civilians by Russian soldiers retreating from the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.
Stoltenberg says its extremely important that the International Criminal Court has opened an investigation into potential war crimes in Ukraine and that those responsible are held to account.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says international organizations should be given access to the areas to independently document the atrocities.
He called on the the whole world and especially Germany to immediately end gas imports from Russia.
In a video address Sunday, Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced the allegedly targeted killings of civilians in towns that the Russians occupied, calling the killers freaks who do not know how to do otherwise. He warns that more atrocities may be revealed if Russian forces are driven out of other occupied areas.
Lapid says that intentionally harming a civilian population is a war crime and strongly condemned it.
Russias Defense Ministry has rejected the claims of atrocities against civilians in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv.
Leaders in France, Germany, Italy, Greece, Czech Republic and Poland expressed outrage at the images. Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala called the images horrifying and says Russia has been committing war crimes.
Premier Mario Draghi acknowledged last week that energy payments were fueling Russias invasion, and the foreign minister has been traveling to oil and gas producing countries to line up alternatives to Russia.
