NYT photojournalist Lynsey Addario on the moments before and after a mortar strike killed a mother and her two children in Ukraine
20220308
https://www.boston.com/news/world-news/2022/03/08/lynsey-addario-photo-mother-two-children-killed-ukraine/
Addario told the radio program she assumed the Russians were targeting the position of the Ukrainian military in the distance.
Addario said its important that people around the world see images like the one she took of the fallen family, calling it a historically important image.
"I literally watched them zero in on civilians."Photojournalist lynseyaddario tells alexisconran on TimesRadio how she saw Russians deliberately shelling civilians. TimesRadio
Despite the dangers, Addario said Ukranians in Kyiv are determined and resilient in the fight for their country.
The image of the Sunday attack in Irpin, Ukraine, was captured by New York Times photojournalist Lynsey Addario, who has been documenting the Russian invasion since it began.
I had just been sprayed with gravel from a mortar round that could have killed us very easily, she said. So I was shaken up. And when we were told that we could run across the street by our security adviser, I ran and I saw this family splayed out. And I saw these little moon boots and puffy coat, and I just thought of my own children, of course. And I thought, Its disrespectful to take a photo, but I have to take a photo. This is a war crime.
The photojournalist told Times Radio that civilians and journalists alike are increasingly coming under fire by the Russians in Ukraine.
They literally started bracketing closer and closer to where the civilians were, she said. And that mortar landed 20 meters from us. We were very very lucky. We were in a sort of cement box, so we hit the ground immediately.
The front page of The New York Times on Monday displayed a photo that captured the deadly toll of Russias war on Ukrainian civilians: a family of four splayed out on the ground, victims in a Russian mortar attack.
Addario said she is a mother herself, and when working, she tries to stay focused, keeping her camera to her eye so I dont think too much.
The mother and her two children were killed, while Ukrainian soldiers tried to save the wounded father.
Although Putin has repeatedly denied his troops are targeting civilians, photos taken in Ukraine show otherwise. Lynsey Addario has spent her career documenting war zones and spoke with NorahODonnellabout her experience on the frontlines in Ukraine. pic.twitter.com9MruajfkO8
We went to a position that was about 2 kilometers back from the bridge where we had been this morning because the fighting had intensified at the bridge already this afternoon and it was impossible to get back there, she said. But there were ambulances and just emergency workers going back and forth, literally under shelling to take civilians and bring them out to safety. I mean, people are incredible. Theyre brave, and they are determined. And the morale seems like they just want to defend their country.
In other wars Ive covered there has been some sort of respect for the international journalists, we are there to bear witness to whats going on, she said. And that is just not the case. We have to put media, we have to put press on flak jackets in a sense because we hope that it provides us with some sort of cover, some sort of protection. We have to cover this. There are civilians deliberately being targeted.
Addario has been sharing her experience in the moments before and after she witnessed the mortar hit the family, who, laden with backpacks and suitcases, were fleeing over the Irpin River to Kyiv when they were attacked.
She told Times Radio on Tuesday that she and a team with The New York Times  including a security adviser and freelance journalist Andriy Dubchak, who filmed the scene  were standing behind a cement wall for cover, trying to gauge what was happening in the area when the mortar rounds began coming in.
The photographer told CBS News that it was clear the area being targeted was full of civilians, that everyone, including the Russians, knew there were fleeing refugees in the area.
