Russian forces step up attacks on Ukraines civilian areas
20220301
https://www.boston.com/news/world-news/2022/03/01/russian-forces-step-up-attacks-on-ukraines-civilian-areas/
Unbowed by Western condemnation, Russian officials upped their threats of escalation, days after raising the specter of nuclear war. A top Kremlin official warned that the Wests economic war against Russia could turn into a real one.
Day 6 of the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II found Russia increasingly isolated, beset by tough sanctions that have thrown its economy into turmoil and left the country practically friendless, apart from a few nations like China, Belarus and North Korea.
In an emotional appeal to the European Parliament later, Zelenskyy said: We are fighting also to be equal members of Europe. I believe that today we are showing everybody that is what we are.
Russias goals in hitting central Kharkiv were not immediately clear. Western officials speculated that it is trying to pull in Ukrainian forces to defend the city while a larger Russian force encircles Kyiv.
Britains Defense Ministry said it had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days. It also said three cities  Kharkiv, Kherson and Mariupol were encircled by Russian forces.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russian forces escalated their attacks on crowded urban areas Tuesday, bombarding the central square in Ukraines second-biggest city and Kyivs main TV tower in what the countrys president called a blatant campaign of terror.
The bombing on the TV tower came after Russia announced it would target transmission facilities in the capital used by Ukraines intelligence agency. It urged people living near such places to leave their homes.
Where are the children? What kind of military factories do they work at? What tanks are they going at? Zelenskyy said.
Zelenskyy pronounced the attack on the square frank, undisguised terror and a war crime. This is state terrorism of the Russian Federation, he said.
At the same time, a 40-mile 64-kilometer convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles advanced slowly on Kyiv in what the West feared was a bid by Russian President Vladimir Putin to topple Ukraines government and install a Kremlin-friendly regime.
In Kharkiv, explosions burst one after another through a residential area in a video verified by The Associated Press. In the background, a man pleaded with a woman to leave, and a woman cried.
Ukrainians used whatever they had to try to stop the Russian advance. On a highway between Odesa and Mykolaiv in southern Ukraine, residents piled tractor tires filled with sand and topped with sandbags to block convoys.
It is a nightmare, and it seizes you from the inside very strongly. This cannot be explained with words, said Kharkiv resident Ekaterina Babenko, taking shelter in a basement with neighbors for a fifth straight day. We have small children, elderly people, and frankly speaking it is very frightening.
Zelenskyys office also reported a powerful missile attack on the site of the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial, near the tower.
Overall, the Russian military has been been stalled by fierce resistance on the ground and a surprising inability to completely dominate Ukraines airspace.
He said 16 children had been killed around Ukraine on Monday, and he mocked Russias claim that it is going after only military targets.
Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed after the bloodshed on the square in Kharkiv.
Russian forces pressed their assault on other towns and cities across the country, including the strategic ports of Odesa and Mariupol in the south.
People are under the ruins. We have pulled out bodies, said Yevhen Vasylenko, an emergency official.
But it also shows you that the Russians feel pretty comfortable being out in the open in these concentrations because they feel that theyre not going to come under air attack or rocket or missile attack, the official said.
Ukrainian authorities said five people were killed in the attack on the TV tower, which is a couple of miles from central Kyiv and a short walk from numerous apartment buildings. A TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
Overall death tolls from the fighting remained unclear, but a senior Western intelligence official estimated that more than 5,000 Russian soldiers have been captured or killed.
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion. Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an invasion or war.
Isachenkov and Litvinova reported from Moscow. Mstyslav Chernov in Mariupol, Ukraine Sergei Grits in Odesa, Ukraine Robert Burns and Eric Tucker in Washington Francesca Ebel, Josef Federman and Andrew Drake in Kyiv Lorne Cook in Brussels and other AP journalists from around the world contributed to this report.
The attack on Freedom Square  Ukraines largest plaza, and the nucleus of public life in the city  was seen by many Ukrainians as brazen evidence that the Russian invasion wasnt just about hitting military targets but also about breaking their spirits.
Russian troops continued to press toward the capital, a city of nearly 3 million. The leading edge of the convoy was 17 miles 25 kilometers from the center of the city, according to satellite imagery from Maxar Technologies.
The bombardment blew out windows and walls of buildings that ring the massive square, which was piled high with debris and dust. Inside one building, chunks of plaster were scattered, and doors, ripped from their hinges, lay across hallways.
If the allegations are confirmed, that would represent a new level of brutality in the war and could lead to even further isolation of Russia.
The U.N. human rights office said it has recorded 136 civilian deaths. The real toll is believed to be far higher.
Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraines east in recent days. Local residents also reported the use of the weapons in Kharkiv and the village of Kiyanka, The Kremlin denied using cluster bombs.
More than a half-million people have fled the country, and countless others have taken shelter underground. Bomb damage to water pipes and other basic services have left hundreds of thousands of families without drinking water, U.N. humanitarian coordinator Martin Griffiths said.
The immense convoy, packed together along narrow roads, would seemingly be a big fat target for Ukrainian forces, the senior Western intelligence official said on condition of anonymity.
In Kharkiv, with a population of about 1.5 million, at least six people were killed when the regions Soviet-era administrative building on Freedom Square was hit with what was believed to be a missile.
Hospital workers moved a Kharkiv maternity ward to a bomb shelter. Amid mattresses piled up against the walls, pregnant women paced the crowded space, accompanied by the cries of dozens of newborns.
A Ukrainian military official said Belarusian troops joined the war Tuesday in the Chernihiv region in the north, without providing details. But just before that, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said his country had no plans to join the fight.
A senior U.S. defense official described the long convoy as bogged down, saying Russia appeared to be pausing and regrouping to re-evaluate how to retake the momentum in the fighting.
Many military experts worry that Russia may be shifting tactics. Moscows strategy in Chechnya and Syria was to use artillery and air bombardments to pulverize cities and crush fighters resolve.
