Russia attacks Ukraine conflict reverberates around globe
20220224
https://www.boston.com/news/politics/2022/02/24/russia-attacks-ukraine-conflict-reverberates-around-globe/
European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen later promised to hold the Kremlin accountable.
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace, Zelenskyy said in an emotional overnight address, speaking in Russian in a direct appeal to Russian citizens. But if we come under attack, if we face an attempt to take away our country, our freedom, our lives and lives of our children, we will defend ourselves.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine on Thursday, hitting cities and bases with airstrikes or shelling, as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee. Ukraines government said Russian tanks and troops rolled across the border in what it called a full-scale war that could rewrite the geopolitical order and whose fallout already reverberated around the globe.
Zelenskyy urged global leaders to provide defense assistance to Ukraine and help protect its airspace, and urged his compatriots to defend the nation. Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba pleaded: The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
We woke up in a different world today, Germanys foreign minister said, as NATO agreed to beef up air, land and sea forces on its eastern flank near Ukraine and Russia.
In these dark hours, our thoughts are with Ukraine and the innocent women, men and children as they face this unprovoked attack and fear for their lives, they said on Twitter.
We are facing a war and horror. What could be worse? 64-year-old Liudmila Gireyeva said in Kyiv. She planned to head to the western city of Lviv and then to try to move to Poland to join her daughter. Putin will be damned by history, and Ukrainians are damning him.
The Russian military claimed to have wiped out Ukraines entire air defenses in a matter of hours, and European authorities declared the countrys air space an active conflict zone. Russias claims could not immediately be verified, nor could Ukrainian ones that they had shot down several Russian aircraft. The Ukrainian air defense system and air force date back to the Soviet era and are dwarfed by Russias massive air power and precision weapons.
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said on Facebook that the Russian military had launched missile strikes on Ukrainian military command facilities, air bases and military depots in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Dnipro.
In a reminder of Russias nuclear power, Putin warned that no one should have any doubts that a direct attack on our country will lead to the destruction and horrible consequences for any potential aggressor.
A full-scale war in Europe has begun, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said. Russia is not only attacking Ukraine, but the rules of normal life in the modern world.
In announcing a major military operation, Russian President Vladimir Putin deflected global condemnation and cascading new sanctions  and chillingly referred to his countrys nuclear arsenal as he threatened any foreign country attempting to interfere with consequences you have never seen.
His spokesman said Thursday that Russia does not intend to occupy Ukraine but will move to demilitarize it.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels: This is a deliberate, cold-blooded and long-planned invasion.  Russia is using force to try to rewrite history.
After weeks of denying plans to invade, Putin justified his actions in an overnight televised address, asserting that the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a false claim the U.S. had predicted he would make as a pretext for an invasion. He accused the U.S. and its allies of ignoring Russias demands to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and for security guarantees.
Global financial markets plunged and oil prices soared, and governments from the U.S. to Asia and Europe readied new sanctions after weeks of failed efforts for a diplomatic solution. But global powers have said they will not intervene militarily to defend Ukraine.
The attack began even as the U.N. Security Council was holding an emergency meeting to hold off an invasion. Members still unaware of Putins announcement of the operation appealed to him to stand down. U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres opened the meeting, just before the announcement, telling Putin: Give peace a chance.
U.S. President Joe Biden pledged new sanctions to punish Russia for the unprovoked and unjustified attack. The president said he planned to speak to Americans on Thursday after a meeting of the Group of Seven leaders. More sanctions against Russia were expected to be announced.
The Russian Defense Ministry said it was not targeting cities, but using precision weapons and claimed that there is no threat to civilian population.
Zelenskyy said he asked to arrange a call with Putin late Wednesday, but the Kremlin did not respond.
Sirens rang out in Ukraines capital and people massed in train stations and took to roads, as the government said the former Soviet republic was seeing a long-anticipated invasion from the east, north and south and reported more than 40 soldiers had been killed and dozens wounded.
In the capital, Mayor Vitaly Klitschko advised residents to stay home unless they are involved in critical work and urged them to prepare go-bags with necessities and documents if they need to evacuate.
NATOs chief said the brutal act of war shattered peace on the European continent, as the U.S.-led alliance mobilized more troops to move toward eastern Europe.
World leaders decried the attack, which could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraines democratically elected government, upend the post-Cold War security order and result in severe economic impact around the world from soaring heating bills to spikes in food prices.
In an apparent reference to Putins move to authorize the deployment of the Russian military to maintain peace in eastern Ukraine, Zelensky warned that this step could mark the start of a big war on the European continent.
An Associated Press photographer in Mariupol heard explosions and saw dozens of people with suitcases heading for their cars to leave the city. Another AP reporter saw the aftermath of an explosion in Kyiv. AP reporting elsewhere in Ukraine found other damage.
Putins announcement came just hours after the Ukrainian president rejected Moscows claims that his country poses a threat to Russia and made a passionate, last-minute plea for peace.
Isachenkov and Litvinova reported from Moscow. Angela Charlton in Paris Frank Jordans in Berlin Lorne Cook in Brussels, Frank Bajak in Boston, Robert Burns, Matthew Lee, Aamer Madhani, Eric Tucker, Ellen Knickmeyer, Zeke Miller, Chris Megerian and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy cut diplomatic ties with Moscow and declared martial law. Ukrainians who had long braced for the prospect of an assault were urged to stay home and not to panic, even as officials said Russian troops were rolling into Ukraine, and big explosions were heard in the capital of Kyiv, Kharkiv in the east and Odesa in the west.
Anticipating international condemnation and countermeasures, Putin issued a stark warning to other countries not to meddle.
The consequences of the conflict and resulting sanctions on Russia started reverberating throughout the world.
World stock markets plunged and oil prices surged by nearly $6 per barrel. Market benchmarks tumbled in Europe and Asia and U.S. futures were sharply lower. Brent crude oil jumped to over $100 per barrel Thursday on unease about possible disruption of Russian supplies. The ruble sank.
The attacks came first from the air. Later Ukrainian authorities described ground invasions in multiple regions, and border guards released security camera footage Thursday showing a line of Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukraines government-held territory from Russian-annexed Crimea.
