British troops will be prosecuted if they go and fight in Ukraine
20220309
https://www.thenorthernecho.co.uk/news/19980472.british-troops-will-prosecuted-go-fight-ukraine/
I think we have seen already some people at the borders find that may be not be the right option to follow.
BRITISH soldiers in the UK could be prosecuted for desertion if they decide to fight in Ukraine against Russian forces, the Government has this afternoon said.
Asked what Russia might do if a British soldier was captured or killed, Mr Shapps said: Theres a big difference between Britain sending its Army in and some people who are breaking with our law and going to do it.
You can also follow our dedicated Teesside Facebook page for all the latest in the area by clicking here.
In the Commons, Mr Wallace said any serving personnel who went to Ukraine will be breaking the law and they will be prosecuted when they return for going absent without leave or deserting.
Mr Shapps told ITVs Good Morning Britain: You cannot go and fight if youre in the British Army, you cannot just get up and go and fight.
Of course thats inappropriate behaviour and you would expect the army to have some very, very strict rules in place, as they do.
For all the top news updates from right across the region straight to your inbox, sign up to our newsletter here.
A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: All service personnel are prohibited from travelling to Ukraine until further notice.
The Transport Secretary stressed there was a big difference between individuals taking the potentially illegal decision and the UK dispatching troops to fight alongside Ukrainians.
The Ukrainians are very clear: you turn up, you are in it for the whole game. You are not in it for a selfie and six weeks, you are in it for real, he said.
The teenage Coldstream Guardsman, based in Windsor barracks, wrote a goodbye letter to his parents and bought a ticket to Poland over the weekend with the aim of crossing into Ukraine, according to The Sun.
Ministers have ruled out such a move over fears it could spark a world war, instead committing to providing defensive weapons to fend off Moscows troops.
Keep up to date with all the latest news on our website, or follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ministry of Defence chiefs have banned all service personnel from travelling to Ukraine until further notice, while breaching the advice could lead to prosecution.
For other Britons, he said we strongly discourage them from joining these forces in Ukraine.
The Coldstream Guards are the British Armys longest continuously serving regiment and fought against the Russians in the Crimean War in the 19th century.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace made the comments as he said any serving soldiers who had already travelled to the war zone would face a court martial when they return.
Have you got a story for us? Contact our newsdesk on newsdesknne.co.uk or contact 01325 505054
It followed an urgent warning to Brits not to travel to Ukraine, telling them they would not be there for a selfie and six weeks but in the war for real.
Ministers concerns about Britons being caught up in the fighting were underlined by Cabinet minister Grant Shapps, who said it risked creating a dangerous situation with the Russians.
The UKs position on Britons going to join the resistance to Vladimir Putins invasion has seen ministers forced to row back on comments from Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, who said she would absolutely support volunteers who went to Ukraine to fight.
Mr Shapps told troops you cannot just get up and go after a 19-year-old Coldstream Guard was reportedly among up to four missing British soldiers feared to have travelled to fight Russia.
