Clive Myrie how the BBCs man in Ukraine  and Mastermind host  rose to the top of TV journalism
20220303
https://www.getreading.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/clive-myrie-how-bbcs-man-23279634
Myrie joined the BBC in 1987 via its graduate journalism programme. Starting out as a trainee local radio reporter, he worked his way up and became a BBC foreign correspondent in 1996.
BBC anchorman Clive Myrie has earned praise from viewers and politicians alike for his work covering the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Among his admirers is Scotlands First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, who has hailed Myrie as an unsung hero.
As a seasoned newsreader and journalist as well as a presenter, Clive Myrie has long been a familiar face to British TV viewers. But just who is he, and how did he rise to prominence?
Myrie is also known for his love of jazz music, and has cited Miles Davis as one of his favourite performers. Last year, he hosted a radio documentary series - The Definitive History of Jazz in Britain - for Jazz FM.
His mother, Lynne, has spoken of her pride in her sons achievements: When Clive first appeared on television it was exciting for all of us. We wouldnt miss a programme, she told the Sunday Times.
Myrie has continued to report from Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital, even as Russian troops close in on the city. The conflict has been raging since Russian forces were ordered to invade Ukraine last Thursday February 24th.
Sign up to our newsletter for daily updates and breaking news delivered direct to your inbox
Clive Myrie is a journalist, newsreader and television presenter. As well as being a regular anchor on the BBCs News at Six and News at Ten bulletins, hes been the host of Mastermind and Celebrity Mastermind since August 2021.
Hes on so much now that, to be honest, it has worn off, she added. I am proud of what he has achieved but I found it a big worry when he was reporting on wars around the world.
Since then, Clive Myrie has reported from all over the world, including conflict zones such as Kosovo, Iraq, Afghanistan and now Ukraine. He has also served as BBC correspondent in Tokyo, Los Angeles, Paris and Asia.
The BBC publishes a list of its highest-paid stars each year as part of its annual report. The latest figures from 20192020 show that Clive Myrie was paid between 215,000 - 219,000 by the BBC for his work on BBC News Channel, BBC One and Panorama. This was an increase from 20182019 when he was paid between 200,000-204,999.
The Bolton-born journalist and presenter has been hailed by politicians and viewers alike for continuing to report from Kyiv as Russian forces close in
We feel that we want to tell the story of this war and tell it accurately and fairly, he explained. Myrie added that with so much misinformation about the conflict, it was important for journalists to be truthful to this story.
Clive Myrie is married to wife Catherine, who works as an upholsterer and furniture restorer. The couple first met in 1992.
Clive Myrie was born in Bolton in 1964. His parents are Jamaican migrants who first settled in Britain in the 1960s his mother was a seamstress who worked for fashion designer Mary Quant, while his father was a factory worker.
When asked why he was still reporting from Kyiv as Russian forces drew closer to the city, Clive Myrie insisted that it was essential for reporters to continue to provide accurate coverage of the ongoing conflict.
In 2009, Myrie became a presenter on the BBC News Channel, and he began presenting BBC One weekday bulletins in 2014. He has also presented for BBC World News, including its coverage of the 2016 US presidential election.
