Change visa rules to help get my family out of Kyiv  plea from Warwickshire GP
20220208
https://www.coventrytelegraph.net/news/local-news/change-visa-rules-help-family-23324576
"We are appealing to NHS trusts and hospitals in the West Midlands to please consider donating medical supplies that would be used to help the injured and wounded in Ukraine.
The charity's central team organises transport to London where the supplies are flown out to the areas most in need.
Anyone who is able to donate medical supplies can contact Tania via email at medicalaidukraine.westmidlandsgmail.com
Warwick -based Tania, who was born in Ukraine but moved to the UK in 1993, was joined by her grandmother after she managed to secure safe passage to the UK the day before the war broke out.
"I have family who all live and work in Kyiv and who I am deeply, deeply worried about.
Tania continued: "If you work in this field and would consider supporting us, whether its through donating medical supplies, transport, or storage  please get in touch.
More than two million people are now said to have fled the indiscriminate violence in Ukraine following Russia's chilling invasion late last month.
"I would have her Tania's cousin in my spare room, her and her husband easily, we have space for them, they speak English."
Keep up with the latest news with our email alerts directly to your inbox.  Sign up here
"If they have contact, any contact, a friend, a relative in England who is willing to help, they should be able to come," she said.
"We are forging links with businesses who can offer transport and logistical support all over the country, to ensure that our life-saving supplies reach the areas where they are needed most while Ukraine lives through this horrendous invasion."
Tania, a mother-of-two, wants visa requirements waived and an unconditional resettlement scheme set up in the style of Ireland and other EU nations.
Our email updates are the best way to ensure you stay in the loop with everything that's happening in Warwickshire.
A Warwick GP who fears for her close relatives in Kyiv has called on the UK government to relax its visa rules on allowing refugees from Ukraine.
"But larger scale supplies like were appealing for are crucial if we are to provide the enormous level of support that Ukraine and its people desperately need.
Every day our news editors hand-pick the best stories from Rugby, Warwick, Leamington Spa, North Warwickshire, Stratford-on-Avon and more, before sending them straight to your inbox in one easy-to-read email.
Our free Warwickshire email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox
In her role as West Midlands coordinator for Medical Aid Ukraine, a collaboration between British Ukrainian Aid and Ukrainian Medical Association of the UK, Tania is calling on hospitals, NHS trusts and businesses to provide much-needed medical supplies to the war-torn country.
But some of Dr Tania Hebert's closest relatives remain stranded in the country's capital city of Ukraine.
"Personal donations are fantastic and Ive been so heartened by community efforts to gather supplies across the country.
But the government is still only resettling a fraction of the number of refugees other European countries are taking in and their approach continues to attract heavy criticism.
To sign up, just head over to this page, enter your email address, and tick "Warwickshire Live news".
But Tania's granddad, aunt, uncle and cousin, who is there with her baby, are still in Kyiv.
The speed in which visa applications are being processed has also been scrutinised with Home Secretary Priti Patel saying she was "doing everything possible" to speed things up.
She says they are living through a nightmare and are attempting to seek resettlement, but have not been able to get a visa to enter the UK.
The UK has extended its visa offer to parents, grandparents and siblings as well as 'immediate family' of Ukrainian nationals.
Led largely by volunteers, the regional branch is coordinating efforts to obtain and distribute medical stock and supplies.
They have one premises in Coventry, where donations are stored, but say they need more.
Tania added: "Through Medical Aid Ukraine we can get medical supplies to people on the ground where they are needed most  but we need help.
