Live Russia vows fundamental cutback in Ukraine war amid talks
20220329
https://www.coventrytelegraph.net/news/uk-world-news/live-russia-vows-fundamental-cutback-23532460
Alexander Fomins statement was made after another round of talks between Russia and Ukraine started in Istanbul. Long-time Chelsea boss Roman Abramovich is in the Turkish capital for the negotiations - shortly after it emerged he was reportedly poisoned at an earlier round of talks by Russian hard-liners who want talks to collapse.
Mr Abramovich, a long-standing ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, is playing an unspecified mediating role at the summit in Istanbul.
But Mr Zelensky warned the ruthless war continues, and that Ukrainians are paying for the Wests hesitancy on imposing tougher sanctions on Moscow with their lives.
Russian government figures have vowed to cut back the war in Ukraine. The pledge - if honoured - would see operations in Kyiv and nearby Chernihiv reined in.
Russias deputy defence minister said the Kremlin had decided to fundamentally cut back operations near the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. The same would apply to the city of Chernihiv, he said, to increase mutual trust in talks that are aimed at halting the fighting.
Ahead of the talks, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said his country is prepared to declare its neutrality, as Moscow has demanded, and is open to compromise over the contested eastern region of Donbas  comments that might lend momentum to negotiations.
Chelsea FC owner Roman Abramovich is present at the first face-to-face talks in two weeks between Russia and Ukraine in Turkey, as hopes rise that the negotiations can spur progress towards ending the war.
The new move from Russia appears to be the first major concession the Russians have made since the invasion of Ukraine began more than a month ago, Associated Press reports. The Ukrainian general staff of the military announced earlier that it had noted withdrawals around Kyiv and Chernihiv.
The vow makes no mention of Mariupol in the south, where the Russian military have been accused of war crimes. Yet it will be hoped the announcement is a sign Russia is scaling back its invasion amid a widespread view that the campaign has been a strategic failure.
