Live peace talks begin between Ukraine and Russia confirms Ukrainian official
20220227
https://www.coventrytelegraph.net/news/uk-world-news/live-peace-talks-begin-between-23233178
Mr Putin, in giving the nuclear alert directive, cited not only statements by Nato members but the hard-hitting financial sanctions imposed by the West against Russia, including the Russian leader himself.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Mr Putin is resorting to a pattern he used in the weeks before launching the invasion, which is to manufacture threats that dont exist in order to justify further aggression.
Speaking at a meeting with his top officials, Mr Putin told his defence minister and the chief of the militarys General Staff to put nuclear forces in a special regime of combat duty.
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading Nato members made aggressive statements regarding our country, the Russian president said in televised comments.
The news came hours after Russian officials said they are ready for talks with the Ukrainian government.
Max Bergmann, a former US State Department official, called Mr Putins talk predictable but dangerous sabre rattling.
And were going to stand up, Ms Psaki said, adding: We have the ability to defend ourselves, but we also need to call out what were seeing here.
Amid the mounting tensions, Ukraine announced that a delegation would meet with Russian officials for talks.
It comes on the same day Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian nuclear deterrent forces on alert. He accused leading Nato nations of 'agressive statements'.
Anton Geraschenko, an adviser to Ukraine's Minister of Internal Affairs, told ITV News that the two countries had begun talks this afternoon at around 3.30pm.
The order to put Russias nuclear weapons in an increased state of readiness for launch raised fears that the crisis could boil over into nuclear warfare, whether by design or miscalculation.
The Ukraine presidents office has said earlier today that envoys from its nation would meet with Russian diplomats.
She told ABCs This Week that Russia has not been under threat from Nato or Ukraine.
In a dramatic escalation of East-West tensions over Russias invasion of Ukraine, President Vladimir Putin has ordered Russian nuclear forces to be put on high alert in response to what he called aggressive statements by leading Nato powers.
But the Kremlins ultimate intentions towards Ukraine  and what steps might be enough to satisfy Moscow  remained unclear.
Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg told CNN, in reaction to Mr Putins decision to put Russias nuclear forces on high alert: This is dangerous rhetoric. This is a behaviour which is irresponsible.
Early this afternoon, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys office said the two sides would meet at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border. He did not give a precise time for the meeting.
The fast-moving developments came as Russian troops drew closer to Kyiv, a city of almost three million, street fighting broke out in Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, and strategic ports in the countrys south came under pressure from the invading forces.
Dmitry Peskov, a Kremlin spokesman, said a Russian delegation had arrived in Homel in Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.
Things could spiral out of control, said Mr Bergmann, now a senior fellow at the Centre for American Progress.
