Oil prices hit record high amid warnings it could get worse
20220309
https://www.coventrytelegraph.net/news/uk-world-news/oil-prices-hit-record-high-23335840
The EU has dropped its oil supply from Russia by two-thirds - and the UK plans to completely stop importing oil from the country by the end of 2022.
Coventry residents are furious about the rising cost of petrol as the war in Ukraine continues.
"The UK is a significant producer of oil and oil products, plus we hold significant reserves.
Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox
Due to the UK's commitment to imposing sanctions on Ukraine, it has warned that both oil and gas prices will rise as a result.
RAC fuel spokesman Simon Williams said: "These hikes are unprecedented and will sadly be hitting both homes and businesses hard.
Oil prices are rising because it is more in demand and this has been made worse by the war in Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the UK gets around 18 diesel from Russia, according to a 2020 Autocar report estimate.
With fewer countries importing Russia's oil, they are seeking it elsewhere, which are inevitably pushing prices up.
The emails come out twice a day with the latest news and what's on stories from across Coventry.
She said: "No-one wants to see UK energy imports paying for Putins illegal war against Ukraine. But working people will need the government to support them over the coming months. That means help for energy-intensive industries to keep energy supplies affordable and jobs safe. And it means help for working families to keep energy bills affordable.
Some locals said they've seen prices as high as 1.71 for petrol, with many calling the hike in prices a 'disgrace' to drivers.
"Beyond Russia, the vast majority of our imports come from reliable partners such as the US, Netherlands and the Gulf."
The cost of petrol and diesel have skyrocketed in recent weeks, with diesel averaging a whopping 1.61 a litre, while petrol is now 155.62p, the Mirror reports.
TUC general secretary Frances OGrady, meanwhile, called for a windfall tax on oil companies to invest in renewable energy.
You can get your Coventry news straight to your email inbox - and it's FREE!
"It's therefore vital the chancellor acts quickly to limit the damage by cutting VAT to at least 15, which would save drivers 6.5p a litre and take the average price of unleaded back under 1.50."
The UK does not import as much crude oil from Russia as its European neighbours, receiving only 6-8 of its oil from them.
Since the record rise in prices for people at the pumps, there have been calls for the chancellor to cut VAT on fuel.
Yesterday, Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said: "The government will also work with companies through a new Taskforce on Oil to support them to make use of this period in finding alternative supplies.
Russia is Europe's third largest supplier of oil, and around half of the barrels of oil Russia produces every day goes to the continent.
Keep up with the latest news with our email alerts directly to your inbox.    Sign up here.
As more businesses are cutting off ties to Russian oil along with shortages, the demand for oil is rising - this means it could get more expensive by the day.
Oil prices are hitting record highs amid the Russian invasion - and they could rise even more, adding on to the cost of living crisis.
"The best way to do this is with a windfall tax on soaring energy profits. And the government should accelerate public investment in decarbonising industry, renewables and nuclear, and insulating our homes, to reduce Putin's power."
Oil companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Shell, BP, and Total have boasted huge profits this year, as working families struggle.
