Europes energy dependence on Russia faces reckoning
20220207
https://www.gulf-times.com/story/711373/Europe-s-energy-dependence-on-Russia-faces-reckoni
Of all the EU members, Germany is particularly exposed, with half of its gas and coal coming from Russia.
Nord Stream 2, a new Russian pipeline under the Baltic Sea to Germany, was completed in late 2021. But it has become entangled in politics and a lengthy regulatory process.
About a third of Russian gas flowing to Europe passes through Ukraine. In 2006 and 2009, disputes with Ukraine over pricing and siphoning of gas led to cutoffs of Russian supplies through the country.
As for a worst-case scenario, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak has warned that oil prices could more than double to $300 a barrel if the US and its allies banned imports of Russian oil.
Following the eruption of the Ukraine crisis, the process to grant the approval the link needs from German officials has been put on hold.
But some others dont think energy will escape the growing list of sanctions levied against Russia and are starting to look at the potential impact.
Russias dominance has also been enhanced by the depletion of North Sea fields controlled by the UK and the Netherlands.
Drawing more LNG would leave EU nations with a 70bn $78bn bill to refill gas storage facilities this summer. Thats almost six times the 10bn spent in previous years  a price too high for many industrial companies that were complaining about rising energy costs long before the Ukraine crisis.
Russian gas is attractive to Europe because its usually cheaper, easy to transport and almost always available. Some European Union countries depend on it because they are shutting coal plants, and Germany is even planning for the end of nuclear power.
Europes largest economy is facing up to the prospect that the bulk of its natural gas and coal supplies could get choked off, ripping through its industrial base and sparking economic upheaval.
In a wider sense, an embargo on Russian imports could push the energy markets into the worst chaos of our lifetimes, Vandana Hari, founder of Singapore-based Vanda Insights, said in an interview.
The European Union imported 155bn cubic metres of natural gas from Russia in 2021, accounting for around 45 of EU gas imports and close to 40 of its total gas consumption, according to the International Energy Agency.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said the Biden administration and its allies are discussing an embargo of Russian oil, a move that threatens to make an already heated oil market even more volatile.
For sure, the war in Ukraine has shocked Berlin into the dangerous energy dependence on Russia, but the government is finding that changing course might be too late.
With Russian troops advancing into Ukraine, EU governments are concerned that the energy supplies could either be interrupted in the fighting or by global sanctions to contain Russia.
Russia on Tuesday, warned it could stop the flow of gas through pipelines from Russia to Germany in response to Berlins decision last month to halt the opening of the controversial new Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
Even as the crisis in the region escalated into war, some analysts have said Russia, with a history of supply disruptions over price disputes, probably would strive to be seen as a reliable supplier.
