Macron and Putin to talk as Ukraine front line grows more volatile
20220220
https://www.gulf-times.com/story/710207/Macron-and-Putin-to-talk-as-Ukraine-front-line-grows-more-volatile
The OSCE said Saturday there had been 1,500 ceasefire violations in Donetsk and Lugansk in just one day.
French President Emmanuel Macron will call Russia's Vladimir Putin on Sunday to try to avert what Western powers predict will be an imminent invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba denounced reports of Ukrainian shells falling on Russian territory as "fake".
Afterwards, Moscow says these forces will return to barracks, but US intelligence is concerned they could take part in an invasion of Ukraine.
The volatile front line between Ukraine's army and Russian-backed separatists has seen a "dramatic increase" in ceasefire violations, international monitors from the OSCE European security body have said.
US and EU officials have said they believe Moscow is attempting to fabricate a pretext for its offensive by having proxy outlets put out false information about violence in rebel-held enclaves in eastern Ukraine.
Over the weekend, civilians were evacuated from increasingly barraged front line regions where Kyiv said Saturday two of its soldiers had died in an attack -- the first fatalities in the conflict in more than a month.
But in his speech to the Munich Security Conference, he also condemned "a policy of appeasement" towards Moscow.
A dozen mortar shells fell within a few hundred metres of Ukraine's Interior Minister Denys Monastyrskiy Saturday as he met journalists.
Around 30,000 Russian troops are in Belarus for an exercise due to end on Sunday.
The United States insists that, with around 150,000 Russian troops on Ukraine's borders -- as many as 190,000, when including the Russian-backed separatist forces in the east -- Moscow has already made up its mind to invade.
US President Joe Biden, who earlier said he was "convinced" Russia would invade in the coming days, is convening a rare Sunday National Security Council meeting over the crisis.
Hundreds of artillery and mortar attacks were reported in recent days, in a conflict that has rumbled on for eight years and claimed more than 14,000 lives.
Putin has also stepped up his rhetoric, reiterating demands for written guarantees that Ukraine will never be allowed to join Natoand for the alliance to roll back deployments in eastern Europe to positions from decades ago.
From the Kremlin situation room, Putin and visiting Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko watched the launch of Russia's latest hypersonic, cruise and nuclear-capable ballistic missiles on Saturday.
"For eight years, Ukraine has been holding back one of the greatest armies in the world," he said.
The pro-Russian rebels declared general mobilisations in the two regions, calling up men to fight even as they announced the mass evacuations of women and children.
Western officials in Munich warned of enormous sanctions if Russia attacks, with US Vice President Kamala Harris saying this would only see Natoreinforce its "eastern flank".
German airlines Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines said they would stop flights to Kyiv and Odessa from Monday until the end of February, but would maintain flights to western Ukraine.
Germany and France on Saturday urged their citizens to leave Ukraine. Natosaid it was relocating staff from Kyiv to Lviv in the west of the country and Brussels.
"Every indication indicates that Russia is planning a full-fledged attack against Ukraine," Natochief Jens Stoltenberg said.
Moscow and the rebels have accused Kyiv of planning an assault to retake the regions, claims fiercely denied by Ukraine and dismissed by the West.
Speaking to Macron on Saturday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he would not respond to Russia's provocations, according to the Elysee.
"Locals in Donetsk reported calm despite Russian claims of a car bomb," said US State Department spokesman Ned Price.
He called for "clear, feasible timeframes" for Ukraine to join the US-led Natomilitary alliance -- something Moscow has said is a red line for its security.
The Kremlin insists it has no incursion plans, but its test-firing of nuclear-capable missiles Saturday did little to alleviate tensions.
Russia has in recent days announced a series of withdrawals of its forces from near Ukraine, saying they were taking part in regular military exercises.
