Russia steps up battle for eastern Ukraine
20220528
https://www.gulf-times.com/story/718078/Russia-steps-up-battle-for-eastern-Ukraine
A Lugansk police official, cited by Russias state news agency RIA Novosti, late Friday said Severodonetsk was now surrounded and Ukrainian troops could no longer leave the city.
Regional governor Sergiy Gaiday said Russian shelling continued on Severodonetsk as Ukrainian soldiers fought to oust the invading forces from a hotel on its edges, but rejected claims the city had been encircled.
The town of Krasny Liman has been entirely liberated from Ukrainian nationalists, the Russian defence ministry said, using the Russian name for Lyman and confirming an announcement made a day earlier by pro-Moscow separatists.
Three months after Russia launched its invasion on February 24, leaving thousands dead on both sides and forcing 6.6mn people out of the country, Moscow has gained control over swathes of eastern and southern Ukraine, including port cities Kherson and Mariupol.
Russia has tightened its own exports and Ukraine has vast amounts stuck in storage, driving up prices and cutting availability for importers across the globe.
But yesterday he told French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in a phone call Russia was ready to look for ways to allow more wheat onto the global market.
He called for the lifting of sanctions to allow an increase in the supply of Russian fertilisers and agricultural products onto the global market.
Severodonetsk has not been cut off... there is still the possibility to deliver humanitarian aid, he told Ukrainian television.
Other Ukrainian ports have been cut off from the world by Russian warships, preventing key grain supplies from being transported out.
Russia pressed its onslaught on eastern Ukraine yesterday, saying it had captured the strategic town of Lyman and had successfully tested hypersonic missiles in the Arctic.
And they demanded Russia free 2,500 Ukrainian fighters taken as prisoners of war after surrendering earlier this month at a sprawling steelworks in the ravaged port city of Mariupol.
Ukrainian forces battled to repel Russian forces from the outskirts of the key city of Severodonetsk, a Ukrainian official said, however denying claims it had been surrounded.
Russia is ready to help find options for the unhindered export of grain, including the export of Ukrainian grain from the Black Sea ports, the Kremlin reported him as saying.
Macron and Scholz urged Putin to hold direct serious negotiations with Zelensky, the German chancellors office said.
Russian forces have been closing in on Severodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk in Lugansk province, with conflicting reports about the extent of their advance.
Russia is waging all-out war for the eastern Donbas region  Ukraines industrial heartland where President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Moscow of carrying out a genocide.
