War fears grow as Ukraine mobilises Russia evacuates diplomatic staff
20220223
https://www.gulf-times.com/story/710517/War-fears-grow-as-Ukraine-mobilises-Russia-evacuat
Russia has demanded that Ukraine be forbidden from ever joining the Nato alliance and that US troops pull out from Eastern Europe.
Ukraine mobilised reservists and Russia evacuated its Kyiv embassy yesterday, as eastern Europe slid ever closer towards a potentially catastrophic conflict.
She said: Have you heard the news?. How could I have known? Theres no electricity, never mind Internet. I dont know what is going to happen next, but to be honest, Im afraid, he said.
Ukraine needs security guarantees. Clear, specific, and immediate, Zelensky said, adding: I believe that Russia must be among those countries giving clear security guarantees.
Speaking to journalists, Putin on Tuesday set out a number of stringent conditions if the West wanted to de-escalate the crisis, saying Ukraine should drop its Nato ambition and become neutral.
But Ukraine has received advanced anti-tank weapons and some drones from Nato members. More have been promised as the allies try to deter a Russian attack or at least make it costly.
We are united in believing that the future of European security is being decided right now, here in our home, in Ukraine, Zelensky said during a joint media appearance with the visiting leaders of Poland and Lithuania.
Dmitry Maksimenko, a 27-year-old coal miner from government-held Krasnogorivka, said he was shocked when his wife came to tell him that Putin had recognised two Russian-backed separatist enclaves.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned the body that our world is facing a moment of peril and that the world could see a scale and severity of need unseen for many years.
In response, Kyivs President Volodymyr Zelensky has put Ukraines more than 200,000 reservists on notice that they will receive summons to return to their units.
Ukraine also urged its approximately 3mn citizens living in Russia to leave and MPs prepared to vote on a state of emergency, allowing security forces and regional governments to step-up controls like ID checks and roadblocks.
Kremlin chief President Vladimir Putin has defied a barrage of international sanctions to put his forces on stand-by to occupy and defend two rebel-held areas of eastern Ukraine.
In a Russian village around 50kms from the border, reporters saw military equipment including rocket launchers, howitzers and fuel tanks mounted on trains stretching for hundreds of metres.
Western diplomatic efforts to halt the march to war have so far proved fruitless, but European Union leaders announced one more last ditch summit in Brussels today to address the crisis.
Ukraine has around 200,000 military personnel and yesterdays call up could see up to 250,000 reservists aged between 18 and 60 receive their mobilisation papers.
The US ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, warned that an all-out Russian invasion could displace 5mn people, triggering a new European refugee crisis.
On Tuesday, the Federation Council, Russias upper house, gave him unanimous approval to deploy troops to two breakaway Ukrainian regions now recognised by Moscow as independent, Donetsk and Lugansk.
Shelling has intensified in recent days between Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists  a Ukrainian soldier was killed yesterday, the sixth in four days  and civilians living near the front are fearful.
Washington and Britain say Russias force is poised to strike Ukraine and trigger the most serious war in Europe for decades, but Putin says he is open to negotiation  within limits.
Western capitals say Russia has amassed 150,000 troops in combat formations on Ukraines borders with Russia, Belarus and Russian-occupied Crimea and on warships in the Black Sea.
The interests of Russia, the security of our citizens, are non-negotiable for us, Putin declared, in a video address to mark the Defender of the Fatherland Day, a public holiday.
Russia said it had established diplomatic relations at the level of embassies with the separatist statelets, which broke away from Kyiv in 2014 in a conflict that has cost more than 14,000 lives.
Moscows total forces are much larger  around a million active-duty personnel  and have been modernised and re-armed in recent years.
