Kremlin tells Biden US has no right to lecture Russia on war crimes
20220317
https://www.thezimbabwemail.com/world-news/kremlin-tells-biden-us-has-no-right-to-lecture-russia-on-war-crimes/
The main thing is that the head of a state which has for many years bombed people across the world the president of such a country has no right to make such statements.
In an exchange with a reporter on Wednesday, Biden said, I think he is a war criminal, after initially responding with a no to a question about whether he was ready to call Putin that.
Our president is a very wise, prescient and cultured international figure and head of the Russian Federation, our head of state, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said when asked about Bidens remark.
London  The Kremlin said on Wednesday Joe Bidens claim that President Vladimir Putin was a war criminal for invading Ukraine was an unforgivable remark by the leader of a country which had killed civilians in conflicts across the world.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, the United States and its European and Asian allies have slapped sanctions on Russian leaders, companies and businessmen, cutting off Russia from much of the world economy.
Around 200,000 people were killed instantly by the bombs and many more died from radiation sickness.
It will not work  Russia has the might to put all of our brash enemies in their place, Medvedev said.
Russia warned the United States on Thursday that Moscow had the might to put the worlds pre-eminent superpower in its place and accused the West of stoking a wild Russophobic plot to tear Russia apart.
Putin says that what he calls the special military operation in Ukraine was necessary because the United States was using Ukraine to threaten Russia, and Russia had to defend against the genocide of Russian-speaking people by Kyiv.
Dmitry Medvedev, who served as president from 2008 to 2012 and is now deputy secretary of Russias Security Council, said the United States had stoked disgusting Russophobia in an attempt to force Russia to its knees.
Peskov said the United States had bombed defeated Japan in 1945, destroying the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Japan surrendered six days later, ending World War Two.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has killed thousands, displaced more than three million and raised fears of a wider confrontation between Russia and the United States, the worlds two biggest nuclear powers.
