Russia flexes military for Ukraine move West to respond
20220222
https://www.thezimbabwemail.com/world-news/russia-flexes-military-for-ukraine-move-west-to-respond/
If Russia moves in, the meeting will be off, but the prospect of a face-to-face summit resuscitated hopes in diplomacy to prevent a conflict that could devastate Ukraine and cause huge economic damage across Europe, which is heavily dependent on Russian energy.
Several senior lawmakers suggested Tuesday that Russia could recognize the rebel-held territories in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine in their original administrative borders, including the chunks of land currently under the Ukrainian control.
Russian officials havent yet acknowledged any troop deployments to the rebel east, but Vladislav Brig, a member of the separatist local council in Donetsk, told reporters that the Russian troops already had moved in, taking up positions in the regions north and west.
Sweeping through more than a century of history, Putin painted todays Ukraine as a modern construct used by the West to contain Russia despite the neighbors inextricable links.
Ever since theconflicterupted weeks after Russias 2014 annexation of the Ukrainian Crimean Peninsula, Ukraine and its Western allies have accused Moscow of backing the separatists with troops and weapons, the charges it has denied, saying that Russians who fought in the east were volunteers. Putins move Monday formalizes Russias hold on the regions and gives it a free hand to deploy its forces there.
Macrons office said Biden and Putin had accepted the principle of such a summit, to be followed by a broader meeting that would include other relevant stakeholders to discuss security and strategic stability in Europe.
Russia says it wants Western guarantees that NATO wont allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members  and Putin said Monday that a simple moratorium on Ukraines accession wouldnt be enough. Moscow has also demanded the alliance halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sought to project calm, telling the country in an address overnight: We are not afraid of anyone or anything. We dont owe anyone anything. And we wont give anything to anyone. His foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, would be in Washington on Tuesday to meet with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, the State Department said.
We are ready to show you what the real decommunization would mean for Ukraine, Putin added ominously in an apparent signal of his readiness to raise new land claims.
The 2015 deal that was brokered by France and Germany and signed in Minsk, the Belarusian capital, required Ukraine to offer a sweeping self-rule to the rebel regions in a diplomatic coup for Russia after a series of Ukrainian military defeats. Many in Ukraine resented the deal as a betrayal of national interests and a blow to the countrys integrity, and its implementation has stalled.
The Kremlin recognized its own aggression against Ukraine, Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said on Twitter, describing Moscows move as a New Berlin Wall and urging the West to quickly slap Russia with sanctions.
MOSCOW AP  Russia set the stage for a quick move to secure its hold on Ukraines rebel regions on Tuesday with new legislation that would allow the deployment of troops there as the West prepares to announce sanctions against Moscow amid fears of a full-scale invasion.
The White House responded quickly, issuing an executive order to prohibit U.S. investment and trade in the separatist regions, and additional measures  likely sanctions  were to be announced Tuesday. Those sanctions are independent of what Washington has prepared in the event of a Russian invasion, according to a senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.
Putin is bent on a full-scale invasion of Ukraine  that would be absolutely catastrophic.
Tensions have continued to fly high in eastern Ukraine, with more shelling reported along the tense line of contact between the rebels and Ukrainian forces. Ukraines military said two Ukrainian soldiers were killed and another 12 were wounded by shelling over the last 24 hours. It has rejected the rebel claims of shelling residential areas and insisted that Ukrainian forces werent returning fire.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin on Tuesday said China would continue to stay in engagement with all parties, continuing to steer clear from committing to back Russia despite the close ties between Moscow and Beijing.
Draft bills that are set quickly sail through both houses of Russian parliament Tuesday, envisage military ties, including possible deployment of Russian military bases in the separatist regions.
Quickly after Putin signed the decree late Monday, convoys of armored vehicles were seen rolling across the separatist-controlled territories. It wasnt immediately clear if they were Russian.
Polish Defense Minister Mariusz Baszczak also said in a radio interview Tuesday he could confirm that Russian forces entered the territories, describing it as a violation of Ukraines borders and international law.
Putin warned Monday that the Western rejection of Moscows demands gives Russia the right to take other steps to protect its security.
EU foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said that Russian troops have entered in Donbas, adding that I wouldnt say that it is a fully-fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil and the EU would decide on sanctions later on Tuesday.
Putins decision to recognize therebel regionsas independent states follows a nearly eight-year old separatist conflict that has killed more than 14,000 and devastated Ukraines eastern industrial heartland called Donbas. Thelatest developmentsand move by Putin were met withreprehension by many countries around the world.
While Ukraine and the West said the Russian recognition of the rebel regions shatters a 2015 peace deal, Russias ambassador to the United Nations, Vassily Nebenzia, challenged that, noting that Moscow isnt a party to the Minsk agreement and arguing that it could still be implemented if Ukraine chooses so.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Tuesday the U.K. will also introduce immediate economic sanctions against Russia, and warned that
In a stark warning to Ukraine, the Russian leader charged that it has unfairly inherited Russias historic land granted to it by the Communist rulers of the Soviet Union and mocked its effort to shed the Communist past in a so-called decommunization campaign.
The new Russia bills, which are likely to be quickly rubber-stamped by the Kremlin-controlled parliament, came a day after President Vladimir Putin recognized theindependenceof the regions in eastern Ukraine. The legislation could be a pretext for a deeper move into Ukrainian territory as the U.S. and its allies have feared.
Johnson said Putin had completely torn up international law and British sanctions would target not just the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk but Russian economic interests as hard as we can.
Putin announced the move in anhourlong televised speech, blaming the U.S. and its allies for the current crisis and describing Ukraines bid to join NATO as an existential challenge to Russia.
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, the U.S. has warned that Moscow has already decided to invade. Still, President Joe Biden and Putin tentatively agreed to a meeting brokered by French President Emmanuel Macron in a last-ditch effort to avoid war.
