Russia sends nuclearcapable bombers on patrol over Belarus
20211118
https://www.thezimbabwemail.com/world-news/russia-sends-nuclear-capable-bombers-on-patrol-over-belarus/
The European Union has accused authoritarian Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko of encouraging illegal border crossings as a hybrid attack to retaliate against EU sanctions on his government for its crackdown on internal dissent after Lukashenkos disputed 2020 reelection.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has described Lukashenkos offer as a serious warning prompted by reckless Western policy.
Some Ukrainian officials have voiced concern that Russia may use the territory of its ally Belarus for attacking Ukraine.
Amid tensions with the West, Lukashenko said last month that his country would be ready to host Russian nuclear weapons.
Moscow has strongly supported Belarus amid a tense standoff last month when thousands of migrants and refugees, most of them from the Middle East, gathered on the Belarusian side of the border with Poland in the hope of crossing into Western Europe.
MOSCOW AP  A pair of nuclear-capable Russian long-range bombers patrolled the skies over Belarus on Saturday on a mission intended to underline close defense ties between the two allies amid tensions with the West.
The patrol flight comes amidWestern concerns over a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine that raised fears of an invasion. Moscow has denied plans for such an attack, but urged the West to provide security guarantees that would exclude NATOs expansion to Ukraine and the deployment of the alliances weapons there  demands that are almost certain to be rejected by the U.S. and its allies.
The Russian Defense Ministry said two Tu-22M3 flew a four-hour mission to practice performing joint tasks with the Belarusian air force and air defense. The bombers were escorted by Belarus Su-30 fighter jets, which Russia has supplied to its ally.
The Belarusian leader wouldnt elaborate on what kind of weapons Belarus would be willing to accommodate, but noted that the ex-Soviet nation has carefully preserved the necessary military infrastructure dating back to the time of the USSR.
