RussiaUkraine crisis puts pressure on microchip supply chain
20220320
https://www.thezimbabwemail.com/technology-science/russia-ukraine-crisis-puts-pressure-on-microchip-supply-chain/
SIA predicts that demand for semiconductors will rise significantly in the coming years, as chips become heavily embedded in the essential technologies.
The situation has led governments and lawmakers to work on securing the supply chain and bringing the manufacture of semiconductors closer to home, as some of the biggest chip makers are located in Asia.
Global computer chip industry sales reached the highest-ever annual total of $555.9 billion last year, the Semiconductor Industry Association SIA reported this week. The figure represents an increase of 26.2 compared to the 2020 total of $440.4 billion.
The ongoing chip shortage severely hit global producers during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020-21 after remote work and mobility restrictions triggered an acceleration of digitization across the world.
THE already-stretched semiconductor industry is expected to suffer more interruptions from the current conflict in Eastern Europe, as Ukraine and Russia provide the bulk of the worlds supplies of neon and palladium, vital for the production of microchips.
Moodys expects the chip crunch to deepen if a deal is not brokered in the coming months, with industries highly dependent on semiconductors to be impacted accordingly.
During the 2014-2015 war in Ukraine, neon prices went up by several times over, indicating how serious this can be for the semiconductor industry: semiconductor-exposure companies make up 70 of total neon demand, as it is an integral part of the lithographic process for making chips,Tim Uy of Moodys Analytics wrote in a recent report, seen by the Business Standard.
Last year, US President Joe Biden pledged $50 billion for semiconductor manufacturing and research with a bill known as the CHIPS for America Act.
The current global chip shortage will worsen if the standoff persists as more than 40 of the worlds supply of palladium comes from Russia, while Ukraine produces 70 of the global supply of neon, according to Moodys Analytics.
This means significant risks are ahead for many automakers, electronic device manufacturers, phone makers, and many other sectors that are increasingly reliant on chips for their products to work,the experts warn.
In 2021, amid the ongoing global chip shortage, semiconductor companies substantially ramped up production to unprecedented levels to address persistently high demand, resulting in record chip sales and units shipped, said SIA president and CEO John Neuffer.
SIA represents 99 of the US semiconductor industry by revenue and nearly two-thirds of non-US chip firms.
Earlier this month, the EU announced a new European Chips Act that will see 15 billion $17.11 billion of additional investments in the industry until 2030.
When the coronavirus pandemic began in 2020, some tech firms started stockpiling chips or ordering them in advance, which led to many companies struggling to buy the components. As lockdowns forced millions to work from home, demand for laptops, tablets and webcams skyrocketed. At the same, labor shortages at chip factories lead to shortages worldwide.
Neon, critical for the lasers used to make chips, is a by-product of Russian steel manufacturing. It is then purified in Ukraine. Palladium is used in sensors and memory, among other applications.
The association went on to report that the industry shipped a record 1.15 trillion units in 2021 in response to high demand.
