Ukrania refugees doubt Russia will end war as 4 million have fled
20220330
https://www.thezimbabwemail.com/world-news/ukrania-refugees-doubt-russia-will-end-war-as-4-million-have-fled/
The Minsk agreement is not working, so how can we call it peace talks if they are shooting and bombing our cites during and after the talks? Kovalyova said. There is no trust in Russia but also I hope for peace and calm but unfortunately this is the situation.
Refugees from Ukraine are now 4 million, five weeks after the start of the Russian attack, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi tweeted as he crossed the border into Ukraine.
That is why we cannot go back to Kharkiv, the 23-year-old said. We are afraid of a new phase of war in eastern Ukraine.
Aid workers say the numbers have eased in recent days as many people await developments in the war. An estimated 6.5 million people have also been displaced from their homes within the country.
MEDYKA, Poland AP  The number of Ukrainians who have fled the Russian war reached the dramatic new landmark of 4 million people, the United Nations announced Wednesday, as Moscow kept up its attacks  even in places where it had vowed to ease its military operations.
I do not know if we can still believe the Russians, said Nikolay Nazarov, a young man who fled from Kharkiv with his father in a wheelchair as he crossed the border into Poland.
Olha Kovalyova, a woman who arrived with her two children in Medyka, said she also didnt believe Moscow because it had already failed to fulfil promises made in the framework of the Minsk agreement, which was aimed at ending the war in Ukraines eastern Donbas region that began in 2014.
More than 608,000 have entered Romania, over 387,000 have gone to Moldova, and about 364,000 have entered Hungary since the war began on Feb. 24, based on counts provided by governments.
UNHCR teams and their partners have been working to deliver protection, emergency shelter, cash assistance, core relief items and other critical services for those who have fled.
We can call those signals that we hear at the negotiations positive, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address to the Ukrainian people. But those signals dont silence the explosions of Russian shells.
Grandi said he would be in the western city of Lviv and discuss ways to increase its support to people affected and displaced by this senseless war.
The U.N. refugee agency said Wednesday that more than 4 million refugees have now fled Ukraine in the largest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II. That number already exceeds the worst-case predictions made when Russia launched its invasion on Feb. 24.
He, like several others interviewed by The Associated Press at the Polish border with Ukraine, echoed the feelings of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who said there was no reason to believe Russias announcement that it would reduce military activity near Kyiv, the capital, as well as in the northern city of Chernihiv, given whats happening on the ground.
From the onset of the war, UNHCR had projected that about 4 million people might flee Ukraine though it has repeatedly said that it has been reassessing its forecasts.
I think its a tragic milestone, said Alex Mundt, the UNHCR senior emergency coordinator in Poland. It means that in less than a month or in just about a month, four million people have been uprooted from their homes, from their families, their communities in what is the fastest exodus of refugees moving in recent history.
More than 2.3 million have arrived in Poland, but many have traveled onward to other countries and a small number have even returned to Ukraine, either to help fight against the Russians or care for relatives.
Despite a Russian announcement made at talks on Tuesday that Russian forces would ease their assault near Kyiv and elsewhere, Nazarov said he only expects more escalation in eastern Ukraine.
