Vladimir Putin is not ready to end Ukraine war says France
20220312
https://www.thezimbabwemail.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-is-not-ready-to-end-ukraine-war-says-france/
We saw people who died because of lack of medication, he said, adding that many people had also been wounded or killed. Neighbours just dig a hole in the ground and put the dead bodies inside.
Putin launched the invasion on Feb. 24 in an operation that has been almost universally condemned around the world and that has drawn tough Western sanctions on Russia.
If they decide to carpet bomb Kyiv, and simply erase the history of this region, the history of the Kyivan Rus, the history of Europe, and destroy all of us, then they will enter Kyiv. If thats their goal, let them come in, but they will have to live on this land by themselves, he told a news conference.
Efforts to isolate Russia economically have stepped up, with the United States imposing new sanctions on senior Kremlin officials and Russian oligarchs on Friday.
In comments reported by the Tass news agency, Ryabkov made no specific threat, but any attack on such convoys before they reached Ukraine would risk widening the war.
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov accused the United States of escalating tensions and said the situation had been complicated by convoys of Western arms shipments to Ukraine that Russian forces considered legitimate targets.
There is no such hotel any more, Viacheslav Chaus said, wiping tears from his eyes. But Ukraine itself still exists, and it will prevail.
The governor of the Kyiv region, Oleksiy Kuleba, said fighting and threats of Russian air attacks were continuing on Saturday morning though some evacuations were proceeding.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the EU would on Saturday suspend Moscows privileged trade and economic treatment, crack down on its use of crypto-assets, and ban the import of iron and steel goods from Russia, as well as the export of luxury goods in the other direction. Read full story
Fighting raged near Kyiv on Saturday and heavy shelling in other areas threatened new attempts to evacuate trapped civilians as France said Russian President Vladimir Putin showed no readiness to end the war in Ukraine.
Ukraine has accused Russian forces of kidnapping the mayor of the southern city of Melitopol, which Russia controls.
Moscow has denied targeting civilians in what it calls a special operation to demilitarise and de-Nazify Ukraine. It has not responded to Ukrainian challenges to provide evidence.
The Donetsk regions governor said constant shelling was complicating bringing aid into the southern city of Mariupol.
He also said about 1,300 Ukrainian troops had been killed so far and urged the West to get more involved in peace negotiations. The president suggested Russian forces would face a fight to the death if they sought to enter the capital.
At least 1,582 civilians in Mariupol have been killed as a result of Russian shelling and a 12-day blockade, the city council said on Friday. It was not possible to verify casualty figures.
Russian rocket attacks destroyed a Ukrainian airbase and hit an ammunition depot near the town of Vasylkiv in the Kyiv region, Interfax Ukraine quoted its mayor as saying.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Moscow was sending in new troops after Ukrainian forces put 31 of Russias battalion tactical groups out of action in what he called Russias largest army losses in decades. It was not possible to verify his statements.
Zelenskiy discussed the war with Chancellor Olaf Scholz and President Emmanuel Macron, and the German and French leaders then spoke to Putin by phone and urged the Russian leader to order an immediate ceasefire.
Britains defence ministry said fighting northwest of the capital continued, with the bulk of Russian ground forces 25 km 16 miles from the centre of Kyiv, which it has said Russia could attack within days.
There are reports of looting and violent confrontations among civilians over what little basic supplies remain in the city, the U.N.s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said.
People were boiling ground water for drinking, using wood to cook food and burying dead bodies near where they lay, a staff member for Medecins Sans Frontieres Doctors without Borders in Mariupol said.
Medicines for life-threatening illnesses are quickly running out, hospitals are only partially functioning, and the food and water are in short supply.
Responding to Zelenskiys call for the West to be more involved in peace negotiations, a U.S. State Department spokesperson said: If there are diplomatic steps that we can take that the Ukrainian government believes would be helpful, were prepared to take them.
The Russian bombardment has trapped thousands of people in besieged cities and sent 2.5 million Ukrainians fleeing to neighbouring countries. Zelenskiy said the conflict meant some small Ukrainian towns no longer existed.
A Kremlin statement on the 75-minute call made no mention of a ceasefire and a French presidency official said: We did not detect a willingness on Putins part to end the war. Read full story
The exhausted-looking governor of Chernihiv, around 150 km 100 miles northeast of Kyiv, gave a video update in front of the ruins of the citys Ukraine Hotel, which he said had been hit.
Zelenskiy called on Saturday for his release and more than 2,000 residents protested outside the city administration building to demand the release of mayors release, Kyrylo Tymoshenko, deputy head of the presidents office, said.
Ukrainian officials had planned to use humanitarian corridors from Mariupol as well as towns and villages in the regions of Kyiv, Sumy and some other areas on Saturday.
Crisis talks between Moscow and Kyiv have been continuing via a video link, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov was quoted as saying by Russias RIA news agency. He gave no details but Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Kyiv would not surrender or accept any ultimatums. Read full storyRead full story
