JPMorgan targets more of Germanys Mittelstand economic engine
20220520
https://wsau.com/2022/05/20/jpmorgan-targets-more-of-germanys-mittelstand-economic-engine/
The team, which also covers Austria and Switzerland, currently has two job postings, but JPMorgan declined to give further detail on its future headcount growth plans.
Jan Kupfer, a member of HypoVereinsbanks board, told Reuters in a statement that the Munich-based lender also plans to grow its corporate clients, especially for the Mittelstand.
JPMorgan is focused on larger Mittelstand companies, with annual revenue of 250 million euros to 2 billion euros, and those that have an international focus.
The move is a challenge to established lenders such as Commerzbank, UniCredits HypoVereinsbank, and Deutsche Bank, which have dominated a crowded market for so-called Mittelstand companies for decades.
JPMorgan, whose European Union hub is in Frankfurt, has become one of the largest advisory banks in Germany in recent years, with an average 14 market share in mergers and acquisitions for German firms from 2016 through 2021, Dealogic data shows, double its share over the previous six years.
Germanys export-oriented economy is dependent upon Mittelstand firms, which by some definitions have fewer than 500 workers and less than 50 million euros a year in revenue. Many are still family-owned.
Since Brinker started its push three years ago, JPMorgan has picked up bankers from Deutsche Bank, ING and Lazard.
Leading the effort is Bernhard Brinker, who has built a base of around 75 clients and doubled staff over the past year to around 15 to 20 people.
Competition will be stiff and the expansion comes at a time of great uncertainty for German business which face the threat of energy shortages resulting from Russias invasion of Ukraine.
FRANKFURT Reuters      JPMorgan Chase  Co plans to make further inroads in Germany by targeting more of the medium-sized firms that form the backbone of Europes largest economy, executives at the U.S. bank said.
One client that JPMorgan has picked up is Germanys WEPA Group, which makes toilet paper and paper towels.
Theres ample room for us to further grow the business. Now that weve laid the foundation, were well-positioned to increase the business tenfold in the medium term, Brinker said, referring to the number of clients and revenue.
WEPA previously used Deutsche Bank and HSBC to issue its bonds, but in 2020 it expanded the group to include JPMorgan.
Competition in the corporate customer business remains intense, but we are currently seeing a high demand for advice and financing from Mittelstand companies, he said.
JPMorgan is the right bank for the internationalization of a German company because JPMorgan itself has a good footprint in Germany, WEPA said in written response to Reuters.
Deutsche Bank said it is the most significant player in the Mittelstand sector, while Commerzbank said its position in the industry remains strong.
