US agrees to send advanced rockets to Ukraine
20220601
https://wsau.com/2022/05/31/u-s-agrees-to-send-advanced-rockets-to-ukraine/
Ukraine accuses Moscow of war crimes on a huge scale, flattening cities and killing and raping civilians. Russia denies the accusations.
The EU said it would ban imports of Russian oil by sea. Officials said that would halt two-thirds of Russias oil exports to Europe at first, and 90 by the end of this year.
Up to 12,000 civilians remain caught in crossfire, without sufficient access to water, food, medicine or electricity, Egeland said.
U.S. President Joe Biden said Washington would provide Ukraine with more advanced rocket systems and munitions so it can more precisely strike key targets on the battlefield.
The high mobility artillery rocket systems are part of a $700 million weapons package expected to be unveiled by the United States on Wednesday.
Gaidai warned Sievierodonetsk residents not to leave bomb shelters due to what he said was a Russian air strike on a nitric acid tank.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has called for more weapons while lambasting the European Union, which agreed on Monday to cut imports of Russian oil, for not sanctioning energy from Moscow sooner.
The package also includes ammunition, counter fire radars, a number of air surveillance radars, additional Javelin anti-tank missiles, as well as anti-armour weapons, officials said.
The latest U.S. pledge of weapons for Ukraine  on top of billions of dollars worth of equipment already provided including anti-aircraft missiles and drones  came as Russia pressed its assault to seize the eastern Donbas region, having abandoned its earlier thrust toward Kyiv from the north.
A Russian victory in Sievierodonetsk and its twin city of Lysychansk across the Siverskyi Donets river would bring full control of Luhansk, one of two eastern provinces Moscow claims on behalf of separatists.
Addressing concerns the provision of such weapons could draw the United States into a direct conflict with Russia, senior administration officials said Kyiv gave assurances the missiles would not be used to strike inside Russia.
Kyiv says weapons sent by the United States and other countries since the start of the invasion have helped fend off Russian gains.
The near-constant bombardment is forcing civilians to seek refuge in bomb shelters and basements, with only few precious opportunities for those trying to escape, he said.
The Luhansk Peoples Republics police force said Ukraines forces had damaged it. Ukraine and Russian-backed separatists traded accusations over a similar incident in April.
Responding to the EU oil embargo, Moscow widened its gas cuts to Europe in a move that pushed up prices and ratcheted up its economic battle with Brussels.
A senior Biden administration official said weaponry provided would include the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System HIMARS, which Ukraines armed forces chief said a month ago was crucial to counter Russian missile attacks.
We have moved quickly to send Ukraine a significant amount of weaponry and ammunition so it can fight on the battlefield and be in the strongest possible position at the negotiating table, Biden wrote in an opinion piece in the New York Times on Tuesday.
We can say already that a third of Sievierodonetsk is already under our control, Russias TASS state news agency quoted Leonid Pasechnik, the leader of the pro-Moscow Luhansk Peoples Republic, as saying.
A pro-Moscow separatist leader said Russian proxies had advanced slower than expected to maintain the citys infrastructure and exercise caution around its chemical factories.
Russian troops have now taken control of most of the eastern industrial city of Sievierodonetsk in Luhansk, one of two provinces in the Donbas, regional Governor Serhiy Gaidai on Tuesday.
Jan Egeland, secretary general of the Norwegian Refugee Council aid agency which had long operated out of Sievierodonetsk, said he was horrified by its destruction.
KYIV Reuters      Russian troops fought to take complete control of the eastern industrial city of Sievierodonetsk on Wednesday as the United States said it will provide Ukraine with advanced rockets to help it force Moscow to negotiate an end to the war.
Nearly all critical infrastructure in Sievierodonetsk had been destroyed and 60 of residential property damaged beyond repair, he added. Russian shelling had made it impossible to deliver aid or evacuate people.
These systems will be used by the Ukrainians to repel Russian advances on Ukrainian territory, but they will not be used on targets in Russian territory, the U.S. official told reporters.
Putin launched his special operation in February to disarm and denazify Ukraine. Ukraine and its Western allies call this a baseless pretext for a war to seize territory.
