US Europe plan Russia sanctions as Ukraine warns of more civilian deaths
20220329
https://wsau.com/2022/04/04/u-s-europe-plan-russia-sanctions-as-ukraine-warns-of-more-civilian-deaths/
Russian forces withdrew from towns north of the capital Kyiv last week as it turns its assault to Ukraines south and east. Ukrainian troops recaptured towns devastated by nearly six weeks of war, including Bucha, where dead civilians lined the streets.
Searing images of a mass grave in Bucha and the bound bodies of people shot at close range drew an international outcry on Monday. U.S. President Joe Biden called for a war crimes trial against Russias President Vladimir Putin, with Washington, Germany and France promising new sanctions against Moscow.
West of Mariupol, in the town of Mykolaiv, shelling on Monday killed 10 people, including a child, and injured 46 others, regional administration head Oleksandr Senkevich said. Reuters was not immediately able to verify the report.
Russia launched what it calls a special military operation in Ukraine on Feb. 24, aiming to demilitarize and denazify Ukraine. Ukraine and the West say the invasion was illegal and unjustified.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Monday that Putin and his supporters would feel the consequences of events in Bucha and that Western allies would agree further sanctions against Moscow in the coming days.
Russia denied any accusations related to the murder of civilians and said it would present empirical evidence to a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday proving its forces were not involved.
And this is only one town. One of many Ukrainian communities which the Russian forces managed to capture, Zelenskiy said. Now, there is information that in Borodyanka and some other liberated Ukrainian towns, the number of casualties of the occupiers may be even much higher, he added, referring to a town 25 km 16 miles west of Bucha.
LVIV, Ukraine Reuters      The United States and Europe were planning new sanctions on Tuesday to punish Moscow over civilian killings in Ukraine, and President Volodymyr Zelenskiy warned more deaths were likely to be uncovered in areas seized from Russian invaders.
Ukraines foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, said he spoke with U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres about Bucha and stressed that Ukraine will use all available UN mechanisms to collect evidence and hold Russian war criminals to account.
In Mariupol, a southeastern town on the Azov Sea that has been under siege for weeks, Reuters images showed three bodies in civilian clothes lying in the street, one against a wall sprayed with blood.
Bidens national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, said new U.S. sanctions against Moscow would be announced this week. The U.S. State Department said it was supporting an international team of prosecutors and experts to collect and analyse evidence of atrocities.
German Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht said the European Union must discuss banning Russian gas, though other officials urged caution around measures that could touch off a European energy crisis.
Moscow painted the withdrawal as a goodwill gesture at peace talks, which last convened on Friday. Negotiators had been due to convene on Monday, but neither side has given an update on the talks.
Russia supplies about a third of Europes gas, and Putin has tried to use energy as a lever to fight back against Western sanctions. But Moscow has maintained gas flows through key pipeline routes into Europe, despite uncertainty over Putins demands for payments in roubles.
Ukraine says it has evacuated thousands of civilians in the past few days from Mariupol, which is surrounded by areas held by Russian-backed separatists in the eastern Donbas region.
Russian forces pulled back from the capital Kyiv in the face of unexpectedly lethal and mobile Ukrainian resistance using Western anti-tank weaponry.
A team from the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC was stopped during an attempt to reach Mariupol to evacuate civilians, and is now being held in a nearby town, a spokesperson said on Monday.
Ukraine said it was preparing for about 60,000 Russian reservists to be called in to reinforce Moscows offensive in the east, where Russias main targets have included the port of Mariupol and Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city.
The United States says it will push to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council over the Bucha killings, calling Moscows participation in the body a farce.
In an early morning video address, Zelenskiy said he would also address the Security Council on Tuesday as he builds support for an investigation into Bucha.
