These 3 major changes could be coming to your energy bills this year
20220209
https://www.heraldseries.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19909905.3-major-changes-coming-energy-bills-year/
This change would be controversial, as some argue that consumers could end up paying more if energy costs are rising, whilst the alternative view isthat it provides a much more accurate cap for bills and protects customers from sudden spikes.
Analysts have predictedthat the energy price cap could in fact go up again when it is reviewed later this year.
Demand is also high as theworldcomes out of successive lockdowns and businesses try to make up for lost time - many will need lots of gas for this.
Yahoo News report that energy consultants Cornwall Insight forecast a rise to 2,329 this winter, which would deal a further devastating blow to millions of low income households already struggling with the cost-of-living crisis.
Until now Ofgem's price cap has protected customers, but it is reviewed every six months, and will be changed in April to take into account the price surge.
The price of gas and electricity is set to see a major increase in 2022 after Ofgemreviewed its cap on energy bills.
A reason for this increase is the price of gas on globalmarkets. Gas prices are around four times higher than they were a year ago, and they have been high for months.
As reported by Yahoo News, there are some further factors that could see more changes to your energy bills later this year.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The energy price cap is adjusted every six months in line with seasonal changes, but there are growing calls to increase the frequency of the reviews.
The cap, which is designed to protect consumers from being overcharged on their bills, soared by 693  meaning those on default tariffs will see bills increase on average from 1,277 to 1,971 per year.
If they were to invade then it could be a problem forEuropean energy markets, which are highly dependent on Russian oil and gas.
Russia has caused tension amongst Western countries with its presence of armed forces on the Ukraine border.
He said:"If Russia invades Ukraine, and let's say there was a sanctions regime that meant Russia limited gas to Europe, that would drive high price rises."
