EU Borrell to visit Ukraine amid Russia border issues
20220104
https://www.phnompenhpost.com/international/eu-borrell-visit-ukraine-amid-russia-border-issues
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell will visit Ukraines frontline this week in a show of support for Kyiv in the face of Moscows military buildup on its border, Brussels said on January 3.
Blinken stressed the US commitment to continued close consultation and coordination with all of our transatlantic allies and partners as we work toward de-escalation through deterrence, defense and dialogue, State Department spokesman Ned Price said.
US President Joe Bidens administration has sought to assure European allies that it will act in concert with them, dismissing suggestions that it could seek a Cold War-style agreement that affects Europe without its participation.
Borrell on his trip will visit the contact line where Ukraines armed forces face off against Russia-backed separatists.
In his latest round of calls, Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke jointly by telephone with the foreign ministers of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Slovakia and separately with his Turkish counterpart.
Moscow insists that US-led military alliance NATO must rule out granting membership for ex-Soviet Ukraine and roll back its forces near Russias border.
High-ranking officials from the US and Russia are set to hold two days of talks in Geneva on the crisis starting January 10 after the Kremlin issued a raft of demands to Washington.
Tensions have soared in recent months as the West has warned that Moscow could be planning a full-scale invasion of its neighbour after massing some 100,000 troops at the frontier.
The West has rejected what it calls a bid by Moscow to dictate the future of independent allies and threatened Moscow with severe costs if it launches a fresh incursion of Ukraine.
Borrell  who will meet Ukrainian officials in Kyiv during his visit from January 4-6  has insisted that any discussion about European security must happen in coordination with and participation of EU.
Russia seized the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 and is accused of fomenting a bloody conflict in the east of the country that has killed over 13,000.
