Qatar leader meets Biden in Washington
20220201
https://phnompenhpost.com/international/qatar-leader-meets-biden-washington
Recognising Qatars place in the US militarys global footprint  the state hosts the Pentagons Central Command and a huge airbase  Biden also announced he was designating it a major non-NATO ally, which opens the door to closer military and commercial ties.
In a White House ceremony, Qatar Airways likewise signed a letter of intent for $6.7 billion for 25 737 MAX narrow-body airliners.
However, Qatar has little to no extra capacity in its LNG and there are limitations to how much supply can be diverted from existing contracts.
Western capitals are threatening unprecedented economic sanctions if Russia attacks Ukraine, where it has placed more than 100,000 combat troops on the borders.
The emir was the first Gulf state leader to visit Biden since he became president just over a year ago.
In addition to meeting Biden, the sheikh was meeting with Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, members of Congress and other officials.
On that last note, the two leaders were able to celebrate a $20 billion deal for Qatar Airways to become the first customer for Boeings new 777x cargo planes, with 34 aircraft in the initial order.
However, there are fears that the oil- and gas-producing giant could then retaliate against the European Union, which imports some 40 per cent of its natural gas from Russia and is already going through a steep price crunch.
We want to talk about security in the Gulf and the broader Middle East, ensuring the stability of global energy supplies, continuing our work together to support the people of Afghanistan, and strengthening commercial cooperation.
Minutes after Boeing and Qatar Airways concluded a huge new deal, Biden lavished praise on Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, saying our partnership in Qatar has been central to many of our most vital interests.
Overshadowing the meeting, however, were efforts to source enough natural gas to keep Europe heated through the winter if the brewing conflict with Russia escalates.
Qatar is one of the worlds biggest liquid natural gas exporters, along with the US and Australia, and there are hopes in Washington and Europe that Doha can temporarily redirect exports destined for Asian markets.
US President Joe Biden hosted Qatars emir on January 31 in the White House, underscoring the tiny Gulf states strategic importance  including in a scramble to shield European allies from potential Russian energy cut-offs.
Given Qatars energy riches, it now finds itself rising in importance on yet another front  the transatlantic tensions over Russias intentions in Ukraine.
Doha served as Washingtons diplomatic contact with the Taliban, through months of painful negotiations, and will be pivotal to any future contact with Afghanistan, as well as playing a role in efforts to resurrect the Iran nuclear deal.
During the Afghanistan evacuation last year, US forces sent about 60,000 Afghans and Americans transiting through the Qatar air base.
