Russia unleashes offensive into east Ukraine Zelensky
20220419
https://www.phnompenhpost.com/international/russia-unleashes-offensive-east-ukraine-zelensky
Attacks on Lviv and other cities in western Ukraine show that no part of the country is spared from the Kremlins senseless onslaught, Borrell added.
The Russian army has already entered there, with a huge amount of military hardware . . . Our defenders have retreated to new positions, Gaiday said in a statement on social media.
In recent weeks, Russias military campaign has refocused on the eastern region of Donbas, which pro-Moscow separatists have partly controlled since 2014.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk urged Moscow to open humanitarian corridors from Mariupol to Berdyansk and from the Azovstal metallurgical industrial zone  a holdout for Ukrainian fighters.
In the south of Donbas, Russia continued its push to capture the besieged port city of Mariupol, where the last remaining Ukrainian forces have taken a final stand.
President Vladimir Putin has said he launched the military operation on February 24 to save Russian-speakers in Ukraine from a genocide carried out by a neo-Nazi regime.
Its hell. The offensive has begun, the one weve been talking about for weeks. Theres constant fighting in Rubizhne and Popasna, fighting in other peaceful cities, he said on Facebook.
Lviv has largely been spared bombardment since Russia began its military offensive on February 24, and the city and its surroundings had become a haven for those seeking safety from the war zone.
Its foreign policy chief Josep Borrell pointed to particularly heavy attacks in eastern and southern Ukraine and an offensive against second city Kharkiv, where officials said Russian shelling killed three people.
No matter how many Russian soldiers are brought here, we will fight. We will defend ourselves.
Ukrainian officials on Monday halted the evacuation of civilians from frontline towns and cities in the east for a second day, accusing Russian forces of having blocked and shelled escape routes.
Shortly before Zelenskys address, the regional governor of the Lugansk region Sergiy Gaiday also announced the beginning of Russias much-anticipated attack.
Russia on Monday also pounded targets across the country, reportedly killing at least seven people in the far western city of Lviv.
Shipments of the latest $800-million US military aid package, which includes helicopters, howitzers and armoured personnel carriers, have arrived at Ukraines borders, a Pentagon official said on Monday.
We can now confirm that Russian troops have begun the battle for the Donbas, which they have been preparing for a long time, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Telegram late on Monday.
Russia launched a major offensive into eastern Ukraine on April 18, authorities in Kyiv said, as Moscow opened a new phase of its onslaught after being thwarted in efforts to capture the capital.
But today we understood clearly that we dont have any safe places in Ukraine. Its very dangerous, a bank employee who gave her name as Natalia told AFP after the strikes.
On Monday, Putin lauded the 64th Motor Rifle Brigade  which is accused of committing atrocities near Kyiv  bestowing battle honours on them for heroism and valour, tenacity and courage.
Control of Donbas would allow Moscow to create a southern corridor to the occupied Crimean peninsula.
Among the sites struck was a depot near Lviv that Moscow said held weapons recently delivered to Ukraine from the US and Europe.
Gaiday said four people died as they tried to flee the city of Kreminna in Lugansk as Russian troops moved in.
Ahead of the widely anticipated advance, Ukrainian authorities had urged people in Donbas to flee west to escape.
Seeking to strengthen ties and accelerate admission to the 27-nation bloc, Zelensky said that Ukraine hoped to receive EU candidate country status within weeks.
On Monday, he handed the EUs envoy to Kyiv a two-volume response to a membership questionnaire brought by European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen in March.
Ukraine has alleged the brigade is guilty of war crimes while occupying the suburb of Bucha on the outskirts of Kyiv, where residents were shot dead, some with their hands bound.
He recognised the independence of two self-proclaimed separatist republics in Donetsk and Lugansk shortly before the offensive began.
Your refusal to open these humanitarian corridors will, in the future, be grounds for prosecuting all those involved in war crimes, she said on Telegram.
