Thailand calls on US to shift focus towards humanitarian issues peace
20220517
https://www.phnompenhpost.com/international/thailand-calls-us-shift-focus-towards-humanitarian-issues-peace
Prayut also said he was ready to host US president Joe Biden at the 29th Apec summits in November, to strengthen the bilateral relationship and promote strategic partnerships. Thailand is this years chair of Apec.
The Thai premier spoke after participating in the 2nd ASEAN-US Special Summit in Washington, DC. on May 12-13. The summit marked 45 years of ASEAN-US relations.
The US has also promised to spend over $150 million in initiatives to expand engagements with ASEAN in climate action, education, maritime cooperation and health security.
Bangkok also advised Washington to shift its focus away from using force towards humanitarian considerations, he added.
I think we have to adjust in many aspects to keep up with global changes  especially in industry and the economy  and find ways to boost Thailands income and GDP in the future, he said.
Meanwhile, Biden promised to continue backing ASEANs centrality and promote cooperation under Washingtons Indo-Pacific strategy.
Prayut was speaking against a backdrop of war between Russia and Ukraine, which is disrupting global supply chains, as well as Chinas increasing assertiveness in Southeast Asia.
Prayut said Thailand urged the US to engage more creatively with ASEAN to support sustainable recovery.
Powerful countries face the issue of how to ensure world peaceful and citizens safety and how to take care of humanitarian issues, he added.
Prayut went on to say that Thailand and the US discussed trade and investment in future industries such as digital, clean energy and electric vehicles.
The Kingdom invited the US to invest or set up supply chains in Thailand to fill gaps, he said, adding that Thailand was a suitable hub for important global trade.
On regional issues and conflicts, we have supported the US in solving issues in a peaceful manner and paying attention to humanitarian issues, Prayut said.
Both sides have also adopted the Joint Vision Statement, which sets out ASEAN and US commitment to advancing relations towards establishing a comprehensive strategic partnership in the future.
Thailand has invited the US to invest in the Kingdom to mend broken linkages in the global supply chain, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha said on May 14.
He added that world powers should hold talks as soon as possible to secure global peace.
