CIA Director William Burns jokes Vladimir Putin is entirely too healthy as Kremlin continues to dismiss poor health rumours
20220722
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/cia-director-william-burns-jokes-vladimir-putin-is-entirely-too-healthy-as-kremlin-continues-to-dismiss-poor-health-rumours/news-story/160bb4022903c41416bf11d8bd79f290
"It was very hot in Tehran yesterday, plus 38C, and the air conditioning was very strong. So I apologise," he said.
CIA director William Burns has weighed in on rumours Russian President Vladimir Putin is in ill health as the Kremlin accuses the west of "throwing out various fakes".
Stream more news on the Ukraine war with Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends 31 October, 2022
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said "everything is fine with his health" in a response to a question during his daily briefing on Thursday.
Mr Putin's health has been in the spotlight in recent months after footage of him limping, shaking and sitting awkwardly drew speculation he was unwell.
"There are lots of rumours about President Putin's health and as far as we can tell, he's entirely too healthy," he said in Colorado.
The 69-year-old leader was pictured shivering at Russia's Victory Day Parade as a heavy blanket was draped across his legs.
He was later captured sitting on a chair but was unable to remain still - constantly fidgeting and tapping his feet.
Earlier that day, the President appeared to limp as he walked to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
"I think they Russian invaders are about to run out of steam," he told the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado.
"They will have to pause in some way and that will give the Ukrainians the opportunity to strike back. Their morale is still high. They are starting to receive increasing amounts of good weaponry."
"Our assessment is that the Russians will increasingly find it difficult to manpower and material over the next few weeks.
The Russian President coughed during a public appearance on Wednesday after Interfax news agency quoted him saying he had a slight cold during his visit to Iran.
The head of Britain's foreign intelligence service also claimed Russian invaders are "about to run out of steam" in Ukraine and would struggle to maintain its military campaign.
The CIA director has weighed in on Russian President Vladimir Putin's health as the Kremlin continues to deny rumours he has cancer or Parkinson's disease.
In a resurfaced video taken on February 18, the 69-year-old was filmed uncontrollably shaking his hands before welcoming Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko at the Kremlin.
Mr Burns joked that Mr Putin was "entirely too healthy" after he was asked to address poor health rumours during a security forum in the United States this week.
"You know that Ukrainian information specialists, and American and British ones, have been throwing out various fakes about the state of the president's health in recent months - these are nothing but fakes," he said.
