Dan Murphys BWS and Liquorland to strip Russian vodka off shelves to join calls for peace in solidarity with Ukraine
20220301
https://www.skynews.com.au/lifestyle/trending/dan-murphys-bws-and-liquorland-to-strip-russian-vodka-off-shelves-to-join-calls-for-peace-in-solidarity-with-ukraine/news-story/096d2dc1e2033f66c2d803bced8ccde3
"That is the only thing Putin and his cowboys will understand. We have to hit them where it hurts, and that means money."
Coles liquor retail stores Liquorland, Vintage Cellars and First Choice have also joined calls to boycott the products.
The Australian Federation of Ukrainian Organisations AFUO called for a ban on the import and distribution of Russian goods in protest over President Vladimir Putin's decision to launch a full scale invasion of Ukraine.
Stream more global news with Flash. Stay up to date with more than 20 global  local news sources. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now
Dan Murphys, BWS and Liquorland are among hundreds of retailers and hospitality venues calling for peace as they stripped Russian products from shelves in a united protest against the invasion on Ukraine.
"We have engaged with our suppliers on community concerns regarding the sale and distribution of Russian-sourced products, and resolved to remove a number of Russian-sourced drinks from sale.
Parent company Endeavor Group said they made the decision to remove Russian products as a sign of solidarity with Ukraine.
Dan Murphy's, Jimmy Brings and BWS are among hundreds of retailers and hospitality venues who have made the decision to remove all products of Russian origins from their stores and venues.
"We know a ban is hardcore, but this is a war and the message has to get through that all trade with Russia be stopped.
Russian vodka will be stripped from popular liquor stores across the country after calls for boycotts from the Australian Ukrainian community.
"The thoughts of everyone at Coles Liquor are with the people of Ukraine and we hope for a peaceful resolution to the current crisis as soon as possible," a Coles spokesperson told Skynews.com.au.
"We all understand the importance of business and economics, but in Australia people are drinking Russian vodka and consuming Russian products," the federation's chairman Stefan Romaniw told The Australian Financial Review.
"Following feedback from a variety of stakeholders, we have decided to remove products of Russian origin from our stores, hotels and online businesses in the coming days."
"As an organisation, Endeavour Group is deeply concerned with the situation in Ukraine and we join the calls for peace," a spokesperson said.
