Dozens of diplomats stage walkout as Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov gives speech to UN Human Rights Council
20220302
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/dozens-of-diplomats-stage-walkout-as-russian-foreign-minister-sergei-lavrov-gives-speech-to-un-human-rights-council/news-story/ecc3aeceb5e74ad957c66c4fcb72c4b9
Mr Lavrov used his speech to blame Ukraine for the war and claimed the country is attempting to acquire nuclear weapons.
"Today the dangers that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's regime pose for neighbouring countries and international security in general have increased substantially after the authorities set up in Kyiv have embarked upon dangerous games related to plans to acquire their own nuclear weapons,' he told the Conference on Disarmament.
The protesting diplomats huddled together and displayed a Ukrainian flag outside the room while Mr Lavrov delivered his address.
Ukraines ambassador to the United Nations Sergiy Kyslytsya shared footage of the walkout to his Twitter on Tuesday as he lashed Russian leaders.
Stream more global news with Flash. Stay up to date with more than 20 global  local news sources. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now
The Foreign Minister was to take part in the session in person but his attendance was cancelled at the last minute.
The protest occurred on the same day Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy received a standing ovation following his address to European Parliament.
HRC members walk out once Lavrovs video began to play in the session of the Council, he wrote.
Video footage from the astonishing moment was shared widely on Twitter following the powerful demonstration.
GENEVA: Western diplomats walk-out en masse from a virtual speech made by Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov pic.twitter.com9PyacRYRMc
HRC members walk out once Lavrovs video began to play in the session of the Council. Enough of exposure to the deranged lunacy of war criminals. We will listen to you at International Tribunal for War Crimes of Putins Regime pic.twitter.comneDqBYccxk
The representatives stood from their chairs and walked towards the door as Mr Lavrovs pre-recorded speech was displayed on the big screen.
The astonishing moment dozens of ambassadors and diplomats walked out of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in protest of Russias invasion of Ukraine has been caught on camera.
"Ukraine still has Soviet nuclear technologies and the means of delivery of such weapons. We cannot fail to respond to this real danger."
Dozens of ambassadors and diplomats from more than 50 countries walked out of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva as Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov began a virtual address.
Standing ovations after speech of  President ZelenskyyUa at the European Parliament EuroparlEN in honour of all those who are fighting against Russian aggression to protect Ukraines freedom, independence and European choice. EU is standing shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine pic.twitter.comtwVs5NdQPc
Watch 140 diplomats walk out of this mornings UN Human Rights Council meeting when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov attempted to justify Russias unforgivable assault on Ukraine. pic.twitter.comrYfG8o6YUc
The protest, which involved Britain, the United States and France among other countries, was staged on Tuesday over Vladimir Putins violent invasion of Ukraine almost a week after the attack was first launched.
