Emmanuel Macron has warned against humiliating Russia in hopes President Vladimir Putin will end the Ukraine war
20220604
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/emmanuel-macron-has-warned-against-humiliating-russia-in-hopes-president-vladimir-putin-will-end-the-ukraine-war/news-story/85c39ffd2fa45b8757a151827c1f8967
"We must not humiliate Russia so that the day when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means," he told local French media.
"I think he has isolated himself. Isolating oneself is one thing, but being able to get out of it is a difficult path."
French President Emmanuel Macron has warned against "humiliating" Russia despite labelling dictator Vladimir Putin's decision to invade Ukraine a "historic" mistake.
"Calls to avoid humiliation of Russia can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it," he said in a tweet.
He also reiterated his calls for further sanctions against Russia by the European Union and hoped for further deliveries of "more modern weapons".
"If we do not manage together to stop this man, then these are dark hours, dark hours that we have already experienced in the Second World War.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba hit back at Mr Macron's remarks, saying it was "better to focus on how to put Russian in its place" rather than being worried about embarassing the country.
Stream the latest news on the war in Ukraine live  on demand on Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends 31 October, 2022
"I think, and I told him, that he is making a historic and fundamental mistake for his people, for himself, and for history," the French President said in reference to a previous conversation with his counterpart.
You have to stop this individual from destroying European values," the Ukraine leader said about his Russian counterpart without directly naming him.
Over the weekend, Ukrainian officials claim they have pushed back a Russian advancement in the north-eastern Ukrainian town of Severodonetsk.
However, Moscow's army suggested Ukrainian military were withdrawing from the city with "street fighting" and "assault operations underway" in the industrial part of the city.
Mr Macron - who held an 80-minute phone call with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and President Putin last week - suggested the Russian leader hold "direct serious negotiations" with President Zelensky in hopes of a ceasefire.
The French President has made a suggestion to Western nations if it wanted to see the end of the Ukrainian war that has lasted more than 100 days as Russian forces reportedly retreat from a key strategic city.
But in fresh comments about the devastating war, President Macron warned the West against embarassing Russia if the world wanted to see the end of the war.
Calls to avoid humiliation of Russia can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it. Because it is Russia that humiliates itself. We all better focus on how to put Russia in its place. This will bring peace and save lives.
While he agreed it was a "historic and fundamental" error on the part of President Putin, he said it was time to ease the hostilities between Russia and the world.
The governor of Luhansk province said Ukraine's forces have recaptured 20 per cent of the city that is seen as a strategic key to President Putin's invasion.
The war, which ticked over its 100th day over the weekend, has left tens of thousands of innocent civilians dead or injured, at least 12 million residents displaced and 20 per cent of Ukraine occupied by Russian forces, according to President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Mr Macron believes France can be play a significant role as a "mediating power" to negotiate with the Russian dictator who has show no signs of easing its attacks.
He compared the 2014 controlled regions to the size of Netherlands, around 43,000 square kilometres, but said it has grown to nearly 125,000 square kilometres since President Putin launched the "special military operation" on February 24.
In a video address to Luxembourg lawmakers, President Zelensky estimates 20 per cent of the war-torn country was under the control of Russian troops.
