Explosions heard in Kyiv as Russian President Vladimir Putin declares special military operation on Ukraine
20220224
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/global-affairs/explosions-heard-in-kyiv-as-russian-president-vladimir-putin-declares-war-on-ukraine/news-story/69b0352fa3e3d9c6163d42b62a383143
It is currently unknown if anyone has been injured by the explosions and how much damage has incurred.
"I have decided to conduct a special military operation. Russia cannot exist with a constant threat emanating from the territory of Ukraine," Mr Putin said in a televised address.
Breaking: Video shows the moment explosions were heard in Kyiv, Ukraine, during CNN broadcast. pic.twitter.comeAZkSKg9KB
Stream more global news with Flash. Stay up to date with more than 20 global  local news sources. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now.
"You and I have been left with no opportunity to protect our people other than the one we use today."
"I can't explain what they are but I heard four or five explosions a few moments ago."
The Russian military released a statement in response to the attacks, saying they were not aimed at Ukrainian cities and civilians are "not at risk".
"Under these circumstances, the aforementioned airspace and critical infrastructure, including airports, are exposed to military activities which result in safety risks for civil aircraft.
However a Ukrainian Interior Minister has told NBC News that "cruise and ballistic missile strikes are underway".
Throughout the week Russia sent thousands of troops and military vehicles across the border with more troops gathering on the border ready to invade.
There has not yet been any clarification of what weapons were used in the explosions and if they were sent from the Russian aircraft or by land-based weapons.
Several explosions have rocked the Ukrainian capital as Russian President Vladimir Putin declared Russia would be launching a "full-scale" military action.
"We are ready for any development of events. All necessary decisions in this regard have been made. I hope that I will be heard."
The alert is a direct reaction to the "launch of military activities over the territory of Ukraine" with operators told to "exercise extreme caution and avoid using the airspace".
The Ukrainian Ministry of Defence wrote a total of 300 units of military equipment from the Russian Armed Forces had been spotted since the beginning of the week.
"During the past day, 166 units of military equipment of the Russian Armed Forces were located in the temporarily occupied territory," the Ministry of Defence wrote on Wednesday local time.
"High-precision weapons destroy military infrastructure: military airfields, aviation, air defence facilities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The civilian population is not at risk."
"Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes," he tweeted.
Air raid sirens were sounded at around 7am local time in the Ukrainian capital however several cars and civilians are still moving around in the city centre.
"This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now."
"The Russian Armed Forces are not launching any missile or artillery strikes on the cities of Ukraine," the statement read.
"In particular, there is a risk of both intentional targeting and misidentification of civil aircraft."
CNN's Matthew Chance was seen reacting to several loud explosions during a live cross from Kyiv.
"Air operators are reminded that this is now an active conflict zone," the alert said.
The blasts come just moments after President Putin announced that he had authorised a "special military operation" with intentions of demilitarising Ukraine.
Early on Thursday morning local time President Putin signalled the beginning of war in Ukraine by announcing a "special military operation".
Europe's top air traffic authority has responded by implementing an immediate warning for all airlines and civilian flights to stay away from the Ukrainian airspace.
It is suspected the explosions heard in Kyiv - a city with nearly three million people - were coming from Boryspil east of Kyiv and in the direction of the international airport, and began lighting up the sky with the first attacks coming at around 5:30am local time.
Social media videos - often filmed by civilians - have shown multiple explosions in seemingly metropolitan areas in the different Ukrainian cities.
"There are big explosions taking place in Kyiv right now, I can't see where they're taking place from this vantage point.
"Whoever tries to interfere with us, and even more so to create threats to our country, to our people, should know that Russia's response will be immediate and will lead you to such consequences as you have never experienced in your history," he said.
