President Vladimir Putin claims NATOs active military buildup forced Russia to invade Ukraine in Victory Day speech
20220510
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/global-affairs/president-vladimir-putin-claims-natos-active-military-buildup-forced-russia-to-invade-ukraine-in-victory-day-speech/news-story/796d14d728825760cb2fea52d7f0843c
Russia launched a pre-emptive strike at the aggression. It was a forced, timely and the only correct decision. A decision by a sovereign, strong and independent country.
There was every indication that a clash with neo-Nazis and Banderites backed by the United States and their minions was unavoidable, he said.
Stream the latest on the invasion of Ukraine from the world's most trusted news sources with Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends October 31, 2022.
All in vain. NATO countries did not want to heed us, which means they had totally different plans. And we saw it.
Before he ended the speech Mr Putin again rallied the Russian troops in attendance by likening their fight in the Donbass region to those of those in World War II.
The Russian President told the military personnel in attendance their fight in Ukraine was similar to the fight their ancestors had lived in World War II.
The annual Victory Day parade in Red Square was smaller than recent years with 11,000 participants and 131 armoured vehicles.
Let's talk again. NATO countries were not going to attack Russia. Ukraine did not plan to attack Crimea. The Russian military is dying, not defending their country, but trying to occupy another. There were no rational reasons for this war other than  sick imperial ambitions.
President Putin alleged that the United States began claiming exceptionalism, particularly after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Loyalty to our Fatherland is the main value and a reliable foundation of Russias independence for us, their successors, too.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has hit out at Western nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO for attempting to cancel the countrys values of respect for all peoples and cultures during a Victory Day address.
Ukrainian presidential official Mykhailo Podoliak responded on social media denying all claims NATO and Ukraine had been the aggressor in the lead up to the invasion.
President Putin announced a special military operation on February 24 with the intention of demilitarising Ukraine due to the constant threat emanating from the territory.
President Vladimir Putin has claimed Russia was "forced" to invade Ukraine due to a build-up of military infrastructure and cutting-edge weaponry being delivered by NATO countries.
Mr Putin then falsely blamed NATO for launching an active military build-up on Russias bordering nations and claimed: Kyiv declared that it could attain nuclear weapons.
Let's talk again. NATO countries were not going to attack Russia. Ukraine did not plan to attack Crimea, he tweeted.
Midway through his address President Putin held a minute of silence in memory of the Odessa martyrs who died in the House of Trade Unions in 2014, those from Donbass who have died in the conflict and Russians who have died fighting for Russia.
President Putin, who was speaking to an enormous gathering of troops, tanks and military hardware in Moscows Red Square on Monday, declared he was left with no option but to launch a strike on Ukraine.
Let me repeat, we saw the military infrastructure being built up, hundreds of foreign advisors starting work, and regular supplies of cutting-edge weaponry being delivered from NATO countries. The threat grew every day.
The Russian leader continued his attacks on the West saying it was seemingly set to cancel these millennia-old values and in doing so was escalating Russophobia, praising traitors, mocking their victims memory and crossing out the courage of those who won the Victory through suffering.
The Russian military is dying, not defending their country, but trying to occupy another. There were no rational reasons for this war other than sick imperial ambitions.
Today, as in the past, you are fighting for our people in Donbas, for the security of our Motherland, for Russia, he said.
We will never give up our love for our Motherland, our faith and traditional values, our ancestors customs and respect for all peoples and cultures.
Last December we proposed signing a treaty on security guarantees. Russia urged the West to hold an honest dialogue in search for meaningful and compromising solutions, and to take account of each others interests, he said.
You are defending today what your fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers fought for. The wellbeing and security of their Motherland was their top priority in life, Mr Putin said.
The Russian leader continually blamed the war on NATO and the West, claiming they had refused to engage in an honest dialogue prior to the invasion.
