Putin will never gain the hearts and souls of the Iranian people Joe Biden makes presidential gaffe at State of the Union
20220302
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/united-states/putin-will-never-gain-the-hearts-and-souls-of-the-iranian-people-joe-biden-makes-presidential-gaffe-at-state-of-the-union/news-story/7cfa1e84819c9a557adcc43ff4a62b49
Mr Bidens mistake comes as Ukrainians face a dire Russian invasion with residents in the countrys two largest cities suffering through extensive missile and bomb attacks.
Stream more global news with Flash. Stay up to date with more than 20 global  local news sources. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now
The US Presidents latest error came amid a tirade against Russian President Vladimir Putin and his brutal invasion of Ukraine.
President Joe Biden has mistaken Ukraine for Iran during his State of the Union address as Russia continues to mount an assault on Kyiv. WATCH NOW.
Russian paratroopers landed in Kharkiv and attacked one of the citys military medical centers, UNIAN news agency reports. Ukrainian forces are repelling the attack.
Kharkiv suffered major shelling the night before with a Russian missile hitting Ukraines largest public square.
Joe Biden has made a gaffe during his landmark State of the Union speech, mistaking Ukraine for Iran.
He also accused Mr Putin of engaging in a premeditated and unprovoked war which sparked a substantial response from the United States and NATO.
But I want you to know, we're going to be OK. We're going to be OK. When the history of this era is written, Putin's war in Ukraine will have left Russia weaker and the rest of the world stronger.
Putin may circle Kyiv with tanks, but hell never gain the hearts and souls of the Iranian people, he said.
Putin has unleashed violence and chaos, but while he may make gains in the battlefield, he'll pay a continuing high price over the long run, he said.
Airborne soldiers reportedly entered the city at about 3am local time where a heavy gun fight with the Ukrainian military ensued.
A security camera has captured the moment a government building in Freedom Square was struck killing at least ten people and injuring more than a dozen.
Never extinguish their love of freedom and never, never weaken the resolve of the free world.
It comes as Russian troops have landed in the city of Kharkiv, according to the Ukrainian Security Service.
He thought the West and NATO wouldnt respond and he thought he could divide us here at home, he thought he could divide us in Europe as well, Mr Biden continued.
While western allies have levelled severe sanctions against Russia and its major entities and wealthy individuals, the invasion continues to move full speed ahead.
