Russian President Vladimir Putin to punish Wikimedia Foundation for hosting prohibited materials on Ukraine War
20220720
https://www.skynews.com.au/australia-news/russian-president-vladimir-putin-to-punish-wikimedia-foundation-for-hosting-prohibited-materials-on-ukraine-war/news-story/3496022656c9239b6c0a3f2ef40149c0
Russian President Vladimir Putin is now targeting Wikipedia for "prohibited materials, including fakes" in an effort to control the flow of information around the conflict in Ukraine.
In a statement on Wednesday, Roskomnadzor said that Wikipedia hosted "prohibited materials, including fakes about the course of the special military operation on the territory of Ukraine.
In an effort to crackdown on the flow of information President Vladimir Putin signed an order in March permitting lengthy prison terms for those spreading deliberately false information.
Stream more global news with Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends 31 October, 2022
The communications watchdog added that search engines would also be used to alert users that Wikimedia breached Russian law, including disclaimers on links to Wikipedia articles.
Apple was fined two million roubles AU$52,554 for non-compliance after refusing to store user iCloud data in Russia.
The articles contained terms such as The Russian Invasion of Ukraine, War Crimes during the Russian Invasion of Ukraine, and Massacre in Bucha, whereas Russia deems it a special operation.
Under the rules, media outlets can be blocked or fined for using the term "assault, invasion, or declaration of war" when reporting on the conflict in Ukraine.
Russias media regulator says it is taking steps to punish Wikimedia Foundation  the website which hosts Wikipedia  for violating Russian laws around the war in Ukraine.
In a further attempt to exercise more control over the online space, Google was fined 21.1 billion roubles AU$554,699,702 after failing to remove content Moscow deemed fake news.
The measures will remain in place until the Wikimedia Foundation becomes fully compliant with Russia law, said Roskomnadzor.
The Kremlin introduced stringent laws around the sharing of information on the conflict just days after Russia began its incursion of Ukraine on February 24.
In June, a Moscow court fined the Wikimedia Foundation five million roubles AU$131,295 for refusing to remove Russian-language Wikipedia which contained false information.
