Russia stops its gas supply to Poland and Bulgaria as the two NATO nations refuse to pay Moscow in rubles
20220427
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/russia-stops-its-gas-supply-to-poland-and-bulgaria-as-the-two-nato-nations-refuse-to-pay-moscow-in-rubles/news-story/41d0d3fabfcca86b550080cecc33220f
Bulgaria, who relies on Gazprom for more than 90 per cent of its gas and is a former ally of Russia, said it will find alternate solutions, adding no limit would be implemented yet.
Germany, the biggest buyer of Russian gas, said demanding rubles for payment is a breach of its contract while Italy flagged it would continue paying in euros as paying in Russias currency would help President Putin avoid sanctions.
The news has sent alarm bells through Europe as several countries rely on Russia's gas to heat homes, generate electricity and fuel industries.
"That is why the EU needs to be united and impose an embargo on energy resources, depriving the Russians of their energy weapons."
Many European countries have reduced their dependence on Russia for gas in the last few years.
Polish company PGNiG, the largest gas distributor in the country, said supplies through its Yamal pipeline will be cut.
Andriy Yermak, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky's chief of staff, said Moscow was "beginning the gas blackmail of Europe".
Stream more world news live  on demand with Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends 31 October, 2022
Last month, Moscow declared "unfriendly" countries will need to pay for gas in rubles or risk losing its supply amid sanctions imposed by the West which has seen the Russian economy and oligarchs crippled.
"Russia is trying to shatter the unity of our allies. Russia is also proving that energy resources are a weapon," he said in response to the news.
Nord Stream 2, an $11 billion pipeline stretching from Germany to Russia through the Baltic Sea, has not begun operation as officials halted the project amid the invasion.
Russian state-owned corporation Gazprom told Poland and Bulgaria that all gas deliveries will be halted on Wednesday at 8am Central Eastern Time.
There are no worries about shortages of gas in our homes. It is worth pointing out that liquified natural gas alone supplies the market sufficiently," she said.
The country's Energy Ministry said it has been given warning that Bulgaria's supply of Russian gas through the TurkStream pipeline will stop.
But the country's Climate Minister Anna Moskwa stressed in a press conference it did not need to draw gas from its reserves which sits at 76 per cent full.
Russia of course will continue supplying natural gas and will respect all of the obligations and pricing under the contracts we have signed."
Kyiv accused Moscow of using its gas as a "weapon" as the two impacted countries revealed the supply would stop in a matter of hours.
Ive decided, within a very short period, to introduce a number of measures to move payments for our natural gas to deliver to the so-called hostile countries for Russian rubles, President Vladimir Putin said in a televised government meeting in March.
Germany could continues its gas imports from other countries such as Britain, Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands via other pipelines.
One of Russia's energy giants has ceased its gas supply to two nations who refused to pay in rubles as Ukraine accuses Moscow of "beginning the gas blackmail of Europe".
We will transition to charging supplies for metro gas and other raw materials in Russian rubles when dealing with unfriendly countries.
The European Union flagged it wants to cut Russian gas supply by two-thirds this year and end its reliance "well before 2030".
Ukraine has accused Russia of "blackmail" after one of its energy giants announced it will cut off its gas supply to two NATO countries after they refused to pay in rubles.
Hours earlier, the Polish government announced it will impose sanctions on 50 entities and individuals, including Gazprom, as the deadly Russian invasion of Ukraine entered its 63rd day.
