Secretary of State Antony Blinken to meet with Russian counterpart as US fears Ukraine invasion at any point
20220119
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/secretary-of-state-antony-blinken-to-meet-with-russian-counterpart-as-us-fears-ukraine-invasion-at-any-point/news-story/b269af03ceea7582c2ffc1189507fb84
But weve seen the exact opposite from Russia, including during and after our diplomatic engagements in Europe earlier this month. President Putin created this crisis by amassing over 100,000 Russian troops along Ukraines border.
The official stressed this also encompassed Russia moving its forces into Belarus over the weekend which they said was neither an exercise nor normal troop movement.
The US will encourage Russia to "de-escalate" its presence along Ukraine's border in talks this week as fears mount over an imminent invasion by President Vladimir Putin.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Tuesday underscored the US was committed to de-escalation and explained Mr Blinken would highlight very clearly to his Russian counterpart there is a diplomatic path forward.
The US State Department confirmed Mr Blinken will continue on to Switzerland after travelling to Kyiv and Berlin where he will continue discussions with Russias Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and encourage Russia to take immediate steps to de-escalate.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken will meet with his Russian counterpart in Geneva this week as tensions flare between the two countries with the United States fearing Russia could invade Ukraine at any point".
And lets be clear: This is extremely dangerous. We are now at a stage where Russia could, at any point, launch an attack on Ukraine.
It is the choice of President Putin and the Russians to make whether they are going to suffer severe economic consequences or not, she told reporters.
It is a show of strength designed to cause or give false pretext for a crisis as Russia plans for a possible invasion.
Asked about possible economic ramifications for Russia in the case of an invasion, Ms Psaki said no option is off the table in our view.
The senior State Department official also flagged the US had been in nonstop diplomatic engagement with Ukraine and its transatlantic partners and allies, as well as holding ongoing dialogue with Russia.
So far, Russia has continued its troop buildup and its harsh rhetoric. Our message and that of our allies and partners has been clear: Russia has two choices - diplomacy and de-escalation and massive consequences, the official said.
Im traveling to Kyiv and Berlin, where I will meet with our partners and allies, before meeting with my Russian counterpart in Geneva. This is a diplomatic effort to de-escalate tensions surrounding the unprovoked Russian military build-up on Ukraines borders. pic.twitter.comdAP2nkrXfK
Russia has held a strong military presence along Ukraines border since last year, prompting grave concerns from the Biden administration with the White House threatening economic retaliation should President Vladimir Putin decide to launch an attack.
The US has not yet determined, however, whether President Putin will proceed with an invasion.
The United States remains committed to diplomacy and believes it is the best and most responsible way forward.
Weve been clear, meaningful progress on the diplomatic track can only happen in an environment of de-escalation, a senior State Department official said.
