Sergey Markov suggests deaths of Bucha civilians was at the hands of Ukrainian fascists and NeoNazis
20220406
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/sergey-markov-suggests-deaths-of-bucha-civilians-was-at-the-hands-of-ukrainian-fascists-and-neonazis/news-story/0c321e6b846f3d01342061d160c6beca
He Putin understands very well Volodymyr Zelensky is not president of Ukraine, hes just a puppet in the hands of the United States of America and its not war between Russia and Ukraine, its war between Russia and America a proxy, he said.
Some bodies had their hands tied together with white fabric and others were found inside a basement with signs of torture before they were executed.
Now the world can see what Russian military did in Bucha, but the world has yet to see what they have done in other occupied cities and regions of our country.
He alleged it was Ukrainian fascists and Neo-Nazis who killed the locals after they violated and order by President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Stream the latest news on the war in Ukraine live  on demand on Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends 31 October, 2022
Sergei Markov, a Russian political analyst, and former adviser to President Putin, claimed Ukrainian authorities reported everything was fine in Bucha days before the corpses were found by authorities.
Mr Markov laughed off suggestions Moscow was now losing the war that he suggested was in fact against the US and not America.
A Russian analyst and former Vladimir Putin adviser said it is "impossible" Russia was behind the deaths of the hundreds of civilians in a Ukrainian town.
Can you believe that Ukrainian police and mayor could not see 300 killed bodies on central streets of Bucha city, he told First Edition host Peter Stefanovic.
He alleges Russian forces retreated from the town on March 30 as once occupied regions slowly became liberated.
A former Vladimir Putin adviser has laughed off suggestions Moscow was appearing to lose its war against Ukraine and claimed the hundreds of civilians that were killed in a town outside the capital were being punished.
They were killed because they took humanitarian aid from the Russian army which Volodymyr Zelensky prohibited them to take, he claimed.
There has been worldwide condemnation of the actions from President Putin as calls escalate for the Russian leader to face a war crimes trial.
Mr Markov said Ukrainian police then arrived in the town on April 1 following the retreatment of President Putins forces and nothing had been reported.
Mr Markov suggested it was the barbaric, fascist regime in Ukraine that led to the deaths of the reported 300 civilians in the town.
No, were not losing war. Were going to crash this American proxy, the Ukrainian army.
He then claims the Mayor of Bucha, Anatoliy Fedoruk, said everything was good one day after troops left.
Ukrainian officials this week said it had discovered a total of 410 corpses in municipalities surrounding Kyiv as part of an investigation into possible war crimes by Russia.
Shocking graphic images showed several corpses scattered along a main road in the decimated town of Bucha where its been reported up to 300 residents were slaughtered and a mass grave was discovered.
Bucha is only one of many, of what occupiers have been doing on our land for 41 days, he told a UN meeting overnight.
