Sydney Ukrainian community calls on Australians to push politicians for more assistance in their home country
20220225
https://www.skynews.com.au/australia-news/sydney-ukrainian-community-calls-on-australians-to-push-politicians-for-more-assistance-in-their-home-country/news-story/efa29be17691d6a563b25f547e497f01
BREAKING: BRAVO! Thousands of brave anti-war protesters just stormed the streets of Saint Petersburg, Russia to protest Putin's invasion of Ukraine. pic.twitter.commCFBgkgbEh
But I think and we feel Australians can do more. Its a democracy in Australia, theres a freedom of speech, people can demand from their politicians to act and help us.
Sydney rally organisers, Anton and Olga, said their parents, who live in the capital Kyiv, were woken early in the morning by the sounds of explosions.
A sleepless Olga was amazed and forever grateful for Australians who have reached out to her to show support, but she said more can be done.
Hundreds of Ukrainian Sydneysiders have braved the wet weather in the city to protest against Russias aggressive invasion into their home country.
In Vilnius, Lithuania, thousands joined a protest outside Russias embassy to demonstrate against Putins invasion of Ukraine: pic.twitter.comPv2VCGIn3D
My parents are really terrified by the explosions that they hear around. The house of my parents is near one of the international airports," he said.
Stream more Australian news with Flash. Stay up to date with more than 20 global  local news sources. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky confirmed 137 people were killed and 316 injured after the first day of attacks with the death toll expected to climb.
It started with missile attacks. In the backyard of my brothers house, a missile has landed and luckily it did not explode, and he wasnt injured.
We are asking Australians to stand by us and not just support us saying they are with us but actually push their politicians and help us.
Anton claimed Russian troops almost seized an airport 10 kilometres from the capital before Ukrainian forces were able to overwhelm the Kremlins troops.
More than 1,700 were arrested in Russia as citizens protested across cities against its government's invasion.
Some protesters were dressed in traditional outfits from their culture as they sung songs in their native tongue.
Huge anti-war protest happening in Moscow, the capital of Russia: Russian citizens rejecting the Ukraine invasion pic.twitter.comCx6GADwlPy
Emotional demonstrators descended onto Martin Place in the CBD on Friday carrying posters reading, No Putin, no killing, harsh sanctions are not enough and stop World War Three.
Russians and Ukrainians have united together at a peaceful protest in Martin Place. Their messages: Russia wake up, Stand with Ukraine, Stop Putin now. RussiaUkraineConflict Ukraine SBSNews pic.twitter.comrXW3GiNiuI
Anton Grebnnikov fears the Russian missile attacks could miss its targets and end up crashing into residential home of locals or even his parents.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison has pledged he will assist Ukraine with medical and humanitarian supplies and will send military equipment to assist locals.
They heard something that sounded like bombs but it was in fact Russian military missiles that were attacking our major cities, Anton told Sky News Australia.
He said the situation has since escalated even further with planes reportedly dropping bombs on cities, ships launching rockets, and troops parachuting near the capital.
Australians with Ukrainian descent and expats who call Sydney home fear for family and friends as missiles rain down in major cities with thousands of Russian soldiers walking the streets.
They think that if they invade Kyiv, kill our leaders, then they will prevail. That will not happen, he said.
Tonights Ukraine protest in Toronto  attended by hundreds of Ukrainians, but also Russians, Belarusians, Georgians, and other reps from the FSU that are sick of Putins shit pic.twitter.com245d9dx0Vz
Tens of thousands of demonstrators are rallying around the world at famous landmarks and outside embassies demanding President Vladimir Putin pull back troops.
Hundreds of Ukrainian Sydneysiders have joined worldwide protests to call on Russian President Vladimir Putin to "stop World War III" as they called on the Australian government for further assistance.
