The Wests military support for Ukraine is laced with risk and doing little to slow the Russian advance
20220714
https://www.skynews.com.au/opinion/the-wests-military-support-for-ukraine-is-filled-with-risk-and-doing-little-to-slow-the-russian-advance/news-story/97aadb79a1715f5f04ac36365328fb30
This was evident during the War in Korea, Vietnam, the Arab-Israeli wars, Afghanistan and other cases of the quasi-armed confrontations between the US and the Soviet Union.
What is more likely is the Russians will continue with their advance towards the Dnieper River before taking any major operational pause.
Australia is not alone. The US and its allies are committing more and more resources to support the Ukrainian defenders.
Additionally, there are ongoing risks of a major ground offensive in the countrys south against Mikolayev and Odesa with the aim of completely cutting off Ukraines access to the Black Sea coast.
In the case of the latter, they were donated from the existing Australian Army stock and it remains unclear if the army will get a replacement.
Anthony Albaneses surprise visit to Kyiv on July 3 did more than simply showcase Canberras continuing support for Ukraine.
Western military specialists have already benefitted from learning about the strengths and weaknesses of certain Russian military hardware, including the newest additions in Ukraine.
Unless Ukraine proves it is capable of reclaiming the initiative against Russia over the next few months, I suspect the level of Western military assistance and unconditional political support for Zelenskyys government will start to decline.
Adding to that, the initial optimism that Russia can be defeated solely by Ukrainian defenders armed with Western systems is slowly fading away.
Although that figure may be impressive, a core question remains: perhaps its just too little too late?
That would bring the total number of armored vehicles supplied by Australia to Ukraine to 88, including 60 Bushmasters.
Besides helping the Ukrainian resistance, the extensive military support to Kyiv offers Western operators and designers of weapons systems a unique opportunity to combat test some of their capabilities against rival Russian military technologies.
The Albanese government also pledged an additional US$68 million in military assistance to the war-torn nation, including unmanned aerial vehicles and 34 armored personnel carriers 14 M113AS4 tracked armored personnel carriers and 20 Bushmaster protected mobility vehicles promised by the coalition back in May.
What the West supplies in a month the Russians destroy in a week or less.
Finally, concerns are being raised those smaller weapons supplied to the Ukrainian military may end up elsewhere, including in the hands of groups or regimes unfriendly to the US and its allies.
If Putins invaders meet these objectives, even as a result of much longer, bloodier and a resource draining campaign, Moscow will gain the upper hand in the inevitable political bargaining game.
They have already made some gains in this area since the beginning of the Ukraine conflict.
It seems for now that Western leaders are prepared to accept any risks associated with helping Ukraine militarily, in the hope it ensures Russia does not achieve a military and political victory there.
Ukraines second largest city of Kharkiv is meanwhile once again under the threat of being taken by Russian forces.
Although Ukrainian politicians not the military planners continue to declare plans to launch a major counter-offensive against the Russians over the next few months, it is doubtful Moscow would give Kyiv the breathing space to regain its military strength in preparation for such an offensive.
The most significant of these was the capture of two French-made 155-mmCaesarself-propelledhowitzers, 18 of which were supplied from the French armys current stock.
Dr. Alexey Muraviev is Associate Professor of National Security and Strategic Studies at Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia.
The same goes for other military supplies provided to Kyiv, ranging from M777 howitzers to de-mining equipment, medical kits, tactical radios and drones.
The ongoing Western military assistance allows the Ukrainians to slow down Russias continuous military advance across the 1,000 km frontline.
Back in May, the Russian military claimed to have seized an intact UK-made Brimstone ground attack missile.
The collapse of the Severodonetsk-Licichyansk defensive barrier and the fall of the entire Luhansk region to Russia dealt yet another blow to Ukraines resistance in the Donbass.
Or in the case of the strategically important Snake Island in the vicinity of the Odesa port  force the invaders to withdraw.
There are several military units within the order of battle of pre-Russian separatist forces, which are fully armed with Western anti-tank and anti-aircraft systems.
But as I have argued before, the level of Western military support remains inadequate to satisfy the operational requirements of the Ukrainian military.
Some Ukrainian units have to fight with light firearms and artillery used by the Red Army in World War Two, a sign of growing shortages of basic weapons, let alone advanced air defence systems.
There is video evidence that at least one Bushmaster was lost on a battlefield, though it remains unclear how it was lost. Also, there are no guarantees that more wont be lost or captured.
Another important question that requires discussion is the risks of advanced Western military systems ending in the hands of the Russians.
We now have a situation where Western-supplied equipment has ended up in the hands of the Russians and is now being used against Western-supplied armor and drones.
During the Cold War, proxy conflicts such as the war in Ukraine were often used as testing grounds for your own equipment and an opportunity to gain access to your rivals technologies by capturing them.
These grabs were in addition to hundreds of Javelin, NLAW, Stinger and other tactical systems, which were captured by the Russians over the past three months.
Western leaders for now seem prepared to accept any potential pitfall associated with helping Ukraine militarily - but this support will surely weaken as Russia delivers blow after blow to Volodymyr Zelenskyy's defenders.
According to the Russian Ministry of Defence, to date Ukraine has received more than 28,000 tons of military aid.
Their special strike teams are searching for the new advanced military systems not only to destroy them but also to capture them.
Each of thesestate-of-the-artsystems cost between US$2.9 and US$7.5million, largely due to their advanced targeting suite and high precision munitions, which would be of great interest to the Russians.
