Thousands gather across Russia and around the world in protest of President Vladimir Putins Ukraine invasion
20220225
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/thousands-gather-across-russia-and-around-the-world-in-protest-of-president-vladimir-putins-ukraine-invasion/news-story/5a3131a7dac774ed683b5ec665c428b7
Russian Police beat women who came out to protest against the war... Russian Moscow pic.twitter.comIwL8Tsr7GJ
Around 2,500 people gathered at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin  which was lit up in the colours of the Ukrainian flag  to protest the military advances.
St. Petersburg is rising up in a massive protest against Russias invasion of Ukraine. Putin has begun arresting protesters after getting disturbing reports that they were honking. pic.twitter.com3kR9Aqhbhf
Stream more global news with Flash. Stay up to date with more than 20 global  local news sources. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now.
Social media footage captured in Moscow showed police officers rushing in and carrying screaming protesters away to be detained.
Residents were carrying banners emblazoned with anti-war and anti-Putin slogans and chanting no to war as they marched the streets.
"To be honest with you, I am speechless. War is always scary. We dont want this, she said, the Guardian reported.
Nikita Golubev, a Russian teacher, who attended the protests said she was embarrassed for her country.
In Novosibirsk, Russia, local residents are marching in protest against the Russian invasion of Ukraine:pic.twitter.comLjgAosDJXg
The law provides for severe punishment for organizing mass riots, as well as for resisting law enforcement officers.
Russian police reacted swiftly and have arrested and detained nearly 1,700 people involved in the protests, according to OVI-Info, which tracks arrests at opposition rallies.
2,500 people gathered at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin to protest against the Russian invasion the city had illuminated the landmark in blue  yellow to express solidarity with Ukraine. Nobel Peace Prize winner Dmitri Muratov: We do not recognise Ukraine as an enemy. pic.twitter.com7kNzzTdQxd
Thousands of anti-war protesters gathered on the streets of over 50 Russian cities after the attacks to demand an end to the military action.
Prominent Russian rights activist Marine Litvinovich shared a video to social media calling on resident to attend a walk against the war in Moscow and on Pushkin Square in central Moscow, the Moscow Times reported.
In other cities, demonstrators gathered outside respective Russian embassies and other landmarks waving Ukrainian flags and anti-war banners.
The military action taken by President Putin has resulted in people in the UK, France, Spain, Germany, Turkey, The Netherlands, Norway and Japan and in other countries in protest.
The Russian President order an invasion of Ukraine on Thursday morning local time labelling the attacks a special military operation with several Ukrainian major cities bombed within hours.
Thousands of Russian citizens have taken to the streets to protest President Vladimir Putins military advances into Ukraine.
Thousands of Russians have been arrested and detained during anti-war and anti-Putin protests taking place across more than 50 cities with other people around the world gathering in front of famous landmarks chanting "no to war".
The tracking website reports 965 people have been detained in its capital Moscow, 431 in St Petersburg and over 100 in cities of Krasnodar and Ekaterinburg.
The Russian Investigative Committee issued a warning to residents reminding them of the negative legal consequences of organizing and conducting unauthorised events.
We remind that calls for participation and direct participation in events that are not authorized in accordance with the established procedure entail serious legal consequences, the statement read.
