UK Foreign Secretary says imposing sanctions on Russia over possible Ukraine invasion has not been ruled out
20220126
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/united-kingdom/uk-foreign-secretary-says-imposing-sanctions-on-russia-over-possible-ukraine-invasion-has-not-been-ruled-out/news-story/c2df9a40d477452d3540f22afba363b3
The United Kingdom has not ruled out imposing sanctions on Russia amid escalating tensions over a possible invasion of Ukraine.
"If hePutin were to move in with all those forces, it would be the largest invasion since World War II. It would change the world," Mr Biden said.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has confirmed the British government may accelerate legislation so the country could come down harder on Russia and help to de-escalate the military build-up along Ukraines border.
The United States has threatened to impose economic sanctions on Russia if it invades Ukraine, however, President Joe Biden has warned he will impose personal sanctions on President Putin in the event of an invasion, according to the ABC.
The Kremlin havent learnt the lessons of history. They dream of recreating the Soviet Union or a kind of greater Russia," Ms Truss said.
Australian Defence Minister Peter Dutton noted the significance of the UK's role in maintaining stability in relation to Russia and Ukraine.
Ms Truss, when asked about possible sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin, told Sky they are not ruling anything out.
"They claim they want stability while they work to threaten and destabilise others. We know what lies down that path and terrible toll in lives lost and human suffering it brings."
"So thats a huge concern Im sure for the UK and the world at the moment, he told 2GB radio last week.
Russia has amassed about 100,000 troops on its western border with Ukraine, which has prompted the United States to put 8,500 military personnel on heightened alert.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss says President Putin would be making a "massive strategic mistake" if Russia decides to invade Ukraine.
UK's Foreign Minister last week also warned President Putin against an invasion - which she stated would be a "massive strategic mistake".
If were going to deter countries from aggressive behaviour then were best to do that with strong friends and allies and we have that in the UK and the US."
We will be bringing that forward in the next few days. Im not ruling that out.
"I may be moving some of those troops in the nearer term, just because it takes time."
Well be bringing forward new legislation to make our sanctions regime tougher so we are able to target more companies and individuals in Russia, she added.
