US commentator and Sky News Australia contributor Megyn Kelly says Vladimir Putin is smart strategic and wont back down in Ukraine war
20220310
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/united-states/former-fox-news-host-megyn-kelly-says-vladimir-putin-is-smart-strategic-and-wont-back-down-in-ukraine-war/news-story/24651387d332b00650e5e0779336e2c5
I think this is more of the Vladimir Putin we knew before, the 51-year-old said.
So hes whatever he wants to be or whatever he thinks you need him to be in the moment.
As recently as 2018, and I spent a lot of hours with him, I mean I interviewed him in the Kremlin in Moscow where they keep their nuke site, I didnt see anything close to crazy.
Vladimir Putin if hes one thing, hes smart, very strategic, he thinks out his plans very well and he doesnt back down easily, she said on Paul Murray Live.
Clearly he was trying to butter me up. Hes trying to win favour. Very smiley. Very polite and total gentleman when Im talking to him behind the scenes.
Stream your news live  on demand with Flash for $8month and no lock in contracts. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now
The three of us sat down and had tea, anyway in front of Modi he was more of the paternalistic, little chauvinistic man like, oh look at you, we wont even be able to concentrate on the questions tomorrow.
So, he knew that I was a mother of three young children and one of the first things he mentioned to me was his relationship with his mother and how much he loved his mother and what it was like when he was a little boy.
Former Fox News presenter Megyn Kelly has described Russian President Vladimir Putin as a person who is extremely cunning and extremely manipulative.
But Ms Kelly said it was the opposite when she was invited to what she thought was a large group dinner which turned out to be just President Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
Ms Kelly added she saw the 69-year-old as someone who would absolutely kill for a strategic goal and would do so without feeling one bit of sorrow.
He wasnt trying to compliment me, he was trying to put me in my place, you know, again, another manipulation.
He is a former KGB agent and he studied how to manipulate people, how to affect people, she said.
It has been two weeks since he ordered thousands of his troops amassed around the border into Ukraine in what he initially labelled as a special military operation.
And then when I had him on stage and I was really getting in his grill, in particular about Syria, he was angry and he was in my face.
In an exclusive interview with Sky News Australia, the political commentator said she didnt see anything close to crazy when she was invited to the Kremlin for an interview.
Ms Kelly said President Putin was interesting and switched on to be whatever he thinks you want him to be during certain situations.
Ms Kelly believes President Putin had it in him but did not expect the ruthless nature he would go about trying to seize Ukraine.
The American journalist, who sat down to interview the leader three times during her TV career around 2018, was nervous to jump on the hes crazy now train based on her personal experiences.
"Its hard for me to buy that hes completely lost it in such a short amount of time. Hes extremely cunning, extremely manipulative, extremely well-informed, well-read and ready for anything.
Since then, hundreds of innocent civilians have been killed, thousands injured, apartment blocks, hospitals, schools, and iconic landmarks decimated by numerous missile attacks.
Sky News Australia contributor Megyn Kelly has revealed she "did not see anything close to crazy" when she interviewed the Russian President and described how she was "manipulated" by him at a dinner with another world leader.
We just didnt correctly estimate the extent of his desires in this region of the country and just how ruthless he was prepared to be to get it.
