Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine is a war on the West  and the bitter and ugly conflict is only just beginning
20220602
https://www.skynews.com.au/opinion/vladimir-putins-invasion-of-ukraine-is-a-war-on-the-west-and-the-bitter-and-ugly-separation-is-only-just-beginning/news-story/cd6299e533426875f59eb1b90df5ca14
Despite numerous reports the Russians are digging in in the Kherson region, it may be a calm before the storm.
As we pass the 100th day of the bloodiest war in Europe since 1945, questions about the potential outcome and what it means for the rest of the continent are coming thick and fast.
Breaking through these layered defensive barriers was a massive challenge for the Russians, even with their overwhelming firepower and tactical air dominance.
By unleashing brutal force against Kyiv, the Russian president essentially announced a de facto divorce from Western civilisation. And as many divorces tend to go it is likely to be a messy, costly and drawn-out affair.
If the Russian forces capture one of the two urban centres of Severodonetsk, Licichansk and Avdeevka, there is a very real risk the entire Ukrainian integrated defensive line would be overrun.
If all of these targets are met by the start of autumn, Putin could claim his 2022 invasion was a success.
For now, this process has been mostly economic and cultural in nature. But there are risks the conflict in Ukraine is simply the tip of the iceberg.
Capturing both of these strategically important centres and adjacent regions would give the Russians several long-term strategic gains, including effectively denying Ukraine any maritime access.
There are strong grounds to believe the Russians have their eyes fixed on Ukraines largest shipbuilding city of Mikolayev and its largest seaport of Odessa.
By unleashing brutal force against Kyiv he essentially announced a de facto divorce from Western civilisation. And as many divorces tend to go it is likely to be messy, costly and drawn out affair.
As a result, Russia's detractors say it is about to run out of capacity to fight and has no chance of winning the war.
Firstly, the continuous ferocious resistance of the Ukrainian defenders. Their will to push the Russian invaders back despite taking very heavy losses deserves full recognition.
As a result, we tend to treat the Russia-Ukraine war as our war, in which we naturally want the aggressor to lose.
First, Vladimir Putin's army is technologically backward, comprising poorly trained and lowly-motivated deserters who are only capable of pillaging and drinking.
After a vital strategic win over the battle for Mariupol, which resulted in the unconditional surrender of the elite Ukrainian units, the Russian forces have systematically stepped up their offensive across the Donbass region.
Even if hostilities in Ukraine are temporarily suspended by Moscow, it would be foolish to assume that means the war is over.
Second, Russias President Vladimir Putin is gravely ill, has no sense of reality or the capacity to lead, and will transit into a different world in due course.
The dominant narrative in the analysis of the majority of Western experts remains overly optimistic and almost surreal.
However, our expectations of the outcome of this war should not be based on just hopes and wishes but on the detailed analysis of the cold-hearted battlefield reality, which should not give the Western allies sufficient grounds for unconditional optimism.
Two assumptions keep driving the debate since the start of the invasion back in late February 2022.
Dr. Alexey Muraviev is Associate Professor of National Security and Strategic Studies at Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia.
Since the launch of their proper offensive in Donbass on 19 April, they have seized control of some of the most important military nerve centres that make up that massive defensive barrier.
They also resonate well across the West and beyond as the majority of the free world look at Russia now as a shameless aggressor and an immediate threat to Western liberal values and freedoms.
There was also a vast and sophisticated fortifications network - which has been gradually extended by the Ukrainian military along the lines of confrontation in eastern Ukraine since 2015.
That would give Putins forces an opportunity to concentrate any follow-up offensives on several strategic directions.
I would expect that the Russian planners may take an operational pause once they will reach the Dnieper River.
The Kremlin is likely to justify further annexations of Ukrainian lands, citing a need to protect the liberated Donbass from future Ukrainian strikes via a safety buffer zone further westwards.
What seemed initially to be a slow advance was in reality the reflection of two key factors.
It is doubtful Moscow will slow its offensive if and when it captures the Donbass.
In the case of the latter, the risk of Russian forces returning to the city has compelled Ukrainian authorities to strengthen their defensive positions.
Being a different kind of Dr, I cannot comment on Putins state of health. But the battlefield analysis comes to a similar conclusion.
