Vladimir Putins former aide Antoly Chubais admitted to hospital with suspected rare immune disorder after fleeing Russia
20220802
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/global-affairs/vladimir-putins-former-aide-antoly-chubais-admitted-to-hospital-with-suspected-rare-immune-disorder-after-fleeing-russia/news-story/47451a7186acf586bd3940214ea19fe4
Mr Chubais' illness was first reported by Russian TV presenter and political activist Ksenia Sobchak.
Chubais' resignation was motivated by his "opposition to President Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine", two people familiar with the situation told Bloomberg News.
According to Ms Sobchak's post on her Telegram account, Mr Chubais' wife told her he was in an "unstable condition" after his hands and legs "suddenly started to go numb".
Stream more global news with Flash. 25 news channels in 1 place. New to Flash? Try 1 month free. Offer ends 31 October, 2022
Antoly Chubais, 67, who quit his job as the Kremlin's climate envoy in March, was hospitalised in the city of Sardinia over the weekend after he lost feelings in his limbs.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitri Peskov confirmed his resignation, but did not say whether he had left the country.
The 67-year-old remains in hospital unable to walk, with his wife Avdotya Smirnova reportedly at his side.
Vladimir Putin's former aide Antoly Chubais, who quit his job as the Kremlin's climate envoy and fled Russia, has been admitted to hospital after his hands and legs "started to go numb".
Two sources close to Mr Chubais said his symptoms led to a preliminary diagnosis of Guillain-Barre syndrome, a disease caused by the immune system damaging the peripheral nervous system.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said the news of his illness was sad and wished him a speedy recovery.
Mr Chubais resigned as a senior Kremlin official to Putin in March - the first senior official to leave since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine in February.
"I don't think it is poisoning," the source told Reuters. "He's still in intensive care."
A former aide to Russian President Vladimir Putin has been admitted to a European intensive care unit with a rare immune disorder.
A second source ruled out suggestions the former aide to Mr Putin was poisoned amid social media speculations.
"Yes. Chubais has resigned voluntarily, and it is up to him whether to leave or not," Mr Peskov said during a press conference.
