Volodymyr Zelensky blasts Kremlins reckless attack on Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant as he appeals to Russia NATO
20220305
https://www.skynews.com.au/world-news/global-affairs/volodymyr-zelensky-blasts-kremlins-reckless-attack-on-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-as-he-appeals-to-russia-nato/news-story/12f78de8eb80dbe88560d94b686c4d6e
The President has repeatedly urged Western leaders to force Russian warplanes out of Ukraine's air space, to which they denied due to a risk of a broader war between nuclear-armed powers.
Mr Zelensky also blasted the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's NATO for its decision to rule out a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
Russia attacked Europe's biggest nuclear plant last night, with gunfire and shelling setting fire to the Zaporizhzhia plant. The fire is out and the UN's atomic watchdog confirmed there was no release of radioactive material. But what happened and when? https:t.coHWga8nenV6 pic.twitter.comOGZpR96i9t
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Russian troops of committing a "terror attack" after deliberately lighting Europe's largest nuclear power plant on fire.
"For nine days we have seen a brutal war. They are destroying our cities, they are shelling our people, our children and residential neighbourhoods.
"We believe that NATO countries themselves have created a narrative that the closure of the sky over Ukraine would provoke Russia's direct aggression against NATO."
While Ukraine responders battled to control the ensuing blaze, Mr Zelensky made a direct appeal to the people of Russia as he warned of a possible nuclear disaster.
Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station, located 550km southeast of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, has been seized control by Russian troops after the responders fought to control the blaze.
Mr Zelensky said Kremlin's effort to take over Europe's largest nuclear power plant was "terror at an unprecedented level".
Stream more world news live  on demand with Flash, Australia's biggest news streaming service. New to Flash? Try 1 month free now
"Knowing that new strikes and casualties are inevitable, NATO deliberately decided NOT to close the sky over Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has made an appeal to Russia after its "reckless attack" on a nuclear power plant in the south of Ukraine.
"You must tell your authorities. Take to the streets and say that you want to live, that you want to live on an earth without radioactive contamination.
"Russian people, I want to appeal to you, how is this possible? After all we fought together in 1986 against the 1986 after the Chernobyl catastrophe consequences," he said.
"All NATO Intelligence officers are well aware of the enemy's plans. They also confirmed that Russia wants to continue the offensive," he said in a video posted on social media.
