Biden is banning Russian oil What does that mean for Louisiana industry
20220308
https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/business/article_da4d14b6-9efd-11ec-b6f8-2bf408e4ca67.html
The higher prices could convince companies seeking a higher profit margin to explore for more oil, Barnes said, particularly on private lands that arent as tightly regulated by the federal government.
Though President Joe Biden announced Tuesday the U.S. wouldban oil imports from Russiain response to the countrys invasion of Ukraine, the decision may not move the needle much on Louisiana producers near-term drilling choices or the price of oil in the long term as the conflict drags on, local energy and economics experts said.
In the short-term, Rolfes said, the U.S. could focus on national policies or campaigns to reduce energy consumption such as rooftop solar panels or being mindful of air conditioning use in extreme temperature periods. She said the long-term plan should include renewable energy sources such as solar and wind power that could get us a long way from oil and gas use in the U.S. and in Europe.
David Dismukes, executive director of LSUs Center for Energy Studies, said Biden's energy policies  as well as pressure from investors to send oil and gas profits back to shareholders  will deter drillers in Louisiana and beyond from spending additional money to ramp up production.
There is one boon for Louisiana from the price spike: it will lead to greater severance tax revenues for the states coffers.
Even with the rapid rise in oil prices, oil company stocks are priced as though a barrel costs $70. That kind of shows you what investors are thinking about longer-term pricing, Ricchiuti said.
The ability to bring those barrels to market is there, he said. This is the world that these producers live in, and these are the pressures that Wall Street and the White House are sending them.
However, Barnes also said markets tend to respond quickly to price shocks like the one that came after Russias invasion.
Tommy Faucheux, president of the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, also called for increased production in the Gulf of Mexico.
If you really wanted to hurt Russia, he added, the thing to do is  to squash their market share by increasing domestic production.
The right answer is not to further embroil ourselves in that weaponization of energy, she said. The further answer is to get out of that.
But in Louisiana, the opportunities to drill more are quite limited, he added. There has been much less development on land than there has been in the Gulf of Mexico in recent years.
She said additional drilling wont solve the global energy crisis because it doesnt move the U.S. or Europe away from oil consumption.
But groups that praised the move also called on the Biden administration to change its policies to open up production.
Lets not forget: the price of oil had doubled and the price of a gallon of gas had tripled before Russia invaded Ukraines sovereign borders, he said in a statement.
Mike Moncla, president of the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association, said banning Russian energy imports is an important step in applying pressure to end the invasion of Ukraine. But he noted the Biden administration hasnt had the best interests of domestic oil and gas companies in mind.
We urge the Biden Administration to reverse the ban on leasing on federal lands and waters to increase domestic production, Faucheux said in a statement. Louisiana has a critical role to play in supporting European allies and US needs with access to a stable supply of reliable and affordable energy.
The average price for a gallon of gas in south Louisiana was $3.96 Tuesday, according to AAA.
Thats playing Putins game, Rolfes said. He wants us to continue to venerate oil, when the real answer is, Why are we even going to play his game?
Stephen Barnes, director of the Blanco Public Policy Center at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, said Bidens move will continue to put pressure on the worlds oil supply, which will correspond with elevated prices at the pump.
Banning Russian oil imports isnt expected to make a significant difference in drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico, said Peter Ricchiuti, a finance professor at Tulane University.
Dismukes said oil markets had predicted Bidens move and factored it in with the latest barrel prices, even amid the surge. He said the ban is good from a national security perspective and demonstrates U.S. support for Ukraine, but the U.S. buys little crude from Russia to begin with.
But drilling new deepwater wells is a risky proposition, because it takes between five and 10 years for a rig to start producing. In five or 10 years, oil could be at $1 a barrel or $300 a barrel, Ricchiuti said.
And with the rapid adaptation of electric vehicles, oil demand is expected to peak by 2030.
As a result of the invasion and the sanctions on Russia, the price for Brent crude, the international benchmark for oil, has soared from $94 per barrel on Feb. 25 to more than $120. Gas prices in Louisiana and the U.S.have hit record highsin response.
But Anne Rolfes, director of the grassroots environmental group Louisiana Bucket Brigade, said oil and gas companies already have a stockpile of leases on federal lands and waters they could exploit right now.
Russian oil makes up only a small part of U.S. imports. The U.S. imports about 100,000 barrels a day from Russia, about 5 of Russias crude oil exports, according to Rystad Energy. Last year, roughly 8 of U.S. imports of oil and petroleum products came from Russia.
It may be a few days, but it wont be much longer than that before we see gasoline prices throughout the country kind of rebase to this higher level for oil, he said.
Companies may go for some low-hanging fruit such as workover projects, where a barge rig is sent over to re-stimulate a well that hasnt produced in a while.
Its just a reminder that when we do see a short-term boost like this, we need to be thoughtful and careful about how we invest those dollars as a state, Barnes said.
