Captured Russian Soldier In Ukraine Gets Tea And Food While Calling Mother In Tears
20220303
https://www.sentinelassam.com/international/captured-russian-soldier-in-ukraine-gets-tea-and-food-while-calling-mother-in-tears-581060
In the background voice of the video, a man was heard speaking in the Ukrainian language who says that it's not the fault of these young men they have no idea why they are here, they are lost by using the old maps.
In another statement, the Ministry of Defense in Ukraine has initiated to let the Russian prisoners free to meet their mothers.
Also read: Ukraine's Youngest MP Takes Up Russian Origin AK-47 Assault Rifle To Fight Against Russia
In the video clip that surfaced on the internet, the Russian soldier is seen drinking tea and eating pastries provided by Ukrainian local people to him after he had put down his arms.
This video post by Ukrainian Special Forces issued a serious warning to the Russian forces invading the country and attacking for more than a week with bombs and missiles.
Video shared on Ukrainian channels of a captured Russian soldier apparently being fed by locals. The post says he burst into tears when he was allowed to video-call his mother. So many of these troops are just teenagers, with absolutely no clue what this war is really for. pic.twitter.comoCPUC8cKcO
A Ukrainian woman in the video can be seen holding her phone and for the Russian soldier to speak with his mother on a video call.
The ministry made it clear that unlike the fascism by Russian President Putin, the Ukrainians are not carrying out wars against mothers and their children therefore they decided to hand over the captured Russian to their mother if those mothers come to take their children from Kyiv.
By : Sentinel Digital DeskPublished : 3 March 2022 11:13 AM GMT  Updated : 2022-03-03T17:04:1405:30
In a recent viral video from the war-torn country of Ukraine, a surrendered Russian soldier is spotted having food offered by the Ukrainian locals.
The post reads that from now onwards there will be no capturing of Russian weapons and there will be no more mercy. It warned that statements like 'I surrender, 'please don't kill' will be getting away. At last, the post warned by saying 'Call your mom one last time.'
The video was recorded on Wednesday 2nd March in the Novy Bug city in Mykolaiv Oblast of Ukraine after the Russian soldier was captured by Ukrainian forces.
The video clip was first shared by Ukrainian Special Forces Command on its channel and within a short period of time, it has already gone viral receiving much love and attention.
The captured Russian soldier fed by locals was in tears while eating pastries and talking with his mother via phone call.
