RussiaUkraine Crisis Couple Collects Rifles On First Day Of Marriage To Defend The Country
20220226
https://www.sentinelassam.com/international/russia-ukraine-crisis-couple-collects-rifles-on-first-day-of-marriage-to-defend-the-country-580293
She further informed that some of the civilians not being part of the defense forces are also provided with rifles.
On Monday 21 February, the President of Russia Vladimir Putin has recognized the breakaway regions of Ukraine i.e. Luhansk and Donetsk as independent entities and after that military operation by Russia began to protect the Donbas area.
On the second day of the Russian military operation in Ukraine, huge numbers of blasts were heard in Kyiv city as per reports from local media on Friday 25 February.
Meanwhile, after the initiative by the Indian embassy in Ukraine many Indian students are relocated safely following the advisory released a day ago.
It seems like Russia has no intention of stopping its attacks on Ukraine which is causing death and destruction all over the country.
The couple after getting armed with rifles moved straightaway towards the office of the European Solidarity political party.
According to reports, both Fursin and Arieva from Ukraine have signed up with the Territorial Defense Forces which is a branch of the country's armed forces consisting mostly of people who volunteer.
By : Sentinel Digital DeskPublished : 26 Feb 2022 11:40 AM GMT  Updated : 2022-02-26T17:42:2105:30
On speaking about their decision Arieva said that she and her husband are doing everything that they can do to defend the country and there is a lot to do but still she hopes that everything will be ok.
In a recent update, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy has joined with the armed forces and extended his support to protect the country from the Russian attacks.
MOSCOW: At the time when the Russian forces are attacking Ukraine from everywhere, a Ukrainian couple on the first day of their marriage was seen gathering rifles to protect their nation.
The global leader from different countries including Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom has condemned the military attacks by Russia in its neighbour country Ukraine.
The couple is two Ukrainian nationals namely Sviatoslav Fursin and Yaryna Arieva. They got married just a few hours after Russian announced military operations in Ukraine so the couple decided to collect rifles and prepare themselves to join the fight protecting their nation.
