RussiaUkraine Crisis Marine Battalion Blows Himself Up On A Bridge To Halt The Enemy
20220226
https://www.sentinelassam.com/international/russia-ukraine-crisis-marine-battalion-blows-himself-up-on-a-bridge-to-halt-the-enemy-580231
On the first day of the fight against Russia more than 130 Ukrainian soldiers were killed as Russian armies entered the country.
The General Staff of Armed Forces informed that the Marine battalion decided that the only way for him to stop the Russian tanks and to create a blockage for the armoured column is to blow up the bridge so then he took charge to place the mines on the span.
The military forces said that according to Vitaly's brothers in arms he got connected with them and informed he was about to blow up the bridge as soon as the explosion rang out to stop Russian tanks from advancing in the country.
This act by the marine battalion has resulted in forcing Russian soldiers to move for a longer route in their purpose of entering the region.
Also read: Indian Embassy In Ukraine Issues New Advisory For Indian Citizens Stuck In Ukraine
NEW DELHI: As the Russian forces have been attacking Ukraine from every part causing extreme loss of lives and property, it has become a major cause of concern for all officials and soldiers deployed in different parts of the country.
According to reports from the Ukrainian military, the soldier identified as Marine battalion engineer Vitaly Skakun Volodymyrovych at the time of war was deployed to the Henichesk Bridge located in the southern province of Kherson.
By : Sentinel Digital DeskPublished : 26 Feb 2022 6:51 AM GMT  Updated : 2022-02-26T13:04:2405:30
It was informed by the military commanders that the team has planned to honour the brave soldier with a posthumous award for the sacrifice of his life in fighting for the nation and protecting its people.
In an official statement, it was mentioned that Vitaly was killed and his heroic act has led to a major impact in fighting against Russia as this had slowed down the push of enemy soldiers. It has helped the unit to relocate to different areas and allowed to organize the defence.
Volodymyrovych throughout the operation realized that he had no time or any way to save himself and come out of the danger therefore at that point he made the ultimate sacrifice by blowing himself up along with the bridge.
In a heroic act, a brave Ukrainian soldier has blown himself up to destroy a bridge so that the Russian tanks fail to invade the country.
