Trade focused Quad
20220525
https://www.sentinelassam.com/editorial/trade-focused-quad-593498
The IPEF rollout is expected to send across a strong signal that  the US is focused on pushing forward a strong economic policy for the  Indo-Pacific to counter China's aggressive strategy on trade in the region. The  Indian stand on the new initiative has not been made clear, but there are  strong indications that India may join it along with Australia, New Zealand,  South Korea, Japan, Singapore and the Philippines.
The first in-person meeting of the leaders of the US, Australia,  Japan and India, termed Quad, will be held in Tokyo on Tuesday. This is the  first in-person summit of these leaders after the outbreak of the  Russia-Ukraine war, the worsening Sri Lankan economic crisis, and Australia  getting a new Prime Minister.
He said, the Indo-Pacific Strategy concocted by the US is called  "freedom and openness", but is keen on forming cliques and aims to "change  China's surrounding environment" in an attempt to contain China. Facts will  prove that the so-called Indo-Pacific strategy is in essence a strategy to  create division, incite confrontation and undermine peace, he added.
He stressed that like other countries in the region, China  welcomes initiatives that are conducive to strengthening regional cooperation,  but opposes attempts to create division and confrontation.
Modi's pre-departure statement stressed focusing on issues,  regional like China and global like the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. It will be  the first time that both leaders will be able to discuss the Ukrainian crisis  in person. Modi will also hold separate bilateral meetings with his Japanese  counterpart Fumio Kishida and newly-elected Australian Prime Minister Anthony  Albanese.
Asad Mirza is a political commentator based  in New Delhi. He writes about Muslims, education, international affairs,  interfaith and current affairs. He can be reached at asad.mirza.ndgmail.com
The meeting with Kishida will provide an opportunity for the two  leaders to carry forward their conversations from the 14th India-Japan Annual  Summit held in March when the Prime Minister visited India. Though the  Indo-Pacific Strategy of the Biden administration, released in February, is  widely believed to intend to build a wall of containment around China, this  time around it may focus more on trade issues. IANS
The Modi-Biden meeting in Tokyo will be the second face-to-face  meeting of both the leaders within a year they met last in September 2021. The  meeting assumes increased importance, as it will be the first time the two  leaders meet in the midst of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis. The leaders are  likely to focus on trade and defence opportunities in partnership with other  countries in the Indo-Pacific, in the backdrop of the increasing Chinese  belligerence however, this time around Biden may focus more on trade than  defence.
The security situation in the Indo-Pacific region has changed  significantly in the last decade and in the post-pandemic world, it becomes  imperative for these partners to further commit to an open, inclusive and  resilient region. The primary focus of this alliance is to thwart the  increasing Chinese hegemony in the region and globally.
Modi penned an op-ed on the vibrant relations between India and  Japan, coinciding with his Japan visit. He wrote: "Ours is a partnership for  peace, stability and prosperity. I trace the journey of our special friendship  which completes 70 glorious years. Closer India-Japan cooperation is vital in  the post-Covid world. Our nations are firmly committed to democratic values.  Together, we are key pillars of a stable and secure Indo-Pacific region. I am  equally glad that we are working closely in various multilateral forums as  well."
Which category does the US Indo-Pacific Economic Framework fall  into, he questioned, saying further that in line with WTO rules, the Regional  Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement RCEP was launched, a regional  cooperation platform with ASEAN at the centre, and it has greatly promoted  regional trade and investment liberalization and facilitation.
Modi held separate meetings on Monday with a number of leading  Japanese corporate honchos, besides a roundtable with Japanese business leaders  and an interaction with the Indian community.
The US-led Indo-Pacific strategy is causing more and more strife  and concern not just globally, but especially among the countries in the  Asia-Pacific region, said Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi  on Sunday.
The new plan unveiled by Biden called the Indo-Pacific Economic  Framework IPEF, which his aides refer to as IPEF, is not a trade agreement in  the traditional sense. Though, it includes one 'pillar' related to trade,  besides incorporating other key areas like forging more resilient supply  chains, an initiative becoming rather the most important one after witnessing  the chaos in the global supply chains during the Covid-pandemic, besides  promoting clean energy and combating corruption and cyber security.
By focusing on the new framework, Biden has made clear his  intention of not re-joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership-TPP, an Obama-era  deal, which was not supported by a large number of US lawmakers. Since then the  US has been without a defined plan to engage with the south Asian region  economically. And in the meanwhile, China has secured several trade agreements  with its neighbours and has sought to wield its economic influence globally  through its Belt and Road Initiative.
However, this may require delicately persuading countries to  join, not only staunch partners like Japan and South Korea but smaller nations,  particularly in Southeast Asia, who aren't as closely aligned with the US.
