Russia pounds eastern Ukraine as West promises Kyiv more weapons
20220426
https://www.fox5dc.com/news/russia-ukraine-war-west-weapons-april-26-2022
"A nuclear war cannot be won and it shouldnt be fought," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby responded in an interview with CNN. "That kind of rhetoric is clearly not called for in the current scenario. What is called for is Mr. Putin ending this war."
The U.S. defense secretary said the war has weakened Russia's military, adding, "We would like to make sure, again, that they dont have the same type of capability to bully their neighbors that we saw at the outset of this conflict."
Satellite imagery released by Maxar Technologies on March 29, 2022, shows extensive damage to residential apartment buildings, homes and civilian infrastructure in Mariupol after weeks of Russian shelling. Credit: Maxar Technologies via Storyful
For the second day in a row, explosions rocked the separatist region of Trans-Dniester in neighboring Moldova, knocking out two powerful radio antennas close to the Ukrainian border and further heightening fears of a broader conflict erupting across Europe. No one claimed responsibility for the attacks, but Ukraine all but blamed Russia.
TORETSK, Ukraine - Russia pounded eastern and southern Ukraine on Tuesday as the U.S. promised to "keep moving heaven and earth" to get Kyiv the weapons it needs to repel the new offensive, despite Moscow's warnings that such support could trigger a wider war.
Ukrainian forces struck back in the Kherson region in the south, while Oleksandr Kamyshin, head of the state-run Ukrainian railway, said there were no injuries in the Russian attack on the bridge in the Odesa region.
"Russia has drastically intensified strikes over the past 24 hours and is using heavy bunker bombs," said Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to Mariupol's mayor. "The number of those wounded will be clear once the rubble is cleared."
Guterres urged Russia to allow the evacuation of civilians trapped in the steel plant in Mariupol. Putin said that Ukrainian troops were using civilians in the plant as shields and not allowing them to leave.
Gambrell reported from Lviv, Ukraine. Associated Press journalist Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, David Keyton in Kyiv, Oleksandr Stashevskyi at Chernobyl, Mstyslav Chernov in Kharkiv, and AP staff around the world contributed to this report.
A day earlier, Lavrov accused NATO of "pouring oil on the fire" with its support for Ukraine. He also warned against provoking World War III and said the threat of a nuclear conflict "should not be underestimated."
"Its bad. Very bad. Hopeless," said Andriy Cheromushkin. "You feel so helpless that you dont know what you should do or shouldnt do. Because if you want to do something, you need some money, and there is no money now."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov cautioned that if the Western flow of weapons continues, the talks aimed at ending the fighting will not produce any results.
RELATED: Chernobyl: On 36th anniversary of disaster, Russias seizure of nuclear plant seen as nightmare
He also accused Russian forces of shelling a route it had offered as an escape corridor from the steel mill.
Destruction due to shelling is seen in the Saltivka neighborhood of Kharkiv City, Ukraine, on April 24, 2022. Photo by Narciso ContrerasAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
With the potentially pivotal battle for the east underway, the U.S. and its NATO allies are scrambling to deliver artillery and other heavy weaponry in time to make a difference.
Diplomatic efforts to end the fighting also continued. U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres met with Russian President Vladimir Putin and criticized Russias military action in Ukraine as a flagrant violation of its neighbors territorial integrity.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said that more help is on the way as he convened a meeting of officials from around 40 countries at the U.S. air base at Ramstein, Germany, to pledge more weapons.
In the gutted southern port city of Mariupol, authorities said Russian forces hit the Azovstal steel plant with 35 airstrikes over the past 24 hours. The plant is the last known stronghold of Ukrainian fighters in the city. About 1,000 civilians were said to be taking shelter there with an estimated 2,000 Ukrainian defenders.
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht said her government will supply Gepard self-propelled armored anti-aircraft guns to Ukraine. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has faced mounting pressure to send heavy weapons such as tanks and other armored vehicles.
Beyond Mariupol, local officials said at least nine people were killed and several more wounded in Russian attacks on towns and cities in eastern and southern Ukraine. Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the Donetsk region of the Donbas, said on the Telegram messaging app that Russian forces "continue to deliberately fire at civilians and to destroy critical infrastructure."
Russian missile fire also knocked out a strategic railroad bridge along a route that links southern Ukraine's Odesa port region to neighboring Romania, a NATO member, Ukrainian authorities said.
"This gathering reflects the galvanized world," Austin said in his opening remarks. He added that he wanted officials to leave the meeting "with a common and transparent understanding of Ukraines near-term security requirements because were going to keep moving heaven and earth so that we can meet them."
It was not clear who was behind the blasts in Trans-Dniester, but the attacks gave rise to fears that Russia was stirring up trouble so as to create a pretext to intervene. About 1,500 Russian troops are based in Trans-Dniester, a long, narrow strip of land with about 470,000 people along the Ukrainian border.
Ukrainian officials have estimated that about 2,000 of their troops are inside the plant in Mariupol, along with about 1,000 sheltering in the facilitys underground tunnels. Credit: Azov Battalion via Storyful
The attack on the bridge  along with a series of strikes on key railroad stations a day earlier  appears to mark a major shift in Russia's approach. Up to now, Moscow has spared strategic bridges, perhaps in hopes of keeping them for its own use in seizing Ukraine. But now it seems to be trying to thwart Ukraine's efforts to move troops and supplies.
After unexpectedly fierce resistance by Ukrainian forces thwarted Russia's attempt to take Ukraine's capital early in the war, Moscow now says its focus is the capture of the Donbas, the mostly Russian-speaking industrial region in eastern Ukraine.
Austin noted that more than 30 allies and partners have joined the U.S. in sending military aid to Ukraine and that more than $5 billion worth of equipment has been committed.
A senior Kremlin official, Nikolai Patrushev, warned that "the policies of the West and the Kyiv regime controlled by it would only be the breakup of Ukraine into several states."
Two months into the devastating war, Western arms have helped Ukraine stall Russias invasion, but the country's leaders have said they need more support fast.
In the small city of Toretsk in the Donbas, residents are struggling to survive, collecting rainwater for washing up and fervently hoping for an end to the fighting.
Ukraine also said Russian forces shelled Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city, which lies in the northeast, outside the Donbas, but is seen as key to Russia's apparent bid to encircle Ukrainian troops in the Donbas from the north, east and south.
In its latest assessment of the fighting, the British Defense Ministry reported Russian advances and heavy fighting in the Donbas, with one town, Kreminna, apparently falling after days of street-by-street fighting.
Southern Ukraine and Moldova have been on edge since a senior Russian military officer said last week that the Kremlin's goal is to secure not just eastern Ukraine but the entire south, so as to open the way to Trans-Dniester.
