Shelley Inglis Russia blocks UN on Ukraine
20220308
https://www.bryantimes.com/shelley-inglis-russia-blocks-un-on-ukraine/article_3b6e84a6-6f6d-529c-9f7c-52fbb64c9683.html
As expected by international observers, Russia vetoed a Security Council resolution on Feb. 25, 2022, that deplored its invasion of Ukraine and called for it to withdraw military forces.
There is no competing legitimate forum to which countries can go to theoretically maintain international peace and security. And the overwhelming majority of countries view Russias invasion of Ukraine as also an attack on the international community itself. Now, the question is whether the U.N. will emerge ultimately stronger, not weaker, from this crisis.
Experts point out that the price to pay for operating a complicated, international system like the U.N. is accepting some limits. But it is difficult to overcome critiques that the U.N. is often just talk when diplomacy fails to avert an unjustified war of this scale.
Five countries with proven nuclear powers  China, Russia, France, the United States and the United Kingdom  hold permanent seats on the council. These countries, called the P-5, gained these spots when the U.N. was established shortly after World War II, given their perceived importance in preserving world peace.
The Security Councils track record on maintaining peace and deescalating conflicts has had some success ... Conflicts between countries have overall declined notably since the end of the Cold War.
Such a decision would be subject to the P-5 veto, as would any move to suspend Russia from the U.N. entirely.
Western powers expected the invasion to happen, but Putins timing marked an unprecedented rebuke to the U.N., the global body uniquely tasked with maintaining international peace.
P-5 countries can veto the councils proposed decisions. But if approved, these resolutions are binding under international law and can, for example, establish sanctions regimes, deploy a U.N. peacekeeping mission in a country or authorize use of force, as the council did in Libya in 2011.
This crisis has raised new questions about whether Russia has a legitimate role on the Security Council. Ukraine has asked whether it was legal for Russia to take over the Soviet Unions seat when the USSR collapsed in 1991.
Even though Russia is very unlikely to lose its spot on the Security Council, expanding the councils permanent membership to more countries could potentially change the playing field.
When Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in Ukraine on Feb. 23, 2022, the U.N. Security Council was conducting an emergency late-night meeting chaired by Russia on the mounting crisis.
The General Assembly  another U.N. decision-making body that includes all member countries  can also approve resolutions on conflicts. But the General Assembly lacks the legal authority the Security Council holds.
The U.N. also has 70,000 military peacekeeping personnel. But these peacekeepers primarily monitor cease-fires or peace agreements, with the consent of the countries concerned.
Security Council reform has been under consideration at the U.N. since 2005. But proposals for change have not garnered enough countries support to actually move forward to gain approval at either the General Assembly or the council.
The Ukraine crisis will likely strengthen arguments for expanding the council. Such reform, however, might be slow in coming.
Russia was the only country on the council that blocked the resolution, exposing the limited leverage the U.N. has over the worlds most powerful countries.
The U.N. is the only international organization that has membership of 193 countries. The U.N. Security Council is the U.N.s most powerful political body. The council is made up of representatives of 15 countries that consult and vote on international security decisions.
Even if the Security Council cannot easily authorize action on Ukraine, the U.N. can influence the war in other ways, as through political pressure, legal decisions and investigations, and humanitarian assistance.
The U.N.s Human Rights Council is one other body with potential leverage during the Ukraine war. But this council cannot legally require countries to take action on their decisions.
