Erdoan reiterates offer to host Putin Zelenskyy
20220401
https://bianet.org/english/world/259939-erdogan-reiterates-offer-to-host-putin-zelenskyy
At least 1,234 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since the start of the war, and more than 1,900 others have been injured, according to the UN estimates.
Tensions had started escalating late last year when Ukraine, the US and its allies accused Russia of amassing tens of thousands of troops on the border with Ukraine. They claimed Russia was preparing to invade its western neighbor, which was consistently rejected by Moscow.
Defying threats of sanctions by the West, Moscow officially recognized Donetsk and Luhansk as independent states in late February, followed by the start of the invasion of Ukraine.
After having held several meetings in Belarus, delegations from Russia and Ukraine came together on Tuesday March 29 at a presidential office in stanbul's Dolmabahe Palace.
In early March, foreign ministers of the two countries came together in Antalya, southern Turkey, for the first time since Russia's invasion of Ukraine began on February 24. The invasion has caused at least 1,234 civilian deaths, according to UN figures.
After the stanbul meeting, a negotiator from Ukraine said Kyiv wants Turkey among the countries that will be guarantors in any deal with Moscow.
On February 24, explosions were reported in several Ukrainian provinces, including the capital Kyiv, after Russia's President Vladimir Putin announced a 'special military operation' in the Donbas region.
Erdoan also reiterated his offer to host Vladimir Putin and their President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine, according to a statement from the Presidency Communications Directorate.
More than 3.8 million Ukrainians have also fled to neighboring countries, with over 6.5 million more displaced inside the country, according to the UN refugee agency.
Negotiations between Russia and Ukraine in stanbul this week have "raised hopes for peace," President Recep Tayyip Erdoan told President Vladimir Putin of Russia in a phone call today April 1.
President Vladimir Putin said the operation aims to protect people "subjected to genocide" by Kyiv and to "demilitarize and de-Nazify" Ukraine, while calling on the Ukrainian army to lay down its arms.
