Turkeys nationalist party leader urges Russia to stop the invasion immediately
20220303
https://bianet.org/english/politics/258549-turkey-s-nationalist-party-leader-urges-russia-to-stop-the-invasion-immediately
"NATO must review its strategy to expand to the east and abandon its pursuit of keeping the member states together by creating unreal fears. The only option to resolve the crisis is diplomacy and dialogue." ASSD
Criticizing the United Nations UN as well, the MHP Chair argued that "the UN did nothing other than releasing weak and weary condemning messages in the face of the unlawful and illegitimate operation."
He asked, "If Ukraine was not to be admitted to NATO, why was it consoled with empty promises? Wasn't it Russia on the one hand and the Western countries on the other that pushed Ukraine to the fire pit?"
MHP Chair Baheli said that "the attempt to take Donbas away from Ukraine is separatism". Criticizing Putin further for his "nuclear threat", Baheli commented, "The unease felt by Putin in the face of NATO's strategy to expand to the east is not a secret. It is very new that he says they had to invade Ukraine as he was at odds with his interlocutors within this scope."
Further in his speech, MHP leader Devlet Baheli accused Russia's President Vladimir Putin of "trying to justify the bloody invasion by making history bear false witness." Referring to his arguments in reference to history, Baheli said that it was wrong for Putin to say that "Donbas was a part of Russia and they Russia protected the coasts of Ukraine from Ottomans."
Referring to the "iron curtain dividing Europe for 45 years" as the "symbol of the Cold War", Baheli said that "the invasion of Ukraine has now stood out as one of the serious crises in the post-Cold War period."
"On February 24, Russia launched an unjust and unlawful operation of invasion against its neighbor, Ukraine," recalled Baheli, indicating that "this operation is against the international law, the independent political existence of Ukraine and the Minsk process."
Against this background, MHP Chair Devlet Baheli offered five recommendations to resolve the ongoing tension and conflicts in the region:
Baheli said, "At the NATO Summit in 2008, the decision to let Ukraine join the NATO was kept in suspense, which did nothing other than escalating the polarization and tension in the Caucasus further."
"The political and territorial integrity of Ukraine and its sovereignty rights must be respected. An immediate ceasefire must be declared between Russia and Ukraine. Russia must stop the invasion immediately and without any preconditions and withdraw its military units.
Nationalist Movement Party MHP Chair Devlet Baheli talked about the Russia-Ukraine war at his weekly group meeting today March 3.Saying that Russia's invasion of Ukraine is "unjust", Devlet Baheli addressed Russia and made a call for a ceasefire.
