ASDA accused of virtue signalling after announcing removal of Russian stock
20220309
https://www.leicestermercury.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/asda-accused-virtue-signalling-after-6775868
The supermarket giant made the decision to remove all products affiliated with Russia from its shelves, as well as pledging a 1million package to those affected by the crisis in Ukraine.
Adrian Hare said: "Good virtue signalling there ASDA. How about giving customers freedom of choice whether theyd like to buy those products rather than deciding for them?
Mohsin Issa, Asdas co-owner, said: "We stand with our customers and colleagues who are shocked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine - and our thoughts are with those people whose lives are affected by this crisis.
Keep up with the latest news with our email alerts directly to your inbox.  Sign up here.
Gayane Dadayan also said: "Asda I'm shocked by your decision! Where were you when Syria was being destroyed by NATO, where were your donations in the times of wars in Lybia, Syria and the rest Asian and African countries? Soo much disappointed! Double standards of generosity and humanism!"
The company announced it would also be sending products to Poland for those displaced by the war, including toiletries, menstrual products, clothing, nappies and food.
Zo Hugo said: "Well done Asda. Let's hope other supermarkets follow" while Linda Irvine added: "Well done Asda!! I hope other supermarkets follow. That's really amazing. The Ukraine people need all the help they can get."
"The community spirit that is at the heart of Asda extends beyond our own borders and were proud to have worked with a range of partners in the UK to provide practical and meaningful support for Ukrainians at home and for those who continue to seek safety in neighbouring countries."
The store said they would stop selling Russian products as an act of solidarity with Ukraine
Subscribe today to get the latest headlines straight to your inbox with our free email updates
A spokesman for Asda said: "Like our customers and colleagues, were shocked and saddened by the events in Ukraine. That's why Asda and the Asda Foundation are donating a 1 million package to support those affected".
Asda recently announced in-store and online changes to their stock in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine - and while the move has been met with some praise, others haven't been so accepting of the decision.
"Im getting fed up with firms deciding we dont want any of these products and services. Time to let people make up their own minds."
