Calls grow for people to BoycottMcDonalds over fast food giants Russia links
20220305
https://www.leicestermercury.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/calls-grow-people-boycottmcdonalds-over-6758622
To be able to buy some American food is probably a light of hope for them right now.
So you guys want to put normal Russian people out of work in a move that will have no impact on the war at all? said one person.
They are one of a number of high-profile companies at the centre of the social media boycott.
Russian kids can go and buy a McDonald's Happy Meal whilst Ukrainian kids can't even get a meal, said one other who backed the boycott.
'Russian kids can go and buy a McDonald's Happy Meal whilst Ukrainian kids can't even get a meal'
People are being urged to boycott McDonald's while the fast food chain continues to operate as normal in Russia.
With the continued fall-out from Russias invasion of Ukraine, big businesses around the world have severed ties with Russia - but McDonald's has not yet reacted in the wake of the conflict.
The hashtag, which has been trending on social media all weekend, is calling on people to not go to McDonald's until they pause or end all operations in Russia.
Coca Cola, PepsiCo, McDonalds - you are all still operating in Russia. Shame on you! said another.
I support BoycottMcDonalds, but at the same time it's sad to put yourself in the shoes of the normal Russian that doesn't support Putin, remarked another.
Keep up with the latest news with our email alerts directly to your inbox.   Sign up here.
Thats led to many to call on people to BoycottMcDonalds until the fast food chain changes its mind.
McDonald's has yet to comment on the Ukraine conflict or its continued presence in Russia.
However, some, while sympathetic to the cause of the boycott, felt it would harm many innocent Russians.
Subscribe today to get the latest headlines straight to your inbox with our free email updates
I'm not lovin' it. McDonald's is continuing to do business as normal in Russia, which means the corporate and sales taxes it pays there directly support Putin, said one angered user online.
Ashamed that iconic American companies like Coca Cola and McDonald's dont support freedom and democracy, added a third. They are still doing business in Russia, helping fund the slaughter of civilians in Ukraine.
