F35B Lightning beast mode fighter jets brought in by RAF as Ukraine invasion continues
20220307
https://www.leicestermercury.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/f-35b-lightning-beast-mode-6763723
It is well suited to operating from aircraft carriers, needing only a 450ft runway to get airborne. It also has vertical takeoff and landing capability - the first time the RAF has had this since Harriers were taken out of service a decade ago.
The jets can operate in stealth setup, with bombs and missiles on board within twin weapons bays. This means it can keep a low profile on radar by keeping weapons inside its radar-absorbent skin, reports the Daily Star.
F-35 test pilot Monessa Siren Balzhiser says the advanced radar and infra-red sensors, integrated using an onboard artificial intelligence, give pilots an almost unbeatable first-shot, first-kill advantage. The three new F-35B Lightnings - worth a cool 100 million each - were flown from Texas in the US by 207 Squadron to reinforce the existing squadron at RAF Marham.
Establishing a no-fly zone would inevitably bring NATO forces into direct conflict with Russian aircraft, something that generation of diplomats have been trying to avoid since the Western defence alliance was formed in 1949. Only Russian leader Vladimir Putin can decide whether planes like the F-35B will be enough to convince Russian commanders to abandon their invasion, or if confrontation over Ukraine will snowball into a global conflict.
But Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has continually pressed for NATO to establish the zone as his country continues to be bombarded by Russian forces. In the UK, three F-35B Lightning stealth fighters have been spotted arriving at RAF Marham in Norfolk.
The Lightning has an incredible top speed of more than 1,220mph - Mach 1.6 - even when fully laden internally. State-of-the-art tech means that the pilot can see their instruments within their helmet, so they are always visible.
Three cutting-edge fighter jets have been spotted moving into an RAF base as the invasion of Ukraine by Russia continues. The West has so far resisted calls for a no-fly zone over Ukraine, fearing it would be seen as an escalation by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
A plane-spotter who watched the Lightnings fly in told The Sun: "These fighting machines will leave Putin or any enemy in a sweat. They are awesome and fearsome jets.
Subscribe today to get the latest headlines straight to your inbox with our free email updates
But this jet also has another side to its personality. It can be configured into 'beast mode' when stealth isn't an issue and be stacked with weapons externally. Two outboard weapon stations each can carry ordnance up to 1,500 lb 680 kg, allowing it to carry precision weapons such as the Joint Direct Attack Munition JDAM, Paveway bombs, or the Joint Standoff Weapon JSOW.
