Ukraine latest Zelenskyy website down after another night of attacks
20220303
https://www.leicestermercury.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-latest-zelenskyy-website-down-6744902
The UN refugee agency UNHCR, meanwhile, said that one million people have fled Ukraine since Russias invasion, in what is the swiftest exodus of refugees this century. The tally amounts to more than 2 of the country's 44 million population on the move in under a week.
Mr Raab  who has a background in prosecuting war criminals  told the Daily Telegraph that Britain could house Russian commanders suspected of atrocities in its prisons  in addition to proving a safe haven for witnesses who testified against them.
"With a big bonus if you hand over your tank, APC, Buk, Tochka, MLRS, helicopter, jet fighter or commander-in-chief."
"The way West Germany welcomed East Germans crossing the Wall. Ready to back you in European Parliament. I mean it.
Elsewhere, a Polish MEP is calling on the European Union to offer 3,000 Euros and work permits to Russian soldiers who defect, rather than wage war in Ukraine.
It comes after Ukraine's Ministry of Defence offered Russian soldiers five million roubles - approximately 35,000 - if they "lay down their arms and surrender voluntarily".
Volodymyr Zelenskyy's official website appeared to be offline just moments after the Ukraine President had issued a rallying cry in the early hours of Thursday morning. Mr Zelenskyy told Vladimir Putin in no uncertain terms that his country would not be overtaken. With Ukraine under siege through aerial bombardments in several major cities, the president addressed the nation claiming Russian attackers would be 'destroyed everywhere'.
The announcement came as Russian forces laid siege to two strategic Ukrainian ports and pressed ahead with their bombardment of the countrys second-biggest city, Kharkiv, while the huge armoured column threatening Kyiv appeared to be stalled outside the capital. Moscows isolation has deepened, though, with most of the world lined up against it at the United Nations to demand withdrawal from Ukraine.
He was quoted on the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine's web site as saying: "Ukrainians! Every invader should know: they will not get anything here. No one will be conquered. Even if they can accumulate more equipment and more people, it doesn't change anything for them. They will be destroyed everywhere".
Back home the Deputy Prime Minister, Dominic Raab revealed that the UK will assist the International Criminal Court ICC in hunting down suspected Russian war criminals.
UNHCR has also predicted up to four million people could eventually leave Ukraine, but cautioned even that projection could be revised upward. In an email, spokesperson Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams wrote: Our data indicates we passed the 1M mark as of midnight in central Europe 11pm London, based on counts collected by national authorities.
Subscribe today to get the latest headlines straight to your inbox with our free email updates
Radek Sikorksi, Chairman of EU-USA delegation and an MEP in Poland said: "Let us strategically use the EU's soft power, Ursula von der Leyen President of the EU Commission. We can offer every defecting Russian soldier 3000 and a three year work permit.
