Need to live together Marles on China
20220611
https://www.sheppnews.com.au/national/need-to-live-together-marles-on-china/
"When it comes to the security and stability of our own region, there will be continuity in Australian defensive policy," he said.
"They aim to contribute to an effective balance of military power. A balance of ensuring no state will ever conclude here that the benefits of conflict away the risks."
On the sidelines of the Shangri-La Dialogue, the deputy prime minister recommitted to the 50-year-old Five Power Defence Arrangements FPDA  Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand and Britain.
The communist superpower's militarisation of the South China Sea was intended to "deny the legitimacy" of their neighbour's claims of the waterway.
Mr Marles said Russia's invasion of Ukraine had shown economic interdependence was not enough to dissuade conflict between nations.
"Australia's investments in defence capability are necessary and prudent response to the military buildup we see taking place in the Indo-Pacific," Mr Marles said.
Speaking in Singapore at the Shangri-La Dialogue on Saturday, Mr Males laid out a vision of economic co-operation balanced with military deterrence.
Paraphrasing former Australian prime minister Paul Keating, Mr Marles said China would need to accept restraints on its power as it looked to take a leadership role in the region.
Reuters reported on Saturday the Malaysian senior defence minister Hishammuddin Hussein expressed concern incidents and accidents could "spiral out of control" in the region, while Mr Marles was reported to have said the arrangement was not something Australia took for granted.
Investment in military deterrence would continue to be necessary to show the risks of conflict outweighed any benefits.
"Australia's approach will be anchored in a resolve to safeguard our national interests, and our support for regional security and stability based on rules."
Mr Marles said it should give nations "concern" that China had failed to criticise Russia's invasion of Ukraine despite committing to principles of sovereignty.
This would mean a continuation of the Australia-US alliance, commitment to AUKUS and an "accelerated" push to military quantum technology, AI, undersea warfare capabilities and hypersonic munitions.
"China is not going anywhere and we all need to live together and hopefully prosper together," Mr Marles said.
China is not going anywhere and its economic success is connected to Australia's own, Deputy Prime Minister Richard Marles says.
