Russia strikes cities across Ukraine
20220719
https://www.sheppnews.com.au/world/russia-strikes-cities-across-ukraine/
Ukraine said Russian forces have intensified long-distance strikes on targets far from the front, killing large numbers of civilians. Moscow says it is hitting military targets.
In Odesa, a Russian missile strike injured at least four people, burned houses to the ground and set other homes on fire, Oleksii Matsulevych, a spokesman for the regional administration, said on his Telegram channel.
More than 150 mines and shells had been fired on the Sumy region, Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, the head of the Sumy regional military administration, said on Telegram.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Russia had fired more than 3,000 cruise missiles and uncountable artillery shells during the five-month conflict.
Russia is due to reopen its main natural gas pipeline to Germany, Nord Stream 1, in coming days after regular maintenance, but Europeans are worried Moscow could keep it closed.
In the east, Ukrainian forces withdrew at the start of July from Luhansk, one of two provinces Russia claims on behalf of its separatist proxies.
Russia's Gazprom, which operates the pipeline, has told customers in Europe it cannot guarantee gas supplies because of "extraordinary" circumstances, according to a letter seen by Reuters, upping the ante in an economic tit-for-tat with the West.
Kyiv hopes the war is at a turning point, with Moscow having exhausted its offensive capabilities in seizing a few small cities in the east, while Ukraine now fields long-range Western weapons that can strike behind Russian lines.
Russian forces targeted Mykolaiv with cluster shells on Monday, injuring at least two people and damaging windows and roofs of private houses, the Ukrainian city's mayor Oleksandr Senkevich said in a social media post.
Kyiv cites a string of successful strikes on 30 Russian logistics and ammunition hubs, which it says are crippling Russia's artillery-dominated forces that need to transport thousands of shells to the front each day.
Russian troops have tried unsuccessfully to advance towards the city of Avdiyivka north of Donetsk, the head of Avdiyivka's military administration, Vitaliy Barabash, said on Tuesday.
President Vladimir Putin says his assault on Ukraine is a "special military operation" to demilitarise Russia's neighbour and root out dangerous nationalists. Kyiv and the West call it an attempt to reconquer a country that broke free of Moscow's rule in 1991.
Russia on Monday said Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu had ordered the military to concentrate on destroying Ukraine's Western-supplied rockets and artillery.
"They fired mortars, barrel and rocket artillery. The Russians also opened fire using machine guns and grenade launchers," he said.
European Union foreign ministers on Monday agreed to provide Ukraine with another 500 million euros $A740 million in EU funds for arms, raising the bloc's support to 2.5 billion euros $A1.7 billion since Moscow invaded on February 24.
Kyiv says Moscow is planning another assault to capture the last Ukrainian-held pocket of neighbouring Donetsk province.
After failing to capture the capital Kyiv at the outset of the invasion on February 24, Russia has shifted to a campaign of devastating bombardments to cement and extend its control of Ukraine's south and east.
Despite his disclosure of Russian penetration of the SBU, US officials on Monday said Washington would continue sharing intelligence that US officials have said Kyiv uses to respond to Moscow's attacks.
Russian forces are keeping up their bombardment of cities across Ukraine, with intense shelling of Sumy in the north, cluster bombs targeting Mykolaiv and a missile strike in Odesa in the south.
This week could be pivotal for European countries concerned about the impact of war and sanctions on gas supplies.
Over the weekend, Zelenskiy suspended the country's security chief and top prosecutor, saying they failed to purge Russian spies from their organisations.
In the south, Ukraine is preparing a counterattack to recapture the biggest swath of territory taken since the invasion. Ukraine reported destroying Russian missile systems, communications, radar, ammunition depots and armoured vehicles in strikes in the southern Kherson region.
