Germany Pushes Back Against Western Efforts To Cancel Out Russian Culture as Part of Sanctions
20220704
http://www.hngn.com/articles/243069/20220704/germany-pushes-back-against-western-efforts-cancel-out-russian-culture.htm
Instead, the orchestra got negative feedback and was allowed to play classical music. However, Roth admitted that uncertainty regarding Russian culture is hard to deal with.
The German Federal Commissioner used an example of how a mayor in North Rhine-Westphalia decided that a youth orchestra would not be allowed to play music composed by the famous Russian composer Pyotr Tchaikovsky as an example of Russo-phobia.
Many Western institutions are removing works done by great Russian artists and minds waywardly pursued after the Russian special operation in the Donbas,reported RT.
Also, Russia's classic culture should be music and literature must be upheld, not canceled or boycotted. She added that Putin would not take Chekhov from her.
There are too many odd arguments about the connection of Russian culture to the special operation in the DPR and LPR. The worst critics in western nations are a few German politicos who are not keen to cancel culture in general,citing Zomaloma.
An Italian university in Milan had allegedly tried to suspend the courses about the Russian novelist Fyodor Dostoevsky. One lacking excuse is to focus on less relevant Ukrainian authors to lessen tension it was not accepted publicly, so the attempt was abandoned.
The outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine hostilities led to a slew of anti-Russia economic sanctions, including oil and gas. Now it seems to have gone so far that it's so woke that other aspects like cultural aspects are mindlessly targeted.
Ukrainians are keen on canceling like Sergey Loznitsa, a prominent Ukrainian director and screenwriter of Belarusian origin, the speech defended Russian culture necessarily.
Roth stated, in an interview conducted by Augsburger Allgemeine Zeitung last Saturday, that boycotting Russian culture is very foolish,noted Olxpraca.
Roth stressed that the boycott is very mistaken, and mostly Russian artists strive to keep the last freedoms and fight for them.
One of the most noticed controversies is The Cardiff Philharmonic Orchestra in Wales omitted Pyotr Tchaikovsky's famous 1812 Overture as part of the performance. One reason for it is Napoleon Bonaparte's defeat, which was unacceptable.
Several western institutions are removing many examples of art and culture from Russia, which is unusual to do as its art and culture are separate from the special operation in late February.
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the West's elite are using cancel culture from the US to pillory famous Russian composers and writers, equating to Nazi book burnings.
The German Federal Commissioner Claudia Roth thought Russo-phobia to cancel out Russian culture was unfortunate because of its value. However, she laments that it should not be a war between East and West.
Read Also:Vladimir Putin: 3 Facts You Didn't Know About Russia's President - From His Judo Records to His KGB Pseudonym
In his speech, he did not want to cancel Russian culture and stressed no logic or sense in acting barbaric. He said that culture is the opposite of barbarity and that it should rescind to cancel it.
Claudia Roth, the German Federal Commissioner for Culture and the Media, said the prevalence of Russo-phobia is unfortunate that western proponents dismiss anything Russian.
