Kyiv Plans Offensive Against Donbas With Genocide Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov Reveals Proof
20220324
http://www.hngn.com/articles/241248/20220324/russia-ukraine-kyiv-plans-offensive-against-donbas-genocide-russian-foreign-minister-sergey-lavrov.htm
Western governments have turned a blind eye to the military crimes and attacks on non-combatants not involved in the fighting. Furthermore, the rise of Pro-Nazis and the west destabilization by supporting Kyiv in efforts to undermine the Minsk accord,  notedThe Nation.
Last Friday, Lavrov had discussions with Lugansk People's Republic Foreign Minister Vladislav Deinego and DPRs Sergey Peresada. He told his counterparts that Moscow is aware of how their allegiance brought upon death and destruction caused by pro-Ukraine forces.
Lavrov claimed last Wednesday that Moscow had proof that Kyiv was stopped by its special operations, reportedTASS.
In a speech at the Moscow State Institute for International Relations, he said that Ukrainian authorities deployed 100,020 troops all along the contact line, that the shelling worsened significantly. Also, they began speaking publicly about plan B, which turned out to exist.
Contrary to the claims by NATO and the US, indiscriminate firing is done by precision arms. According to Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, the Donetsk and Luhansk were why the Kremlin ordered the rollout, but the West painted it to their narrative.
These actions caused by the West and its Kyiv cohort only made this unfortunate event drive everything to this awful result. He added that President Vladimir Putin would not control Ukrainian territory.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the media that Kyiv prepped for an attack on separatist Donbas despite what the West says. These pro-Russian provinces have been under attack by Ukrainian forces. Washington and other western leaders have ignored it, but all hands when Russia stepped in to stop the carnage.
The reason is the Ukrainian regime is coursed to counter pro-Russian sentiment and geared to genocide against the people of Donbas and Luhansk, citedAl Jazeera.
Related Article:Russians Favor Military Action Against NATO Countries Deemed as Threat by Putin, New Poll Says
The attacks on Donbas and other separatist Ukrainian provinces have been ongoing. Still, it is ignored, but when Russia rolled in to stop in an invasion, remarked Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov.
One of the reasons the West allowed neo-Nazism and Russophobia in Ukraine is to hide that Kyiv has been attacking Donbas, which caused the Kremlin's mediation, which led to the conflict now.
For years they endured attacks and are still fighting forces that want to stamp them out for loyalty to Russia. The horrors inflicted on them cannot be forgotten, and Kyiv has much to answer.
The Foreign Minister added scathing criticisms about how the West has not been facing up with the facts. Instead, the western alliance is using it.
Furthermore, he justified the Kremlin's actions to intercede with the documents in hand. If allowed, Kyiv would have attacked these pro-Russian provinces without anyone trying to stop a forced capture of Donbas.
Stating the US and NATO say the Russian forces invaded via these provinces as the Russian special operation kicked off on February 24. Mentioning the Western response architects is to muddle the truth with words and choose what it wants.
Lavrov attacked the West over the hypocrisy of the West regarding what has been happening in Ukraine. Russia first acknowledged the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics, but Kyiv did not. Their forces have subjected Donetsk and Luhansk to excessive abuse and attacked its civilians with artillery barrages.
