Militant British National Captured in Mariupol Claims That ProUkraine Soldiers Abandoned Civilian Welfare as the Russians Stormed the Port City
20220417
http://www.hngn.com/articles/241665/20220417/militant-british-national-captured-in-mariupol-claim-that-pro-ukraine-soldiers-abandoned-civilian-welfare-as-the-russians-stormed-the-port-city.htm
The unit's dire situation was because the Ukrainian leader told them to stay and fight great odds leading to the rout. Aslin said in the video that the situation was avoidable, and the war of Zelensky was not needed.
According to Aslin, the situation for all men in the unit was dangerous. The fix with trapped pro-Ukraine soldiers could be avoided by wanting to stay and fight.
Aslin was in the thick of the fighting with pro-Kyiv forces, according to a video thatRTprocured. He was with the Ukrainian marines, who surrendered to Russian units early in the week. In 2018, he joined the Ukraine military and assumed they were the good guys, based on his assumption then.
A militant British national claims that pro-Ukraine soldiers were oblivious of civilians in Mariupol as the Russian troops tightened the noose. When captured, Aiden Aslin,  the Briton, contradicted the narrative that Kyiv was winning its offensive, and its forces were surrounded.
In a week of intense hostilities, he took part in the city offensive that led to his conclusion about the conduct of Kyiv's forces on how they treated their civilians.
Aslin reported the shocking soldiers' behavior, saying they allegedly stole food from supermarkets and ignored the civilians who needed them. Locals in the city were prevented from getting water for themselves based on Aslin's account of the citizen's ordeal, notedHi India.
At one point in the interview, the subject of the pro-Kyiv soldiers committing atrocities like killing civilians was raised. He called them criminals. His alleged account contradicts current reports of the hostilities at Mariupol, which the Ukrainians are winning.
The British captive from Mariupol said the city was under siege and was experiencing catastrophe, not from the Russian forces but Ukrainian units besieged in the area, reportedthe Daily Telegraph.
Mariupol's shattered reality in the current situation became an eye-opener he claimed he attempted to ask the marine leaders to leave. Instead, they opted to stay in Kyiv with the thought they wanted them to stay despite their situation.
Aslin claims that he fought with the Kurds of Syria against the radical Islamic State, but after the event in Mariupol, he is going home to his family and not fighting for any country again.
Plans to recognize Donetsk and Lugansk by the neo-Nazis and ultra-nationalists against the republics prompted a special operation allowed by the Kremlin, mentionedAl Jazeera.
One of the major reasons for the incursion was that Ukraine was asked to be neutral, which never happened, leading to this shooting war.
Related Article:Vladimir Putin Calls Bucha Massacre Accusations False, Belarus Claims Evidence Was Staged To Discredit Russia
Entering Donbas on February 24, Russian PresidentVladimir Putinordered the incursion after the failed implementation of the Minsk agreement.
The militant British national captured at Mariupol with pro-Ukraine soldiers admitted what they did against civilians was disturbing and shocked him enough to realize never to fight in a war again.
Ongoing propaganda by Ukraine PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskywants to show his forces are allegedly getting the upper hand, but Aslin's revelation casts doubt on it.
