Moscow Reports Ukraine NeoNazis Uses Civilians as Human Shields in Donetsk and Lugansk Republics After the Battle of Mariupol
20220523
http://www.hngn.com/articles/242302/20220522/moscow-reports-ukraine-neo-nazis-uses-civilians-human-shields-donetsk-lugansk-republic-battle-of-mariupol.htm
More areas deployed by Ukraine forces are Nikolayev's Kindergarten No.141 'Zvezdochka' and the premises of the shipbuilding vocational school.
Read Also:Donald Trump Net Worth 2022: Did Trump Get Richer Since Leaving the US Presidency?
Moscow informs the Neo-Nazis about fortifying firing positions after the Battle of Mariupol in the Donetsk and Lugansk Republics. The Azov militants use civilians in Dnepr, Nikolayev, and Kamyshevakha as human shields.
The Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov remarked that thesiege of Kamyshevakhawas a risk to the civilian population due to the Ukrainian military persisting in using civilians as human barriers to prevent an attack.
Moscow states that Neo-Nazis and Ukraine regulars in the DPR and LPR are taking a position in civilians' areas after the Battle of Mariupol, while Chechen units were giving Zelensky's force a headache in these engagements.
According to Kadyrov, a police unit as part of the Interior Ministry's Chechen Republic Department has been redeployed to the Lugansk front. Against all wartime conventions, these Nazis and regulars disregarded civilian safety by using schools and private residences as places to set up firing points against Chechen and Russian forces.
Related Article:Ukrainian Official Leaks Information on Pentagon's Plan To Destroy Russia's Black Sea Fleet With Anti-Ship Missiles
Kadyrov wrote on his social media post that the recent rotation of Chechen special military units is attempting to defeat the dug-in Ukraine forces in the Kamyshevakha settlement.
According to the Moscow official, enemy troops transformed two more educational institutions in the city of Putivl Sumy Region into defensive positions.
Mizintsev is also the head of the Russian Joint Coordination Headquarters for Humanitarian Response in Ukraine as an oversight in these areas.
The defeat of Zelensky and the liberation of Mariupol from his forces were downplayed Chechen units led by commander Zamid Chalayev, the chief of the Akhmad-Khadzhi Kadyrov Special Police Unit, helped free the important city.
A large windbreak should also be considered behind the settlement, where the enemy's artillery is stationed, according to Kadyrov.
Ukrainian armed groups dug into the following facilities and distributed military equipment like multiple-launch rocket systems at territories in the Donetsk People's Republic. These places are Bakhmut School No.2, Chasov Yar Vocational School No.77, Solnyshko Kindergarten, and Novoekonomicheskoye School No.1,noted Oops Top.
Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev, chief of Russia's National Defense Management Center, stated these units trapped residents in their houses and intentionally stopped evacuation,reported TASS.
More information reveals the Azov Neo-Nazis supported by Kyiv were keeping people hostage in their basements because they had no choice,mentioned Al Jazeera.
Chechen military units started operations against defensive positions in the Lugansk People's Republic and posted the Chechen leader on social media last Saturday.
Cities still under Ukraine's control with their military and paramilitary units putting weapons specifically in DPR schools, stated last Saturday. Denials that locals are intimidated to follow what the Azov Nazis instruct them to do, no choice.
