RussiaUkraine War Did Russia Really Ask China for ReadytoEat Food Amid Invasion
20220315
http://www.hngn.com/articles/241093/20220315/russia-ukraine-war-really-ask-china-ready-eat-food-amid-invasion-shortage-fuel.htm
However, Einar Tangen, a senior international fellow at the Chinese think-tank Taihe Institute, believes that Beijing has no interest in sending military aid to Russia in its attack on Ukraine, as China has already announced that it rejects the West adding more weapons into Ukraine, which they consider as "adding oil to fire."
As Russia's assault on Ukraine has carried on for over three weeks with no end in sight, Russia has asked China for assistance with weapons as well as pre-packaged, non-perishable military food packages, according to a report fromThe Independent.
Experts are concerned that if China provides weapons to Russia in its war against Ukraine, the world will change.
Dean Cheng, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center, there is a lot of "fundamental compatibility" between Chinese and Russian air-to-air and air-to-ground systems, as well as "dumb bombs" and artillery.
Russia appeals for military and financial aid from China in its assault on Ukraine, allegedly including food for its troops, indicating the military's logistical difficulties.
Intelligence officials from the United Kingdom and the United States believe that Russian President Vladimir Putin's military is experiencing shortages in fuel and food supplies.
Read Also:Turkey Refuses To Sanction Russia Over Ukraine Invasion, Plans Alternative Solutions Despite Pressure From NATO Membership
At present, Russian forces are having difficulties in supplying basic needs that slow down its advancement in the war. Past reports had shown that Russia's attack on Ukraine was hurried.
Sources say that China intends to provide such assistance as there are indications of its "openness" in the matter. Though, the administration of US President Joe Biden is aware of such a request from Russia.
"Buckle up," he advised because much Chinese military hardware, such as aircraft, helicopters, and armored personnel carriers, are based on Russian configurations. Hence, the Chinese could quickly deliver spare parts for compatible weapons systems and drones, perPolitico.
Related Article:Putin Passes Law Ordering Seizure of $10 Billion Worth of Leased Planes To Support Domestic Flights
Zack Cooper, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and former Pentagon and White House official, said that "the point at which the relationship changed permanently" is "not for the better."
Last week, lawmakers received a classified briefing in which US officials talked about Russia's request. Washington has "yet to see the indication" if Beijing will assist Moscow. One House Democratic member mentioned to NatSec Daily that "it's not China wanting to help" instead, it is the other way around. "Russia wants China's help." There are also conflicting indications about China's objectives.
According to aCNNreport, China is considering granting Russia's request for ready-to-eat food. Beijing's primary concern was providing military weapons because it could provoke the West.
According to a US official who asked to remain anonymous, perAl Jazeerareport, Russia has recently requested assistance from China, including military weapons, to advance its current war with Ukraine. The official did not specify the scope of the request.
In advance of the talks, White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan issued a harsh warning to China not to assist Russia in dodging global sanctions that have battered the Russian economy. He said that the US "will not allow" such action.
While food supply may be a type of non-deadly support, the request highlights the Russian army's lack of invasion preparations.
