Russian Foreign Minister Says the Kremlin Wants To End USWorld Domination that Allegedly Violates International Law
20220414
http://www.hngn.com/articles/241610/20220414/russian-foreign-minister-kremlin-end-world-domination-allegedly-violates-international.htm
Lavrov made it clear that the US has long been interpreting ad hoc rules and not following international law, implicating the actions in Ukraine as an example, reportedthe Daily Telegraph.
Due to the violations of the agreement that Ukraine should have implemented that was ratified in 2014 when Lugansk and Donetsk were pro-Russian republics.
Before the special operation in the Donbas was ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin, who warned Kyiv to keep a neutral status and not join the US-led NATO.
The EU has been flip-flopping throughout the Ukraine security crisis, said the foreign minister. Brussels was not keen to get into a military situation, but they are now. Lavrov mentioned the bloc dropped its no intervention because Washington put pressure on their leaders to get into with NATO.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov spoke out against the US world domination, which is what the special operation in Donbas was all about. He called the actions of Washington a constant violation of international law, he claimed. This statement last Monday encapsulated why the response of Moscow is to send a message to the US that it won't allow it.
Moscow has remained independent regardless of what happens, he added. It will only be a member of an international community of equals, remarked Lavrov, and will not allow Western nations to discount its genuine security concerns.
A bloc diplomat stressed that NATO would have to be fought and won on the battlefield and said more military hardware would be given to the Ukrainians.
He spoke on the Rossiya 24 news channel and reiterated the special operation in Donbas to stop the illegal expansion of NATO. It is an example of seeking full hegemony of Washington, citedBusiness Insider India.
Borrell might have either misspoken or spoken thinking, issuing a foolish remark nobody had prompted him to make, notedIndia.
Before this, the EU was very vocal about not giving arms to Kyiv, though some members like Hungary, Germany, and France are openly hesitant to get backlash at some point. He stressed that Moscow wants peace with Kyiv, but something is stopping it.
Still, Ukrainian leaders deny it as their provocation that led to the conflict even as Russia got evidence, Kyiv would send Neo-Nazi and ultranationalists to attack the DPR and LPR, which would have led to more civilian deaths.
Conventions negotiated by Germany and France are designed to normalize the status of certain regions within the Ukrainian state.
Related Article:Former Russian President Warns That Economic Sanctions Imposed To Punish Vladimir Putin Will Backfire on the West
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov explained that the EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell instead of stopping the conflict has only made statements to intensify the combat in Ukraine, which is an unwanted result of US world domination.
This struggle is seen by the efforts of Moscow and Beijing to show their rejection of the rules-based international order that allows the US to influence other countries despite their disapproval.
Hegemony is based on alleged violations of international law and a set of standards that they are presently promoting and making up on a case-by-case basis.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the conflict is caused by alleged US world domination using Ukraine in a proxy war that could be avoided, even pressuring the EU into an unwanted conflict.
