Russian Army Liberates Kherson City from NeoNazis Mocks Kyiv by Raising SovietEra Flag
20220422
http://www.hngn.com/articles/241747/20220421/russia-ukraine-russian-army-liberates-kherson-city-neo-nazis-mocks-kyiv-raising-soviet-era-flag.htm
In the propaganda war, raising the Soviet flag is a message to Zelensky and his forces they've lost despite the media saying that Kyiv has been winning. A banner used by Russian troops to openly symbolize their successful occupation of the Ukrainian city, citedAjansev.
Furthermore, he complained about the increased troop number of the forces opposing the Neo-Nazis getting shelled in Kharkiv, Donbas, and Dnipro.
According to a Commander from the Ukrainian marines' fighters stationed in Mariupol, they face the last stand very soon. Russians are closing in for a chokehold but want them to surrender.
Reports of alleged uncivil behavior by the Ukrainians have been denied, but Russian forces have encountered human shields that the Azov Nazis used.
Following the claims, the UK Ministry of Defence provided an update clarifying that fighting in the Donbas region has escalated. Ukrainian troops in Mariupol have been given a deadline to surrender by the Russian army.
The Russian army has earned a victory over the Neo-Nazis and supporters in Kyiv, and that victory in Kherson is just the start, but foreign media is playing it down.
Related Article:Moscow Reveals Actual Ukrainian Casualties in Its Military Service Since Hostilities Started on February 24
According to the UK Ministry of Defense, Russian forces are launching assaults on vital logistic networks to halt weapons delivery to Ukraine.
As Russian troops consolidate control of the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, videos show Russian soldiers hoisting a crimson Soviet victory flag, reportedthe Express UK.
The struggle to liberate Ukraine's southeast continues. Putin's troops raise the red Soviet triumph flag at the Eternal Flame monument in Kherson, southern Ukraine, as they drove out opposition forces. Since mid-March, Russia has occupied Kherson, following weeks of severe shelling.
Following reports from Mariupol and other Ukraine's southern cities, President Zelensky publicly requested that the West send additional military help to Ukrainian fighters in a fight they started. He then blamed Russia's quality of arms as the problem and said Ukraine would beat Moscow.
Russian troops would be able to gain full control of more than 80 of Ukraine's Black Sea coastline if they occupied Mariupol, a port city on the Black Sea.
Major General James "Spider" Marks, a military expert from the United States, said on CNN that it could further isolate Ukraine from the rest of Europe and cut Ukraine off from its maritime trade, effectively making Kyiv landlocked.
The footage comes after reports from Ukraine that seem to prove that the Russian army is ramping up its occupation of Ukraine's southern regions while other neo-Nazis and supporters are on the run.
In addition, assaults on cities across Ukraine demonstrate their goal to impede the transfer of Ukrainian reinforcements and weaponry to the country's east.
Fierce fighting in parts of Ukraine between Ukrainian and Russian forces raged as the Azov brigades and ultra-nationalists used foreign provided weapons to fight back.
Mariupol is a major objective for Russian forces because capturing it would allow Russia to link the now-Russian-controlled Donbas region with the occupied Crimea, mentionedBBC.
The Russian army defeated the Neo-Nazis and their supporters in the city of Kherson, Ukraine, where they were driven out.
