White House Confirms Ukraine Is Beating Pushing Russia Back Ambassador Warns About Dangerous US Provocation
20220411
http://www.hngn.com/articles/241545/20220410/russia-ukraine-war-white-house-confirms-ukraine-beating-pushing-russia-back-ambassador-warns.htm
After expensive mistakes in the initial campaign and the slaughter of Ukrainian civilians, Russia has appointed a new Ukraine war commander to assume leadership of the next phase of the struggle. Officials in the United States believe that one guy will not make a difference in Moscow's chances.
Meanwhile, the governors of Iowa and Nebraska launched joint plans this week to supply police protection gear to Ukraine, including military-grade equipment like helmets and vests, to aid civilian defense against Russia's incursion. Nebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts announced that his state would send 550 pieces of protective gear, while Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds announced that her state's department of public safety and 18 law enforcement organizations would send 860 pieces of gear to Ukraine.
According to Ukraine's border guard agency, around 2,200 Ukrainian males of fighting age have been apprehended while attempting to flee the country in violation of the martial rule. Some of them allegedly used falsified passports, while others attempted to bribe border guards, according to the agency.
Experts believe it's rare for US law enforcement to send police protection equipment and military-grade gear to a foreign government fighting a war. The endeavor also raises concerns regarding police departments' duties, and whether they should send equipment to a foreign conflict outside of their authority as domestic law enforcement organizations,CNNreported.
According to White House national security advisor Jake Sullivan, Ukrainian forces are effectively driving back Russian soldiers, forcing the invaders to reorganize, refit, and refocus.
A senior US official who was not allowed to be identified and spoke on the condition of anonymity confirmed the general's appointment. However, Jake Sullivan, the White House national security advisor, stated that no general appointment could erase the fact that Russia has already experienced a strategic loss in Ukraine, as perABC News.
Sullivan commended the military of Ukraine, as well as the equipment that the United States and its allies have been giving to the embattled country. He claimed last week that Slovakia was able to deploy an S-300 air defense system because the US agreed to provide a Patriot battery to replace the system Slovakia was handing over.
The Russian Ambassador to the United States Newsweek quoted Anatoly Antonov saying that the West is baiting Russia. "We warn that such actions are dangerous," the envoy said. "They can lead the US and the Russian Federation onto the path of direct military confrontation."
Many of the participating police agencies are collaborating with charitable groups and former US military members. Due to worries about potential legal issues, several people with firsthand knowledge of the various operations - but who are not engaged - talked to CNN on the condition of anonymity.
Related Article:Russia-Ukraine War: 164 Bodies Found in Bucha After Civilian Massacre 50 Dead Following Russian Missile Strike at Kramatorsk Train Station
Ukraine's chief prosecutor, Irina Venediktova, revealed Sunday that she is probing the role of roughly 500 Russian leaders, including President Vladimir Putin, in 5,600 suspected war crimes, according toUSA Today.
According to US sources, Russia resorted to Gen. Alexander Dvornikov, 60, one of Russia's most experienced military officers and a general with a history of cruelty against civilians in Syria and other combat zones. Russia has no central war commander on the ground until recently.
According to an assessment of state-by-state initiatives and interviews with some individuals engaged, the agencies join a growing list of police departments from California to Ohio to Vermont that are giving non-lethal police gear to help Ukrainian citizens.
Read Also:UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson Vows Increased Military Support For Ukraine As More Civilians Flee After Deadly Missile Attack in Kramatorsk Train Station
