Moscowbacked officials try to solidify rule in Ukraine
20220613
https://wtop.com/russia-ukraine-war-news/2022/06/ukraines-leader-says-his-troops-keep-defying-predictions/
At one of the central squares in the city of Kherson, Russian bands played a concert to celebrate Russia Day, the holiday that marks Russias emergence as a sovereign state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, according to Russias state news agency RIA Novosti.
President Vladimir Putin earlier this year issued a decree fast-tracking Russian citizenship for residents of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions. In captured cities in the south and east, Moscow has also introduced the ruble as official currency, aired Russian news broadcasts and taken steps to introduce a Russian school curriculum.
Also, heavy fighting continued for control of Sievierodonetsk, an eastern city in Luhansk province with a prewar population of 100,000 that has emerged as central to Russias campaign to capture the Donbas, Ukraines industrial heartland.
Another blast was reported at an electrical substation in the city of Berdyansk, which is also under Russian control. The Kremlin-backed administration pronounced it a terrorist attack, and officials said electricity was shut down in parts of the city.
Ukrainian media reported that few, if any, local residents attended the Russia Day festivities in the two cities.
Also, the Russia-aligned administration in Melitopol started handing out Russian passports to those who applied for Russian citizenship. RIA Novosti posted video of a Moscow-backed official congratulating new Russian citizens and telling them: Russia will not go anywhere. We are here for good.
Ternopil Gov. Volodymyr Trush said four Russian missiles damaged a military installation and four residential buildings in Chortkiv. More than 20 people were wounded, including a 12-year-old girl, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.
In the neighboring Zaporizhzhia region, Moscow-installed officials raised a Russian flag in Melitopols city center.
On the battlefield, Russia said it is used missiles to destroy a large depot in western Ukraine that contained anti-tank and air-defense weapons supplied to Kyiv by the U.S. and European countries. It said the attack took place near the city of Chortkiv in the Ternopil region.
This strike had no tactical or strategic sense, just like the absolute majority of other Russian strikes. It is terror, just terror, he said in a video address.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Kremlin-installed officials in occupied southern Ukraine celebrated Russia Day on Sunday and began issuing Russian passports to residents in one city who requested them, as Moscow sought to solidify its rule over captured parts of the country.
The Kremlins administrators in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions have voiced plans to incorporate the areas into Russia, despite protests and signs of an insurgency among local residents.
An official with the pro-Moscow, self-proclaimed Luhansk Peoples Republic, Rodion Miroshnik, said 300 to 400 Ukrainian troops also remained inside the plant. He said that efforts were underway to evacuate the civilians.
Russian forces shelled a Sievierodonetsk chemical plant where up to 500 civilians, 40 of them children, were holed up, Luhansk Gov. Serhii Haidai said.
This story has been corrected to show that a 12-year-old girl, not a boy, was wounded in a missile strike on Chortkiv.
Leonid Pasechnik, head of the Luhansk Peoples Republic, said the Ukrainians making their stand in Sievierodonetsk should save themselves the trouble.
Russia Day was also celebrated in other occupied parts of Ukraine, including the ravaged southern port of Mariupol, where a new city sign painted in the colors of the Russian flag was unveiled on the outskirts and Russian flags were flown on a highway leading into the city.
In light of the strike, Zelenskyy made another plea for modern missile defense systems from the U.S. and other Western countries, saying, These are lives that could have been saved, tragedies that could have been prevented if Ukraine had been listened to.
If I were them, I would already make a decision to surrender, he said. We will achieve our goal in any case.
Russian-installed officials Sunday in Melitopol reported an explosion in a garbage bin near the citys police headquarters and said two residents were injured.
2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, written or redistributed.
