Russia pummels port of Odesa in attempt to disrupt supplies
20220510
https://wtop.com/russia-ukraine-war-news/2022/05/putin-marks-victory-day-with-little-to-show-for-11-week-war/
The idea reflected Ukraines ability to stymie a larger, better-armed Russian military, which has surprised many who had anticipated a much quicker end to the conflict.
Since President Vladimir Putins forces failed to take Kyiv  early in the war, his focus has shifted to the eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas  but one general has suggested Moscows aims also include cutting Ukraines maritime access to both the Black and Azov seas.
But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Tuesday that the military was gradually pushing Russian troops away from Kharkiv. The Ukrainian militarys general staff said its forces drove the Russians out of four villages to the northeast of Kharkiv as it tries to push them back toward the Russian border.
Russian aircraft twice launched unguided missiles Tuesday at the Sumy area northeast of Kharkiv, according to the Ukrainian border guard service. The regions governor said the missiles hit several residential buildings, but no one was killed. The Chernihiv region, along the Ukrainian border with Belarus, was hit by mortars fired from Russian territory. There was no word on casualties.
Kuleba, the Ukrainian foreign minister, meanwhile, appeared to voice increasing confidence  and expanded goals  amid Russias stalled offensive. He told the Financial Times that Ukraine initially believed victory would be the withdrawal of Russian troops to positions they occupied before the Feb. 24 invasion.
Fighters with the Azov regiment released photos of their wounded comrades inside the plant, including some with amputated limbs. They said the wounded were living in unsanitary conditions with open wounds bandaged with non-sterile remnants of bandages, without the necessary medication and even food.
In Washington, a top U.S. intelligence official testified Tuesday that eight to 10 Russian generals have been killed in the war. Lt. Gen. Scott Berrier, who leads the Defense Intelligence Agency, told a Senate committee that because Russia lacks a noncommissioned officer corps, its generals have to go into combat zones and end up in dangerous positions.
Even if Russia falls short of severing Ukraine from the coast  and it appears to lack the forces to do so  the continuing missile strikes on Odesa reflect the citys strategic importance. The Russian military has repeatedly targeted its airport and claimed it destroyed several batches of Western weapons.
With the war now in its 11th week and Kyiv bogging down Russian forces and even staging a counteroffensive, Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba seemed to indicate that the country could go beyond merely pushing Russia back to areas it or its allies held on the day of the Feb. 24 invasion.
The comments seemed to reflect political ambitions more than battlefield realities: Many analysts acknowledge that although Russia isnt capable of making quick gains, the Ukrainian military isnt strong enough to drive the Russians back.
Kyrylenko and Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to Mariupols mayor, did not say how they knew civilians were still in the complex  a warren of tunnels and bunkers spread over 11 square kilometers 4 square miles. Others said their statements were impossible to confirm.
In its statement on Telegram, the regiment appealed to the U.N and Red Cross to evacuate the wounded servicemen to Ukrainian-controlled territories.
Odesa is also a major gateway for grain shipments, and its blockade by Russia already threatens global food supplies. Beyond that, the city is a cultural jewel, dear to Ukrainians and Russians alike, and targeting it carries symbolic significance.
Images showed a burning building and debris  including a tennis shoe  in a heap of destruction in the city on the Black Sea. Mayor Gennady Trukhanov later visited the warehouse and said it had nothing in common with military infrastructure or military objects.
Gambrell reported from Lviv, Ukraine. Yesica Fisch in Bakhmut, David Keyton in Kyiv, Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Mstyslav Chernov in Kharkiv, Lolita C. Baldor in Washington, Kelvin Chan in London and APs worldwide staff contributed.
In recent days, the United Nations and the Red Cross organized a rescue of what some officials said were the last civilians trapped at the plant. But two officials said Tuesday that about 100 were believed to still be in the complexs underground tunnels. Donetsk regional Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said those who remain are people that the Russians have not selected for evacuation.
Zelenskyy used his nightly address to pay tribute to Leonid Kravchuk, the first president of an independent Ukraine, who died Tuesday at 88. Zelenskyy said Kravchuk showed courage and knew how to get the country to listen to him.
Now if we are strong enough on the military front, and we win the battle for Donbas, which will be crucial for the following dynamics of the war, of course the victory for us in this war will be the liberation of the rest of our territories.
In another example of the grisly toll of the war, Ukrainian officials said they found the bodies of 44 civilians in the rubble of a building destroyed weeks ago in the northeastern city of Izyum.
New U.N. figures, meanwhile, said that 14 million Ukrainians were forced from their homes by the end of April, including more than 5.9 million who have left the country.
In the U.S., President Joe Biden signed a bipartisan measure Monday to reboot the World War II-era lend-lease program, which helped defeat Nazi Germany, to bolster Kyiv and its allies. On Tuesday, the U.S. House approved a new $40 billion Ukraine aid package for defense and humanitarian programs in Ukraine.
ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine AP  Russia pummeled the vital port of Odesa, Ukrainian officials said Tuesday, in an apparent effort to disrupt supply lines and Western weapons shipments as Ukraines foreign minister appeared to suggest the country could expand its war aims.
One of the most dramatic examples of Ukraines ability to prevent easy victories is in Mariupol, where Ukrainian fighters remained holed up at a steel plant, denying Russias full control of the city. The regiment defending the plant said Russian warplanes continued bombarding it, striking 34 times in 24 hours.
That would also give it a swath of territory linking Russia to both the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized in 2014, and Transnistria, a pro-Moscow region of Moldova.
That was particularly important in crisis moments, when the future of the whole country may depend on the courage of one man, said Zelenskyy, whose own communication skills and decision to remain in Kyiv when it came under Russian attack have helped make him a strong wartime leader.
Kharkiv and the surrounding area has been under sustained Russian attack since the early in the war. In recent weeks, grisly pictures testified to the horrors  of those battles, with charred and mangled bodies strewn in one street.
Ukraine alleged at least some of the munitions used dated to the Soviet era, making them unreliable in targeting. Ukrainian, British and U.S. officials say Russia is rapidly using up its stock of precision weapons, raising the risk of more imprecise rockets being used as the conflict grinds on.
Ukraine said Tuesday that Russian forces fired seven missiles at Odesa a day earlier, hitting a shopping center and a warehouse in the countrys largest port. One person was killed and five wounded, the military said.
2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, written or redistributed.
Russian forces have made slow advances in the Donbas, but there have been multiple setbacks. Military analysts suggest that hitting Odesa might serve to stoke concern about southwestern Ukraine, thus forcing Kyiv to put more forces there. That would pull them away from the eastern front as Ukraines military stages counteroffensives near the northeastern city of Kharkiv.
