Russia claims advances in Ukraine amid fierce fighting
20220607
https://wtop.com/russia-ukraine-war-news/2022/06/ap-exclusive-russia-begins-returning-bodies-from-steel-mill/
Early in the war, Russian troops also took control of the entire Kherson region and a large part of the Zaporizhzhia region, both in the south. Russian officials and their local appointees have talked about plans for those regions to either declare their independence or be folded into Russia.
Associated Press journalists David Keyton and Oleksandr Stashevskyi in Kyiv Yuras Karmanau in Lviv Andrew Katell in New York and Lolita Baldor in Washington contributed to this story.
The toughest street battles continue, with varying degrees of success, Haidai said. The situation constantly changes, but the Ukrainians are repelling attacks.
After abandoning its bungled attempt to storm Kyiv two months ago, Russia declared that taking the entire Donbas is its main objective. Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian government forces in the Donbas since 2014, and the region has borne the brunt of the Russian onslaught in recent weeks.
Shoigu added that Russian troops were pressing their offensive toward the town of Popasna and have taken control of Lyman and Sviatohirsk and 15 other towns in the region.
Zelenskyy said the Russians clearly did not expect to meet so much resistance and are now trying to bring in additional troops and equipment. He said the same was true in the Kherson region.
Meanwhile, the U.S. military has begun training Ukrainian forces on the sophisticated multiple rocket launchers that the Biden administration agreed last week to provide. The Pentagon said the training is going on at a base in Germany and elsewhere in Europe.
In other developments, Zelenskyy said Ukraine planned to publish a special Book of Executioners next week with information about war crimes committed by the Russian army.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Moscows forces hold nearly all of Luhansk province. And it appears that Russia now occupies roughly half of Donetsk province, according to Ukrainian officials and military analysts.
A total destruction of the city is under way. Russian shelling has intensified significantly over the past 24 hours. Russians are using scorched-earth tactics, Haidai said.
The High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS, is mounted on a truck and can carry a container with six rockets, which can travel about 45 miles 70 kilometers. Officials said it would take about three weeks of training before they could go to the battlefront.
Amid fears of a global food crisis because of the war, the Kremlin said Ukraine needs to remove sea mines near its Black Sea port of Odesa to allow essential grain exports to resume from there. Ukrainian officials have expressed concern that removing the mines could enable Moscows forces to attack.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia on Tuesday claimed to have taken control of 97 of one of the two provinces that make up Ukraines Donbas, bringing the Kremlin closer to its goal of fully capturing the eastern industrial heartland of coal mines and factories.
Speaking earlier to a Financial Times conference, Zelenskyy insisted on Ukraines need to defeat Russia on the battlefield but also said he is still open to peace talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Zelenskyy said Russian forces made no significant advances in the eastern Donbas region over the past day.
Before the Feb. 24 invasion, Ukrainian officials said Russia controlled some 7 of the country, including the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014, and areas held by the separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk. Last week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian forces hold 20 of the country.
The Russians think they will be able to take the whole of the Donbas and then might use that as the opportunity to call for negotiations, Kendall-Taylor said at an online seminar organized by Columbia and New York universities.
These are specific facts about specific people who are guilty of specific cruel crimes against Ukrainians, he said. Those named would include not only people who carried out the crimes but their commanders, he said.
Shoigu, the Russian defense minister, said Moscows forces have seized the residential quarters of Sievierodonetsk and are fighting to take control of an industrial zone on the citys outskirts and nearby towns.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak urged his people not to be downhearted about the battlefield reverses.
But in what may be the latest instance of anti-Russian sabotage inside Ukraine, Russian state media said Tuesday that an explosion at a cafe in the city of Kherson wounded four people. Tass called the apparent bombing in the Russian-occupied city a terror act.
While Russia has superior firepower, the Ukrainian defenders are entrenched and have shown the ability to counterattack.
The war also brought a standoff Tuesday between the head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency and Ukrainian authorities over the biggest nuclear power plant in Europe.
Dont let the news that weve ceded something scare you, he said in a video address. It is clear that tactical maneuvers are ongoing. We cede something, we take something back.
The director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Rafael Mariano Grossi, wants to visit the Zaporizhzhia plant to help maintain its safety after it was taken by Russian troops in March.
Moscows forces also kept up their artillery barrage of Lysychansk. Haidai said Russian troops shelled a market, a school and a college building, destroying the latter. At least three people were wounded, he said.
The absolutely heroic defense of the Donbas continues, he said late Tuesday in his nightly video address.
Youre not going to get to the negotiating table until neither side feels they have an advantage that they could push, said Andrea Kendall-Taylor of the Washington-based Center for a New American Security.
But Energoatom, the Ukrainian state company overseeing the countrys nuclear plants, said in a blunt statement that Grossi isnt welcome. It said his planned tour is yet another attempt to legitimize the occupiers presence there.
2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, written or redistributed.
Sievierodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk have seen heavy fighting in recent weeks. They are among a few cities and towns in the Luhansk region still holding out against the Russian invasion, which is being helped by local pro-Kremlin forces.
