Bidens Ukrainian Albatross
20220124
https://mises.org/power-market/bidens-ukrainian-albatross
There was no way out. Only constant maneuvering and manipulation to desperately demonstrate the impossible  that the move had any value or even made any sense.
That is why the US government, though its Embassy in Kiev, isbraggingabout the arrival of $200 million in lethal aid, all pointed directly at Russia.
Biden while vice president sowed the regime change winds in Ukraine. Now his inept Administration will reap the whirlwind of that continuing train wreck and eventual dissolution of the country. No matter what Antony Blinken peddles to the contrary.
Rather than admit what a colossal blunder the whole thing had been, the US foreign policy establishment doubled down.
That is why our hapless State Department today continues to peddle the fiction that Russia is about to invadeand thus ownUkraine. US foreign policy is one of projection: accuse your rivals of doing what you yourself are doing. No sane country would want to own Ukraine. Except the Beltway Think Tank class, thoroughly infused with military-industrial complex money.
The US is nearly the last country on earth that still holds to the WWII-era concept of war for territorial gain. Russia wants to own Ukraine like most people want to own a2003 Saturn. That is why despite neoconneo-liberal hype, magnified by the lock-step US media, Russia is not about to invade Ukraine.
Then-Secretary of State Colin Powell is given credit for popularizing the Pottery Barn rule of foreign policy. Though he denies using that exact phrase, in arguing against what became the disastrous 2003 US attack on Iraq Powell made the point that, as in Pottery Barn, if you break it, you own it.
This fantasy is being pushed by those who desperately need to continue to gin up enthusiasm for a thoroughly idiotic and counterproductive imperial enterprise.
Its just too bad that we dont share the opinion of who are really non-essential State Department personnel in Kiev: the last person out could be asked to turn off the lights.
So it is with Ukraine. In 2014 the ObamaBiden Administration managed to finish what Bushs neocons started a decade before. With the US-backed overthrow of the Ukrainian government that year, the US came to own what no one in their right mind would ever seek: an economic basket case of a country with a politicalbusiness class whose corruption is the stuff of legend.
Bush and his neoconsironically with thehelpof Colin Powell himselfdid indeed break Iraq and the American people as a result owned Iraq for the subsequent 22 years and counting. It was an idiotic war and, as the late former NSA chief Gen. Bill Odompredicted, turned out to be the greatest strategic disaster in American history.
We own Ukraine and there is no way backat least if the US foreign policy establishment has its way.
Attacking and destroying Iraqand executing its leadernot only had no value in any conceivable manner to the United States, it had negative value. In taking responsibility for Iraqs future, the US government obligated the American people to pick up the tab for a million ransacked Pottery Barns.
By overthrowing an elected government in Kiev in 2014, the US government disenfranchised millions of voters in eastern Ukraine who voted for the overthrown president. Those voters unsurprisingly came to view the US-installed regime as illegitimate and sought self-rule under the concept of self-determination. As ethnic Russians, many of these successfully sought Russian passports.
In fact Trump was impeached because a certain Col. Alexander Vindmanhimself of Ukrainian origin and doing the bidding of a Ukrainian government installed by Washingtonsolemnly testified to Adam Schiff and his Democrat colleagues in charge of the House that Trump was clearly Putins puppet because his lack of enthusiasm for continuing to own Ukraine went against the Inter-Agency Consensus.
That is why the US State Department is maintaining the fiction that Russia is about to launch a ground war to occupy Ukraine by dramatically announcing an evacuation of all non-essential personnel from its Embassy in Kiev.
Russia has been clear for a long time about Ukraine: it will not allow an armed invasion of eastern Ukraine that would result in the deaths of thousands of Russian citizens. Were the shoe on the other foot, the USand any countrycould be expected to react the same way.
Oh, this might be a neat tool to overthrow our own election: lets pretend Trump is Putins agent!
