Decreasing Building Heating Levels By Just 1C Will Reduce AnnualDemand By 10bcm And Wean Away Europe From Reliance On Russian Gas IEA
20220304
https://swarajyamag.com/news-brief/decreasing-building-heating-levels-by-just-1c-will-reduce-annualdemand-by-10bcm-and-wean-away-europe-from-reliance-on-russian-gas-iea
Introduce minimum gas storage obligations Impact: Enhances resilience of the gas system by next winter
Many of the actions recommended in the plan  including stepping up energy efficiency measures, accelerating renewable deployment and expanding low emissions sources of power system flexibility  are key elements of the IEAs Roadmap to Net Zero by 2050.
Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.
Do not sign any new gas supply contracts with Russia. Impact: Enables greater diversification of supply this year and beyond
The key actions recommended in the IEAs 10-Point Plan include not signing any new gas contracts with Russia, maximising gas supplies from other sources, accelerating the deployment of solar and wind, making the most of existing low emissions energy sources including nuclear and renewables, and ramping up energy efficiency measures in homes and businesses.
Replace Russian supplies with gas from alternative sources Impact: Increases non-Russian gas supply by around 30 billion cubic metres within a year
The International Energy Agency IEA, a leading thinktank in energy sector, today Mar 3 unveiled a 10-Point Plan to reduce the European Unions reliance on Russian natural gas.
Enact short-term tax measures on windfall profits to shelter vulnerable electricity consumers from high prices Impact: Cuts energy bills even when gas prices remain high
Accelerate the deployment of new wind and solar projects Impact: Reduces gas use by 6 billion cubic metres within a year
Accelerate energy efficiency improvements in buildings and industry Impact: Reduces gas use by close to 2 billion cubic metres within a year
Also Read: Russia And The West: How Much Does Europe Rely On Russian Energy And What Are Putin's Options?
Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200year is the best way you can support our efforts.
Acknowledging that reducing reliance on Russian gas will not be simple for the EU, the IEA said it it will requirie a concerted and sustained policy effort across multiple sectors, alongside strong international dialogue on energy markets and security.
The IEA proposed a series of immediate actions that could be taken to reduce reliance on Russian gas, while enhancing the near-term resilence of the EU gas network and minimising the hardships for vulnerable consumers.
Maximise power generation from bioenergy and nuclear Impact: Reduces gas use by 13 billion cubic metres within a year
Step up efforts to diversify and decarbonise sources of power system flexibility Impact: Loosens the strong links between gas supply and Europes electricity security
As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.
Encourage a temporary thermostat reduction of 1 C by consumers Impact: Reduces gas use by some 10 billion cubic metres within a year
Speed up the replacement of gas boilers with heat pumps Impact: Reduces gas use by an additional 2 billion cubic metres within a year
We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.
In 2021, the European Union imported around 140 billion cubic metres bcm for the year and around 15 bcm was delivered in the form of liquefied natural gas LNG from Russia. The total 155 bcm imported from Russia accounted for around 45 of the EUs gas imports in 2021 and almost 40 of its total gas consumption.
According to the IEA, turning down the thermostat for buildings heating by just 1C would reduce gas demand by some 10 bcm a year. The average temperature for buildings heating across the EU at present is above 22C. By djusting the thermostat for buildings heating would deliver immediate annual energy savings of around 10 bcm for each degree of reduction while also bringing down energy bills, IEA noted.
The International Energy Agency IEA, a leading thinktank in energy sector, has unveiled a 10-Point Plan to reduce the European Unions reliance on Russian natural gas.
The IEA said that implementing the 10-Point Plan will result in the EUs annual call on Russian gas imports falling by more than 50 bcm within one year  representing a reduction of over one-third.
