Europe May Face Energy Rationing As Tough Winter Looms Amid Escalating Gas Prices Warns Shell CEO
20220714
https://swarajyamag.com/business/europe-may-face-energy-rationing-as-tough-winter-looms-amid-escalating-gas-prices-warns-shell-ceo
Russia's President Vladimir Putin had last week said that the efforts of European countries to substitute Russian energy sources have resulted in increase in prices on the gas spot market, and end users are paying more for energy.
As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.
Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.
We will be facing a really tough winter in Europe, Van Beurden was quoted by the Financial Times as saying in an energy conference in Oxford on Thursday 14 July.
In view of Putin's warning, the chief executive of Shell, which is Europes largest oil and gas company, said that the Russian President had shown he was "able and willing to weaponise energy" and that a complete suspension of Russian gas exports to Europe cannot be ruled out.
We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.
Europe will likely need to ration access to energy this winter if Russia completely suspends gas exports to the continent, according to Shell chief executive officer CEO Ben van Beurden.
In the worst case we will be in a situation where we have to ration," the Shell CEO said.
Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200year is the best way you can support our efforts.
Putin also warned of catastrophic consequences for global energy markets if western powers impose further sanctions on Moscow over Russias invasion of Ukraine in February.
Maybe some countries will fare better than others but I think we will all be facing very significantly escalating pricing so there will be a lot of pressure on industry and therefore there will be a lot of pressure on the economy, he said.
