RussiaUkraine War India Worried About Impact On Indias Farming Sector Says FM
20220228
https://swarajyamag.com/current-affairs/russia-ukraine-war-india-worried-about-impact-on-indias-farming-sector-says-fm
Interacting with industry captains at an event here, Sitharaman said the Centre was seized of the matter and discussions were on between Ministries for a 'complete assessment' on the issue.
'On the larger issue of the situation prevailing in Ukraine and about India's position in the UN Security Council and so on. It is widely open and I went through the press releases and press commentaries which the External Affairs Ministry is making,' she said.
As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.
Chennai, Feb 28 PTI India is more worried about the impact caused by the standoff between Ukraine and Russia, particularly on its exports, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday.
India is currently engaged in bringing back the students stranded in Ukraine following the stand off and as on Monday the sixth flight under India's evacuation mission 'Operation Ganga' left for New Delhi from Budapest with 240 Indian nationals.
Voicing concern over the country's imports and exports from Russia and the war-torn nation, the Union Minister said, 'As regards to what is going to have a bearing on our immediate imports and equally on our exports to Ukraine, we are rightly worried about what comes from there, but I am more worried, about what is going to happen to our exporters who are doing very well, particularly to the farming sector..,'
To a query on the ongoing crisis in Ukraine, Sitharaman said, 'We are already looking at an emergent situation but I will have to have a complete assessment done through the various concerned Ministries and then only be in a position to comment on it.'
She however assured that the government was fairly seized of the matter  in its granular form, as it is going to have an impact on the essentials like edible oil coming from Ukraine and so on.
This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.
We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.
Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200year is the best way you can support our efforts.
Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.
