Ukraine Crisis Russia Welcomes Indias Position
20220223
https://swarajyamag.com/world/ukraine-crisis-russia-welcomes-indias-position
It stressed that the immediate priority is 'de-escalation of tensions'  taking into account the legitimate security interests of all countries and aimed towards securing long term peace and stability in the region and beyond.
New Delhi, Feb 23 PTI Russia on Wednesday welcomed India's 'independent position' on the Ukraine crisis and said its views on the issue at the UN Security Council was reflective of the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries.
He said the Western sanctions against Russia would result in instability to the global economy as it will lead to an atmosphere of distrust and fear.
As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.
'We welcome the independent position of India which it took twice at the UN Security Council,' he said at an online media briefing.
'The Indian activities at the UN Security Council are fully reflecting the merit of our special and privileged strategic partnership,' he added.
Amid escalating tension between Moscow and the West after Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised two breakaway Ukrainian regions as independent states, India at an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council on Monday night called for 'restraint on all sides'.
'Russian India partnership is based on a strong and solid foundation. It is based on mutual trust,' Babushkin said.
'Our cooperation does not represent any threat to anyone and at the same time we keep moving shoulder-to-shoulder to establish a just and equal multipolar world,' he added, hoping that the intensity of India-Russia ties will continue at the same level.
On the overall crisis in Ukraine, the Russian diplomat alleged that Western powers have been trying to destabilise the region.
This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.
We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.
Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200year is the best way you can support our efforts.
Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin said India has been playing a vital role as a responsible global power and it takes an 'independent and balanced' approach to global affairs.
Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.
