War In Europe How US Is Using Its Secretly Acquired Soviet Air Defence Systems
20220322
https://swarajyamag.com/world/war-in-europe-how-us-is-using-its-secretly-acquired-soviet-air-defence-systems
Operational security matters to the Ukrainians, right now, they're fighting for their country, and the Pentagon is not going to be detailing publicly the tools with which they are doing that, press secretary John Kirby told reporters yesterday.
In just one month, the Biden administration has approved more than $1 billion to Ukraine in military aid. Out of this a $800 million package was announced just last week.
A US official was quoted in the report, saying that, "we are continuing to work with our allies and key partners to surge new assistance, including Soviet- or Russian-origin antiaircraft systems and the necessary ammunition to employ them, every day to Ukraine".
Kremlin on its part has publicly warned that any western country which provides certain weapons to Ukraine, such as missile defence systems, would be perceived by Moscow as entering the war.
Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.
Somewhat understandably, the US government is being reticent to lay out which equipments are being sent.
According to a report by Wall Street Journal, US is sending these air defence systems to Ukraine.
This legislation approves a $13.6 billion aid package to Ukraine. Out of this $13.6 billion, around $3.5 billion will go to the Pentagon. This $3.5 billion will go to Pentagon to backfill equipment being sent by the Pentagon to Ukraine.
US, obviously didn't agree to it, as that defeated the entire purpose of Washington's plan of maintaining plausible deniability.
S-300 is another Soviet made equipments that US had secretly acquired. S-300 is a long range air defence system. According to the report this weapon won't be sent to Ukraine. There are also some reports indicating that the Ukrainians already have this system.
Decades ago, through a clandestine programme, the Pentagon acquired Soviet made air defence systems. These systems were most likely acquired by US to examine Soviet military technology.
Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200year is the best way you can support our efforts.
The US attempted something similar to send fighter jets to Ukraine, using Poland, however that plan never came to fruition as Poland refused to play ball and said that they'll send their fighter jets to air base in Germany and then US can do the needful.
As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.
However, that might change. President Biden is scheduled to travel to Brussels this week for a NATO summit. The purpose of his visit is discussing with allies ways to help Ukraine.
Slovakia, as of now, is seeking a guarantee that they will receive a 'proper replacement' soon. There has been no agreement between the NATO countries yet.
We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.
To maintain plausible deniability, US is using other NATO countries as a middleman. Right now, US is attempting to persuade Slovakia to send their S-300 to Ukraine.
It is worth flagging that under the new annual government spending bill that became a law last week, President Biden is authorised to transfer such equipments.
These systems include the SA-8 short range surface to air missile system. It can be moved easily with the ground forces and provide cover from helicopters and aircrafts. These weapons will be useful to the Ukrainians as they are familiar with Soviet made systems.
