High Purity Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 CAS 12012350 99
20220428
https://www.mis-asia.com/Answers/Global-Cr3C2-powder-market-trend-2025-2028-High-Purity-Chromium-Carbide-Cr3C2-CAS-12012-35-0-99-by-Newsmis-asia.html
Chromium carbide Cr3C2 powder is a high melting point material with good wear resistance, corrosion resistance and oxidation resistance in high-temperature environments. It is made of hard alloy particles made of nickel-chromium alloy and adopts a plasma spraying method, which can be used for high-temperature resistance and wear resistance.1. Oxidation resistance, oxidation resistance and acid resistance coatings are widely used in aircraft engines and petrochemical machinery and equipment, which can greatly increase the service life of machinery. It is also commonly used as a grain refiner for cemented carbide and other wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant parts. Cermets based on Cr3C2 have excellent oxidation resistance at high temperatures.2. Used for chromium carbide ceramics. Coarse chromium carbide is used as a melt-blown material to form a melt-sprayed layer on the surface of metals and ceramics, thereby imparting wear resistance, heat resistance, corrosion resistance and other properties to the latter. It is widely used in aircraft engines and petrochemical machinery to greatly increase the life of machinery. It is also used for spraying semiconductor films.3. As a thermal spray material, used to protect the metal surface below4. Additives used to manufacture wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant materials5. As a coating for seals, bearings, valve seals6. As the microcrystalline phase in cemented carbides such as vanadium carbide, is used to inhibit the growth of sub-micron grains during pressing and sintering.Storage Condition ofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powdershould be stored in dry, cool and sealing of the environment, can not be exposure to air, in addition should avoid the heavy pressure, according to ordinary goods transportation.Packing  Shipping ofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :It is packed in double plastic bags inside, which can be filled with argon in vacuum it can be vacuumed and filled with argon for protection..Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powderpacking:vacuum packing, 100g, 500g or 1kgbag, 25kgbarrel, or as your request.Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powdershipping:could be shipped out by sea , by air, by expressas soon as possible once payment receipt.Luoyang Tongrun Nano Technology Co. Ltd. TRUNNANO is a trusted global chemical material supplier  manufacturer with over 12-year-experience in providing super high-quality chemicals and Nanomaterials, including boride powder, nitride powder, graphite powder, sulfide powder, 3D printing powder, etc.If you are looking for high-quality Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder, please feel free to contact us and send an inquiry. emailprotected
The roble had hit a record low after the West imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine. Russia's president recently ordered exports of Russian gas to "unfriendly" countries to be settled in robles. The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament said Moscow was prepared and could shift supplies to markets such as Asia if Europe refused to buy Russian energy.
The Kremlin spokesman said, "According to the March 31 deadline set by Russia's president, we are developing all payment methods to get a simple, understandable, and feasible system for relevant European and international buyers,"
Southern Copper Corp SCCO.N recently said its Peruvian mine remained closed after a six-week standoff with protesters and blamed the Peruvian government for failing to intervene in the safety of its 1,300 workers and their families.The company said in a statement that a recent agreement to end protests at the Cuajone mine required the company to withdraw complaints against protest leaders because railways transporting minerals and supplies remained blocked. Production has been suspended since the end of February.Peru's Energy Ministry said in a separate statement that it had also reached an agreement with Southern Copper to start talks to find common ground with local communities."If we shut down for a year, the government will stop receiving more than 3.1 billion soles $830 million in taxes and royalties, and 8,000 direct and indirect jobs will be lost. This is what we want to avoid, "Southern Copper added in the statement.Peru has faced a wave of protests from indigenous communities, who accuse mining companies of not providing enough jobs and funding to poor local residents.Central bank officials said last week that protests against copper mines such as MMG's Las Bambas and Southern Copper's Cuajone were dragging down the economy.Peru is the world's second-largest copper producer and mining is an important source of tax revenue for the country. It is estimated that the supply and prices of the Cr3C2 powder will be influenced by that.
The roble had hit a record low after the West imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine. Russia's president recently ordered exports of Russian gas to "unfriendly" countries to be settled in robles. The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament said Moscow was prepared and could shift supplies to markets such as Asia if Europe refused to buy Russian energy.European countries, which pay mostly in euros, say Russia has no right to reset contracts. The G7 rejected Russia's demand and urged companies not to agree to pay in robles, saying most contracts stipulated payment in euros or dollars. Wholesale gas prices in Europe have risen further recently on concerns about potential supply disruptions.The Kremlin spokesman said, "According to the March 31 deadline set by Russia's president, we are developing all payment methods to get a simple, understandable, and feasible system for relevant European and international buyers,"The markets and prices of more commodities like the Cr3C2 powder would be affected because of the volatile international political situations.AboutChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder:Chromium carbide powder is a very hard refractory ceramic material. It is a fine gray powder and is rarely the natural mineral Tongbaishi. Chromium carbide has strong corrosion resistance and high-temperature oxidation properties, and its thermal properties are similar to steel. It is an excellent material for many commercial industries. Several different chromium carbide compounds can be formed, each of which has slightly different mechanical properties and applications. Chromium carbide is used as a thermal spray material for protecting the underlying metal surface, and as an additive to corrosion-resistant and wear-resistant materials. Chromium carbide applications are particularly effective where sliding abrasion is present. Feel free to send an inquiry to get the latest price if you would like to buy Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder in bulk.How isChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder produced?Producing chromium carbide by a combination of aluminothermic reduction and vacuum furnacing at temperatures of 1500C and above. A blend of chromium metal, chromium oxide and carbon is prepared and then loaded into a vacuum furnace. The pressure in the furnace is reduced and the temperature increased to 1500C. The carbon reacts with the chromium oxide to form chromium metal and carbon monoxide gas, which is drawn off into the vacuum pumps. The chromium metal then combines with the remaining carbon to form the chromium carbide.The exact balance between the chromium oxide, chromium metal and carbon determines the grade of chromium carbide that is produced. This is vigorously controlled to ensure that the product quality is suitable for markets as exacting as aerospace.PerformanceofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :Chromium carbide, containing 13.34 carbon, is a gray powder, orthorhombic crystal structure, insoluble in water, resistant to acid and alkali. Density is 6.65-6.68 gcm3, melting point: 1890 degrees, boiling point: 3800 degrees. It is a high melting point inorganic material with good wear resistance, corrosion resistance and oxidation resistance in a high-temperature environment 1000-1100 degrees. It is used as a thermal spray material for metal surface protection and is also often used as a hard alloy. Grain refiners and other wear and corrosion-resistant components. The Chromium carbide-based cermet has excellent oxidation resistance at high temperatures, and the surface is only slightly darkened after 5 hours of heat exposure at 982 C. Under the same conditions, 18-8 stainless steel has been significantly damaged, and WC-6Co alloy is completely oxidized.Technical Parameter ofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :
The markets and prices of more commodities like the Cr3C2 powder would be affected because of the volatile international political situations.
Peru's Energy Ministry said in a separate statement that it had also reached an agreement with Southern Copper to start talks to find common ground with local communities.
Central bank officials said last week that protests against copper mines such as MMG's Las Bambas and Southern Copper's Cuajone were dragging down the economy.
AboutChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder:Chromium carbide powder is a very hard refractory ceramic material. It is a fine gray powder and is rarely the natural mineral Tongbaishi. Chromium carbide has strong corrosion resistance and high-temperature oxidation properties, and its thermal properties are similar to steel. It is an excellent material for many commercial industries. Several different chromium carbide compounds can be formed, each of which has slightly different mechanical properties and applications. Chromium carbide is used as a thermal spray material for protecting the underlying metal surface, and as an additive to corrosion-resistant and wear-resistant materials. Chromium carbide applications are particularly effective where sliding abrasion is present. Feel free to send an inquiry to get the latest price if you would like to buy Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder in bulk.How isChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder produced?Producing chromium carbide by a combination of aluminothermic reduction and vacuum furnacing at temperatures of 1500C and above. A blend of chromium metal, chromium oxide and carbon is prepared and then loaded into a vacuum furnace. The pressure in the furnace is reduced and the temperature increased to 1500C. The carbon reacts with the chromium oxide to form chromium metal and carbon monoxide gas, which is drawn off into the vacuum pumps. The chromium metal then combines with the remaining carbon to form the chromium carbide.The exact balance between the chromium oxide, chromium metal and carbon determines the grade of chromium carbide that is produced. This is vigorously controlled to ensure that the product quality is suitable for markets as exacting as aerospace.PerformanceofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :
European countries, which pay mostly in euros, say Russia has no right to reset contracts. The G7 rejected Russia's demand and urged companies not to agree to pay in robles, saying most contracts stipulated payment in euros or dollars. Wholesale gas prices in Europe have risen further recently on concerns about potential supply disruptions.
Southern Copper Corp SCCO.N recently said its Peruvian mine remained closed after a six-week standoff with protesters and blamed the Peruvian government for failing to intervene in the safety of its 1,300 workers and their families.
Application ofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :Chromium carbide Cr3C2 powder is a high melting point material with good wear resistance, corrosion resistance and oxidation resistance in high-temperature environments. It is made of hard alloy particles made of nickel-chromium alloy and adopts a plasma spraying method, which can be used for high-temperature resistance and wear resistance.1. Oxidation resistance, oxidation resistance and acid resistance coatings are widely used in aircraft engines and petrochemical machinery and equipment, which can greatly increase the service life of machinery. It is also commonly used as a grain refiner for cemented carbide and other wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant parts. Cermets based on Cr3C2 have excellent oxidation resistance at high temperatures.2. Used for chromium carbide ceramics. Coarse chromium carbide is used as a melt-blown material to form a melt-sprayed layer on the surface of metals and ceramics, thereby imparting wear resistance, heat resistance, corrosion resistance and other properties to the latter. It is widely used in aircraft engines and petrochemical machinery to greatly increase the life of machinery. It is also used for spraying semiconductor films.3. As a thermal spray material, used to protect the metal surface below4. Additives used to manufacture wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant materials5. As a coating for seals, bearings, valve seals6. As the microcrystalline phase in cemented carbides such as vanadium carbide, is used to inhibit the growth of sub-micron grains during pressing and sintering.Storage Condition ofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powdershould be stored in dry, cool and sealing of the environment, can not be exposure to air, in addition should avoid the heavy pressure, according to ordinary goods transportation.Packing  Shipping ofChromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder :It is packed in double plastic bags inside, which can be filled with argon in vacuum it can be vacuumed and filled with argon for protection..Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powderpacking:vacuum packing, 100g, 500g or 1kgbag, 25kgbarrel, or as your request.Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powdershipping:could be shipped out by sea , by air, by expressas soon as possible once payment receipt.Luoyang Tongrun Nano Technology Co. Ltd. TRUNNANO is a trusted global chemical material supplier  manufacturer with over 12-year-experience in providing super high-quality chemicals and Nanomaterials, including boride powder, nitride powder, graphite powder, sulfide powder, 3D printing powder, etc.If you are looking for high-quality Chromium Carbide Cr3C2 Powder, please feel free to contact us and send an inquiry. emailprotected
Peru has faced a wave of protests from indigenous communities, who accuse mining companies of not providing enough jobs and funding to poor local residents.
Peru is the world's second-largest copper producer and mining is an important source of tax revenue for the country. It is estimated that the supply and prices of the Cr3C2 powder will be influenced by that.
Chromium carbide, containing 13.34 carbon, is a gray powder, orthorhombic crystal structure, insoluble in water, resistant to acid and alkali. Density is 6.65-6.68 gcm3, melting point: 1890 degrees, boiling point: 3800 degrees. It is a high melting point inorganic material with good wear resistance, corrosion resistance and oxidation resistance in a high-temperature environment 1000-1100 degrees. It is used as a thermal spray material for metal surface protection and is also often used as a hard alloy. Grain refiners and other wear and corrosion-resistant components. The Chromium carbide-based cermet has excellent oxidation resistance at high temperatures, and the surface is only slightly darkened after 5 hours of heat exposure at 982 C. Under the same conditions, 18-8 stainless steel has been significantly damaged, and WC-6Co alloy is completely oxidized.
"If we shut down for a year, the government will stop receiving more than 3.1 billion soles $830 million in taxes and royalties, and 8,000 direct and indirect jobs will be lost. This is what we want to avoid, "Southern Copper added in the statement.
The company said in a statement that a recent agreement to end protests at the Cuajone mine required the company to withdraw complaints against protest leaders because railways transporting minerals and supplies remained blocked. Production has been suspended since the end of February.
