The Applications of Vanadium Nitride Powder
20220413
https://www.mis-asia.com/Answers/Global-Vanadium-Nitride-Powder-market-trend-2024-2028-The-Applications-of-Vanadium-Nitride-Powder-by-Newsmis-asia.html
The roble had hit a record low after the West imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine. Russia's president recently ordered exports of Russian gas to "unfriendly" countries to be settled in robles. The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament said Moscow was prepared and could shift supplies to markets such as Asia if Europe refused to buy Russian energy.
The Kremlin spokesman said, "According to the March 31 deadline set by Russia's president, we are developing all payment methods to get a simple, understandable, and feasible system for relevant European and international buyers,"
The markets and prices of more commodities like the Vanadium Nitride Powder would be affected because of the volatile international political situations.
The roble had hit a record low after the West imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine. Russia's president recently ordered exports of Russian gas to "unfriendly" countries to be settled in robles. The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament said Moscow was prepared and could shift supplies to markets such as Asia if Europe refused to buy Russian energy.European countries, which pay mostly in euros, say Russia has no right to reset contracts. The G7 rejected Russia's demand and urged companies not to agree to pay in robles, saying most contracts stipulated payment in euros or dollars. Wholesale gas prices in Europe have risen further recently on concerns about potential supply disruptions.The Kremlin spokesman said, "According to the March 31 deadline set by Russia's president, we are developing all payment methods to get a simple, understandable, and feasible system for relevant European and international buyers,"The markets and prices of more commodities like the Vanadium Nitride Powder would be affected because of the volatile international political situations.What is Vanadium Nitride Powder?Vanadium nitride VN is a compound of vanadium and nitrogen. Vanadium nitride, also known as vanadium-nitrogen alloy, is a new type of alloy additive that can replace ferrovanadium in the production of micro-alloyed steel.The main features of Vanadium Nitride PowderIt has two crystal structures: one is V3N, a hexagonal crystal structure, with extremely high hardness, with a tiny hardness of about 1900HV and an undetectable melting point the other is VN, with a face-centered cubic crystal structure, with a tiny hardness of about 1520HV and a melting point of 2360 degrees.
Vanadium Nitride VN Powder CAS 24646-85-3The applications of Vanadium Nitride PowderVanadium nitride has high wear resistance and can greatly improve vanadium steel after nitriding treatment.1.The comprehensive mechanical properties of high-strength steel, such as strength, toughness, ductility and thermal fatigue resistance, give the steel good weldability. When the same strength is reached, adding vanadium nitride can save 20-40 of the vanadium addition, thereby reducing costs.2.Vanadium-nitrogen alloy can be used for structural steel, tool steel, pipe steel, steel bar and cast iron. Vanadium-nitrogen alloy used in high-strength low-alloy steel3.Vanadium nitride can carry out effective vanadium and nitrogen microalloying at the same time, promote the precipitation of carbon, vanadium and nitrogen compounds in the steel, and play a more effective role in strengthening settlement and refinement.4.Adding vanadium nitride to steel can improve the comprehensive mechanical properties of steel, such as strength, toughness, ductility and thermal fatigue resistance, and make the steel have good weldability.5.When the same strength is reached, adding vanadium nitride can save 30-40 of the vanadium addition, thereby reducing costs. Vanadium-nitrogen alloy can be used for structural steel, tool steel, pipe steel, steel bar and cast iron.6.The vanadium-nitrogen alloy used in high-strength low-alloy steel can simultaneously perform effective vanadium and nitrogen microalloying, promote the precipitation of carbon, vanadium and nitrogen compounds in the steel, and more effectively play the role of settlement strengthening and graining. Refinement.The supplier of Zirconium Nitride PowderLuoyang Trunnano Tech Co., Ltd TRUNNANO is a professionalnitride powdersupplier with over 12 years of experience in chemical products research and development. We accept payment via Credit Card, TT, West Union, and Paypal. Trunnano will ship the goods to customers overseas through FedEx, DHL, by air, or by sea.If you are looking for high-quality boron carbide powder, please feel free tocontact usand send an inquiry.The war in Russia and Ukraine is roiling global financial markets. Russia and Ukraine are important commodity suppliers in the world, so their conflict is bound to make a full impact on the global commodity supply. In view of this, the price of the Vanadium Nitride Powder may continue to rise in the future.
What is Vanadium Nitride Powder?Vanadium nitride VN is a compound of vanadium and nitrogen. Vanadium nitride, also known as vanadium-nitrogen alloy, is a new type of alloy additive that can replace ferrovanadium in the production of micro-alloyed steel.The main features of Vanadium Nitride PowderIt has two crystal structures: one is V3N, a hexagonal crystal structure, with extremely high hardness, with a tiny hardness of about 1900HV and an undetectable melting point the other is VN, with a face-centered cubic crystal structure, with a tiny hardness of about 1520HV and a melting point of 2360 degrees.
European countries, which pay mostly in euros, say Russia has no right to reset contracts. The G7 rejected Russia's demand and urged companies not to agree to pay in robles, saying most contracts stipulated payment in euros or dollars. Wholesale gas prices in Europe have risen further recently on concerns about potential supply disruptions.
The war in Russia and Ukraine is roiling global financial markets. Russia and Ukraine are important commodity suppliers in the world, so their conflict is bound to make a full impact on the global commodity supply. In view of this, the price of the Vanadium Nitride Powder may continue to rise in the future.
The applications of Vanadium Nitride PowderVanadium nitride has high wear resistance and can greatly improve vanadium steel after nitriding treatment.1.The comprehensive mechanical properties of high-strength steel, such as strength, toughness, ductility and thermal fatigue resistance, give the steel good weldability. When the same strength is reached, adding vanadium nitride can save 20-40 of the vanadium addition, thereby reducing costs.2.Vanadium-nitrogen alloy can be used for structural steel, tool steel, pipe steel, steel bar and cast iron. Vanadium-nitrogen alloy used in high-strength low-alloy steel3.Vanadium nitride can carry out effective vanadium and nitrogen microalloying at the same time, promote the precipitation of carbon, vanadium and nitrogen compounds in the steel, and play a more effective role in strengthening settlement and refinement.4.Adding vanadium nitride to steel can improve the comprehensive mechanical properties of steel, such as strength, toughness, ductility and thermal fatigue resistance, and make the steel have good weldability.5.When the same strength is reached, adding vanadium nitride can save 30-40 of the vanadium addition, thereby reducing costs. Vanadium-nitrogen alloy can be used for structural steel, tool steel, pipe steel, steel bar and cast iron.6.The vanadium-nitrogen alloy used in high-strength low-alloy steel can simultaneously perform effective vanadium and nitrogen microalloying, promote the precipitation of carbon, vanadium and nitrogen compounds in the steel, and more effectively play the role of settlement strengthening and graining. Refinement.The supplier of Zirconium Nitride PowderLuoyang Trunnano Tech Co., Ltd TRUNNANO is a professionalnitride powdersupplier with over 12 years of experience in chemical products research and development. We accept payment via Credit Card, TT, West Union, and Paypal. Trunnano will ship the goods to customers overseas through FedEx, DHL, by air, or by sea.If you are looking for high-quality boron carbide powder, please feel free tocontact usand send an inquiry.
