Its scary Saskatoon students navigate news of Russian invasion in the age of social media
20220309
https://saskatoon.ctvnews.ca/it-s-scary-saskatoon-students-navigate-news-of-russian-invasion-in-the-age-of-social-media-1.5811307
Were in contact with them every day if we can. Theyre hiding in their basement. Its scary, Munday, a member of the University of Saskatchewan Ukrainian Students Association told CTV News.
Were seeing it in real-time which is what makes this one different and what is ultimately a good thing because there isnt that much control. There cant be as much censorship as in the past, Hrycay said.
Those platforms contain stories of heroism and children singing in bomb shelters, images of Ukraines president being hailed a hero for joining troops on the frontlines and video capturing Russian tanks travelling down city streets.
Im hoping its not something that just fades away. I hope it leads to more engagement with the world outside of our small context."
I use TikTok, Facebook, Instagram, news websites and then I try to verify information with my family in Ukraine, she said.
Munday, a second-year nursing student, says having different ways to see the war allows viewers to watch what they need in a way that they may need it.
Alec Couros teaches about social media at the University of Regina and says the fact that this is happening in Europe makes it more accessible to the western world.
University of Saskatchewan student Emma Mundays extended family is still in the Ukrainian city of Lviv as the Russian invasion rages on.
Youre certainly seeing a lot more things than weve seen before. Were seeing it in bite-sized bits, were seeing it in our feeds, and if you click on one, youre going to see many, many more. So if youre showing any interest on Tik ok youre going to see much more on TikTok, he said.
Another student, Anna Hrycay, said it can be overwhelming to see the repeated images of the tragedy, but it also adds clarity to see events as theyre happening on social media.
Munday gets her news about events in Ukraine from all sources to cross-reference them and ensure validity.
People deal with trauma in very different ways. If a lot of people who are directly affected by the invasion are using humour to cope then thats amazing. However when it comes to people who are not directly affected, mainstream culture can desensitize it, Munday says.
Couros hopes this exposure to a major world event will create more empathy among young people here.
