Why a Saskatoon woman decided to remain in Kyiv as Russian forces lay siege
20220228
https://saskatoon.ctvnews.ca/why-a-saskatoon-woman-decided-to-remain-in-kyiv-as-russian-forces-lay-siege-1.5799587
She said she feels a sense of loyalty to her staff also and doesnt think leaving them would be fair.
Niland decided not to leave her home partly because she owns a business, Postmark Ukraine which makes and ships items like dance costumes to Canada and around the world.
A Saskatoon woman who has been calling Ukraines capital city of Kyiv home for almost 20 years, says leaving is not an option.
I do have a voice here. Ive been here for a long time and I have a perspective thats very unique and I want to use that for the betterment of this country  my country," Niland said CTV News from her fourth-floor apartment.
Niland left Canada to pursue her dream of Ukrainian dancing with a professional company in the capital city of Kyiv as a young woman.
Instead, she wants to help the effort to protect Ukraine from Russian aggression in her own way.
Niland admits that in her life growing up in Saskatoon, while she worked hard, she was a spoiled brat compared to what she's seeing in Ukraine.
The other reason, Niland said, is that she has a voice and she wants to use it to tell the world whats going on.
Were in the dark so Im not a target. Weve been asked to have our lights out for the past few days so basically we are not lighting up the sky, Niland
Shes been posting live videos on Facebook trying to get the story out about whats happening on the ground in a city under Russian siege.
"Never in my wildest dreams would I have tracked my path to this point  never."
In her live videos, Niland pleads with world leaders do more to help with aid and sanctions against Russia.
"Ive been asked how many times 'When are you coming home?' and I say every time: Guys I am home.'"
Its costume time. Its festival time. I have groups that are expecting product from us. We could have delivered. I had everything ready to go out. I have boxes and boxes at my front door that I cant mail, she says.
To worry about what might happen does me no good so Ill do what I have to do until I cant do it anymore,  Lana Niland told CTV News via Zoom.
She now finds herself in a war zone, hearing air raid sirens and bombs going off around her, using candles as her only light source.
