Russia using hunger as Instrument of War say German Scholars
20220402
https://www.eyeradio.org/russia-using-hunger-as-instrument-of-war-say-german-scholars/
Katja Keul, Minister of State at the Federal Foreign Office, and Niels Annen, Parliamentary State Secretary at the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development warned that the war in Ukraine could destroy livelihoods on the African continent, the Arab world, and other regions that import wheat from Ukraine and Russia.
In an article titled a grain war seen by Eye Radio, the duo argued that food prices around the world are soaring and are reaching a record high never seen in over a decade.
However, Russia claims that European sanctions on Moscow have caused an increase in the price of wheat. A claim was dismissed by the duo, saying that no single European sanction was directed at food shipments.
The officials called on African leaders not to remain neutral saying that remaining neutral is not an answer  but rather a luxury that causes hunger.
According to the duo, the global price of wheat has increased by one-third, and the cost of fertilizer has risen even more.
Two German government officials in South Sudan have accused Russia of using hunger as an instrument of war.
They said that Russia is targeting grain silos, tractors, and fields to prevent Ukrainian farmers from planting their crops due to the war.
Katja Keul, the Minister of State at the Federal Foreign Office - Credit: German Embassy in Juba
They accused Putin of undermining international law and making the world a less safe place by driving up prices for wheat, which creates more hunger, suffering, and instability across the globe.
In February, Russia halted the export of many types of grain. As a result, the war in Ukraine may also destroy livelihoods on the African continent, in the Arab world, and in other regions that import a large share of their wheat from Ukraine and Russia  through ports in which ships can now no longer dock, they said
They argued that Europe and the West have imposed targeted sanctions against those in Moscow who have drawn up the plans for this war.
