Russian Military to Make Putins Ukraine Opus Compulsory  RBC
20210716
https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2021/07/16/russian-military-to-make-putins-ukraine-opus-compulsory-rbc-a74538
Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu reportedly personally ordered the 5,300-word opus published by the Kremlin on Monday to be added into the military-patriotic directorates curriculum. Russian media called the article Putins final ultimatum to Ukraine while some Western analysts criticized it as one step short of a declaration of war.
President Vladimir Putins lengthy treatise on Russia and Ukraines shared history has been added to the Russian militarys curriculum, the RBC news website reported Thursday, citing unnamed sources.
They added that the commander-in-chiefs key thesis about the stated unity of Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian people is shared by all Russian servicemen.
Ukraine has been battling pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine since 2014, when Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula and triggered a wave of Western economic sanctions.
The presidents article caused a great positive response and discussion in the military due to the large number of servicemen who have Ukrainian roots, parents or relatives in Ukraine, a Russian military source was quoted as saying.
Social media users were quick to point out that Panorama, a satirical news website similar to The Onion, predated RBCs report with a Monday tweet saying that Shoigu ordered to bringthe contents of Putins article on Ukraine to the Russian military personnels notice within 24 hours.
RBC reported that another source in the militarys military-patriotic directorate, which was created in 2018 to comparisons withSoviet-era institutions that ingrained soldiers loyalty to the Communist party, confirmed that Putins article has been made compulsory.
The Kremlin said Friday that it was unaware of the Russian Armed Forces making Putins article compulsory reading material, but noted that such a decision would be quite understandable.
After a lull in fighting last year, the conflict that has claimed more than 14,000 lives escalated again at the start of 2021.
