Ukraine Denies Russian Military Buildup on Border as Defense Minister Quits
20211102
https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2021/11/02/ukraine-denies-russian-military-buildup-on-border-a75462
Taran, who had led the ministry since March 2020, has not commented on his resignation, a decision which parliament must ratify amid reports of an impending wider cabinet reshuffle.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Tuesday he had discussed the conflict with U.S. President Joe Biden on the sidelines of the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow.
Satellite image taken today by Maxar reveals presence of a large ground forces deployment  incl. tanks, APCs, self-propelled artillery  to a training area north of Yelnya, Russia. pic.twitter.comfitG2APRZc
Social media videos in recent days have shown Russian military trains and truck convoys moving tanks and missiles in the country's southwest near the Ukrainian border.
But Ukraine's defense ministry said in a statement late Monday that "no additional deployment" of Russian forces had been observed.
The videos could comprise "special informational and psychological actions" and show a planned troop movement after a Russian military exercise, it added.
Zelenskiy also had a more formal meeting in Glasgow with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who "reaffirmed the United States' unwavering support for Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity," a State Department statement said.
After a rise in violence early this year,Russiain March amassed around 100,000 troops on Ukraine's borders, sparking fears of a major escalation.
Under pressure from Kiev's Western allies, Moscow later announced a pullback, but both Ukraine and the United States said at the time the withdrawal was limited.
Ukraine has denied reports of a Russian military buildup near its eastern border that raised fears of a new escalation in fighting with pro-Moscow separatists.
The statement came hours before a government official said Tuesday that Ukraine's Defense Minister Andriy Taran had resigned  reportedly on health grounds.
The 66-year-old Taran "has complaints about his health," the leader of President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's faction in parliament, Davyd Arakhamiia, told reporters.
The Ukrainian army is locked in a simmering conflict with pro-Russian separatists that erupted after Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014.
Ukraine's military said Tuesday one of its soldiers had been killed in a separatist attack.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday dismissed the reports of a potential buildup, saying there was no need to "waste time" on "low-quality" claims.
"The movement of our military equipment and army units... is exclusively our business," he told reporters. "Russiahas never threatened anyone."
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters Monday that Washington was monitoring the situation, and The Washington Post quoted U.S. officials saying they were concerned.
