Britons told to leave Ukraine immediately amid threat of invasion by Russia
20220211
https://www.wimbledonguardian.co.uk/news/national/19919408.britons-told-leave-ukraine-immediately-amid-threat-invasion-russia/
The Prime Minister told the group that he feared for the security of Europe in the current circumstances, a No 10 spokeswoman said, in an account of the call that included French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg, as well as EU leaders Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel.
Mr Bidens national security adviser Jake Sullivan said an attack before the end of the Winter Olympics on February 20 was a credible prospect, assigning it a very, very distinct possibility.
While he said that he took the ministers assurances seriously, he admitted he was less optimistic than he had been previously that there could be a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
The Foreign Office said: British nationals in Ukraine should leave now while commercial means are still available.
The Foreign Office updated its advice on Friday evening to urge UK nationals to leave now while commercial means are still available.
Britons were warned by the Foreign Office that they should not expect help evacuating in the event of an invasion.
Mr Johnson warned that the penalties would be extremely damaging to Russias economy and urged that allies must reinforce Natos eastern frontiers.
The order was issued as intelligence and advice from experts on the ground suggested an increased threat level, with an invasion at some point deemed highly likely, the PA news agency understood.
Currently theres over 130,000 troops stationed at readiness or exercising  plus warplanes, plus ships into the Black Sea  on the borders of Ukraine and that is an action that is not normal, Mr Wallace told a news conference in the British embassy.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
He said new Russian forces were arriving at the border and are in a position to mount a major military operation in Ukraine any day now, which could include a rapid assault on the city of Kyiv or on other parts of the country.
Following a frosty meeting in Moscow on Thursday between Foreign Secretary Liz Truss and her counterpart Sergei Lavrov, Mr Wallace said his discussions with Mr Shoigui had been frank and constructive.
It came after Boris Johnson voiced fears for the security of Europe during a call with Western leaders including US President Joe Biden.
Speaking from the White House, Mr Sullivan said Russia could choose in very short order to commence a major military action against Ukraine, but stressed the US does not know whether Mr Putin has made a final decision.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said an invasion could come at any time, with Russian President Vladimir Putin having amassed an estimated 130,000 troops on the border with Ukraine.
In a call lasting around 80 minutes, Downing Street said Mr Johnson urged Nato allies to make it clear to Moscow there is a heavy package of economic sanctions ready to go.
Mr Sullivan said the threat is now immediate enough to urge Americans to leave Ukraine as soon as possible and in any event in the next 24 to 48 hours.
Earlier in the day, Mr Wallace held talks in Moscow with Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu as part of diplomatic efforts to avert war.
Britons have been told to flee Ukraine immediately over growing concerns that Russia could launch an invasion in the coming days.
He said the current disposition of Russian forces meant they could do a whole range of actions, including an invasion of a neighbouring country, at any time.
