Key Ukrainian government websites hit by series of cyberattacks
20220224
https://www.wpsdlocal6.com/news/key-ukrainian-government-websites-hit-by-series-of-cyberattacks/article_8c152bdc-951e-11ec-9ad5-9b57a5641d42.html
It wasn't immediately clear who was responsible for the destructive hacking incidents, or the website disruptions early Thursday morning. The Ukrainian government did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Of all the incidents, though, the data-wiping tool  known as "wiper" malware  had the potential to be the most impactful. Wiper malware typically deletes data from computers and renders them inoperable.
The malicious code affected "large organizations" in Ukraine, according to cybersecurity firm ESET, which has multiple clients in the country. The hacking tool appears to have been created two months ago, but "was deployed only today and we have seen it only in Ukraine," said Jean-Ian Boutin, head of threat research ESET.
US officials have warned that Russia will very likely use cyber operations in conjunction with military action in Ukraine. The White House blamed Russia's military intelligence directorate, the GRU, for aseparate set of cyberattackson Ukrainian websites last week.
The State Service of Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine said the cyberattacks on websites reported earlier Wednesday were "a continuation" of cyberattacks that hit Ukrainian government websites on February 15. The White House blamed Russia's military intelligence agency, the GRU, for those hacks. Russia's embassy in Washington denied the accusation.
The hack hit at least one Ukrainian financial institution and one Ukrainian government contractor with a presence in Latvia, Vikram Thakur, technical director at Broadcom's cybersecurity unit Symantec, told CNN.
In a separate and potentially more serious hacking incident hours earlier, a data-wiping tool was found on hundreds of computers in Ukraine, according to cybersecurity researchers, raising concerns that a destructive cyberattack was unfolding amid Russia's military escalation.
CNN  Key Ukrainian government websites were down early Thursday morning local time following a day in which Ukrainian agencies dealt with multiple cyberattacks and as concerns mounted over Russian troop movementsinto Ukraine's separatist regions.
"We are aware of multiple commercial and government organizations in Ukraine impacted by the destructive malware today," Charles Carmakal, senior vice president and chief technology officer for cybersecurity firm Mandiant, told CNN.
But taken together, the incidents represented an apparent escalation in cyberattacks on Ukrainian infrastructure as the US and its allies warned of an imminent Russian invasion and slapped sanctions on Russian banks and elites.
The websites of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, and those of the ministries of foreign affairs, infrastructure, education and others, were experiencing disruptions.
A data-wiping hacking tool was found on hundreds of computers in Ukraine on Wednesday, according to cybersecurity researchers.
The website disruptions early Thursday in Ukraine followed news Wednesday afternoon of a cyberattack that temporarily knocked offline the websites of the Ukrainian parliament, Security Service and Cabinet of Ministers.
