Father son reflect on Ukraines history under Soviet Union control
20220314
https://www.kbzk.com/news/national/father-son-reflect-on-ukraines-history-under-soviet-union-control
For Peter, it's painful to see the bombing and the destruction of his homeland, history the Ukrainian people are desperately trying to stop from repeating itself.
His cousin still lives in Ukraine and runs Solid Rock Mission. He's been collecting donations and helping people flee to neighboring countries.
Mospanyuk moved to the United States in 1991 to create a better life for his family.
"It was just a consistent pressure. They'd just try to beat you down and try to demotivate you from trying to experience freedoms, life, and practicing religion. It was a lot of fearmongering, and that's what this regime is doing," said James Mospanyuk.
James is one of seven children, his entire family devastated by what the Ukrainian people have had to endure at Putin and Russian forces.
Like a man-made famine engineered by the Soviet government and Joseph Stalin, killing millions of innocent people in the 1930s.
Newsy is the nations only free 247 national news network. Youcan find Newsy using your TVs digital antenna or stream for free.See all the ways you can watch Newsyhere.
"It's something I'm thinking about constantly. Every morning, I get up and pray and listen to Ukrainian music and ground myself on what's going on," said James Mospanyuk.
Generations of Ukrainians have fought to preserve their identity and freedom. James Mospanyuk says that's why he wants to educate people and encourage them to stand with Ukraine.
"So, we had to go through a lot, and we know what Communism is and what Socialism is  and we don't want it to come back," said Peter Mospanyuk.
Now, three decades after gaining its independence from the Soviet Union, Ukraine is again fighting for freedom, and the Ukrainian people know firsthand what Russia is capable of.
"When I'd go to school, like, elementary school, you'd need to have a sign showing that you are part of the Communist Party. I said 'no,' and I had teachers' persecution," Mospanyuk said.
"If my father hadn't fled Ukraine in 1991, I would be there alongside everyone taking up arms and trying to defend the nation," said James Mospanyuk.
