Ukrainian President Appoints General to Defend Kyiv After Kharkiv Missile Attack
20220301
https://www.defenseworld.net/news/31475/Kharkiv_Freedom_Square_Missile_Attack_is_War_Crime__Ukrainian_President
President Zelenskyy announced the appointment of General Mykola Mykolayovych Zhernov as head of the Kyiv City Military Administration to organize the defense of the capital even as columns of Russian ground forces were seen advancing towards the capital, various reports said.
Kharkiv and Kyiv are currently the most important targets for Russia. Terror is meant to break us. To break our resistance. They are heading to our capital, as well as to Kharkiv. Therefore, the defense of the capital today is the key priority for the state. All cities of Ukraine must do everything to stop the enemy.
We call on all countries of the world to respond immediately and effectively to this criminal tactic of the aggressor and to declare that Russia is committing state terrorism. We demand full responsibility for terrorists in international courts, he said.
A cruise missile strike at the largest square of Europe, Freedom Square in Kharkiv leading to dozens of victims should be counted as a war crime said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The General is currently a state expert of the Military Security Service at the National Security and Defense Council. Vitali Klitschko remains mayor of Kyiv. He will have his own sphere of responsibility. And now it is a joint work of the mayor and the Head of the Military Administration. After the war, we will return everything to its place in the capital.
Regarding our diplomats, we immediately recall the Ambassador from Kyrgyzstan for consultations. For justifying aggression against Ukraine. We immediately recall the Ambassador from Georgia. For the obstacles to volunteers who want to help us and for an immoral attitude towards sanctions he said.
The cruise missile that struck Kharkiv, fired from the Russian city of Belgorod is terror against the city. There was no military target on the square. Just as in those residential areas of Kharkiv hit by rocket artillery. The rocket aimed at the central square is an outright, undisguised terror, the president said in a statement posted on the Ukrainian MoDs website.
Early reports said 10 persons were killed and six persons injured in the missile attack. Further details are awaited.
