European Union Fast Facts
20220328
https://localnews8.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/03/28/european-union-fast-facts-2/
March 2015  Iceland withdraws its request to be considered as a candidate for membership.
June 25, 2013  The European Union agrees to a new round of membership negotiations with Turkey.
April 1, 2014  The European Union launches military operations to restore stability to the Central African Republic.
Membership is open to any country with a democratic government, a good human rights record and sound economic policies.
September 5, 2018  The European Union adopts the European Travel Information and Authorization System, an additional security check for travelers who do not normally need a visa to enter the Schengen Area. The security check will come into effect in 2021.
June 23, 2007  EU leaders in Brussels agree on an outline of a treaty that would replace the EU constitution rejected by French and Dutch voters two years ago.
May 29, 2005  The people of France and its territories vote against the EU constitution in a referendum. No  54.87Yes  45.13
1993  The EEC members at the time Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Greece, Spain, UK, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland and Portugal extend their cooperation into the areas of justice and home affairs and a common foreign and security policy.
October 12, 2012  The European Union receives the Nobel Peace Prize for contributing to the advancement of peace, democracy and human rights in Europe.
June 19, 2008  The European Union decides to lift diplomatic sanctions imposed on Cuba.
June 1, 2005  The Netherlands votes against the constitution in a referendum. All 27 members of the European Union must pass the constitution for it to take effect. Either a national parliament can approve it or in some countries, the citizens vote on a referendum.
June 23, 2016  The United Kingdom votes to leave the European Union. It will take at least two years to sort out the exit.
November 19, 2009  Herman Van Rompuy, the Belgian Prime Minister, becomes the first president of the European Council under the Treaty of Lisbon. Catherine Ashton of the United Kingdom will be the first foreign minister.
February 7, 1992  The Treaty on the European Union is signed in Maastricht Netherlands by leaders of the member states.
January 31, 2020  Britain formally leaves the European Union, becoming the first ever nation to leave the EU.
December 24, 2020  In a statement, the British government announces that the United Kingdom and European Union have reached a post-Brexit trade agreement after months of fraught negotiations.
December 1, 2009  The Treaty of Lisbon comes into force, having been ratified by all EU member states. It amends the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Rome Treaty of 1957.
March 7-10, 2022  European Union ambassadors agree to examine bids by Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to join the EU. On March 10, the European Council issues a statement in support of Ukraines application for membership, saying Ukraine belongs to our European family. The Council does not agree to fast-track their membership process.
March 16, 2017  Britains exit from the European Union moves another step closer after the legislation enabling the countrys departure is given royal assent by Queen Elizabeth II. The Queens signature means that British Prime Minister Theresa May is now able to move forward and trigger Article 50, allowing formal talks to begin between Downing Street and the EUs 27 member states on the terms of the divorce, nicknamed Brexit.
February 28, 2022  Four days into his countrys invasion by Russia, President Volodymyr Zelensky signs an application for Ukraines membership into the European Union.
June 2004  The member countries approve the text of the EU Constitution. It is signed by all the members in October 2004.
According to the EU website, the objectives of the European Union are to establish European citizenship, ensure freedom, justice and security, promote economic and social progress, and assert Europes role in the world.
1957  The European Economic Community EEC is created. The member countries are Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and West Germany. The group aims to remove trade barriers and form a common market.
April 30, 2004  A ceremony is held in Dublin, Ireland, marking the expansion of the European Union from 15 to 25 members. The new members are Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta and Slovenia.
March 18, 2016  The European Union and Turkey reach an agreement on how to deal with a flood of Syrian refugees. The agreement stipulates that all migrants entering Greece from Turkey will be returned to Turkey. For every Syrian returned to Turkey from Greece, another Syrian will be resettled to the European Union.
The European Union is run by five main bodies: European Parliament, Council of the Union, European Commission, Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors.
The member states delegate sovereignty to the EU institutions to represent the interests of the European Union as a whole.
The Treaty of Lisbon amends the Treaty on European Union to explicitly recognize for the first time the member states right to withdraw from the union.  Article 50, amended TEU Any member state may decide to withdraw from the Union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements. A member state which decides to withdraw shall notify the European Council of its intention. In the light of the guidelines provided by the European Council, the Union shall negotiate and conclude an agreement with that State, setting out the arrangements for its withdrawal, taking account of the framework for its future relationship with the Union.
June 14, 1985  Five of the 10 member states sign the Schengen Agreement, which eventually opens borders of agreeing member states, doing away with border controls. As of 2016, 26 countries belong to the Schengen Area.
