Putin says some Russian troops are withdrawing after drills but skepticism in Ukraine and US remains
20220215
https://localnews8.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/02/15/russia-says-its-withdrawing-some-troops-following-exercises-around-ukraine-but-major-drills-continue/
Russias claims about troop movements were met with skepticism from Western officials, who said they had seen no evidence that any partial withdrawal had begun.
Putin has spoken repeatedly about what he describes as the violation of the rights of ethnic Russians and Russian speakers in Ukraine and elsewhere, and has stated that it is within Russias rights to intervene militarily to protect them.
Speaking earlier at a news conference in Moscow alongside German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Putin said he continued to view Western deterrence measures as a direct and immediate threat to national security.
In a carefully choreographed meeting that was shown on Russian television on Monday, Putin asked Lavrov: is there a chance to reach an agreement with our partners on key issues that are of concern to us, or is it just an attempt to drag us into an endless negotiation process that has no logical resolution?
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson told reporters Tuesday that he was not encouraged by the latest intelligence on Russias buildup around Ukraine and said western leaders were receiving mixed signals from Moscow.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance had not yet seen any sign of deescalation on the ground, but added that signs from Moscow that diplomacy should continue were grounds for cautious optimism.
Putin also invoked the word genocide Tuesday to describe the situation in territories in eastern Ukraine controlled by Russian-backed separatist militants, calling out the West for what he insinuated was a double standard for justifying military intervention. Claims of discrimination against Russian-speaking populations in Ukraine were one of the justifications Russia used when it annexed Crimea in 2014.
Scholz, who was meeting Putin for the first time as the German Chancellor, said it was the leaders damned duty to prevent a war in Europe.
The responses we received from the United States and NATO members to security guarantees proposals, in our opinion, do not meet the three basic Russian requirements, Putin said.
But while the Kremlin was talking about troops returning home, satellite images released by Maxar Technologies revealed fresh signs of a Russian buildup.
Meanwhile on Tuesday, a cyberattack hit the websites of Ukraines defense ministry and armed forces, and the websites of two Ukrainian banks.
President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that Russia was sending some troops back to base after completing drills and that while he is open to further negotiations on the Ukraine crisis, Moscows security demands were an unconditional priority.
Weve got Russian field hospitals being constructed near the border with Ukraine, in Belarus for what only can be construed as a preparation for an invasion, Johnson said. Youve got more battalion tactical groups actually being brought closer to the border with Ukraine, according to the intelligence that were seeing.
CNNs Uliana Pavlova, Darya Tarasova and Nathan Hodge reported from Moscow, while CNNs Ivana Kottasov, Tim Lister, Jim Sciutto and Olga Voytovich reported from Kyiv.
Biden said Tuesday that Russia has amassed more than 150,000 troops circling Ukraine and Belarus, and along Ukraines border, underscoring fears from Western and Ukrainian intelligence officials that an invasion could be imminent.
We are ready to continue this joint work further. We are also ready to follow the negotiation track but all issues must be considered as a whole, without being separated from the main Russian proposals, the implementation of which is an unconditional priority for us.
However, while Scholz was urging de-escalation, he didnt shy away from criticizing Russia, specifically mentioning the jailed opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who is currently facing another trial. As far as Mr. Navalny is concerned, my position is very clear, this is not compatible with the principles of the rule of law.
United States President Joe Biden told reporters Tuesday that the US has not yet verified the Russian military units are returning to their home bases, saying that they remain very much in a threatening position.
Personnel from Russias Southern military district began returning to base from Crimea  the territory annexed by Russia from Ukraine in 2014  following the conclusion of exercises,  state news agency RIA-Novosti reported Tuesday, citing Southern military district spokesperson Col. Vadim Astafyev.
It was not the first time hes used the word genocide to describe what he calls Russophobia or discrimination against Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine. Its a term  much like the word fascist  that can be thrown around loosely in Russian political speech and does not necessarily imply direct comparison to internationally defined and recognized cases of genocide.
NATOs Stoltenberg on Tuesday expressed hope that a war could be avoided, but said the alliance would not compromise on its core principles.
Various statements are constantly being made from the Russian Federation, so we already have a rule: Do not hear and then believe. But do see and then believe,' Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told a news conference in Kyiv. When we see the withdrawal, then we will believe in de-escalation.
Putin responded abruptly when Scholz expressed hope for a peaceful resolution in Ukraine, after recalling NATOs military intervention in response to the danger of genocide in the former Yugoslavia. According to our estimates, what is happening in the Donbas today is genocide, Putin responded.
The Kremlins troop announcement came a day after Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said there was still room for a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
Among the Kremlins demands are a guarantee that Ukraine will never be permitted to join NATO and that the alliance roll back its expansion in Eastern Europe. The US and its NATO allies have repeatedly said such proposals are non-starters.
Konashenkov also said a series of naval drills  involving surface ships, submarines and naval aviation  was underway both in operationally important areas of the worlds oceans and in the waters adjacent to the territory of Russia. Exercises are continuing with formations and military units at other training grounds on the territory of the Russian Federation, he added.
Earlier Tuesday, Major General Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the Russian defense ministry, announced the troop movements but also added that large-scale drills would continue.
Meanwhile, US ambassador to NATO Julianne Smith said Tuesday the US was monitoring the situation after the Kremlins troop announcement, but added that the US will have to verify any claims of a potential move towards deescalation by Russia.
The flurry of high-profile diplomacy continued Tuesday with Scholz becoming the latest leader to travel to Moscow for talks.
The personnel of the battalion tactical groups made marches to the areas of railway stations, where the loading of military equipment on the echelons is organized. Heavy tracked armored vehicles  tanks, infantry fighting vehicles and self-propelled artillery  are fixed on the platforms of the wagons, Astafyev said.
Seated at the opposite end of a very long table, Lavrov responded: If we are ready to listen to some counter-proposals, it seems to me that our possibilities are far from being exhausted.
For us Germans, but also for all Europeans, it is important that sustainable security cannot be achieved against Russia, but only with Russia, Scholz said.
Putins comments came hours after the Russian defense ministry said some troops from its Southern and Western military districts had begun to return to their home stations.
Asked in a conference call with reporters about the legislative action, Peskov said: No one remains indifferent to the fate of Donbas. But still, Russia has repeatedly declared that it remains committed to the Minsk package of measures, and that Russia is in favor of the implementation of the entire Minsk plan as soon as possible, in the sequence that exists.
Asked about the issue during the news conference with Scholz, Putin said there were mass and systematic violations of human rights in Ukraine and outright discrimination of Russian speaking citizens on legislative level.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov gave a noncommittal response Tuesday when asked about a move by Russian lawmakers to appeal to President Putin to recognize two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent. Donetsk and Luhank have been controlled by pro-Russian separatists since 2014.
We have noticed today that Russia is claiming that they are moving towards some sort of de-escalation. We are monitoring the situation, Smith said. We will have to verify whether or not that is in fact the case.
The announcement did not specify where those troops were permanently based, where they had been exercising, or how many of them were withdrawing, and it was viewed with skepticism by officials from Ukraine, the US and NATO, who called on Russia to provide proof it was willing to deescalate the crisis on the border.
In the armed forces of the Russian Federation, a complex of large-scale operational training measures by the forces continues, with almost all military districts, fleets and airborne troops taking part in them, he said. As part of the test of the reaction forces of the Union State, a joint Russian-Belarusian exercise Allied Resolve-2022 is being held on the territory of the Republic of Belarus.
Everything is now in place for a new attack, but Russia still has time to step back from the brink, stop preparing for war and start working for a peaceful solution, Stoltenberg told a news conference in Brussels on Tuesday.
The helicopters are a mixture of transport and attack aircraft. Archival satellite imagery reviewed by CNN indicates the base at Donuzlav Lake on the northwest coast of Crimea has been vacant since at least 2003.
Speaking during a press briefing in Brussels, the US ambassador further noted that Russia made a similar claim regarding a potential de-escalation of tensions in December, but this later proved false.
An analysis of the images showed that at least 60 helicopters had landed within the past few days at a previously vacant airbase in Russian-occupied Crimea.
