Russia has attacked Lviv Heres why the western city is so important to Ukraines defense
20220318
https://localnews8.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/03/18/russia-has-attacked-lviv-heres-why-the-western-city-is-so-important-to-ukraines-defense/
Western Ukraines supply lanes have become even more important as Russia chokes off sea passages and lays siege to the countrys south. To the north is Belarus, which hosts Russian troops and has been one of the launching pads of the invasion.
Lviv was once part of the Hapsburg monarchy  then known as Lemberg  but became the real stronghold of Ukrainian national resistance during Soviet times, according to the countrys official tourism site.
Russia launched missile strikes near an airport in Lviv on Friday, a strategic Ukrainian city not far from the Polish border that had until now largely been spared from the relentless bombardment witnessed across much of the country during the war.
Lvivs historic center is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and the National Museum houses the countrys most complete collection of sacred medieval art and rare religious manuscripts.
Two of the six were intercepted by air defense systems, the armed forces statement on Facebook said.
It hosts more than 200,000 internally displaced people in a city of just over 700,000, according to the mayor. Theyve flooded into Lviv in search of relative safety, with many using it as a stopping point before making their way to the border.
The city has also become the makeshift home for many media organizations and embassies, which were forced to relocate from Ukraines capital, Kyiv.
Being an indisputable capital of Ukrainian culture, spirituality and national identity, Lviv has always played a major role in the development of democracy and struggle for Ukraines independence, the website states.
Details on UNESCOs site describe how Lviv, founded in the late Middle Ages, became a flourishing administrative, religious and commercial center for several centuries. Up until the invasion, the medieval urban topography, as well as the citys many fine Baroque and later buildings, were well preserved, according to UNESCO.
Lviv has become a safe haven for Ukrainians fleeing other war-torn parts of the country.
Ukraines armed forces say initial information suggests Russia launched six missiles towards Lviv on Friday morning. It says the missiles were most likely air-launched cruise missiles fired from warplanes over the Black Sea.
The attack will add to concerns that Russias war could spread further west. Heres what you need to know about the importance of Lviv.
According to the citys official website, Lviv was the site of Ukraines first mass actions in support of independence when communism collapsed.
Lviv mayor Andriy Sadovyi said several missiles hit an aircraft repair plant, but that work at the facility had stopped before the strikes and there were no reports of casualties.
By Petro Zadorozhnyy, Yulia Kesaieva, Mohammed Tawfeeq, Sen Federico-OMurch, Adam Renton and Tamara Qiblawi, CNN
At about 43 miles 70 kilometers from Polands border, Lviv is at NATOs doorstep  so if attacks are ramped up here, it could have international repercussions.
On September 17, 1989 Lviv became the site of the largest demonstration in support of revival of Ukraines independence, with 100,000 participants.
At the start of the conflict Audrey Azoulay, UNESCO Director-General,  said: We must safeguard the cultural heritage in Ukraine as a testimony of the past, but also as a catalyst for peace and cohesion for the future, which the international community has a duty to protect and preserve.
The Act on State Independence of Ukraine was passed on August 24, 1991 and hundreds of people flooded the streets of Lviv in celebrations the following day.
UNESCO said earlier this month it was in permanent contact with all relevant institutions across Ukraine, as well as with Ukrainian cultural professionals, to assess the situation and to reinforce the protection of cultural properties.
Fridays attack comes after Russia launched a barrage of missiles at the Yavoriv military base, located between Lviv and the Polish border, on Sunday, killing at least 35 people.
The larger region serves also as a crucial weapons supply route to the Ukrainian military and a wider resistance effort that has foiled Moscows plans for a blitz-like invasion.
