Ukraine can and will win this war says Boris Johnson as he visits Kyiv on Ukraines Independence Day
20220725
https://localnews8.com/news/national-world/2022/08/24/boris-johnson-visits-kyiv-on-ukraines-independence-day/
Zelensky himself had previously warned Ukrainians to take extra caution on Independence Day, emphasizing in his nightly address Tuesday that hideous Russian provocations and brutal strikes are possible.
On Wednesday, the UK government announced it will provide Ukraine with mine-hunting vehicles and drones worth 54 million $63.5 million. It said it will also send Ukraine mine-hunting vehicles that are designed to help detect mines in water and train Ukrainian personnel on how to use them in UK waters in the coming weeks.
He became one of the first foreign leaders to make the precarious trip to the Ukrainian capital in late April, then returned on another surprise visit in June. Downing Street said Wednesdays visit was Johnsons last trip to Ukraine before he steps down next month.
Johnson was not the only foreign official to visit Kyiv on Wednesday. Portugals Foreign Minister Joo Gomes Cravinho visited earlier in the day, saying on Twitter it was an honour and a privilege to be here on such a significant day for Ukraine. Count on Portugals full solidarity and support!
The-CNN-Wire   2022 Cable News Network, Inc., a Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All rights reserved.
Johnson and Gomes Cravinho traveled to Ukraine despite warnings that Moscow might chose to step up attacks because of Ukraines Independence Day.
On Wednesday, Zelensky presented Johnson with a parting gift, awarding him the Order of Liberty for the work that Boris has been doing for our country and all of Europe.
Announcing the visit on Twitter, 10 Downing Street shared an image of Johnson speaking to Zelensky outside the Mariinsky Palace in Kyiv and added Johnsons message was: Ukraine can and will win this war.
Johnson has been one of the most vocal supporters of Ukraine as it tries to defend itself against Russias unprovoked assault and the trip on Wednesday was his third visit to the Ukrainian capital since the war started in late February.
Ukraine is lucky to have a friend not everyone is lucky to have, Zelensky said, adding that the aid it has received from the UK really brings us closer to victory.
While many foreign leaders and other top officials have traveled to Ukraine in recent months, Johnson stands out as one of the most frequent visitors. Polish President Andrzej Duda has also visited Kyiv three times so far this year.
Johnson has forged a close relationship with Zelensky, who said he was sad to see the British PM leave office when the ruling Conservative Party forced him to resign in July.
The outgoing British Prime Minister Boris Johnson met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv on Wednesday, marking six months since Russia begun its full-scale invasion of the country which also falls on Ukraines Independence Day.
The UK has poured more than 2.3 billion $2.71 billion into military and financial aid to Ukraine since the invasion began, according to a statement from Downing Street.
