Ukraines defense minister warns there will be a bloody massacre if Russia invades
20211207
https://localnews8.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2021/12/07/ukraines-defense-minister-warns-there-will-be-a-bloody-massacre-if-russia-invades-2/
So, we have 250,000 official  members of our army. Plus, I said 400,000 veterans and 200,000 reservists. 175,000 is not enough to go to Ukraine, said Reznikov.
On the Kremlins motives, Reznikov told CNN he believed the Russias saber-rattling was aimed at spreading fear and unrest in Ukraine, and at preventing Ukraine from moving closer toward NATO and EU membership.
The minister said that the Ukrainian army has sent a request for further military equipment aid from its allies, including material support and training for its air force and navy. We dont need troops, because I think its not so fair that American soldiers will die in Ukraine. No, we dont need it, added Reznikov.
If we share or spread panic in our country and inside of our society, it will be the gift to the Kremlin, because they trying to do that. Because this gathering of their troops alongside of our border, its a main goal of them to make destabilization process inside of our country, to stop us in our way. But we go into the NATO ally, were going to EU, he said.
Ukraine has warned for weeks that Russia is trying to destabilize the country ahead of any planned military invasion, with NATO pointing out that Russian movements near the border have been unusual. Western powers have repeatedly urged Russia against further aggressive moves against Ukraine.
Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov has told CNN there will be a really bloody massacre if Russia decides to invade Ukraine, and warned that Russian guys also will come back in the coffins, amid heightened alarm about troop movements on the nations border.
Reznikov told CNN that Ukraine assesses that Russia currently has 95,000 troops within striking distance of Ukraine. He also added that, due to the strength of battle-hardened Ukrainian forces, current US estimates that Russia could assemble 175,000 troops to invade Ukraine were an underestimate.
US and Western officials have expressed concern over the buildup of Russian forces on the Ukrainian border, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken saying last week that the US must prepare for all contingencies.
Reznikov stressed that a Russian invasion  if it happens   would have disastrous consequences for the whole of European continent, with an estimated 4 to 5 million Ukrainians possibly needing to seek refuge in Europe. Reznikov also underlined that Ukraine is a major food supplier to Europe and Africa, supplies which he said would be disrupted.
The Kremlin denies it is planning to attack and argues that NATO support for Ukraine  including increased weapons supplies and military training  constitutes a growing threat on Russias western flank.
If I can advise President Biden, I would like him to articulate to Mr. Putin that no red lines from the Kremlin side should be here. The red line is here in Ukraine and the civilized world will react without hesitation, Reznikov told CNN in an exclusive interview Monday.
The Kremlin is demanding a legal commitment that NATO will not be expanded eastwards to include Ukraine and that NATO military infrastructure, like missile systems, will not be built up in the country.
Russia has capabilities in place along the Ukraine border to carry out a swift and immediate invasion, including erecting supply lines such as medical units and fuel that could sustain a drawn-out conflict, should Moscow choose to invade, two sources familiar with American intelligence assessments told CNN last week.
Reznikov urged US President Joe Biden  who was set to speak with Vladimir Putin of Russia in a video conference call on Tuesday  to stand firm against Moscow.
