White House details new sanctions on Russian and Belarusian entities including targeting Russian oil refining
20220302
https://localnews8.com/politics/cnn-us-politics/2022/03/02/white-house-details-new-sanctions-on-russian-and-belarusian-entities-including-targeting-russian-oil-refining-2/
In a statement announcing Wednesdays additional sanctions, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo called accounts coming out of Ukraine heart wrenching  both due to the brutality of the Russian assault, and for the amazing resolve of the Ukrainian people.
But the White House on Wednesday said it was not yet ready to take a more sweeping measure sanctioning Russian oil, a step that some have called for to inflict maximum punishment on Russia. The White House noted that energy payments have been carved out of financial sanctions, and that sanctions targeting the oil refining industry would harm Russias economy but protect American consumers.
We dont have a strategic interest in reducing the global supply of energy, principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters aboard Air Force One. Jean-Pierre said sanctioning Russian oil would raise prices at the gas pump for Americans, something that the White House is very aware of.
Its something were definitely looking at. It is not something were prepared to do right now, Cedric Richmond, a senior adviser to Biden, said in an interview with CNNs Ana Cabrera on Wednesday. But I think the President was very clear when he said everything is on the table and hes not prepared to take anything off the table.
Those comments followed Bidens statement earlier Wednesday when he suggested sanctioning Russian oil remained a possibility. Nothing is off the table, Biden said.
The White House on Wednesday detailed a new slate of economic measures levied against Russia and its ally Belarus, condemning Belarus for enabling Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine.
Among Wednesdays actions are new restrictions extending export control policies to Belarus and preventing diversion of tech and software to Russia through the country, which the administration said will severely limit the ability of Russia and Belarus to obtain the materials they need to support their military aggression against Ukraine, project power in ways that threaten regional stability and undermine global peace and security.
In addition, the US and allies are identifying 22 Russian defense-related entities, including firms that provide technological and material support for Russias military.
The new measures announced Wednesday are the latest round of sanctions against Moscow that the US and its allies have introduced in an attempt to cripple Russias economy in response to its invasion of Ukraine. Previous rounds have included sanctions related to the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, sanctions against Russias largest banks and Russias removal from SWIFT, the high-security network that connects thousands of financial institutions around the world.
Still, the sanctions that have been rolled out over the past week since Russias invasion began have underscored the united front between the US and its European allies in an effort to stand up to Moscows aggression. Even countries like Switzerland, which has famously remained neutral amid conflicts, announced this week it would impose sanctions on Russia.
The new round of White House sanctions target Belarus, too, the country north of Ukraine that has played a key role aiding Russias attack. Russian troops were stationed in Belarus prior to the attack on Ukraine, which the two countries had claimed were for exercises. Using Belarus border has been strategically advantageous to Russia because its border with Ukraine is much closer to Kyiv than Russias border, providing a shorter pathway for Russian troops to reach the Ukrainian capital.
We will choke off Belaruss ability to import key technologies, Secretary of State Antony Blinken told reporters Wednesday. And if President Alexander Lukashenkos support for the war continues, the consequences for his regime will escalate.
In the sanctions announced Wednesday, the US and its allies are also targeting technology exports in the oil refining sector, which they say could help the US move toward its goal of degrading Russias status as a leading energy supplier over time.
On Tuesday, US President Joe Biden announced during the State of the Union address that the US would join other countries in banning Russias aircraft from US airspace.
