Complete coverage Ukraine war escalates as Russia appears headed for capital
20220225
https://tdn.com/news/world/complete-coverage-ukraine-war-escalates-as-russia-appears-headed-for-capital/article_99819df3-179f-5f57-bdaf-06b3c52be118.html
As Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine struggles into its second year, his transformation of Russian society is in overdrive.
The death toll has risen to at least 63 in the migrant tragedy off Italys southern coast after rescue crews recovered several more bodies. Ch
In unleashing the largest ground war in Europe since World War II, Putin ignored global condemnation and cascading new sanctions. With a chilling reference to his countrys nuclear arsenal, he threatened any country trying to interfere with consequences you have never seen, as a once-hoped for diplomatic resolution now appeared impossible.
Ukrainian forces braced for more attacks after enduring for hours a Russian barrage of land- and sea-based missiles, an assault that one senior U.S. defense official described as the first salvo in a likely multi-phase invasion aimed at seizing key population centers and decapitating Ukraine's government.
Ukrainian leaders pleaded for help as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee, and hotels in Kyiv were being evacuated amid early indications of an assault.
U.S. government bans on Chinese-owned video sharing app TikTok reveal Washington's own insecurities and are an abuse of state power, a Chinese
Explosions were heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv Friday as Russian forces pressed on with a full-scale invasion that resulted in the deaths of more than 100 Ukrainians in the first full day of fighting and could eventually rewrite the global post-Cold War security order.
Battles stepped up in recent weeks near Kupiansk, a strategic town on the eastern edge of Kharkiv province by the banks of the Oskil River.
Former Soviet satellite Slovakia has been a NATO member since 2004, but the reality of belonging to the worlds biggest military alliance real
After using airstrikes on cities and military bases, Russian military units moved swiftly to take on Ukraine's seat of government and its largest city in what U.S. officials suspect is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.
