US Urges More Arms for Ukraine Amid Fears of Expanding War
20220426
https://www.nbcwashington.com/news/national-international/top-russian-diplomat-warns-ukraine-nato-against-provoking-world-war-iii/3035087/
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov cautioned that if the Western flow of weapons continues, the talks aimed at ending the fighting will not produce any results.
The U.S. pressed its allies Tuesday to move heaven and earth to keep Kyiv well-supplied with weapons as Russian forces rained fire on eastern and southern Ukraine amid growing new fears the war could spill over the country's borders.
A nuclear war cannot be won and it shouldnt be fought, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby responded in an interview with CNN. That kind of rhetoric is clearly not called for in the current scenario. What is called for is Mr. Putin ending this war.
In thesmall city of Toretsk in the Donbas, residents are struggling to survive, collecting rainwater for washing up and fervently hoping for an end to the fighting.
Austin, the U.S. defense secretary, said the U.S. was still looking into blasts and trying to determine what was going on, but added: "Certainly we dont want to see any spillover of the conflict.
Two months into the fighting, Western arms have helped Ukraine stall Russias invasion, but the country's leaders have said theyneed more support fast.
A day earlier, Lavrov accused NATO of pouring oil on the fire with its support for Ukraine. He also warned against provoking World War III and said the threat of a nuclear conflict should not be underestimated.
With the potentially pivotal battle for the east underway, the U.S. and its NATO alliesare scrambling to deliver artillery and other heavy weaponryin time to make a difference.
A senior Kremlin official, Nikolai Patrushev, warned that the policies of the West and the Kyiv regime controlled by it would only be the breakup of Ukraine into several states.
The attack on the bridge near Odesa  along with a series of strikes on key railroad stations a day earlier  appears to mark a major shift in Russias approach. Until now, Moscow has spared strategic bridges, perhaps in hopes of keeping them for its own use in seizing Ukraine. But now it seems to be trying to thwart Ukraines efforts to move troops and supplies.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the explosions were carried out by Russia and were designed to destabilize, with the intention of showing Moldova what could happen if it supports Ukraine.
The U.S. defense secretary said the war has weakened Russia's military, adding, We would like to make sure, again, that they dont have the same type of capability to bully their neighbors that we saw at the outset of this conflict.
Beyond Mariupol, local officials said at least nine people were killed and several more wounded in Russian attacks on towns and cities in the east and south. Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the Donetsk region of the Donbas, said on the Telegram messaging app that Russian forces continue to deliberately fire at civilians and to destroy critical infrastructure.
Austin noted that more than 30 allies and partners have joined the U.S. in sending military aid to Ukraine and that more than $5 billion worth of equipment has been committed.
In other developments, Poland and Bulgaria said the Kremlin iscutting off natural gas supplies to the two NATO countriesstarting Wednesday, the first such actions of the war. Both nations had refused Russia's demands that they pay in rubles.
Ukraine also said Russian forces shelled Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city, which lies in the northeast, outside the Donbas, but is seen as key to Russia's apparent bid to encircle Ukrainian troops in the Donbas from the north, east and south.
For the second day in a row, explosions rocked the separatist region of Trans-Dniester in neighboring Moldova, knocking out two powerful radio antennas close to the Ukrainian border. No one claimed responsibility for the attacks, but Ukraine all but blamed Russia.
After unexpectedly fierce resistance by Ukrainian forcesthwarted Russia's attempt to take Ukraine's capital,Moscow now says its focus is the capture of the Donbas, the mostly Russian-speakingindustrial region in eastern Ukraine.
In the gutted southern port city of Mariupol, authorities said Russian forces hit the Azovstal steel plant with 35 airstrikes over the past 24 hours. The plant is the last known stronghold of Ukrainian fighters in the city. About 1,000 civilians were said to be taking shelter there with an estimated 2,000 Ukrainian defenders.
He also accused Russian forces of shelling a route it had offered as an escape corridor from the steel mill.
Diplomatic efforts to end the fighting also continued. U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres met with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and the U.N. said they agreed in principle that the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross should be involved in the evacuation of civilians trapped in the steel plant in Mariupol. Putin said Ukrainian troops were using civilians in the plant as shields and not allowing them to leave.
"Russia has drastically intensified strikes over the past 24 hours and is using heavy bunker bombs, said Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to Mariupol's mayor. The number of those wounded will be clear once the rubble is cleared.
This gathering reflects the galvanized world, Austin said, adding that he wanted officials to leave the meeting with a common and transparent understanding of Ukraines near-term security requirements because were going to keep moving heaven and earth so that we can meet them.
Russian advances and heavy fighting were reported in the Donbas, with one town, Kreminna, apparently falling after days of street-by-street fighting, according to the British military.
It was not clear who was behind the blasts in Trans-Dniester, but the attacks gave rise to fears that Russia is stirring up trouble so as to create a pretext to either invade Trans-Dniester or use the region as another launching point to attack Ukraine.
The potential effect of the cutoff was not immediately clear. Poland said it was well-prepared for such a move after working for years to reduce its reliance on Russian energy. Bulgaria gets over 90 of its gas from Russia, and officials said they were working to find other sources.
Russian missile fire also knocked out a strategic railroad bridge along a route that links southern Ukraines Odesa port region to neighboring Romania, a NATO member, Ukrainian authorities said. No injuries were reported.
The southern Ukraine coastline and Moldova have been on edge since a senior Russian military officer said last week that the Kremlins goal is to secure not just eastern Ukraine but the entire south, so as to open the way to Trans-Dniester, a long, narrow strip of land with about 470,000 people along the Ukrainian border where about 1,500 Russian troops are based.
Poland has been a major gateway for the delivery of weapons to Ukraine and confirmed this week that it is sending the country tanks.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin convened a meeting Tuesday of officials from about 40 countries at the U.S. air base at Ramstein, Germany, and said more help is on the way.
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht said her government will supply Gepard self-propelled armored anti-aircraft guns to Ukraine. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has faced mounting pressure to send heavy weapons such as tanks and other armored vehicles.
Its bad. Very bad. Hopeless, said Andriy Cheromushkin. You feel so helpless that you dont know what you should do or shouldnt do. Because if you want to do something, you need some money, and there is no money now.
