Aldi Asda Sainsburys and Morrisons stop selling spirits fish and sweets
20220311
https://www.nottinghampost.com/whats-on/shopping/aldi-asda-sainsburys-morrisons-stop-6786570
Major supermarkets have stopped selling a range of products in its stores after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Many major supermarkets have stopped selling Russian products, with some taking more action than others, Liverpool Echo reports.
They said in a statement: "We stand together with Aldi colleagues across the world and will be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal."
Waitrose and John Lewis said earlier this month they would no longer sell products made in Russia, starting with Russian vodka and one line of pizza oven pellets.
Aldi, Asda, Sainsbury's, Morrisons and more have all pulled popular items from their shelves including spirits, fish and sweets.
A spokesperson for the Co-op said the decision to remove the sale of Russian-made vodka was "a sign of solidarity with the people of Ukraine".
At the start of the month, Aldi announced that they would be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal.
Asda has confirmed it is removing all products that originate from Russia from its stores and online - around 100 items in total.
Asdas co-owner Mohsin Issa said: We stand with our customers and colleagues who are shocked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine  and our thoughts are with those people whose lives are affected by this crisis.
On March 4, Asda and its charity, the Asda Foundation, announced a 1m package to support displaced Ukrainian families in Europe and the UK.
A statement from the supermarket read: We are supporting humanitarian relief efforts through our partnerships with the Red Cross, food banks and other relief organisations to help those affected in Ukraine and neighbouring countries.
The supermarket giant has also recently renamed its Chicken Kiev to Kyiv - the Ukrainian capital - to stand with Ukraine.
Tesco said it will not be removing any products from its shelves, but it will not place any further orders with Russian suppliers.
This is in the hopes a ban will put more pressure on Vladimir Putin's economy and government to stop the invasion.
A spokesperson for Tesco stated it would no longer be buying products from businesses that are wholly Russian-owned.
A spokesperson for Morrisons, meanwhile, said: We have taken action on our vodka lines today including delisting Russian Standard.
"We have reviewed our product range and have decided to remove from sale all products that are 100 sourced from Russia."
As Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues, there have been repeated calls to boycott the sale of Russian goods in the UK.
After initially not confirming the donation amount, the supermarket confirmed they would be donating a further 5 million euros to established aid organisations to "ensure help reaches those that need it most."
