Johnson calls on China to speak out on Ukraine war
20220320
https://www.nottinghampost.com/news/uk-world-news/johnson-calls-china-speak-out-6832611
But Ive got to stress it is very important that we dont fall into the trap of seeming to stack up Putins argument to his own country that this is effectively a war between Russia and Nato between Russia and the West. Thats not what is going on here.
The Prime Minister used a speech at the Tory spring conference on Saturday to claim Mr Putins invasion was not motivated by a fear of Ukraine joining an expanded Nato, but rather because he was terrified of a successful democracy in the former Soviet republic. He said Mr Zelensky, with whom he has regular conversations despite the constant threat of attacks on Kyiv, was an absolutely charming guy but hes also proved to be an inspiration and a heroic war leader.
Leaders from the Nato alliance, including Mr Biden, will meet in Brussels on Thursday, with Mr Johnson suggesting it would be extremely significant, with the possibility of more pledges of support for Ukraine and its president, Volodymyr Zelensky. People will want to do more to help the Ukrainians defend themselves, Mr Johnson said.
US President Joe Biden had a two-hour video call with Chinese President Xi on Friday but there was little evidence of any shift in Beijings stance. On Saturday, Chinas vice foreign Le Yucheng blamed Nato, a Cold War vestige, for the war and criticised sanctions against Russia.
Boris Johnson has urged China to get off the fence and join in global condemnation of Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine. The Prime Minister said he believed some in Xi Jinpings administration were having second thoughts about the neutral stance adopted by Beijing following Russias actions against its neighbour.
The possibility of offering Mr Zelensky and his family refuge in the UK had been discussed but Mr Johnson told the Sunday Times: Ive got to tell you that Volodymyr has always been clear, his duty is to the Ukrainian people hes going to stay there, hes going to look after them. I have to say I admire him.
Despite Mr Johnsons suggestion of a possible shift in attitude, there was fresh criticism of Nato on Saturday from China as Russian forces continued their bombardment of Ukrainian towns and cities. Mr Johnson used a Sunday Times interview to urge China and other neutral nations to line up against Russia.
In his conference speech in Blackpool on Saturday, Mr Johnson said Mr Putin was in a total panic about the prospect of a popular uprising if freedom was allowed to flourish in Kyiv. The war was a turning point for the world, forcing countries to stand up to Russia rather than making accommodations with tyranny.
He said: As time goes on, and as the number of Russian atrocities mounts up, I think it becomes steadily more difficult and politically embarrassing for people either actively or passively to condone Putins invasion. There are considerable dilemmas now for people who thought they could sit this one out, who thought they could sit on the fence, and yes, I think that in Beijing you are starting to see some second thoughts.
