Russia warns it is about to launch strikes against targets in Kyiv
20220301
https://www.nottinghampost.com/news/uk-world-news/russia-warns-launch-strikes-against-6735693
Speaking at the British Embassy, Mr Johnson said that if Mr Putin was allowed to win in his invasion of Ukraine, he would overthrow the post-Cold War order and destroy the vision of a Europe whole and free.
Speaking in Geneva, she said: Putin is responsible for civilian casualties and over 500,000 people fleeing with the numbers still rising fast. The blood is on Putins hands, not just of innocent Ukrainians but the men he has sent to die.
Ukraine fears Russia is about to take down its broadcast capability before distributing fake news of a Ukrainian surrender.
And the Prince of Wales said the values of democracy were under attack in Ukraine in the most unconscionable way, adding: We are in solidarity with all those who are resisting brutal aggression.
Officials claimed the strikes are being carried out to "prevent information attacks against Russia", reports the BBC.
UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said his statement was full of disinformation and did not deserve the attention of other members.
I think Vladimir Putin is a father himself, and no one can possibly understand how he has unleashed this conflict which seems to everybody to be so futile.
He said: I think I felt what everybody in the world felt looking at that, that this is absolutely senseless.
Writing on Facebook, he said: "There will be a massive distribution of fake news about Ukrainian military-political leadership allegedly agreeing to capitulation.
When I think of the dangers and the pressures, the physical dangers that he must be facing, I marvel at his coolness under fire, his bravery, his invincible good humour.
The outcome will be a world where aggression is triumph, where might is right, and extreme violence pays off, and no nation would be safe, the Prime Minister said.
The statement reads: "We urge Ukrainian citizens who are being used by nationalists to carry out provocations against Russia, as well as Kyiv residents residing near relay stations to leave their home."
Meanwhile, there was a mass walkout from the UN Human Rights Council as Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov addressed the members.
Ukraine has accused Russia of war crimes during the invasion over the bombardment of civilian areas in the second city of Kharkiv.
Russian officials issued a statement on Tuesday afternoon saying they were preparing to launch "high-precision strikes" against "technological centres of the Ukrainian Security Service and the 72nd main PsyOps centre in Kyiv".
It comes as Prime Minister Boris Johnson sent a direct message to the Russian leader in a speech in Warsaw, where he insisted tough sanctions against the Kremlin were not meant to hit the Russian people.
Russia is isolated and should be ashamed to sit in the UN chamber, she said.
Mr Johnson was asked how he felt as a father when he saw the images of dying Ukrainian children.
He underlined the UKs support for Ukraine and praised the bravery of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
"To substantiate the fake news, they will publish photos of signed documents and a fake video. This is a lie."
Russia's defence ministry this afternoon warned that it is about to target buildings in Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital.
In Warsaw, Mr Johnson pointed the finger at Mr Putins regime for what he earlier called the barbaric and indiscriminate violence against Ukrainian citizens.
