Ukraine afternoon latest Russia lays out its demands as two sides meet for talks again
20220307
https://www.nottinghampost.com/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-afternoon-latest-russia-lays-6767093
At the International Court of Justice, Ukraine pleaded for an order to halt Russia's invasion, saying Moscow is already committing widespread war crimes and "resorting to tactics reminiscent of medieval siege warfare". Russia snubbed Monday's hearings, leaving its seats in the Great Hall of Justice empty.
Ukrainian officials accused Moscow of resorting to "medieval siege" tactics in some places, and in one encircled city, Mariupol, there was no sign yet of an evacuation. Russian forces continued to pummel some Ukrainian cities with rockets even after the new announcement of corridors and fierce fighting continued in some areas, indicating there would be no wider cessation of hostilities.
Efforts to set up safe passages for civilians to leave besieged areas over the weekend fell apart. But the Russian Defence Ministry announced a new push on Monday, saying civilians would be allowed to leave the capital of Kyiv, the southern port city of Mariupol, and the cities of Kharkiv and Sumy.
Mr Zelensky described shelling of Ukrainian cities in the centre, north and south of the country, describing "terror" facing civilians in the suburbs of Kyiv and in Kharkiv and Mariupol, surrounded by Russian troops.
"If the invasion continues and Russia does not abandon its plans against Ukraine, then we need a new sanctions package," he said in a video address. "If Russia doesn't want to abide by civilised rules, then they shouldn't receive goods and services from civilisation. It can be called an embargo, or it can be just morality."
Russia has said Ukraine must meet four key demands if it wants to stop the war that is now in its 12th day. The Kremlin said it wanted recognition of Luhansk and Donetsk as independent, a ceasing of all military action, a change to Ukraine's constitution to enshrine neutrality and acknowledgment of Crimea as Russian territory.
In the Irpin area, which has been cut off from electricity, water and heating for three days, witnesses on Monday saw at least three tanks and said Russian soldiers were seizing houses and cars, while explosions could be heard. Russian forces continued their offensive in Mykolaiv, opening fire on the city some 300 miles south of Kyiv, according to Ukraine's General Staff.
More talks took place between Ukraine and Russia this afternoon as Russia announced yet another limited ceasefire and a handful of humanitarian corridors to allow civilians to flee Ukraine. However, there has been criticism that the evacuation routes were mostly leading to Russia and its ally Belarus.
The Ukrainian government instead proposed eight routes allowing civilians to travel to western regions of Ukraine where there is no shelling. Kyiv mayor and former boxer Vitali Klitschko said in a Telegram video address that "fierce battles" continued on Monday in the Kyiv region, notably around Bucha, Hostomel, Vorzel and Irpin - areas away from the humanitarian corridors - and were hitting civilians.
In the latest cease-fire proposal, most of the evacuation routes were toward Russia or its ally Belarus, a move Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Irina Vereshchuk called "unacceptable" and French President Emmanuel Macron said was "hypocrisy". Belarus served as a launching ground for the invasion.
"I don't know many Ukrainians who want to seek refuge in Russia. That's hypocrisy," Mr Macron said in an interview on French news broadcaster LCI.
- Mr Rutte said his country was prepared to consider "all possible sanctions" but they must not generate "unmanageable risks" to energy supply in Europe.
"Humanitarian actors need to be able to intervene so we must get full cease-fires when they intervene," Mr Macron said. The issue won't be solved via "corridors which are being threatened right away by Russia," he added.
The statement also accused Russian forces of taking women and children hostage and placing weapons in residential areas of cities - though it did not elaborate or provide evidence.
"They should make amendments to their constitution according to which Ukraine would reject any aims to enter any bloc. We have also spoken about how they should recognise that Crimea is Russian territory and that they need to recognise that Donetsk and Luhansk are independent states. And thats it. It will stop in a moment."
Mr Putin launched his invasion with a string of false accusations against Kyiv, including that it is led by neo-Nazis intent on undermining Russia with the development of nuclear weapons. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has particularly alarmed nearby countries.
In Mariupol, where an estimated 200,000 people hoping to flee were becoming increasingly desperate, Red Cross officials waited to hear when a safe humanitarian corridor would be established. The city is short on water, food and power, and mobile phone networks are down. Shops have been looted as residents search for essential goods.
Police moved through the city advising people to remain in shelters until they heard official messages broadcast over loudspeakers to evacuate. Russia and Ukraine traded blame after a planned evacuation mostly failed over the weekend there.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: "We really are finishing the demilitarisation of Ukraine. We will finish it. But the main thing is that Ukraine ceases its military action. They should stop their military action and then no one will shoot.
The two sides met for a third round of talks on Monday afternoon, according to Russian state media, though hopes for any breakthrough were dim. The countries' foreign ministers are also scheduled to meet in Turkey on Thursday, according to that country's top diplomat.
- Mr Zelensky appealed again on Monday for a no-fly zone over Ukraine or warplanes. Nato so far has ruled out policing a no-fly zone because of concerns such an action would lead to a far wider war.
Russian President Vladimir Putin earlier said Moscow's attacks could be halted "only if Kyiv ceases hostilities". As he has often done, he blamed Ukraine for the war, telling Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday that Kyiv needed to stop all hostilities and fulfil "the well-known demands of Russia".
The fighting has sent energy prices surging worldwide, stocks plummeting, and is threatening the food supply and livelihoods of people around the globe who rely on farmland in the Black Sea region. The death toll, meanwhile, remains unclear. The UN has confirmed a few hundred civilian deaths but also warned the number is a vast undercount. Police for the Kharkiv region said Monday that 209 people have died there alone, 133 of them civilians.
Well into the second week of war, Russia's plan to quickly overrun the country has been stymied by fierce resistance. Its troops have made significant advances in southern Ukraine and along the coast, but many of its efforts have become stalled, including an immense military convoy that has been almost motionless for days north of Kyiv. The battle for Mariupol, in particular, is crucial because its capture could allow Moscow to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014 in a move that most other countries considered illegal.
The Russian invasion has also sent 1.7 million people fleeing Ukraine, creating what the head of the UN refugee agency called "the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since" the Second World War.
Shelling appeared to be mostly on the city's outskirts, but on Sunday, cars of people hoping to leave in an evacuation convoy were gathered in a central square when shells landed nearby. All fled immediately.
- Boris Johnson, meeting today with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Dutch PM Mark Rutter, branded Vladimir Putin's tactics in Ukraine "repugnant" and said additional sanctions would follow.
- US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Monday began a lightning visit to the three Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, former Soviet republics that are Nato members. Mr Blinken hopes to reassure them of the alliance's protection in the event Russia chooses to expand its military operations to other neighbouring countries.
- Mr Trudeau said his country is imposing new sanctions on 10 individuals in relation to the invasion of Ukraine. Speaking following talks at Downing Street, he said: "This includes former and current senior government officials, oligarchs and supporters of the Russian leadership."
But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for more action, including a global boycott of Russian oil imports and other products.
In the face of a series of punishing sanctions by Western countries, Russia has grown increasing isolated. The rouble's value has plunged and the country's extensive trade ties with the West have been all but severed. Moscow has also cracked down on independent reporting on the conflict and arrested anti-war protesters en masse. On Sunday, more than 5,000 people in 69 cities were detained, according to rights group OVD-Info - the highest single-day figure since the invasion began.
Rescuers said they were putting out fires caused by rocket attacks in residential areas. Emergency officials in the Kharkiv region said overnight shelling killed at least eight people and wrecked residential buildings, medical and education facilities and administrative buildings.
"Russia continues to carry out rocket, bomb and artillery strikes on the cities and settlements of Ukraine," the General Staff said, and repeated earlier Ukrainian accusations that Russia has targeted humanitarian corridors.
Even hospitals in Mariupol suffered shortages of antibiotics and painkillers, and doctors performed some emergency procedures without them. The lack of phone networks has left anxious citizens approaching strangers to ask if they knew whether relatives living in other parts of the city and whether they were safe.
