What happened as hundreds of Ukraine protesters gathered for demonstration in Nottingham city centre
20220227
https://www.nottinghampost.com/news/nottingham-news/hundreds-ukraine-protesters-gather-demonstration-6726158
"We are trying to show support to Ukrainian people so all the world know Nottingham stands with Ukraine and against Putin's terrorists," he said.
The 28 year old from Sneinton continued: "I'm surprised so many people have come, so many from the Lithuania community.
Ewa Damek is from Poland close to the border with Ukraine, where she has many friends.
She says her friends are OK at the moment, and speaks to them regularly on Skype and over the phone.
A protest began in Old Market Square, at the Brian Clough statue, from midday on Sunday, February 27.
Andriy Tymomiychuk, originally from Western Ukraine, says his friends and family have stayed to fight.
Countless others, including Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskyy, have opted to remain in the capital, Kyiv, ready to defend it against the advancing Russian troops.
President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine on February 24, himself describing the act of aggression a "special operation", which has left tens of thousands fleeing the country.
Demonstrators are singing the national anthem, called 'Glory and Freedom of Ukraine has not Perished'.
"Our parents fought the Russians, or Soviets, and now we have history repeating itself with a regime that is hell bent of maximising its sphere of influence.
National reports just released suggest Belarus special forces are preparing to join the invasion of Ukraine.
The 30-year-old, who was at the vigil along with friends, his mum and sister, said: "I'm here because I want Putin to stop.
The beginning of the anthem says: "Ukraine's freedom has not yet perished, nor has her glory,Upon us, fellow Ukrainians, fate shall smile once more.Our enemies will vanish like dew in the sun,And we too shall rule, brothers, in a free land of our own.
"The Ukrainian people need support and weapons. What they've had so far is not enough, Russia has a much bigger military."
"We'll lay down our souls and bodies to attain our freedom,And we'll show that we, brothers, are of the Cossack nation.We'll lay down our souls and bodies to attain our freedom,And we'll show that we, brothers, are of the Cossack nation."
"Its important to support Ukraine right now," said the 24-year-old who now lives in Nottingham.
Robert Galij and Irka Zajac-Galij, who were born in Nottingham but raised as Ukrainians, said they had family who had been conscripted in Lviv.
Dimitriy Kleinov, from Lithuania, says his cousins have stayed in Kyiv to help protect the city.
Families have spoken of their worry as hundreds of people gathered in Old Market Square upon Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"Our family's city has been bombed from the north and south, its very raw and its happening now."
