Worlds largest cargo aircraft destroyed by Russian forces outside Kyiv say reports
20220227
https://www.nottinghampost.com/news/uk-world-news/worlds-largest-cargo-aircraft-destroyed-6726747
Its cargo hold, at 43 metres long 141ft, is longer than the distance of the worlds first powered plane flight, completed by the Wright Brothers in 1903, at 37 metres 121ft.
But on Sunday February 27 Ukraines Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba tweeted that the aircraft - called Mriya, or 'dream' - had been destroyed.
"An-225 'Dream' - an aviation giant, which holds records for the transportation of maximum commercial cargo and the longest and heaviest in the history of aviation monoloading, lifting capacity. Unfortunately, these options are lost today.
The Antonov AN-225, which has appeared at air shows in the UK, was initially reported to have been hit at Hostomel Airport around 20 miles from the Ukrainian capital three days ago, however at the time the reports were unconfirmed.
The world's largest cargo plane has been destroyed by Russian troops at an airport near Kyiv, it's been reported.
"But they will definitely be restored. The occupiers destroyed the plane, but they will not be able to destroy our common dream. She will definitely be reborn. It is estimated that it will take more than $3 billion and more than five years.
It has a wingspan of 88 metres 289ft and a length of 84 metres 276ft , making it the longest aircraft in existence.
Only one of the AN-224 planes was built after being designed by the Antonov Design Bureau in the Ukrainian SSR within the Soviet Union during the 1980s.
According to flight tracking website Flightradar24.com, the aircraft arrived at Hostomel Airport on February 5, and has not left since.
Mr Kuleba tweeted at 2.50pm UK time: "This was the worlds largest aircraft, AN-225 Mriya Dream in Ukrainian.
A statement by Ukroboronprom, Antonov's parent organisation, appeared to confirm the plane had been destroyed and that they would plan to rebuild it at Russia's expense, adding: "Russia has targeted the Dream as a symbol of the capabilities of Ukrainian aviation.
However, the Antonov Company itself took to Twitter to say: "Update on the information of AN225 "Mriya" aircraft: Currently, until the AN-225 has been inspected by experts, we cannot report on the technical condition of the aircraft.
"Our task is to ensure that these costs are covered by the Russian Federation, which has caused intentional damage to Ukrainian aviation and the air cargo sector."
"Russia may have destroyed our Mriya. But they will never be able to destroy our dream of a strong, free and democratic European state. We shall prevail!"
