Biden betraying the nation he leads By Eric Utter
20220208
http://www.ruthfullyyours.com/2022/02/07/biden-betraying-the-nation-he-leads-by-eric-utter/
Biden and his minions have deliberately prostrated America in front of Russia, China, Iranand the rest of the world. Especially China.
But wait, theres moreas they say in late-night infomercials. Biden and his Cabinet of Fools have coddled criminals and criminalized victims, leading to vastly more of each. They will raise taxes on productive United States citizens while giving freebies to illegal aliens. They have locked down the healthy, mocked the productive, and turned ethnic groups and races against each other. They have weaponized the FBI, CIA, DOJand assorted other agencies formerly charged with protecting Americansand directed them to surveil and harass them. They have stunted the American economy and destroyed their nations prestige around the world.
The Biden administration has also pressured hospitals and businesses to get rid of their unvaccinated employees, putting more burden on already over-stressed doctors and nurses and worsening the ubiquitous labor shortages and supply chain disruptions.
Moreover, Biden has canceled pipelines at home and devastated the energy sectorwhile begging for oil from Russia and OPEC nations. He has gifted the Taliban with tens of billions of dollars in advanced military equipment, making these erstwhile goat herders one of the best equipped military forces on the planet. He refuses to build a wall to protect his own nations southern border but is fine with others building walls to protect their interests. His administration will not lift a finger to defend the sovereignty of Americas border with Mexico but apparently considers Ukraines border with Russia to be absolutely inviolate.
The U.S. Army is going to immediately start discharging the unvaccinated. And this after attempting to purge itself of patriots, devout Christians, and Trump supporters. At this rate, the force may literally soon mirror its recruiting slogan of 2001-2006, which touted an Army Of One. This seems particularly bizarre timing, given the fact that Uncle Sam believes Russia is going to invade Ukraine soon, and China is now openly threatening Taiwan.
