IfThen is no Policy for Dealing with Russia By Shoshana Bryen
20220113
http://www.ruthfullyyours.com/2022/01/13/if-then-is-no-policy-for-dealing-with-russia-by-shoshana-bryen/
Which makes it foolish in the extreme to have an ifthen policy. Ifthen is transactional  If Im nice to you, you should be nice to me if you misbehave, I will impose consequences on you. Ifthen relies on two things  first, that your adversary believes you and further, that he fears the consequences. This works from parent to child. But with a competent adversary, there is a third requirement  that the consequences he can inflict on you are within your tolerance.
Russia has embarked upon a series of threatening activities ostensibly directed at Ukraine, but that in fact could culminate in enormous and disastrous military and political damage to NATO. Those same threatening activities might also be used by Russia as a lever to get the West to deliver what President Vladimir Putin wants without military action. We dont know yet which is the Russian endgame, and it is conceivable that they dont yet either.
President Joe Biden removed sanctions from the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project, allowing Russia to finish the supply line for more Russian gas to Europe and cut Ukraine out as the middleman. In return, Russia has added troops to the border of Ukraine there appear to be upwards of 70,000 now. In December, the G7 ministers adopted a more threatening tone. Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response. In January, Secretary of State Antony Blinken sounded firm. Weve offered Putin two paths forward. One is through diplomacy and dialogue the other is through deterrence and massive consequences for Russia if it renews its aggression against Ukraine. And were about to test the proposition of which path President Putin wants to take.
He was not explicit about the nature of the consequences  the Ukrainians clearly are hoping for a NATO military response, but for many reasons, including that NATO has not even discussed such an option, it is unlikely. The new German foreign minister tipped NATOs hand that the response will be economic when she said, Further military escalation wouldnt bring Ukraine greater security.
