Facts about RussiaUkraine conflict Russia Belarus to deepen integration amid Western sanctions
20220413
https://english.news.cn/europe/20220413/74811a76c8b64220ae6acb73b271af2f/c.html
"The security measures have been strengthened to prevent escalation in these areas," Andriy Demchenko, the spokesman of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine, was quoted as saying.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday at a joint press conference that it was important to deepen integration between Russia and Belarus in the face of all-out Western sanctions.
The outlook for the global economy has darkened since the outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the World Trade Organization said in its annual trade statistics and outlook report published on Tuesday.
Global gross domestic product at market exchange rates is projected by the WTO to grow by 2.8 percent in 2022, down 1.3 percentage points from the previous forecast of 4.1 percent. Growth is expected to pick up to 3.2 percent in 2023, close to the average rate of 3.0 percent between 2010 and 2019.  
BEIJING, April 13 Xinhua -- Relevant parties are working to broker a peaceful solution to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, whose latest developments are as follows:
Ukraine's gross domestic product will shrink by 45.1 percent this year due to the conflict with Russia, the Interfax-Ukraine news agency reported on Monday, citing a recent World Bank report.
Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko hosted the joint press conference at the Vostochny Cosmodrome in Russia's Far East, Sputnik News reported.
In its report, the bank has projected that the poverty rate in Ukraine will increase from 1.8 percent in 2021 to 19.8 percent in 2022.
Ukraine has tightened security measures on the borders with Belarus and Moldova's breakaway region of Transnistria, the Ukrinform news agency reported Tuesday.
Ukraine's negotiating position at the peace talks with Russia remains unchanged, the head of the Ukrainian delegation David Arakhamia said Tuesday.
The only difference is that the Ukrainian side does not take into account all the additional issues that were not included in the Istanbul Communique. This may have led to a misinterpretation of the current state of the negotiation process, he said.
"The Ukrainian side adheres to the Istanbul Communique and hasn't changed its position," Arakhamia wrote on Telegram.
"We will continue to jointly oppose any attempts to slow down the development of our countries or artificially isolate them from the global economy," Putin said.
