Facts about RussiaUkraine conflict Airstrike hits oil processing plant fuel depot in Ukraines Odessa
20220404
http://english.news.cn/europe/20220404/0c621360d35c4193beda07c9964ff013/c.html
Earlier on Sunday, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said during a briefing that the Russian Armed Forces have destroyed an oil refinery and three storage facilities for fuel and lubricants near Ukraine's Odessa with high-precision sea- and air-based missiles.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Sunday that Germany and its allies will in the next few days decide on further measures to sanction Russia.
"All photographs and video materials published by the Kiev regime, allegedly evidencing some kind of 'crimes' committed by Russian military personnel in the city of Bucha, Kiev region, are another provocation," the ministry said in a statement.
The delegation will later meet with the Ukrainian side in Warsaw, the statement added.  
Earlier, Rogozin said that Roscosmos would soon submit proposals to Russia's leadership on ending cooperation on the International Space Station with the United States, Canada, European countries and Japan.
Algerian Foreign Minister Ramtane Lamamra will pay a visit to Moscow accompanied by his counterparts from Jordan, Sudan, Iraq and Egypt and the Secretary General of the Arab League to discuss with Russian officials the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the Algerian Foreign Ministry said Sunday in a statement.
BEIJING, April 4 Xinhua -- The Russia-Ukraine conflict continued on Monday as relevant parties are holding a new round of peace talks via video to discuss draft agreements between the two countries. Following are the latest developments of the situation:
He said Roscosmos stopped joint projects with Western countries for moral and ethical reasons, and would not have any cooperation with countries that provide weapons and political support to Ukraine.
During a TV interview, German Minister of Defense Christine Lambrecht noted that the European Union should talk about putting an end to gas supplies from Russia.
Russia's state space corporation Roscosmos would not cooperate with countries supplying weapons to Ukraine, Director General of Roscosmos Dmitry Rogozin said Sunday via his social media channel.
The Russian military struck an oil processing plant and a fuel depot in Ukraine's southern Black Sea port of Odessa, Maksym Marchenko, head of the military administration of Odessa region, said Sunday in a video message posted on the official Telegram channel of the Odessa City Council.
It said that during the time the settlement was under control of the Russian forces, not a single local resident suffered from any violent actions, adding that "all Russian units completely withdrew from Bucha on March 30."
The Russian Defense Ministry on Sunday refuted Kiev's accusation of alleged killing of civilians in the settlement of Bucha in Ukraine's Kiev region.
