German Chancellor Scholz calls for negotiated solution to Ukraine crisis
20220220
https://english.news.cn/20220219/c5f5a59d15a24ef3822a1b3630f82093/c.html
He made the remarks in his first speech at the 58th Munich Security Conference MSC, which will last through Monday.
Scholz stressed the importance of the transatlantic partnership, noting that Germany will ensure compliance with the Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the collective defense clause.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz L greets Chairman of the Munich Security Conference Wolfgang Ischinger before delivering a speech during the 58th Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany, on Feb. 19, 2022. Scholz said on Saturday that diplomatic channels are still the means to solve the Ukrainian problem but warned against "being naive." XinhuaLu Yang
At a press conference held with Scholz in Moscow on Tuesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin said that postponing Ukraine's possible accession to NATO will resolve nothing for Russia and that Moscow wants its security concerns to be addressed seriously. 
MUNICH, Germany, Feb. 19 Xinhua -- German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Saturday that diplomatic channels are still the means to solve the Ukrainian problem but warned against "being naive."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on screens and left on the podium speaks during the 58th Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany, on Feb. 19, 2022. Scholz said on Saturday that diplomatic channels are still the means to solve the Ukrainian problem but warned against "being naive." XinhuaLu Yang
The conflict in Ukraine shows no sign of easing, and "there is a danger of another war in Europe," he said.
Russia has repeatedly urged NATO to halt its eastward expansion as the intergovernmental military alliance led by the United States has further enlarged even after the Cold War.
Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO, which has been a major concern for Russia, is not on the agenda either now or in the near future, he noted.
Regarding Germany's decision not to supply weapons to Ukraine, Scholz said that his country had strict regulations on arms exports, and that Berlin had provided financial support to Ukraine instead.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz speaks during the 58th Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany, on Feb. 19, 2022. Scholz said on Saturday that diplomatic channels are still the means to solve the Ukrainian problem but warned against "being naive." XinhuaLu Yang
