Russia introduces state of war An extraordinary session was convened
20220303
https://www.b92.net/eng/news/world.php?yyyy=2022&mm=03&dd=03&nav_id=113183
According to the Guardian, this has caused speculation in Moscow that the so-called a state of war that gives state bodies enormous powers and significantly restricts the freedom of movement and speech of citizens will be introduced.  The state of war in Russia was last introduced on several occasions during World War II.  The Guardian quoted influential Russian political analyst Tatiana Stanova as saying on her Twitter account on Wednesday night that imposing a state of emergency would be "logical".  "The introduction of the state of emergency will enable the authorities to introduce military censorship, as well as greater secrecy of all activities of the state and local authorities," Stanova wrote.  If the Kremlin really pulls this move, there will be an automatic extension of the mandate of all elected institutions and officials. The last time the Council of the Russian Federation was convened, it gave approval to President Vladimir Putin to engage the armed forces abroad, two days before the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, which began on February 24.  Officially, the adoption of a package of anti-crisis measures in response to Western sanctions is on the agenda of the extraordinary session convened for Friday. The Guardian reminds that more than 6.500 citizens have been detained across Russia so far for participating in anti-war demonstrations.  In recent days, state authorities have also clashed with the remnants of the rest of the independent or opposition media. On Tuesday, the public prosecutor's office ordered the media regulator to block the broadcast of the liberal Moscow radio station Echo of Moscow and the opposition TV channel Dozhd.  The Duma was convened on Friday to discuss a proposal for a new law that would punish "spreading misinformation about the armed forces of the Russian Federation in military conflicts." Violators could face up to 15 years in prison.
