Zelensky has a new condition NATO is sending more weapons War negotiators arrived
20220301
https://www.b92.net/eng/news/world.php?yyyy=2022&mm=02&dd=28&nav_id=113156
New Zelensky address: When I planned to become a president, I said that each of us is the president. Because we are all responsible for our state. For our beautiful Ukraine. And now it has happened that each of us is a warrior... And I am confident that each of us will win. pic.twitter.comzN629XehUv
Ukraine's president Volodymr Zelensky has urged Russian soldiers to lay down their weapons and desert as Ukrainian and Russian delegations were set to hold talks on Moscow's invasion.BREAKING Ukraine leader urges Russian soldiers to lay down arms pic.twitter.comV3iOzStBeB AFP News Agency AFP February 28, 2022
The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, stated today that Ukraine is asking the European Union for urgent admission according to a new special procedure.  In a video address, Zelensky said that Ukraine is grateful to its partners for being with it, UNIAN reports. "But our goal is to be together with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be equal," Zelensky pointed out.  He added that he was sure that Ukraine deserved it and that it was possible.New Zelensky address: When I planned to become a president, I said that each of us is the president. Because we are all responsible for our state. For our beautiful Ukraine. And now it has happened that each of us is a warrior... And I am confident that each of us will win. pic.twitter.comzN629XehUv Christopher Miller ChristopherJM February 28, 2022
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said today that the escalation of Russian military operations in Ukraine leads to increasing human rights violations and that the UN is closely monitoring the situation with the help of teams on the ground.  "The escalation of the Russian Federation's military operations in Ukraine is leading to an escalation of human rights violations. We must show all people in Ukraine that we are with them in the most difficult moments," Guterres said in a recorded speech, as Reuters reported.Human rights cannot be confiscated by dictators or erased by poverty. They are inescapable  and powerful.The UN works every day, everywhere, to uphold and promote human rights for all. Antnio Guterres antonioguterres February 28, 2022
The war in Ukraine enters the fifth day. Both delegations arrived at the Belarusian-Ukrainian border to take part in negotiations on ending the war in Ukraine.
Human rights cannot be confiscated by dictators or erased by poverty. They are inescapable  and powerful.The UN works every day, everywhere, to uphold and promote human rights for all.
The Russian delegation, as Nexta media reported, will be represented by Russian Ambassador to Belarus Boris Grizlov, MP Leonid Slutsky, Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko and Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin. The head of the delegation is Vladimir Medinsky.BREAKING: Ukraine's delegation has arrived at Belarus border for talks with Russia's delegation. pic.twitter.comqsDnJxcVJo Mogadishu Update Magdashi3 February 28, 2022
