Biden says Russia should be booted from G20 Russias economy has shrunk in half since invading Ukraine March 24 recap
20220324
https://www.hillsdale.net/story/news/politics/2022/03/24/ukraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/7148986001/
A senior administration official told reporters that independent assessments indicate Russias last 15 years of economic gains will evaporate this year and inflation will spike to 15.
Russias membership in the group, which represents the worlds major economies, was discussed during an emergency meetingwith key U.S. allies, Biden told reporters Thursday during a news conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels.
Across the board, Americans of both political parties were supportive of the harsh economic blows to Russia. The poll showed 68 were supportive of economic sanctions in general with 70 saying they supported the recentbanning oil imported from Russia, which in turn caused gas prices to rise.
Ukrainian forces can win this fight, he said, but they need more weapons, more ammunition, more fuel. And they need it all as fast as possible.
Their ranks have swelled since the start of the war one month ago as more office workers, doctors, scientists, teachers and IT professionals enlist to stem the flood of pro-Russian falsehoods and conspiracy theories in news feeds.
At a news conference Thursday after meeting with key allies in Brussles, Biden said U.S. weapons are flowing into Ukraine to help the embattled country resist Russias invasion.
The president's remarks cameasthe U.S. reinforced a united stand with allies in supporting Ukraine one month into Russias invasion, with added sanctions against the Kremlin aimed at further crippling the country's economy. The sanctions against more than 400 Russian officials and entities came asRussian President Vladimir Putin's economy has shrunk tohalf the size it wasbefore the invasion, according to the White House.
A majority of Americans are supportive of the harsh sanctions on Russia but believe Biden needs to be tougher on the Kremlin after its invasion of Ukraine, according to apoll commissioned by theAssociated Press and NORC released Thursday.
He noted that the decision on whether to boot Russia from the group is up to other G-20 members.If the other members decline to revoke Russias membership, Ukraine should be permitted to attend G-20 meetings, Biden said.
We have to meet the military requirements that come from being a superpower facing growing threats to our global interests, McConnell said on the Senate floor as he addressed President Joe Bidens meetings with European allies.
McConnell said the U.S. needs to increase defense spending and expand inventories of critical weapons to meet the nations own security ends and to be a reliable supplier of weapons and munitions to allies.He said the war in Ukraine has highlighted shortcomings in both current stockpiles and in the industrial capacity to produce more quickly.
The U.S. is consulting with allies on providing anti-ship missiles to Ukraine, a senior administration official told reporters Thursday. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said there could be technical challenges but that it is something that allies are starting to work on. The Russians have several warships off the coast of Ukraine in the Black Sea and Sea of Azov, according to the official. They include surface combatants that have shelled the city of Mariupol. They also have amphibious landing craft, supply ships and patrol boats.
Sanctions never deter, Biden said when pressed why U.S. sanctions have not stopped Putins course in Ukraine. You keep talking about that.
The idea is everybody can be an elf simply by fighting against propaganda, against lies, Savukynas said. Read more here.
Biden noted that Putin was banking onNATO being split when he invaded Ukraine.Instead, NATO has never, never been more united than its been today, Biden declared Thursday after an emergency meeting of the allies in Brussels.
The State Department called Wednesdays move Russias latest unhelpful and unproductive step in relations between the countries. It urged Russia to end its unjustified expulsions of U.S. diplomats and staff.
Zelenskyy called on people worldwide to gather in public to show support for his embattled country.
This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Thursday, March24. Follow here for the latest updates and news from Tuesday, March 25, as Russia's invasion continues.
He said the assessment is based on a careful review of available information from public and intelligence sources.
The funding will pay for food, shelter, clean water, medical supplies and other forms of assistance.
The nations also talked about the need to end trade restrictions on sending food abroad, Biden said.
Zelenskyy's frequents requests for a "no-fly" zoneover his country have been dismissed by U.S. and NATO officials who say defending Ukraine skies would risk a wider escalation of the war.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that the United States has determined Russian forces have committed war crimes in Ukraine.
Tens of thousands of ordinary people across Europe have joined a grassroots, pro-democratic mission to fight Russia on social media.They call themselves elves because they hunt trolls spreading Russian propaganda and disinformation on Facebook and counter Kremlin conspiracy theories with credible information gathered from allies on the ground in embattled parts of Ukraine.
Food shortages have been a major concern as both Russia and Ukraine are top producers of wheat. Bidendiscussed with other countries Thursday during a meeting in Brussels how to alleviate the issue, with both Canada and the U.S.also top producers of the cropdiscussing how production can be increased.
Lyudmyla Denisova, Ukraines ombudsperson, said 402,000 people, including 84,000 children, have been taken against their will.
Weapons convoysarriving in Ukraine almost every day thus far have not been targeted by Russia's military, State Department spokesman John Kirby said Thursday. Kirby, speaking on Fox News, did not directly respond to a question about how the U.S. and NATO would respond if Russia struck a convoy accidentally or on purpose in Poland.Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkovhas warned thatconvoys "pumping Ukraine withweapons" will be considered legitimate targets.
Dissident Russian journalist Oksana Baulina was killed while filming in Kyiv, making her at least the fourth journalist to die in the country during the war.Baulina was working as a correspondent for The Insider when Russian troops shelled a shopping center in the Podil district,a historic neighborhood in Kyiv,the site said in a statement.Anothercivilian was killed and two more people were wounded and hospitalized.
"We have not seen the Russians attempt to strike any of these convoys," Kirby said. "We're watching this very, very carefully, as you might expect.But so far, we have not seen any attempt by the Russians to stall or to slow these convoys.
The department said it received a list of diplomats on who have been declared persona non grata by the Russian foreign ministry. It didnt say how many diplomats were affected by the order, which generally results in the expulsion of those targeted within 72 hours.
Herman Gref, the head of Russia's largest bank and a close Putin associate, was among those targeted by sanctions the U.S. Treasury Department unveiledThursday. As CEO of Sberbank, Gref, 58, also oversees a large number of companies owned by Sberbank in other industries, the department said.
Kirby added that the Russian military has their "hands full" in places such as Kyiv, and Chernihiv, Kharkiv and in the south near Crimea.
Biden also announced Thursday hehopes to meet with Ukrainian refugees while in Europe,giving away a part of his schedule that the White House had not announced.
The U.S. and other allies expelled Russia in 2014 from a smaller group that represents industrialized nations after Russias annexation of Crimea. That alliance, known at the time as the Group of Eight, is now called the Group of Seven, or G-7.
In a group statement released after the meeting, NATO leaders said they condemn Russias invasion and called on Russian President Vladimir Putin to immediately stop the war and withdraw forces.The leaders also called on Belarus to end its complicity in the war and forChina and other countries to stop supporting Russias war effort in any way, and to "refrain from any action that helps Russia circumvent sanctions. NATO also will enhance cyber capabilities and defenses and substantially increasing defense spending overall.
The Russian stock market resumed limited trading Thursday under heavy restrictions almost one month after prices plunged and the market was shut down following Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
When we will have all this, it will give us, just like you, 100 security," he said.
Come to your squares, your streets. Make yourselves visible and heard, Zelenskyy said in English during an emotional video address late Wednesday that was recorded in the dark near the presidential offices in Kyiv. Say that people matter. Freedom matters. Peace matters. Ukraine matters.
Russia, which had the worlds 11th largest economy before the invasion, will fall out of the top 20, according to the official.At the same time, the official said, sanctions are cutting off all sources of potential growth, including blocking Russia from purchasing cutting-edge technology.
Ukrainian deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk says Ukraine and Russia exchanged a total of 50 military and civilian prisoners Thursday.
Biden said its the maintenance of sanctions and increasing the pain over the next year that will stop Russia.
I plan on attempting to see those folks as well as, I hope, I'm going to be able to see -- guess I'm not supposed to say where I'm going, am I? Biden said. But anyway, I hope I get to see a lot of people.
Biden noted the U.S. has provided $1 billion in assistance to Ukraine and, along with American allies, iscommitted to identifying "additional equipment, including air defense systems, to help Ukraine.The U.S. is consulting with allies on providing anti-ship missiles to Ukraine, a senior administration official told reporters Thursday.
Russia has begun the processto expel several American diplomats from the U.S. embassy in Moscow, the State Department said Wednesday.
China understands that its economic future is much more closely tied to the west than it is to Russia, Biden said. And so I'm hopeful that he does not get engaged.
Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev said the roughly 400,000 people evacuated to Russia since the start of the military action were from the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine, where pro-Moscow separatists have been fighting for control for nearly eight years.
Bulgaria is recalling its ambassador to Moscow for consultations in response to "undiplomatic, sharp and rude statements made by Russian Ambassador Eleonora Mitrofanova. Mitrofanova said Monday that Bulgarians do not "support the rhetoric and actions of their government" regarding Russias invasion.
Blinken said Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion has unleashed unrelenting violence that has caused death and destruction across Ukraine. He cited reports of indiscriminate attacks, including those deliberately targeting civilians, among other atrocities.
We would respond, we would respond if he uses it, Biden said during a press conference Thursday. The nature of the responses depend on the nature of the use.
President Joe Biden said the United States and NATO allies would respond to Russia if they used chemical weapons.
NATO leaders agreed Thursday to strengthen its deterrence and defense forces in Europe for the longer-term while increasing support to Ukraine and imposing further costs on Russia, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said after the alliances emergency meeting.
Riardas Savukynas, a management consultant from Vilnius,started the underground resistance movement in Lithuania in 2014 during the Ukrainian uprising on Kyivs Maidan Square and Russias annexation of the Crimea Peninsula.
In a video address to a NATO summit Thursday, Ukraine President VolodymyrZelenskyystressed the need for military assistance.Zelenskyy urged NATO to provide Ukraine with 1 of all your planes, 1 of all your tanks.
The official said Zelenskyy also did not ask for Ukraine to become a member of the alliance.Russia is opposed to Ukraine joining NATO, one of the conditions Moscow set in the failed negotiations before troops invaded Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy asked NATO allies Thursday for continued help in his fight against Russias invasion but did not repeat his recurring request for a no-fly" zone,according to the White House.Zelenskyy addressed the NATO summit by video from Ukraine, speaking shortly after the emergency summit was opened by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, according to a senior administration official who described the closed-door gathering on condition of anonymity.
The 2023 budget request the White House will send to Congress on Monday must reflect that the world is dangerous and getting smaller, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Thursday.
Ukraine accused Moscow on Thursday of forcibly taking hundreds of thousands of civilians from shattered Ukrainian cities to Russia, where some may be used as hostages to pressure Kyiv to give up.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday said Russian military forces committed war crimes in Ukraine after hitting civilian targets.
President Joe Biden vigorously defended his administrations use of sanctions on Russia, arguing the financial penalties were never meant to deter Putin from invading Ukraine but are designed to provide sustained pain.
Biden would not expand on whether the United States has gathered specific intelligence on if Russian President Vladimir Putin is using chemical weapons.
Biden said getting a first-hand look at the effects of the war on Ukrainians will reinforce his commitment to the U.S. playing a major role in helping both those inside and outside Ukraine.
The G-20 includes not only Western democracies but also tyrannical and authoritarian countries such asChina and Saudi Arabia. The group works to address major issues impacting the global economy.
The Kremlin gave nearly identical numbers for those who have been relocated, but said they wanted to go to Russia. Ukraines rebel-controlled eastern regions are predominantly Russian-speaking, and many people there have supported close ties to Moscow.
Although manyUkrainian refugees prefer to remain in Europe where they will be closer to family and their homes, the Biden administration is working to expand and develop new programs with a focus on welcoming Ukrainians who have family members in the U.S.
The poll, whichsurveyed 1,082 U.S. adults from Thursday to Monday,found 56 of Americans believe Biden's response to Russia hasn't been tough enough, including a majority of 53 of Democrats. A very small percent, about 6, said they thought Biden had been "too tough," the poll shows.
Biden pointed to his virtual meeting last week with Xi in which the president said he made it clear to him him that he understand the consequences and would be putting himself in significant jeopardy.
When asked whether there could be a military response if Putin uses chemical weapons, Biden said that NATO would decide as a whole if they would cross that line.
The U.S. will accept 100,000 Ukrainian refugees and others fleeingRussias invasionand provide more than $1 billion in new humanitarian assistance,the White House announced Thursday.
But Putin can take anything for another month, including the harsh sanctions, so the alliance must not crack, Biden added.
Ukraines navy reported Thursday that it had sunk the Russian ship Orsk in the Azov near the port city of Berdyansk. It released photos and video of fire and thick smoke coming from the port area. Russia did not immediately comment on the claim.
Speaking to reporters, Biden said the U.S. has committed to provide over $2 billion in military equipment to Ukraine since he became president. Air systems and armor systems ammunitions are flowing into the country as I speak, he said.
President Joe Biden said Russia should be kicked out of the Group of 20 nations in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine, a major step that would further isolate the Kremlin and restrict Russia's say in the global economy.
Today, I can announce that, based on information currently available, the U.S. government assesses that members of Russia's forces have committed war crimes in Ukraine, Blinken said in a statement.
Ukrainian officials said that the Russians are taking peoples passports and moving them to filtration camps in Ukraines separatist-controlled east before sending them to various distant, economically depressed areas in Russia.
We have to demonstrate the purpose, Biden said. The single most important thing is for us to stay unified and for the world to continue to focus on what a brut this guy is.
President Joe Biden said he is hopeful that Chinese President Xi Jinping will not assist Russia in its war against Ukraine but declined to say whether hes seen any indications that China will intervene.
Baulina had fled Russia but had continued to report on corruption inside the Russian government.
Biden said he made no threats, to Xi but pointed out the number of American companies that have pulled out of Russia as a result of Putins barbaric behavior.
