800 Million in Additional US Security Assistance for Ukraine
20220422
https://www.state.gov/800-million-in-additional-u-s-security-assistance-for-ukraine-2/
For almost eight weeks, Russia has waged its savage assault against Ukraine, its sovereignty, its independence, its freedom, and its people. From Bucha to Kramatorsk, from Kharkiv to Mariupol, we have seen Russias brutalities and its atrocities laid bare for the world to see. And yet Ukrainian Winter has turned to Ukrainian Spring.The people of Ukraine will prevail.
We will continue to provide Ukraine the arms its forces are effectively using on the ground to defend themselves. These efforts, combined with direct U.S. humanitarian and financial support to Ukraine, support documenting evidence of Russias war crimes against Ukraines civilians, and continued efforts to ratchet up pressure on Putins crumbling economy together will help weaken the Russian Governments position and further isolate them from the world until Russia ends its unprovoked and unjustified war on Ukraine.
Since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his premeditated, unprovoked, unjustified, and brutal war on Ukraine, the ceaseless bombardment of Ukraines cities and critical infrastructure by Russias forces has created one of the fastest-growing humanitarian crises in decades. This is a tragic and catastrophic war of choice entirely of Russias making, and the United States, its Allies, and partnerswill stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine in their just cause  the defense of their country and their democracy. Together, we continue to support Ukraines defense of its sovereignty and territorial integrity and to strengthen Ukraines position on the battlefield and at the negotiating table.
Today, as Russia begins its renewed offensive in Ukraines east, I have authorized, pursuant to a delegation fromthe President, a drawdown to provide further immediate military assistance to Ukraine, valued at up to $800 millionworth of arms and equipment from U.S. Department of Defense inventories. This authorization, building on last weeks $800 million package, is the eighth drawdown of arms, equipment, and suppliesfrom Department of Defense inventories for Ukraine since August 2021.
