Imposing Additional Costs on Russia for Its Continued War Against Ukraine
20220802
https://www.state.gov/imposing-additional-costs-on-russia-for-its-continued-war-against-ukraine-3/
As Ukrainians continue to valiantly defend their homeland in the face of President Putins brutal war, Russias elite are running massive revenue-generating companies and funding their own opulent lifestyles outside of Russia. Today, the United States is taking additional actions to ensure that the Kremlin and its enablers feel the compounding effects of our response to the Kremlins unconscionable war of aggression.
Finally, Department of the Treasury is also imposing sanctions today targeting Kremlin-connected elites, a major multinational company, and a sanctions evasion operation, as well as identifying a yacht as blocked property pursuant to E.O. 14024. These elites and businesses operate in economic sectors that generate substantial revenue for the Russian regime, including from sources outside of Russia.
For more information on todays actions, please see the Department of the Treasuryspress releaseand State Departmentfact sheet.
Additionally, the Department of State is taking action to impose visa restrictions on individuals in relation to Russias war in Ukraine. This includes 893 Russian Federation officials, such as members of the Federation Council and military members, for threatening or violating Ukraines sovereignty, territorial integrity, or political independence. It also includes 31 foreign government officials who have acted to support Russias purported annexation of the Crimea region of Ukraine and thereby threatened or violated Ukraines sovereignty.
The Department of State is designating Russian oligarchs, state-owned entities, and illegitimate authorities pursuant to Executive Order E.O. 14024. The Department is designating three oligarchs: Dmitry Aleksandrovich Pumpyanskiy, Andrey Igorevich Melnichenko, and Alexander Anatolevich Ponomarenko. Additionally, the Department is designating Joint Stock Company State Transportation Leasing Company and four of its subsidiaries. The Department is also designating four individuals and one entity illegitimately operating in Ukraines territory in collaboration with Russia. Several of these targets are designated by allies and partners, further aligning our regimes.
We are also imposing additional costs on Russias war machine by designating 24 Russian defense and technology-related entities pursuant to E.O. 14024. Russia has systematically focused on exploiting high-technology research and innovations to advance Moscows war-fighting capabilities  the same defense capabilities that Russias military is using in its vicious attacks hitting Ukraines population centers and resulting in the deaths of civilians, including children. Our actions target some of Russias most important defense-related research and development institutions, semiconductor producers, and advanced computing and electronics entities. These actions will further isolate Russias defense and high-technology industries and limit their contributions to Moscows war machine.
The United States will not waver in its support for the brave people of Ukraine and will continue to promote accountability for President Putin and his cronies whose actions have caused so much suffering and destruction in Ukraine.
