Joint Statement on Kosovo
20220325
https://www.state.gov/joint-statement-on-kosovo/
The following is the text of a joint statementby the Governments of the United States of America and France, Italy, Germany, and the United Kingdom.
We expect the Kosovo Government to act in the interests of all its citizens, to work to decrease tensions and to engage constructively in the EU-facilitated Dialogue on normalization of relations with Serbia. This is crucial to achieve progress towards a comprehensive normalization agreement that will ultimately unlock the EU perspective of Kosovo.
Following Russias invasion of Ukraine, we welcomed Kosovos alignment with the statements and declarations EU and the Quint members adopted. However, Kosovo is also expected to uphold its core values and responsibility towards regional stability and respect democratic processes, as well as to commit to protection of the rights of members of minority groups.
Such an attitude of the Kosovo Government is not in line with our values and principles and will undermine its European aspirations.
We reiterate our strong call upon Kosovo and Serbia to refrain from any actions and rhetoric that increase tensions and may lead to incidents.
France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States have intensely engaged with the governments of Kosovo and Serbia in the past months in order to find a pragmatic solution to allow eligible Kosovo citizens to exercise their right to participate in Serbias elections on April 3, 2022.
We acknowledge that it is the Kosovo Governments prerogative to decide whether or not to permit facilitation of voting in another countrys elections. While we appreciate Serbias availability to find a solution, it is with great disappointment that we take note of Kosovo Governments decision to reject a constructive proposal presented by the Quint. With this decision, Kosovos Government failed to demonstrate its commitment to the principle of protecting the civil and political rights of all its citizens, including of members of minority groups.
