Afghanistan  Ukrainian president pleas for help after his country was stormed by Russian fighters
20220225
https://menafn.com/1103761938/Afghanistan-Ukrainian-president-pleas-for-help-after-his-country-was-stormed-by-Russian-fighters&source=22
A large number of the population in Ukraine have been displaced and there are fears of a high flow of emigrants on the borders of the neighboring European countries.
According to the reports, the Russian forces are advancing towards Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine attacking with air, sea, and land forces, however, the Ukrainian forces are fighting them back despite they are outnumbered.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On the other hand, another group of social media users criticizes the United States of America for not standing with Afghanistan in August last year and similarly not helping Ukraine now. Author MENAFN25022022000228011069ID1103761938
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy says his country has remained lonely against the Russian invasion which was triggered after Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the war order against Ukraine on Thursday.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Taliban in a statement announces that the Afghanistan government based on its policy of neutrality calls on Russia and Ukraine to avoid any further bloodshed. and solve the current crisis through dialogue and peaceful means.
On the other hand, another group of social media users criticizes the United States of America for not standing with Afghanistan in August last year and similarly not helping Ukraine now.
Many social media users in Afghanistan have compared Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and former Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, praising the bravery of Volodymyr Zlenskiey for staying in the country and fighting back against Russia, while they criticize Ashraf Ghani for fleeing out and not fighting the Taliban on August 15, last year.
The Ukrainian President has announced to remain in Kyiv, however, he knows he and his family are the prime targets as Russia wants to overthrow the Ukraine administration by killing the head of the state, he claimed.
The Western countries including the U.S, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, and many European countries have condemned the Russian invasion and have announced sanctions against Russia.
The Taliban government has announced they are overseeing the Russia and Ukraine conflict from close and suggests that both sides avoid war and get into diplomatic talks.
The shocking war in a European state after World War II had mixed reactions among people in Afghanistan.
