Afghanistan  Russias media censorship agency has been hacked and releases 364000 Files
20220312
https://menafn.com/1103835616/Afghanistan-Russias-media-censorship-agency-has-been-hacked-and-releases-364000-Files&source=22
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to Distributed Email of Secrets, their source from Anonymous felt 'the Russian people should have access to information about their government' after being cut off from independent media and news outlets from the outside world.
According to Anonymous, Roskomnadzor's activities are a matter of public interest 'to the people of Russia and to the world'.
We are publishing this release in anticipation of Russia potentiallybeing cut off from the global internet on March 11, and hope Russians will have time to download this data, before then, the statement issued from Distributed Email of Secrets said.
Anonymous has breached the database of Roskomnadzor, the Russian federal executive agency responsible for monitoring, controlling, and censoring Russian media.
The 820GBdata dump focuses primarily on documents concerning the republic of Bashkortostan, one of the largest provinces in the Russian federation.
Inresponse to Facebook's fact-checkingRussia's statements about the war, Roskomnadzor began restricting access to Facebookbefore later blocking it.
We are publishing this release in anticipation of Russia potentiallybeing cut off from the global internet on March 11, and hope Russians will have time to download this data, before then, the statement issued from Distributed Email of Secrets said. Author MENAFN13032022000228011069ID1103835616
Roskomnadzor also threatened toblock access to Russian Wikipediaover their article about the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The cyberattack allowed the hacktivist group to seize more than 360,000 files, which have now been released to the public.
Roskomnadzor hasgiven instructions about what can be saidandordered media outlets to delete storiesthat call Russia's invasion of Ukraine an invasion.
