After losing hundreds of fighters Kadyrovs Chechen forces return home from Ukraine  media
20220320
https://menafn.com/1103878074/After-losing-hundreds-of-fighters-Kadyrovs-Chechen-forces-return-home-from-Ukraine-media&source=22
MENAFN- UkrinForm During their Ukraine deployment Ramzan Kadyrov's Chechen units are believed to have lost hundreds of soldiers before eventually returning to Grozny on March 13. This was reported by Radio Svoboda with reference to the SBU counterintelligence agency, Ukrinform reports.
On February 26, some 450 Kadyrov's fighters tried to set their boots on the Ukrainian land outside the Hostomel airport near Kyiv, in an attempted landing operation. This didn't work out. Some of the forces did manage to disembark from one of the planes and immediately got under fire on the runway. The total death toll of Kadyrov's units as of February 28 amounted to several hundred,'an interlocutor in the SBU counterintelligence told Radio Svoboda.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On March 4, a detachment of about 1,200 ethnic Chechen national guardsmen arrived from Belarus via the Chornobyl exclusion zone. These included Battalion North commander Magomed Tushayev, later killed in action, South Hussein Mezhidov, and Akhmat-Grozny riot police unit Anzor Bisayev. Kadyrov's units set up their camp in the woods outside the settlement of Borodianka near Kyiv. According to the SBU, one night the ammunition stock got blown up in the camp, killing a number of fighters on the spot.
According to the Verkhovna Rada Commissioner for Human Rights, Liudmyla Denisova, it was a Kadyrov's unit who seized a psychiatric facility in Borodianka, with 600 patients and staff in it.
'We see that they have been present on the territory of Ukraine since the beginning of conflict, but as a result, we have never seen their participation in firefights. As we call them, these are 'PR troops.' That is, they might make plenty of videos and photos, showing them walking around wielding rifles, raiding households, as well as allegedly distributing humanitarian aid and 'caring for civilians.' But this is pretty much all their activity that we've seen throughout this time,' Ruslan Leviev, founder of the Conflict Intelligence Team, told Current Time.
Finally, the SBU says, on March 13, Kadyrov's units were extracted from Kyiv region out of Ukraine, via Belarus and further by air  to Chechnya. At the same time, Ramzan Kadyrov recently claimed he was sending to Ukraine a thousand more fighters.
On March 13, pro-Russian Telegram channels published a video of a military meeting with the participation of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov, purportedly shot in the basement somewhere in Ukraine,a few kilometers from Kyiv.
Finally, the SBU says, on March 13, Kadyrov's units were extracted from Kyiv region out of Ukraine, via Belarus and further by air  to Chechnya. At the same time, Ramzan Kadyrov recently claimed he was sending to Ukraine a thousand more fighters.MENAFN20032022000193011044ID1103878074
On March 4, a detachment of about 1,200 ethnic Chechen national guardsmen arrived from Belarus via the Chornobyl exclusion zone. These included Battalion North commander Magomed Tushayev, later killed in action, South Hussein Mezhidov, and Akhmat-Grozny riot police unit Anzor Bisayev. Kadyrov's units set up their camp in the woods outside the settlement of Borodianka near Kyiv. According to the SBU, one night the ammunition stock got blown up in the camp, killing a number of fighters on the spot.  Read also:   Kadyrov  forces unit, aiming to kill Zelensky, eliminated  NSDC Secretary 'Since then, they have been more cautious and have split into several groups. However, they took no direct part in the battles, only being engaged in harassing the locals in the area of Borodianka, Babyntsi, Katiuzhanka, and up to Liutizh, while at the same time shooting videos for social media,' said the SBU counterintelligence.
'Since then, they have been more cautious and have split into several groups. However, they took no direct part in the battles, only being engaged in harassing the locals in the area of Borodianka, Babyntsi, Katiuzhanka, and up to Liutizh, while at the same time shooting videos for social media,' said the SBU counterintelligence.
This was reported by Radio Svoboda with reference to the SBU counterintelligence agency, Ukrinform reports.
However, SBU counterintelligence operative have denied the report, confirming that Ramzan Kadyrov never came to Ukraine since Russia invaded, while on March 13, his Chechen units were rotated out of Ukraine to Chechnia, via Belarus.
