Almost 60 of Ukrainians against direct talks with Putin  poll
20220124
https://menafn.com/1103586698/Almost-60-of-Ukrainians-against-direct-talks-with-Putin-poll&source=138
The all-Ukrainian survey was run on January 20-21, 2022, with 1,205 respondents interviewed across Ukraine. The sample is representative of the adult population over 18 years of age.
That's according to an all-Ukrainian public opinion poll published by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology , Ukrinform reports.
At the same time, 48.1 of respondents believe that Russia's threats to invade Ukraine are real, while 39.1 believe there will be no invasion.
The diplomatic and defense efforts of the Ukrainian authorities to prevent Russian invasion are considered sufficient by 29.2 of respondents, while 56.5 hold the opposite view.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The survey says 27.3 of respondents believe that direct talks between Ukrainian and Russian presidents are an effective way to achieve peace, while 58 suggest that such negotiations with Putin should be conducted only with Western partners also at the table.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Some 58 of Ukrainians oppose the idea of launching direct talks of the Ukrainian and Russian presidents, Volodymyr Zelensky and Vladimir Putin. That's according to an all-Ukrainian public opinion poll published by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology , Ukrinform reports.
'Obviously, there are a number of factors explaining this. Since 2014, a war has been going on between Russia and Ukraine, so tension has become the norm for many and, accordingly, Russia's actions for these many look like yet another provocation. There is also another category of Ukrainians who, until the invasion begins, won't fathom that Russia is capable of this. According to our survey, at the end of 2021, 39 had a positive attitude to Russia and more than 40 said they had close relatives in Russia. Some Ukrainians are more immersed in their everyday problems, especially economic ones, and pay little attention to foreign policy circumstances, said KIIS Deputy Director Anton Hrushetsky.
At the same time, 48.1 of respondents believe that Russia's threats to invade Ukraine are real, while 39.1 believe there will be no invasion.  Read also:  Over 60 of Ukrainians not ready to take part in protests  The diplomatic and defense efforts of the Ukrainian authorities to prevent Russian invasion are considered sufficient by 29.2 of respondents, while 56.5 hold the opposite view.
The KIIS draws attention to a certain 'inconsistency' between widespread reports of Russia's military buildup near the border with Ukraine and the fact that only half of Ukrainians see this as a real threat, and that over the past month the situation has not changed.
