Arakhamiya refutes Russias statement Ukraine has not changed its negotiation positions
20220413
https://menafn.com/1104003395/Arakhamiya-refutes-Russias-statement-Ukraine-has-not-changed-its-negotiation-positions&source=22
MENAFN- UkrinForm In its negotiations with the Russian Federation, Ukraine adheres to the Istanbul Communiqu and has not changed its positions. 'The Ukrainian side adheres to the Istanbul Communiqu and has not changed its positions despite the statements made by Russian foreign minister. The only difference is that we do not take into account all additional issues that were not included in the Istanbul Communiqu. Probably, this caused a misinterpretation of the current state of the negotiation process,' Davyd Arakhamiya, head of the Ukrainian negotiation delegation, leader of the Servant of the People parliamentary faction, posted on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
A face-to-face round of talks between the Ukrainian and Russian delegations took place in Istanbul on March 29. Afterwards, the Ukrainian delegation made a number of proposals to end the war, including the signing of an international agreement on security guarantees for Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As reported, Russian president Vladimir Putin said that talks with Ukraine had reached a stalemate. In particular, according to him, the Ukrainian side allegedly withdrew from its agreements in Istanbul.
'The Ukrainian side adheres to the Istanbul Communiqu and has not changed its positions despite the statements made by Russian foreign minister. The only difference is that we do not take into account all additional issues that were not included in the Istanbul Communiqu. Probably, this caused a misinterpretation of the current state of the negotiation process,' Davyd Arakhamiya, head of the Ukrainian negotiation delegation, leader of the Servant of the People parliamentary faction, posted on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
He added that negotiations on an agreement on security guarantees for Ukraine continued in online regime.
The Ukrainian delegation believed that the specifics of the peace treaty would be possible to settle within a few days in the negotiations with Russia.
