As invaders intend to advance deeper into Ukraine Army remains ready to repel enemy  defense ministry
20220313
https://menafn.com/1103837713/As-invaders-intend-to-advance-deeper-into-Ukraine-Army-remains-ready-to-repel-enemy-defense-ministry&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On February 24, Russian President Putin launched an invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure, massively shelling and bombing residential areas.
Time is on our side because the enemy is disoriented after failing to achieve its goal. But we should not relax. The enemy is regrouping troops, looking into achieving those goals as they haven't abandoned them,' said Malyar.
'We must be aware and speak honestly that they Russian troops - ed. are still planning to advance deeper into our territory. We are stopping them as much as we can, but these operations are being planned. Therefore, we need to understand that there will be no victory in one day. We need to pull our strength and patience together and keep fighting,' she said.
'The enemy is currently forced to adjust operation plans. And this turning point was due to them being no longer able to pursue their initial plan. After all, it got too complicated as the Ukrainians are learning to fight the Russian enemy. However, they are also learning the tactics of Ukrainian defenders.
The Deputy Defense Minister stressed that the enemy had initially planned to fully conquer Ukraine, including the capital, in a few days, a week at most. Their plan never materialized due to strong resistance on the part of the Armed Forces and because Ukraine had been preparing for all scenarios.
According to Maliar, it is necessary to work through all options for further developments and realize that the enemy will not be able to occupy any Ukrainian territory. After all, there are no pro-Russian people left in Ukraine today.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops have not abandoned their plans to push their way deeper into Ukraine, but our Armed Forces are ready for such developments. This was stated by Deputy Minister of Defense, Anna Maliar, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
