As Putin puts nuclear forces on high alert here are 5 genuine nuclear dangers for us all
20220228
https://menafn.com/1103770613/As-Putin-puts-nuclear-forces-on-high-alert-here-are-5-genuine-nuclear-dangers-for-us-all&source=19
They could be used:  in a strategy to gain the upper hand  in an escalating conflict to try to force an adversary to back down  as a weapon of last resort  in response to an incoming missile that is mistakenly believed to be nuclear-armed  by accident if command and control systems break down.    The fact Ukraine does not possess nuclear weapons doesn't negate these risks. There are genuine dangers the conflict could take on a nuclear dimension.
This raises urgent questions about how to support Ukraine and de-escalate the conflict. The war needs to be stopped, for the sake of the Ukrainian people, for the sake of Europe, for the sake of humanity, and for the sake of life on earth.
They could be used:  in a strategy to gain the upper hand  in an escalating conflict to try to force an adversary to back down  as a weapon of last resort
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Second, ordinary people around the world need to make it clear we will no longer tolerate living under the threat of nuclear war.
Russian president Vladimir Putin overnight ordered the defence minister and the chief of the military to put nuclear deterrent forces in aspecial regime of combat duty, possibly referring to readying tactical nuclear forces.
Read more: What can the West do to help Ukraine? It can start by countering Putin's information strategy
Will we act to eliminate the nuclear threat or press mute on the alarm and drift back to sleep?
They could be used:  in a strategy to gain the upper hand  in an escalating conflict to try to force an adversary to back down
MENAFN- The Conversation  Russian president Vladimir Putin overnight ordered the defence minister and the chief of the military to put nuclear deterrent forces in aspecial regime of combat duty, possibly referring to readying tactical nuclear forces.
This could of course be a bluff, but Putin has demonstrated on numerous occasions he has a cavalier disrespect for human life and for the planet, and that he is willing to take extreme risks to achieve his strategic goals.
Nuclear weapons empower erratic and volatile heads of governments in despotic and democratic countries alike and create unacceptable risks for all humanity.
On one side, Ukraine's attacker, Russia, has the largest stockpile of nuclear warheads in the world, including superiority in tactical nuclear weapons designed for battlefield use.
It was a chilling reminder Russia like France, Pakistan, the UK, the US and possibly North Korea, does not rule out using nuclear weapons first in a conflict.
Would Putin follow through with his threat? At the time, he made sure to emphasise that Russiahas certain advantages in a number of the latest types of nuclear weapons in case anyone was in any doubt.
On the other side, Ukraine's most powerful strategic partner, the United States, also has an extremely large and sophisticated nuclear stockpile. NATO partners France and the UK have their own advanced nuclear capabilities and NATO-sharing states Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Turkey host US nuclear weapons on their territory.   Russian ICBM missile launchers move during a military parade in 2016. Russia has the largest stockpile of nuclear warheads in the world. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko  The risk of nuclear use stems from tensions escalating between Russia, the US and NATO, even as the latter try to resist being drawn directly into the war.
They could be used:  in a strategy to gain the upper hand  in an escalating conflict to try to force an adversary to back down  as a weapon of last resort  in response to an incoming missile that is mistakenly believed to be nuclear-armed  by accident if command and control systems break down.
This is not a far-fetched scenario given Russia's nuclear posture, which maintains nuclear forces on high alert, and given the nuclear threats made by President Putin.
They could be used:  in a strategy to gain the upper hand  in an escalating conflict to try to force an adversary to back down  as a weapon of last resort  in response to an incoming missile that is mistakenly believed to be nuclear-armed
On the other side, Ukraine's most powerful strategic partner, the United States, also has an extremely large and sophisticated nuclear stockpile. NATO partners France and the UK have their own advanced nuclear capabilities and NATO-sharing states Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Turkey host US nuclear weapons on their territory.
With UN Security Council action blocked by the Russian veto, the UN General Assembly has the power to act via theUniting for Peace principle, which imposes a duty on UN member states to implement a coordinated response to aggression when the Security Council fails to respond.
This deeply worrying development underscores how high the global nuclear stakes have become in recent weeks. The war in Ukraine should be a wake up call to everyone that nuclear dangers are real.  Will we act to eliminate the nuclear threat or press mute on the alarm and drift back to sleep?    Read more: What can the West do to help Ukraine? It can start by countering Putin's information strategy   5 genuine nuclear dangers
This might sound like hyperbole until you consider that if the international community fails to mount an effective response to Putin's actions in Ukraine, it will signal the beginning of a brutal new era ofrule by might.
The risk Putin would order the use of nuclear weapons in response to a US or NATO intervention is low, but it cannot be dismissed. The US has described the escalation asdangerous rhetoric.
They are not stabilisers. They do not createorder. Nuclear deterrence has failed again and again, bringing the world to the brink on too many occasions.
This deeply worrying development underscores how high the global nuclear stakes have become in recent weeks. The war in Ukraine should be a wake up call to everyone that nuclear dangers are real.
Although it is extremely unlikely the US or its NATO allies would set out to conduct a nuclear strike against Russia, it is possible to imagine several scenarios that could lead them to become entangled in the conflict, leading to unintended nuclear escalation.
First, political leaders must come together in support of collective security and international law. Economic sanctions are not enough. UN member states should use the UN system in the way it was originally designed to function in the post-war era, to respond collectively and decisively to acts of aggression.
It's time to demand the elimination of nuclear weapons and the creation of stable security arrangements based on a properly functioning UN system that upholds international law.    Read more: Russia is using an onslaught of cyber attacks to undermine Ukraine's defence capabilities   MENAFN27022022000199003603ID1103770613
As countries modernise and expand their nuclear weapons arsenals, experts around the world have been warning nuclear weapons are increasingly being seen asusable by the political and military leaders who wield them.
It's time to demand the elimination of nuclear weapons and the creation of stable security arrangements based on a properly functioning UN system that upholds international law.
The risk of nuclear use stems from tensions escalating between Russia, the US and NATO, even as the latter try to resist being drawn directly into the war.
The fact Ukraine does not possess nuclear weapons doesn't negate these risks. There are genuine dangers the conflict could take on a nuclear dimension.
The most serious danger is that of misperception: the risk that action taken by the US or NATO in support of Ukraine is misinterpreted by Russia as a deliberate strategic provocation.
Read more: Russia is using an onslaught of cyber attacks to undermine Ukraine's defence capabilities
A world in which the leaders of nuclear-armed states can pursue expansionist campaigns unconstrained by international law, and without fear of reprisal.
