Bangladesh Rules Out Sri LankaLike Crisis
20220725
https://menafn.com/1104583147/Bangladesh-Rules-Out-Sri-Lanka-Like-Crisis
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
TheNational Fisheries Week-2022 begun across the country from July 23. It will continue till July 29.  Colombo Gazette  MENAFN24072022000190011042ID1104583147
Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has lambasted those who are making wholesale criticism that Bangladesh will face the same situation like that of Sri Lanka.
At the event, she urged the countrymen and authorities concerned to maximise use of water bodies for boosting the fisheries sector while Bangladesh ranked third in global fish production.
She also urged all particularly the youth to set up more hatcheries in the coastal areas.
The premier joined the ceremony at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre BICC arranged by the Department of Fisheries appearing in a virtual platform from Gono Bhaban. She also distributed National Fisheries Award of the year.
On behalf of the premier, the agriculture minister handed over medals to 21 persons and organisations.
She also urged all particularly the youth to set up more hatcheries in the coastal areas. On behalf of the premier, the agriculture minister handed over medals to 21 persons and organisations.
MENAFN- Colombo Gazette     Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has lambasted those who are making wholesale criticism that Bangladesh will face the same situation like that of Sri Lanka.
TheNational Fisheries Week-2022 begun across the country from July 23. It will continue till July 29.  Colombo Gazette
The premier said this at the inauguration of National Fisheries Week-2022. The premier joined the ceremony at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre BICC arranged by the Department of Fisheries appearing in a virtual platform from Gono Bhaban. She also distributed National Fisheries Award of the year.
Let them say that everything will be ruined. But we are doing our tasks to move Bangladesh forward. The country must advance as the people are always with us and we have trust in them, she said.
They are making the comments without realising the global context under the fallout of the Covid-19 and Russia-Ukraine War, the Daily Star quoted her as saying.
