Biden Proposes 33Bn Package For Ukraine Targets Russian Oligarchs
20220429
https://menafn.com/1104123082/Biden-Proposes-33Bn-Package-For-Ukraine-Targets-Russian-Oligarchs&source=24
The legislative package being proposed by Biden would also tighten the legal squeeze on oligarchs as they try to hide their funds.
The United States hassanctioned and blocked vessels and aircraft worth over $1bn, as well as frozen hundreds of millions of dollars of assets belonging to Russian elites in US accounts, said the statement. One of the latest seizures was of a $90mn superyacht belonging to Russian billionaire Viktor Vekselberg.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Biden announced a proposal to ratchet up pressure on Putin's billionaire inner circle, with enhanced seizure and forfeiture procedures allowing oligarchs' assets to besold off toremedy the harm Russia caused and to help build Ukraine.
In parallel with Western military assistance  which began cautiously with mostly defensive infantry weapons, but now includes heavy artillery and armed drones  Washington is leading a sanctions onslaught designed to isolate Russia and pressure Putin.
One proposal is to allow seizing of property used to evade sanctions. Another is to expand the arsenal used by US prosecutors, doubling the amount of time they are allowed to pursue money laundering investigations from five to 10 years, and applying anti-racketeering laws used to tackle organised crime to sanctions evasion.
The cost of this fight is not cheap. But caving to aggression is going to be more costly if we allow it to happen, he said.
We're not attacking Russia. We are helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression, Biden said.
Speaking in the White House, Biden also outlined proposed new laws to allow using luxury assets stripped from Russian oligarchs under unprecedented sanctions to compensate Ukraine for the destruction wreaked by the invading Russians.
Reflecting the scale of the US assistance to Ukraine, which is badly mauling the larger and more heavily armed Russian forces, Biden confirmed that the United States has already sent 10 tank-killing weapons for every Russian tank sent into the country.
MENAFN- Gulf Times  US President Joe Biden yesterday proposed a huge $33bn package for arming and supporting Ukraine, saying thatcaving in to Russia is not an option for the West as the war stretches into a third month.
One proposal is to allow seizing of property used to evade sanctions. Another is to expand the arsenal used by US prosecutors, doubling the amount of time they are allowed to pursue money laundering investigations from five to 10 years, and applying anti-racketeering laws used to tackle organised crime to sanctions evasion. MENAFN28042022000067011011ID1104123082
And after Russian state gas giant Gazprom announced it was cutting supplies to Nato and EU members Bulgaria and Poland, Biden said the United States was working to shore up European energy supplies.
Calling rhetoric in Moscow about the possibility of nuclear warfare a sign ofdesperation, Biden saidno-one should be making idle comments about the use of nuclear weapons or the possibility that they would use that. It's irresponsible.
To date, European Union allies have frozen more than $30bn in Russian assets, including almost $7bn in luxury goods belonging to oligarchs, including yachts, art, real estate and helicopters, the White House said.
He acknowledged the dramatic costs of US backing for Ukraine, but said there was no real choice in the struggle with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
However, he pushed back against increasingly heated claims by Russian officials and state media that Moscow is fighting the entire West, rather than only Ukraine.
US President Joe Biden yesterday proposed a huge $33bn package for arming and supporting Ukraine, saying thatcaving in to Russia is not an option for the West as the war stretches into a third month.
A further $8.5bn in economic aid willhelp the government of Ukraine respond to the immediate crisis, while some $3bn is proposed to fund humanitarian assistance and address the global food supply price shock resulting from Russia's onslaught against Ukraine, a major wheat exporter, the official said.
We will not let Russia intimidate or blackmail their way out of these sanctions. We will not allow them to use their oil and gas to avoid consequences for their aggression, Biden said. The bulk of the proposed $33bn package will be$20bn in military and other security assistance. This means weapons and ammunition flowing to the Ukrainian people, a senior US official told reporters.
