Bitcoin BTCUSD Resistance Holds Firm as MidWeek Optimism Fades
20220312
https://menafn.com/1103835659/Bitcoin-BTCUSD-Resistance-Holds-Firm-as-Mid-Week-Optimism-Fades&source=28
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Bitcoin's price action this week has been fairly muted, apart from a small mid-week pump and dump, with BTCUSD back to within a couple of hundred dollars of this week's open. The macro picture, the main driver of risk, is also little changed this week as the crisis in Ukraine continues. While talks between Russia and Ukraine continue, there has been little in the way of positive news or progress from either side. On Friday a Tweet attributed to Russian President Vladimir Putin said that there had been 'certain positive shifts' in talks with Ukraine but the positive tailwind from this comment in the crypto market soon faded leaving BTC unchanged on the session so far.Two important levels of resistance that I have highlighted recently, $39.6k and $42k continue to hold any move higher and both these levels need to be broken conclusively if BTCUSD is able to push back towards the next level of resistance just below $46k. A break above here would turn the outlook for Bitcoin positive. One small positive for BTC is that the recent run of lows has been pushing slowly higher, not in a traditional 'higher-low' set-up but more along the lines of a cautious move higher. If sellers are running out of energy at these lows, then confidence in the market may be gradually returning. The CCI indicator sits in the middle of the oversold-overbought range and highlights the current market apathy. Bitcoin Daily Price Chart  March 11, 2022 Chart via TradingViewWhat is your view on Bitcoin  bullish or bearish?? You can let us know via the form at the end of this piece or you can contact the author via Twitter nickcawley1 .MENAFN12032022000076011015ID1103835659
Bitcoin Charts and Analysis   Bitcoin BTC is back to this week's opening levels.   Resistance remains in charge for now.
Two important levels of resistance that I have highlighted recently, $39.6k and $42k continue to hold any move higher and both these levels need to be broken conclusively if BTCUSD is able to push back towards the next level of resistance just below $46k. A break above here would turn the outlook for Bitcoin positive. One small positive for BTC is that the recent run of lows has been pushing slowly higher, not in a traditional 'higher-low' set-up but more along the lines of a cautious move higher. If sellers are running out of energy at these lows, then confidence in the market may be gradually returning. The CCI indicator sits in the middle of the oversold-overbought range and highlights the current market apathy.
Bitcoin's price action this week has been fairly muted, apart from a small mid-week pump and dump, with BTCUSD back to within a couple of hundred dollars of this week's open. The macro picture, the main driver of risk, is also little changed this week as the crisis in Ukraine continues. While talks between Russia and Ukraine continue, there has been little in the way of positive news or progress from either side. On Friday a Tweet attributed to Russian President Vladimir Putin said that there had been 'certain positive shifts' in talks with Ukraine but the positive tailwind from this comment in the crypto market soon faded leaving BTC unchanged on the session so far.
What is your view on Bitcoin  bullish or bearish?? You can let us know via the form at the end of this piece or you can contact the author via Twitter nickcawley1 .
