Black Sea Grain Exports Deal A Beacon Of Hope Amid Ukraine War Says Guterres
20220723
https://menafn.com/1104579231/Black-Sea-Grain-Exports-Deal-A-Beacon-Of-Hope-Amid-Ukraine-War-Says-Guterres
In addition to stabilizing global food prices, the agreementwill bring  relief for developing countries on the edge of bankruptcy  and the  most vulnerable people on the edge of famine  , said Guterres.
Since the war started, I have been highlighting that there is no solution to the global food crisis without ensuring full global access to Ukraine's food products and Russian food and fertilizer.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The UN plan, which also paves the way for Russian food and fertilizer to reach global markets, will help to stabilize spiralling food prices worldwide and stave off famine, affecting millions.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, the UN chief said , speaking prior to the signing.  A beacon of hope  a beacon of possibility  a beacon of relief  in a world that needs it more than ever  .
The Russian invasion, which began on 24 February, has sparked record food and fuel prices, as well as supply chain issues, with mountains of grain stocks stuck in silos.
In April, the secretary-general met with Russian president Vladimir Putin and with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy to propose a plan. The UN has beenworking every day since, he said.
The beacon of hope on the Black Sea is shining bright today, thanks to the collective efforts of so many.In these trying and turbulent times for the region and our globe, let that beacon  guide the way towards easing human suffering and securing peace  .
NEW YORK, USA  Anunprecedented agreement on the resumption of Ukrainian grain exports via the Black Sea amid the ongoing war isa beacon of hope in a world that desperately needs it, UN secretary-general Antnio Guterres said at the signing ceremony in Istanbul, Trkiye, on Friday.
Russian and Ukrainian ministers signed the Black Sea Grain Initiative, facing each other at opposite ends of the table, while the secretary-general and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan sat in the centre.
The secretary-general also announced the establishment of a Joint Coordination Centre to monitor implementation. It will be hosted in Istanbul and will include representatives from Ukraine, Russia and Trkiye.
Ukraine is among the world's leading grain exporters, supplying more than 45 million tonnes annually to the global market, according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization FAO .
Guterres acknowledgedthe long road and weeks of around-the-clock negotiations leading up to the landmark agreement.
MENAFN- Caribbean News Global NEW YORK, USA  Anunprecedented agreement on the resumption of Ukrainian grain exports via the Black Sea amid the ongoing war isa beacon of hope in a world that desperately needs it, UN secretary-general Antnio Guterres said at the signing ceremony in Istanbul, Trkiye, on Friday.
Guterres thanked president Erdogan and his government for facilitating the talks that led to the deal.
This is an unprecedented agreement between two parties engaged in bloody conflict. But that  conflict continues  , he said, noting that people are dying every day as the fighting rages.
He commended the Russian and Ukrainian representatives for putting aside their differences in the common interests of humanity.
Inspection teams will monitor the unloading of grain at the three ports. Ukrainian pilot vessels will guide the ships through the Black Sea, which is mined, after which they will head out through the Bosphorus Strait along an agreed corridor.
The beacon of hope on the Black Sea is shining bright today, thanks to the collective efforts of so many.In these trying and turbulent times for the region and our globe, let that beacon  guide the way towards easing human suffering and securing peace  .MENAFN23072022000232011072ID1104579231
Guterres pledged the UN's full commitment to the agreement, and urged all sides to do the same.
The initiative specifically allows for significant volumes of commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea  Odessa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
Two UN Task Forces were established in parallel on the talks  one focused on the shipment of Ukrainian grain through the Black Sea, which was led by UN humanitarian affairs chief Martin Griffiths, and the other on facilitating access of Russian food and fertilizers, headed by Rebecca Grynspan, Secretary-General of the UN trade and development body, UNCTAD .
The question has not been what is good for one side or the other, he said.The focus has been on what matters most for the people of our world. And let there be no doubt   this is an agreement for the world.
