Blasts Rock Mykolaiv Kharkiv Overnight Monday Amid AirRaid Alerts
20220801
https://menafn.com/1104624177/Blasts-Rock-Mykolaiv-Kharkiv-Overnight-Monday-Amid-Air-Raid-Alerts
Mykolaiv Mayor Oleksandr Sienkevych , reported on the city shelling on social media, as seen by Ukrinform.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The authorities asked residents to remain in shelters and observe safety rules until the end of the air-raid alert.
'Mykolaiv is under attack, again. Powerful explosions rang out in various areas of the city. We are gathering information! Stay away from the windows and do not ignore safety rules! The air-raid alert is on!' the mayor wrote.
It should be recalled that on the night of July 30, the Russian army twice fired missiles at Kharkiv.MENAFN01082022000193011044ID1104624177
It should be recalled that on the night of July 30, the Russian army twice fired missiles at Kharkiv.
MENAFN- UkrinForm On the night of August 1, Mykolaiv and Kharkiv were once again targeted by Russian strikes. Mykolaiv Mayor Oleksandr Sienkevych , reported on the city shelling on social media, as seen by Ukrinform.
'Mykolaiv is under attack, again. Powerful explosions rang out in various areas of the city. We are gathering information! Stay away from the windows and do not ignore safety rules! The air-raid alert is on!' the mayor wrote.  Read also:  Russian forces building up grouping in Kryvyi Rih direction Kharkiv was shelled as well after an air-raid alert went off in the city at 02:09. A series of explosions have been heard since then, the Suspilne  public broadcaster reported.
Kharkiv was shelled as well after an air-raid alert went off in the city at 02:09. A series of explosions have been heard since then, the Suspilne  public broadcaster reported.
