Bombing execution and torture UN says evidence of Russian war crimes growing
20220423
https://menafn.com/1104076546/Bombing-execution-and-torture-UN-says-evidence-of-Russian-war-crimes-growing&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the beginning of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities, conducting massive shelling of residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers and ballistic missiles.
Underscoring that the true death toll is almost certainly much higher than what has been confirmed to date, Shamdasani said. She also added thatthe scale of summary executions of civilians in areas previously occupied by Russian forces was also emerging.
Ravina Shamdasani, a spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said on Friday, Ukrinform reports, referring to the UN press service .
The preservation of evidence and decent treatment of mortal remains must be ensured, as well as the psychological and other relief for victims and their relatives, she said.
These include indiscriminate shelling and bombing of populated areas, summary execution of civilians.  92.3 per cent of what we have managed to record were recorded in Government-controlled territories, so attributable to the Russian armed forces, she said.
Shamdasani noted that the UN recorded at least 2,343 cases of civilian deaths.We are very concerned, we're very worried about what's coming next, she added.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights OHCHR has stated that evidence of Russian war crimes in Ukraine is growing. Ravina Shamdasani, a spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said on Friday, Ukrinform reports, referring to the UN press service .
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet condemned thehorrors committed against civilians in Ukraine, stressing thatinternational humanitarian law has not merely been ignored but seemingly tossed aside.
According to the spokesperson, almost every resident inBuchathat her colleagues spoke to, told about the death of a relative, a neighbour or a stranger.We know much more needs to be done to uncover what happened there and we also knowBuchais not an isolated incident, Shamdasani said, quoting the High Commissioner.
Russian armed forces haveindiscriminately shelled and bombed populated areas, she added,killing civilians and wrecking hospitals, schools and other civilian infrastructure, actions that may amount to war crimes, the High Commissioner for Human Rights said in a statement.
