Boogeyman stories of nuclear attack element of Russias infowar  Ukraine official
20220415
https://menafn.com/1104029702/Boogeyman-stories-of-nuclear-attack-element-of-Russias-infowar-Ukraine-official&source=22
At the same time, Denysenko added that nuking someone would be a deadly endeavor for Putin.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to the official, the logic of all Russian information wars over the recent years not just the last two months is reduced to two key elements: to sow panic or discord in the ranks of an adversary.
'Putin has always played the same game  raising stakes. But now he lost in this game because he has nowhere to raise them anymore. And a nuclear strike is not raising stakes, it's an ultimate defeat because, after that, even China and India will shift to the other side. And he understands this perfectly. But could he go for a nuclear strike? Unfortunately, this can't be ruled out,' the official admitted.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Denysenko said a massive purge had begun in the Russian elite as the fate of dozens of the most influential people in Russia is now in limbo.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Denysenko said a massive purge had begun in the Russian elite as the fate of dozens of the most influential people in Russia is now in limbo.MENAFN15042022000193011044ID1104029702
Read also:  Russians who dug trenches in the Red Forest will face radiation sickness - Energoatom Denysenko clarified that the Russians in the first stage of the war employed two key messages aimed at splitting Ukrainian society: the first narrative was 'allow male citizens to leave Ukraine as they are too much of a burden on our food stocks, while the second one was an attempt to provoke religious riots over theseizure of temples run by the Moscow Patriarchate. He noted that both these information attacks had failed to achieve their goals.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Adviser to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Vadym Denysenko, says Russia's statements on a possible nuclear strike, being spun to intimidate Ukraine, is yet another element of the ongoing information war. The official addressed the issue on Facebook , Ukrinform reports.
Denysenko clarified that the Russians in the first stage of the war employed two key messages aimed at splitting Ukrainian society: the first narrative was 'allow male citizens to leave Ukraine as they are too much of a burden on our food stocks, while the second one was an attempt to provoke religious riots over theseizure of temples run by the Moscow Patriarchate. He noted that both these information attacks had failed to achieve their goals.
'As for the Russian nuclear attack, which is once being used to intimidate us. In short, it is an element of information warfare. So far, the Russians haven't succeeded in any information attack on Ukraine,' Denysenko said.
'Now, apparently, they keep exploring topics that will not so much split society as sow panic. Hence the narrative of nuclear war, nuclear attacks, etc. A nuclear strike is their last trump card up their sleeve, which can be used once all other arguments have been exhausted, Denysenko said.
According to the adviser, this is currently a bluff on the one hand aimed at sowing panic in Ukraine, and on the other hand targeting the West in an attempt to intimidate these countries and make them talk with President Vladimir Putin in a different way.
