Briefing On Sexual Crimes Committed By Russian Occupiers In Ukraine
20220507
https://menafn.com/1104147900/Briefing-On-Sexual-Crimes-Committed-By-Russian-Occupiers-In-Ukraine&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The event will be broadcast on Ukrinform's YouTube channel:  address: Kyiv, 816 Bohdan Khmelnytsky Street.
MENAFN- UkrinForm On May 3, at 18:00, a briefing will be held on the topic: 'Sexual crimes of the Russian occupiers in Ukraine.' Organizers: Media Center Ukraine - Ukrinform.
Use of any materials from the official Ukrinform YouTube channel is possible only if the copyright established by the channel is respected. Demonstrating the video during the live broadcast, it is necessary to refer to the author - Ukrinform - to show its name on the screen and say it out loud.
Speakers: Olha Stefanyshyna - Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine Pramila Patten is the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative for Sexual Violence in Conflict.
Accreditation of media representatives: Accreditation will last until 17:00 on May 3, to confirm you need to specify the name, surname, title of the publication, after which you will have access to the link to the event in Zoom.
Short. As reports of sexual violence continue to emerge in the context of the war in Ukraine, UN Under-Secretary-General Special Representative for the Prevention of Sexual Violence in Conflict Ms. Pramila Patten will pay an official mission to Ukraine, Poland, Moldova and Brussels to see how the Organization The United Nations can most effectively support national authorities and other actors in strengthening the documentation and investigation of allegations of sexual violence related to hostilities, as well as making multisectoral services targeted at victims and strengthening the fight against trafficking in the region.
