Britain allocating almost GBP 2B for projects with Ukraine
20220201
https://menafn.com/1103626663/Britain-allocating-almost-GBP-2B-for-projects-with-Ukraine&source=19
'Last year we signed an agreement on political cooperation  free trade and strategic partnership. It performs successfully, which is proved by our bilateral trade growing by 60,' Zelensky said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The head of the Ukrainian state added the two countries 'seek to expand partnership in all areas.'  Read also:  Further invasion of Ukraine would lead to military disaster for Russia - PM  Johnson  'We have agreed to start negotiations on trade liberalization. In addition to funds for the Ukrainian Navy, the United Kingdom is allocating almost GBP 2 billion for the implementation of joint specific and mutually beneficial projects with Ukraine in other fields, including infrastructure and energy,' said Zelensky.
'We have agreed to start negotiations on trade liberalization. In addition to funds for the Ukrainian Navy, the United Kingdom is allocating almost GBP 2 billion for the implementation of joint specific and mutually beneficial projects with Ukraine in other fields, including infrastructure and energy,' said Zelensky.
Also this week, the President of Turkey is expected to pay a visit to Kyiv.
The president elaborated on this at a joint briefing with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson after the two leaders held talks in Kyiv on Tuesday, February 1, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The head of the Ukrainian state added the two countries 'seek to expand partnership in all areas.'
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the prime ministers of Poland, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom arrived in Ukraine on February 1.
MENAFN- UkrinForm President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky says that the United Kingdom is allocating almost GBP 2 billion for the implementation of joint projects with Ukraine, including in infrastructure and energy. The president elaborated on this at a joint briefing with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson after the two leaders held talks in Kyiv on Tuesday, February 1, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
