Canadian PM calls for Russias removal from SWIFT payment system
20220226
https://menafn.com/1103765052/Canadian-PM-calls-for-Russias-removal-from-SWIFT-payment-system&source=19
The Canadian government is also prepared to match donations to Ukrainian relief efforts through the Canadian Red Cross to a maximum for 10 million Canadian dollars, he said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Trudeau on Friday said at a press conference that Canada will join other nations to impose sanctions directly on Russian President Vladimir Putin and his inner circle of advisers. The sanctions will also extend to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Putin's Chief of Staff, he added.
Ottawa, Feb 26 IANS Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has announced a new round of sanctions on Russia, calling for Russia's removal from the SWIFT payment system.
MENAFN- IANS Ottawa, Feb 26 IANS Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has announced a new round of sanctions on Russia, calling for Russia's removal from the SWIFT payment system.Trudeau on Friday said at a press conference that Canada will join other nations to impose sanctions directly on Russian President Vladimir Putin and his inner circle of advisers. The sanctions will also extend to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Putin's Chief of Staff, he added.In addition, Trudeau called for Russia's removal from SWIFT, the payment system used for most international financial transactions, Xinhua news agency reported.The Canadian government is also prepared to match donations to Ukrainian relief efforts through the Canadian Red Cross to a maximum for 10 million Canadian dollars, he said. --IANSintkhzMENAFN25022022000231011071ID1103765052
In addition, Trudeau called for Russia's removal from SWIFT, the payment system used for most international financial transactions, Xinhua news agency reported.
