Canada To Allocate CAD 35M For Humanitarian Projects In Ukraine
20220511
https://menafn.com/1104186199/Canada-To-Allocate-CAD-35M-For-Humanitarian-Projects-In-Ukraine&source=138
On Sunday, May 8, Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau, Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mlanie Joly paid an unannounced visit to Ukraine, during which they visited Irpin, Kyiv region, destroyed by Russian troops.
As noted, $10 million will be distributed among the United Nations Women's Peace and Humanitarian Fund $1.5 million the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights $2.5 millionto monitor, document and assess human rights violations Front Line Defenders $775,000to support human rights activists and organizations German Marshal Fund of the United States up to $2 millionto support civil society actors at risk civil society in Ukraine up to $1.15 millionin digital emergency support HALO Trust $2 millionfor mine action emergency response.  Read also:  Canadian prime minister visits Irpin On Sunday, May 8, Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau, Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mlanie Joly paid an unannounced visit to Ukraine, during which they visited Irpin, Kyiv region, destroyed by Russian troops.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Canada will fund a number of humanitarian projects in Ukraine totaling CAD 35 million about USD 30 million. The Prime Minister announced additional measures and investments to continue supporting Ukraine, including allocating $25 million to the World Food Programme to address food security in Ukraine and $10 million in funding to support human rights, civil society, and demining in Ukraine, reads the press release  published by the Office of Prime Minister of Canada.
The Prime Minister announced additional measures and investments to continue supporting Ukraine, including allocating $25 million to the World Food Programme to address food security in Ukraine and $10 million in funding to support human rights, civil society, and demining in Ukraine, reads the press release  published by the Office of Prime Minister of Canada.
As noted, $10 million will be distributed among the United Nations Women's Peace and Humanitarian Fund $1.5 million the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights $2.5 millionto monitor, document and assess human rights violations Front Line Defenders $775,000to support human rights activists and organizations German Marshal Fund of the United States up to $2 millionto support civil society actors at risk civil society in Ukraine up to $1.15 millionin digital emergency support HALO Trust $2 millionfor mine action emergency response.
