Captured Azov Photographer Dmytro Kozatskyi Calls His Sister To Say Hes Alive
20220819
https://menafn.com/1104726002/Captured-Azov-Photographer-Dmytro-Kozatskyi-Calls-His-Sister-To-Say-Hes-Alive
As reported, more than 2,500 Azov Regiment members were captured by the Russians after the order of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief to stop the defense of Mariupol and save the lives of the fighters.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Dmytro Kozatskyi, head of the Azov Regiment's press service who now stays in Russian captivity, has called his relatives to say he is alive. 'Dmytro Kozatskyi, call sign 'Orest', has been in Russian captivity since May. There was no news from him for several months but recently, already after the brutal terrorist attack in Olenivka, the defender managed to call his relatives. Dmytro said the most important thing: he's alive,' the Zhytomyr regional territorial center of recruitment and social support posted on Facebook .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On the night of July 29, in the territory of the former penal facility No. 210 in Olenivka, the temporarily captured territory of Donetsk region, a powerful explosion occurred in the building where Ukrainian prisoners of war were held. According to the Russian side, about 50 Ukrainian defenders were killed and more than 70 were seriously injured.
There was information that some of the captured Ukrainian soldiers had been transferred from Mariupol to the village of Olenivka.  Read also:  Barrack in  Olenivka  colony blown up by Russians, satellite images prove On the night of July 29, in the territory of the former penal facility No. 210 in Olenivka, the temporarily captured territory of Donetsk region, a powerful explosion occurred in the building where Ukrainian prisoners of war were held. According to the Russian side, about 50 Ukrainian defenders were killed and more than 70 were seriously injured.
'Dmytro Kozatskyi, call sign 'Orest', has been in Russian captivity since May. There was no news from him for several months but recently, already after the brutal terrorist attack in Olenivka, the defender managed to call his relatives. Dmytro said the most important thing: he's alive,' the Zhytomyr regional territorial center of recruitment and social support posted on Facebook .
There was information that some of the captured Ukrainian soldiers had been transferred from Mariupol to the village of Olenivka.
Dmytro Kozatskyi comes from the town of Malyn in Zhytomyr region. He is the head of the press service of the Azov Regiment, the author of world-famous photos of wounded soldiers taken in the field hospital at the Azovstal steelworks. Kozatskyi is called the 'eyes of Azovstal'.
'While talking, I say that I love him very much. He says he does too and starts crying. I also burst into tears,' the sister said.
Dmytro Kozatskyi comes from the town of Malyn in Zhytomyr region. He is the head of the press service of the Azov Regiment, the author of world-famous photos of wounded soldiers taken in the field hospital at the Azovstal steelworks. Kozatskyi is called the 'eyes of Azovstal'.  Read also:  Dmytro Kozatskyi: The  eyes  of Azovstal As reported, more than 2,500 Azov Regiment members were captured by the Russians after the order of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief to stop the defense of Mariupol and save the lives of the fighters.
As noted, Dmytro called his sister Darya on August 2 from a Russian mobile number. The serviceman said that he was alive and stayed in Donetsk. According to him, he was allowed to call his relatives. An investigator was sitting near him at the time of the conversation.
