Coffin Dance The Viral Meme Will Be Auctioned On April 7
20220405
https://menafn.com/1103962695/Coffin-Dance-The-Viral-Meme-Will-Be-Auctioned-On-April-7
In 2020, the meme was shared by the former US President on his official Facebook page, which mocked a controversial statement made by his Democratic rival.
The group said 25 of the funds from the sale of the meme would be transferred to the Ukrainian charitable foundation'Come Back Alive ' in a bid to support the Ukrainian army and its heroic people.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Our dance has always been cheerful, and we have tried to give a smile to this world amid the difficult time. We do not consider death to be something good. It is very bad. And throughout our dance, we are trying to heal the soul and hearts of loved ones and relatives,' explains Benjamin Aidoo.
'Together with the Ukrainian PR community, we are putting all our global popularity on the NFT auction of our meme Coffin Dance Dancing Pallbearers on April 7, 2022, in order to help stop death in Ukraine and help the people of Ukraine who are having a hard time,' the post states.
COVID-19 has spawned hundreds of memes, but none as all-pervasive and ubiquitous as the 'dancing coffin' group from Ghana. The dancing pallbearers seen in the macabre yet humorous memes popularized by COVID are sound tracked in almost every video posted by a decade-old track from Russian composer Tony Igy, popularly known as 'Astronomia.'
The group's appeal was posted on the Matthew 'DigiNeko' Ordrick YouTube channel, the same platform where this meme was born.
By buying an NFT token with the famous image, those interested can be sure that they are the official owner of the meme, which will be released in a single copy. This status also includes unlimited royalty-free commercial use of the photo and its elements, as well as the use of the visual image of Dancing Pallbearers for merch production in any country of the world.
'This battle is not only for Ukraine, but the whole of free Europe. If Ukraine does not hold out, the world may be on the verge of a third world war,' Benjamin Aidoo said in a video, which showed the other Ghanian pallbearers sitting next to him.
Those who want to learn more about the auction may check out the video on the 'DigiNeko' Ordrick YouTube channel and theBads Agencywebsite for more information.
The attack, which the Ukraine government called 'a full-scale attack from multiple directions,' spanned much of the nation.
The same part will be transferred to the support of the group's Ukrainian friends  employees of a large Ukrainian advertising agency, who lost their income, and many of whom were forced to leave their homes to begin a new life due to the war. Benjamin Aidoo said the report would be on his Instagram account at the end of the auction.The other half will provide an opportunity for new creativity and the development of the African culture of music and dance by the team of Benjamin Aidoo.
The 'Coffin Dance' meme, one of the most viral memes in recent years that has also been shared by a former US President, will be auctioned as part of efforts to support Ukraine.
On February 24, Russian troops poured over the border of Ukraine, where Russian planes and missile launchers attacked cities and airports in Ukraine.
The famous'Coffin Dance' meme , also dubbed as Dancing Pallbearers or Dancing Coffin, a viral meme that shows Ghanian pallbearers dancing while carrying a coffin, is set to be auctioned on April 7.
The announcement came from Benjamin Aidoo and the meme's characters, who are set to hold theauction as a show of support for Ukraine.
