Czech Senate Recognizes Russian Crimes In Ukraine As Genocide
20220513
https://menafn.com/1104196788/Czech-Senate-Recognizes-Russian-Crimes-In-Ukraine-As-Genocide&source=138
In addition, the upper house of the Czech parliament has condemned numerous Russian war crimes in Borodianka, Bucha, Irpin, and Mariupol, documented by the UN, OSCE, and international human rights organizations, which expose terror to which the population was subjected, as well as mass executions and deportations of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians.
This was announced by the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Czech Republic, Yevhen Perebyinis  on Facebook, Ukrinform reports.
'The Czech Senate has just recognized the crimes committed by the Russian army in Ukraine as genocide of the Ukrainian people. The adopted resolution also supports the Czech Republic's continued supply of weapons to Ukraine and Ukraine's candidate status for EU membership,' the ambassador wrote.
'The Czech Senate has just recognized the crimes committed by the Russian army in Ukraine as genocide of the Ukrainian people. The adopted resolution also supports the Czech Republic's continued supply of weapons to Ukraine and Ukraine's candidate status for EU membership,' the ambassador wrote.  Read also:   Lithuania  recognizes Russia's actions in Ukraine as genocide According to the resolution, the translated copy of which the diplomat attached to the post, the Senate strongly condemns Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine, during which Russia is violating international conventions and international humanitarian law.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to the resolution, the translated copy of which the diplomat attached to the post, the Senate strongly condemns Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine, during which Russia is violating international conventions and international humanitarian law.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Senate of the Czech Republic has recognized the crimes committed by the Russian army in Ukraine as genocide of the Ukrainian people. This was announced by the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Czech Republic, Yevhen Perebyinis  on Facebook, Ukrinform reports.
Czech parliamentarians demand that Russia withdraw its troops from Ukraine and respect Ukraine's territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence, as well as humanitarian law, and not restrict humanitarian corridors.
As reported, the UN General Assembly on May 10 elected the Czech Republic to the Human Rights Council instead of Russia, which was removed due to the invasion of Ukraine.
As reported, the UN General Assembly on May 10 elected the Czech Republic to the Human Rights Council instead of Russia, which was removed due to the invasion of Ukraine.MENAFN11052022000193011044ID1104196788
The Senate also condemned ethnically motivated crimes against humanity, such as mass executions, disrespect for the dead, torture, rape, violence and the forcible deportation of children committed by Russia systematically and on a large scale, which are seen as manifestations of the genocide of the Ukrainian people.
