Czechs Poles Pen Greetings To Russians On Ammunition Supplied To Ukraine
20220611
https://menafn.com/1104338460/Czechs-Poles-Pen-Greetings-To-Russians-On-Ammunition-Supplied-To-Ukraine
'Everyone remembers everything. Russia will rot in isolation forever,' said that patrol police official.  Read also:  U.S. todo everything to strengthen Ukraine's hand on battlefield - Ambassador As reported, on February 24, Russia launched a new phase of its war against Ukraine  a full-scale invasion. Russian occupiers have been shelling and bombing peaceful towns and villages across Ukraine, torturing and killing civilians. Ukraine's defense forces are fiercely resisting the Russian onslaught.MENAFN07062022000193011044ID1104338460
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
For instance, the Czech Republic sends ammunition, signed 'For the Shot Prague Spring 1968'. The Netherlands' shells read 'Revenge for MH17', while Poles write 'For Katyn!'
As reported, on February 24, Russia launched a new phase of its war against Ukraine  a full-scale invasion. Russian occupiers have been shelling and bombing peaceful towns and villages across Ukraine, torturing and killing civilians. Ukraine's defense forces are fiercely resisting the Russian onslaught.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The countries friendly to Ukraine, including the Czech Republic and Poland, are shipping ammunition as part of security assistance, with various 'greetings' written on the shells, addressed to the Russians. That's according to Oleksii Biloshytskyi , First Deputy Chief of Ukraine's Patrol Police, Ukrinform reports.
That's according to Oleksii Biloshytskyi , First Deputy Chief of Ukraine's Patrol Police, Ukrinform reports.
