Damage To Ukraines Infrastructure From Russian Aggression Exceeded 100B  Shmyhal
20220705
https://menafn.com/1104477113/Damage-To-Ukraines-Infrastructure-From-Russian-Aggression-Exceeded-100B-Shmyhal
Then, according to him, local authorities verify these data and supplement them with information about destroyed and damaged objects of social and critical infrastructure - schools, hospitals, kindergartens, boiler houses, and administrative buildings.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal has said that direct damage to Ukraine's infrastructure caused by Russian aggression has exceeded $100 billion. He said this in a speech at the Ukraine Recovery Conference in the Swiss city of Lugano, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
'We are already creating an electronic map of Ukraine, where we record all the damage caused by the war. This map is constantly updated. Damage is constantly recorded and verified from several sides. Thanks to the developed digital tools of the government and the Diia web app, every citizen of Ukraine can submit information about their destroyed home. About 250,000 applications are already in the databases,' Shmyhal said.
He said this in a speech at the Ukraine Recovery Conference in the Swiss city of Lugano, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
'In parallel with this, the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Government team, as well as experts from the Kyiv School of Economics engage in activities to assess total damages according to international standards. Today, direct damage to Ukraine's infrastructure already amounts to more than $100 billion. More than 1,200 educational institutions, more than 200 hospitals, thousands of kilometers of gas pipelines, water and electricity networks, roads and railways have been destroyed or damaged. And we count each object. There will be a reconstruction project for each object,' Shmyhal said.
