Death Toll In Russias Strike On Chaplyne Rises To 22
20220825
https://menafn.com/1104753420/Death-Toll-In-Russias-Strike-On-Chaplyne-Rises-To-22
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The President emphasized: 'We will definitely hold the occupiers to account for everything they have done. And we will definitely throw the invaders out of our land. Not a single stain of this evil will remain in our free Ukraine.'  Read also:  At least 15 killed, 50 wounded in Russian missile strike on  Chaplyne  railway station Earlier, President Zelensky said that the Russian troops had launched a missile attack on passenger cars at the Chaplyne railway station in Dnipropetrovsk region, killing at least 15 people and injuring about 50.
The President emphasized: 'We will definitely hold the occupiers to account for everything they have done. And we will definitely throw the invaders out of our land. Not a single stain of this evil will remain in our free Ukraine.'
MENAFN- UkrinForm The death toll in Russia's missile strike on the Chaplyne railway station in Dnipropetrovsk region has risen to 22, including an 11-year-old boy. 'Chaplyne hurts us today. Twenty-two people were killed, five of them burned in a car. An 11-year-old teenager was killed, a Russian missile destroyed his house,' President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said in his video address  on August 24.
Earlier, President Zelensky said that the Russian troops had launched a missile attack on passenger cars at the Chaplyne railway station in Dnipropetrovsk region, killing at least 15 people and injuring about 50.
'Chaplyne hurts us today. Twenty-two people were killed, five of them burned in a car. An 11-year-old teenager was killed, a Russian missile destroyed his house,' President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said in his video address  on August 24.
