Defense Ministry Russians Attempt To Encircle Ukrainian Forces Near Lysychansk
20220624
https://menafn.com/1104428431/Defense-Ministry-Russians-Attempt-To-Encircle-Ukrainian-Forces-Near-Lysychansk
In the Mykolaiv direction, with the support of combat aviation, Russian troops launched massive artillery strikes near such settlements as Bila Krynytsia, Liubomyrivka, Stepova Dolyna, Posad-Pokrovske, Kyselivka, Blahodatne and Velyke Artakove.
In his words, many buildings were destroyed in Russia's attacks against Lysychansk and neighboring villages. Such settlements as Borivske, Verkhniokamianka, Mykolaivka and Bila Hora are under enemy fire.
In particular, missile strikes were launched on certain objects in Kharkiv Region, Odesa Region, Dnipropetrovsk Region, Mykolaiv Region, Kherson Region, Luhansk Region and Donetsk Region, including with Kh-59 and Oniks cruise missiles, Motuzianyk noted.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In the Kharkiv direction, Ukrainian forces are under continuous artillery fire. This way the enemy is attempting to prevent the Ukrainian military from reaching the state border and the rear of Russian units conducting hostilities in the Sloviansk direction.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops are making attempts to gain full control over Sievierodonetsk and encircle Ukrainian forces near Lysychansk. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian Defense Ministry Spokesperson Oleksandr Motuzianyk during a briefing at Media Center Ukraine, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Settlements to the south and south-east of Sievierodonetsk are remaining the hottest sections of the frontline. The enemy significantly increased the number of air attacks. They want to gain full control over Sievierodonetsk, are conducting offensive operations to encircle Ukrainian forces near Lysychansk and block the main logistic routes, Motuzianyk told.
According to Motuzianyk, Russian troops continue to fire missiles at Ukraine's military and critical social infrastructure facilities.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian Defense Ministry Spokesperson Oleksandr Motuzianyk during a briefing at Media Center Ukraine, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
In the Kryvyi Rih direction, the enemy is conducting counterbattery activities with the Uragan multiple launch rocket systems. Russian troops also fired at transport infrastructure facilities near Apostolove.
