Defense minister No threat of Ukraines economy transition to wartime footing
20220201
https://menafn.com/1103620181/Defense-minister-No-threat-of-Ukraines-economy-transition-to-wartime-footing&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ukrainian army is ready to repel the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, and there is no threat of Ukraine's economy transition to a wartime footing. As of today, fuel reserves have been replenished, we have ammunition. We are ready to fight back. As of today, there is no threat that would require a transition to a wartime footing. We know this. If it happens, we will move to a completely different system of economy timely. Then all development programs are curtailed and all funding is spent on war,' Minister of Defense of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov told LB.ua Ukrainian online media outlet in an interview.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As of today, fuel reserves have been replenished, we have ammunition. We are ready to fight back. As of today, there is no threat that would require a transition to a wartime footing. We know this. If it happens, we will move to a completely different system of economy timely. Then all development programs are curtailed and all funding is spent on war,' Minister of Defense of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov told LB.ua Ukrainian online media outlet in an interview.
As reported, on Monday, January 31, the UN Security Council will hold a meeting to discuss Russia's threatening behavior and military build-up near the borders of Ukraine and Belarus.
As Reznikov stressed, the current task is to plan development calmly and moderately, without panic, and carry out reforms so that the army 'becomes invincible' in the coming years.
