Donbas update Ukraine reports 1 KIA 3 WIAs
20210913
https://menafn.com/1102784887/Donbas-update-Ukraine-reports-1-KIA-3-WIAs&source=19
In one of the enemy attacks, a soldier with the Joint Forces sustained an injury non-compatible with life. Three defenders suffered shrapnel wounds. They have been evacuated to medical institutions where they are undergoing treatment, remaining in satisfactory condition.
In the area Verkhniotoretske, the enemy twice opened fire, employing an anti-tank missile system, MANPADs, and large-caliber machine guns.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In the area Verkhniotoretske, the enemy twice opened fire, employing an anti-tank missile system, MANPADs, and large-caliber machine guns.  Read also:  Danilov: Ukraine capable of regaining east of Ukraine by force, fighting for Crimea Not far from Prychepylivka, Russian invaders twice engaged the positions of the Armed Forces with 120 mm mortars proscribed by the Minsk agreements.
Near the village of New York, the enemy fired twice at the positions of Ukrainian units, using anti-tank grenade launchers.
Not far from Prychepylivka, Russian invaders twice engaged the positions of the Armed Forces with 120 mm mortars proscribed by the Minsk agreements.
Near Katerynivka, Zaitseve, and Zolote-4, mercenaries fired grenade launchers of various systems and small arms.
The Ukrainian delegation to the Joint Ceasefire Control and Coordination Center has reported to the OSCE monitors of all violations recorded over the said period, applying the established coordination mechanism.
As of 7:00 on Monday, August 13, another ceasefire violation was recorded in the JFO zone, in the area of Zaitseve, where Russian occupation forces fired at Ukrainian positions employing grenade launchers of various systems.
As of 7:00 on Monday, August 13, another ceasefire violation was recorded in the JFO zone, in the area of Zaitseve, where Russian occupation forces fired at Ukrainian positions employing grenade launchers of various systems.  Read also:  Ukraine monitoringvery closely Zapad 2021 exercise  Kuleba Ukrainian forces returned fire, the report says.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine recorded 10 ceasefire violations by Russian-led forces in eastern Ukraine's Joint Forces Operation zone over the past 24 hours. That's according to the press center of the JFO HQ , Ukrinform reports.
