Donbas update Ukrainian soldier killed in warzone amid latest 2 enemy attacks Nov 26
20211127
https://menafn.com/1103261271/Donbas-update-Ukrainian-soldier-killed-in-warzone-amid-latest-2-enemy-attacks-Nov-26&source=19
It is noted that the Ukrainian troops returned fire without employing weapons banned by the Minsk accords and forced the enemy to cease shelling.
The Command has expressedsincere condolences to the family and friends of the hero who died for Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Toward Maryinka, the enemy fired 82 mm mortars. In the direction of Novomykhailivka, the enemy opened small arms fire. As a result of hostilities, a Ukrainian soldier sustained an injury non-compatible with life, the report reads.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Over the past day, November 26, the Russian occupation forces twice violated the ceasefire in the Joint Forces Operation zone in eastern Ukraine, including once with the use of weapons proscribed by the Minsk agreements. That's according to a report by the JFO Headquarters , seen by Ukrinform.
As of 7:00 Kyiv time on November 27, Ukraine military reported no new ceasefire breaches by the Russian occupation forces.
The Command has expressedsincere condolences to the family and friends of the hero who died for Ukraine.  Read also:  MFA Ukraine comments on Moscow's latest allegations of Ukraine's 'offensive action' It is noted that the Ukrainian troops returned fire without employing weapons banned by the Minsk accords and forced the enemy to cease shelling.
'The Joint Forces are monitoring the situation, further carrying out their tasks to deter and repel Russia's armed aggression,' the JFO HQ said.
