Donbas invaders forcing local mercenaries to vote in State Duma elections intelligence
20210911
https://menafn.com/1102778270/Donbas-invaders-forcing-local-mercenaries-to-vote-in-State-Duma-elections-intelligence&source=19
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian military command in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions is forcing local mercenaries to register as voters in the upcoming elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation to be held on September 19. That's according to the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports.
That's according to the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports.
According to the report, in order to properly set up the process, a number of staff meetings were held in the occupation forces and strict control was established over the preparation for the "expression of will."
"The command of the Russian occupation forces in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine in Donetsk and Luhansk regions is actively preparing subordinate 'miners and combine harvesters' for participation in the elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation, set to be held on September 19," the statement says.  Read also:  Ukraine monitoringvery closely Zapad 2021 exercise  Kuleba It is noted that, given the level of "discipline" and "responsibility" of the collaborators, as well as fearing possible incidents, the Russian occupiers are holding "drill" elections.
"The essence of the 'know-how' is to force local soldiers to register as voters by filling in the relevant e-applications, and to train them to arrive at the polling stations to 'freely express' their will," the intelligence analysts explained.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, citing the Ukrainian intelligence community, next week the invaders intend to carry out another round of military conscription in the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas.
It is noted that, given the level of "discipline" and "responsibility" of the collaborators, as well as fearing possible incidents, the Russian occupiers are holding "drill" elections.
"The command of the Russian occupation forces in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine in Donetsk and Luhansk regions is actively preparing subordinate 'miners and combine harvesters' for participation in the elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation, set to be held on September 19," the statement says.
