Donbas update Six ceasefire breaches by enemy forces 1 WIA among Ukraine troops
20211203
https://menafn.com/1103298369/Donbas-update-Six-ceasefire-breaches-by-enemy-forces-1-WIA-among-Ukraine-troops&source=138
Ukrainian defenders returned fire to enemy attacks, forcing the latter to cease shelling. No weapons proscribed by the Minsk agreements were used by Ukraine's side.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As of 7:00 Kyiv time on Friday, December 3, Ukraine reported no new ceasefire breaches by the Russian occupation forces.
Not far from Krasnohorivka, Russian mercenaries fired 120-mm mortars. Near Vodiane, on the Sea of Azov littoral, the enemy fired anti-tank grenade launchers and small arms.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Over the past 24 hours, on December 2, the Russian occupation forces violated the ceasefire six times, twice engaging Ukrainian forces with weapons proscribed by the Minsk Agreements. That's according to the press service of the Joint Forces Operation HQ , Ukrinform reports.
A serviceman with the Joint Forces was wounded in combat. He was successfully evacuated to a medical facility where he is undergoing treatment, remaining insatisfactory condition, the report says.
That's according to the press service of the Joint Forces Operation HQ , Ukrinform reports.
In the area of Katerynivka, Luhansk region, the enemy employed grenade launchers of various systems and small arms. Near Svitlodarsk, the occupiers fired small arms at Ukraine's defense positions.
Joint Forces are monitoring the situation across the zone of hostilities, continuing to repel and deter armed aggression by Russia.
Not far from Krasnohorivka, Russian mercenaries fired 120-mm mortars. Near Vodiane, on the Sea of Azov littoral, the enemy fired anti-tank grenade launchers and small arms.  Read also:  Blinken at OSCE accuses Russia of non-compliance with Minsk deal on  Donbas  In the area of Katerynivka, Luhansk region, the enemy employed grenade launchers of various systems and small arms. Near Svitlodarsk, the occupiers fired small arms at Ukraine's defense positions.
