Donbas update Occupiers fire toward Novotoshkivske Ukrainian soldier killed
20220112
https://menafn.com/1103526172/Donbas-update-Occupiers-fire-toward-Novotoshkivske-Ukrainian-soldier-killed&source=138
As of 7:00 Kyiv time on Wednesday, January 12, no new ceasefire breaches by the Russian occupation forces were reported.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Units of the Joint Forces have held their ground along the line of contact, the report stressed.
As a result of the enemy's actions, a Ukrainian soldier suffered an injury non-compatible with life. The Joint Forces Command and personnel have expressed their sincere condolences to the family and friends of the hero who died for Ukraine.  Read also:  Borrell sayseyewitnessed consequences of aggression against Ukraine Ukrainian forces returned fire without using weapons proscribed by the Minsk agreements and forced the enemy to cease fire.
As a result of the enemy's actions, a Ukrainian soldier suffered an injury non-compatible with life. The Joint Forces Command and personnel have expressed their sincere condolences to the family and friends of the hero who died for Ukraine.
In the direction of Novotoshkivske, the enemy opened fire employing large-caliber machine guns and small arms.
Joint Forces are monitoring the situation, remaining ready to deter and repel Russia's armed aggression.
This was reported by the press service of the Joint Forces Operation on Facebook , according to Ukrinform.
Ukrainian forces returned fire without using weapons proscribed by the Minsk agreements and forced the enemy to cease fire.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Over the past 24 hours, on January 11, the Russian occupation forces committed one ceasefire violation, as a result of which a Ukrainian military serviceman was killed. This was reported by the press service of the Joint Forces Operation on Facebook , according to Ukrinform.
