Dont fall for Russias disinformation US Embassy in Ukraine warns
20220114
https://menafn.com/1103541318/Dont-fall-for-Russias-disinformation-US-Embassy-in-Ukraine-warns
'No one should be surprised if Russia spreads disinformation about commitments that have not been made, or if it goes even further and instigates something as a pretext for further destabilizing activity. We urge everyone not to fall for Moscow's continuing disinformation,' the statement said.  Read also:  Moscow plans to destabilize Ukraine from within - Nuland As reported, on January 12, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nuland said Moscow had crafted a plan for an internal destabilization of Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The United States Embassy in Ukraine has urged not to succumb to Moscow's misinformation, which it could use as a pretext to further destabilize the situation. The embassy addressed the issue on Twitter  on Thursday, Ukrinform reports.
As reported, on January 12, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nuland said Moscow had crafted a plan for an internal destabilization of Ukraine.
On Monday, January 10, in Geneva, the American and Russian official delegations concluded a one-day meeting aimed at searching for diplomatic ways to reduce tensions in Europe. The U.S. delegation rejected any possibility of curtailing NATO's open-door policy toward other nations, including Ukraine.
'No one should be surprised if Russia spreads disinformation about commitments that have not been made, or if it goes even further and instigates something as a pretext for further destabilizing activity. We urge everyone not to fall for Moscow's continuing disinformation,' the statement said.
