Draft Resolution Recognizing Russias Actions In Ukraine As Genocide Presented In US Senate
20220721
https://menafn.com/1104570745/Draft-Resolution-Recognizing-Russias-Actions-In-Ukraine-As-Genocide-Presented-In-US-Senate
He recalled the crimes that the Russian troops had committed in Irpin, Hostomel, and other Ukrainian settlements.The international community is documenting the many Russian abuses that constitute war crimes across Ukraine. It's time the United States and the world recognize it as such, said Senator Risch.  Read also:  ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan Senator Ben Cardin D-Md., who heads the U.S. Helsinki Commission, said Russia's actions constitute genocide, which does not limit itself to war.
Russia is trying to eviscerate not just the people and the buildings of Ukraine, but also they are trying to eliminate the Ukrainian language, Ukrainian history and Ukrainian culture. This is genocide. The world must recognize this fact and those responsible must be held accountable, Senator Cardin said.  Read also:  Russian war crimes reminded world of  genocide  in Srebrenica - European Commission The resolution condemns Russia for committing acts of genocide against the people of Ukraine calls on the United States, along with NATO and EU allies, to support the government of Ukraine to prevent further acts of Russian genocide against the Ukrainian people and supports tribunals and international criminal investigations to hold Russian political leaders and military personnel accountable for a war of aggression, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm A bipartisan group of high-ranking U.S. Senators has presented a draft resolution recognizing Russia's unprovoked war against Ukraine as genocide of the Ukrainian people. The draft's text has been published on the Foreign Affairs Committee's website , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The resolution condemns Russia for committing acts of genocide against the people of Ukraine calls on the United States, along with NATO and EU allies, to support the government of Ukraine to prevent further acts of Russian genocide against the Ukrainian people and supports tribunals and international criminal investigations to hold Russian political leaders and military personnel accountable for a war of aggression, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide.
There is no question that what Russia is doing in Ukraine is a genocide, said Senator Jim Risch R-Idaho.
Senator Ben Cardin D-Md., who heads the U.S. Helsinki Commission, said Russia's actions constitute genocide, which does not limit itself to war.
The draft's text has been published on the Foreign Affairs Committee's website , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Russia is trying to eviscerate not just the people and the buildings of Ukraine, but also they are trying to eliminate the Ukrainian language, Ukrainian history and Ukrainian culture. This is genocide. The world must recognize this fact and those responsible must be held accountable, Senator Cardin said.
The draft was introduced by U.S. Senators Jim Risch R-Idaho, ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Ben Cardin D-Md., chair of the U.S. Helsinki Commission and author of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, Roger Wicker R-Miss., Richard Blumenthal D-Conn., Rob Portman R-Ohio, Jeanne Shaheen D-N.H., and Lindsey Graham R-S.C..
The draft was introduced by U.S. Senators Jim Risch R-Idaho, ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Ben Cardin D-Md., chair of the U.S. Helsinki Commission and author of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, Roger Wicker R-Miss., Richard Blumenthal D-Conn., Rob Portman R-Ohio, Jeanne Shaheen D-N.H., and Lindsey Graham R-S.C..  Read also:  Russian missile strikes on Vinnytsia another proof of  genocide  against Ukrainian people - Maliar As Ukrinform reported earlier, Ukraine's Ambassador to the United States, Oksana Markarova, underlined the importance of U.S. Congress recognizing as genocide the crimes committed in Ukraine by the Russian invasion forces.MENAFN21072022000193011044ID1104570745
He recalled the crimes that the Russian troops had committed in Irpin, Hostomel, and other Ukrainian settlements.The international community is documenting the many Russian abuses that constitute war crimes across Ukraine. It's time the United States and the world recognize it as such, said Senator Risch.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Ukraine's Ambassador to the United States, Oksana Markarova, underlined the importance of U.S. Congress recognizing as genocide the crimes committed in Ukraine by the Russian invasion forces.
