Dzheppar West should step up pressure on Russia over actions against Belarus
20211009
https://menafn.com/1102944864/Dzheppar-West-should-step-up-pressure-on-Russia-over-actions-against-Belarus
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Kremlin uses Belarus as a bridgehead to manipulate migration flows, channeling them into Poland and Lithuania. "That is why, in our opinion, the West should step up the pressure on Russia over its actions towards Belarus," First Deputy Foreign Minister of Ukraine Emine Dzheppar said during the UN Security Council's informal high-level Arria-formula meeting on the situation in Belarus, the Foreign Ministry's press service informs.
The event was initiated by the UN Security Council members: Estonia, Great Britain, Ireland, Norway, the United States, and France.
"That is why, in our opinion, the West should step up the pressure on Russia over its actions towards Belarus," First Deputy Foreign Minister of Ukraine Emine Dzheppar said during the UN Security Council's informal high-level Arria-formula meeting on the situation in Belarus, the Foreign Ministry's press service informs.
"Citizens of Ukraine also became victims of these repressions. We will continue making efforts to release our illegally detained compatriots and protect their rights," the official said.
It is extremely important to Ukraine and the whole of Europe that Belarus remains a sovereign and independent country, and further integration into the Russian Federation does not lead to the emergence of new challenges and threats on the borders of Ukraine and the European Union, Dzheppar noted.
Dzheppar paid special attention to the long-lasting and growing human rights violations and the campaign of political repression in Belarus.
In her speech, the deputy foreign minister stressed that Ukraine sought to develop good neighborly relations with the Republic of Belarus as an independent, sovereign, and prosperous country in which democratic values are upheld and fundamental freedoms are respected.
According to her, "within the framework of Putin's policy of comprehensive absorbing and stripping Belarus of its sovereignty, the anschluss of Belarus is actually taking place and it is being transformed into yet another military base to destabilize the security situation in Europe."
