Enemy trying to reach administrative borders of Luhansk Donetsk Kherson regions
20220402
https://menafn.com/1103953795/Enemy-trying-to-reach-administrative-borders-of-Luhansk-Donetsk-Kherson-regions&source=19
In Southern Buh direction, the enemy storms to reach the administrative borders of Kherson region.  Read also:  Russia's  combat  losses in Ukraine reach 17.8 thousand troops As noted, up to 75 BTGs are involved in combat missions in the territory of Ukraine. The combat readiness of up to 34 BTGs are being restored. Another 16 BTGs were completely destroyed information is being clarified.
According to the operational information as of 12:00, Russian invaders continue to conduct full-scale armed aggression against our state. In particular, the enemy intends to encircle the Joint Forces and reach the administrative borders of Luhansk and Donetsk regions. In order to restrain the actions of our troops, the enemy will continue to hold certain boundaries in the temporarily occupied territories of Kyiv and Chernihiv regions, probably in the areas near the state border of Ukraine with the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation, respectively,' the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook .
In Siversky direction, the enemy continues to keep in place separate units of the 41st Combined Arms Army to block the city of Chernihiv. According to available information, the main part of the occupiers' group is already set to leave for the territory of the Russian Federation.
In Donetsk direction, the enemy focuses its main efforts on taking control of the localities of Rubizhne, Severodonetsk, Popasna, Troitske, Avdiivka, Marinka, and Krasnohorivka. Invaders try to establish full control over the town of Mariupol.
Some units of the 2nd Guards Combined Arms Army were withdrawn from the Brovary direction to the territory of the Kursk region of the Russian Federation. Other units are ready to move towards the Russian border.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As noted, up to 75 BTGs are involved in combat missions in the territory of Ukraine. The combat readiness of up to 34 BTGs are being restored. Another 16 BTGs were completely destroyed information is being clarified.
It is noted that there are no signs of formation of offensive groups by the enemy in Volyn direction. Intensified operational and combat training measures are being carried out in the units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus. The enemy builds up the air defense system in the border areas with Ukraine.
In Southern Buh direction, the enemy storms to reach the administrative borders of Kherson region.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian invaders try to reach the administrative borders of Luhansk, Donetsk, and Kherson regions. According to the operational information as of 12:00, Russian invaders continue to conduct full-scale armed aggression against our state. In particular, the enemy intends to encircle the Joint Forces and reach the administrative borders of Luhansk and Donetsk regions. In order to restrain the actions of our troops, the enemy will continue to hold certain boundaries in the temporarily occupied territories of Kyiv and Chernihiv regions, probably in the areas near the state border of Ukraine with the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation, respectively,' the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook .
In Slobozhansky direction, the enemy continues to block the city of Kharkiv and tries to continue the offensive towards Izium.
In Polissia direction, the enemy continues to redeploy some units to the territory of the Republic of Belarus. In order to slow down the advance of Ukrainian units, the occupiers mine abandoned positions, routes, elements of transport infrastructure and equipment that cannot be evacuated.
