Enemy Intensifies Shelling Between Luhansk And Donetsk Regions Has No Particular Success
20220827
https://menafn.com/1104765793/Enemy-Intensifies-Shelling-Between-Luhansk-And-Donetsk-Regions-Has-No-Particular-Success
On February 24, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The Defense Forces of Ukraine are fiercely resisting the Russian troops. As of August 27, Ukrainian defenders already eliminated more than 46,000 Russian invaders.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Armed Forces of Ukraine repelled Russian attacks in the area between Donetsk region and Luhansk region. 'Last night, the enemy launched 23 artillery strikes, in particular, using MLRS. The invaders launched three tank offensives and four missile strikes. However, the occupiers are not able to turn limited tactical achievements, when they happen, into operational successes  they freeze in the occupied positions for months, and in some areas retreat to the previous ones,' Serhiy Haidai, Head of the Luhansk Regional Military Administration, posted on Facebook .
According to him, Russian attacks were repelled from six localities in the area between Luhansk region and Donetsk region. The Russian aircraft operated in the areas of another six towns and villages.
'Last night, the enemy launched 23 artillery strikes, in particular, using MLRS. The invaders launched three tank offensives and four missile strikes. However, the occupiers are not able to turn limited tactical achievements, when they happen, into operational successes  they freeze in the occupied positions for months, and in some areas retreat to the previous ones,' Serhiy Haidai, Head of the Luhansk Regional Military Administration, posted on Facebook .
