Epidemic of insanity strikes Americas leaders
20220124
https://menafn.com/1103582480/Epidemic-of-insanity-strikes-Americas-leaders&source=22
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
A baffled reporter asked if he was giving Russia permission for aminor incursion, and Biden dug himself in deeper: 'If it's something significantly short of a significant invasion or not even significant  major military forces coming in...for example, it's one thing to determine that if they continue to use cyber efforts, we can respond the same way, with cyberThere are differences in NATO as to what countries are willing to do, depending on what happens. The degree to which they are able to go.' To continue reading, please log in to your AT Premium account. Not yet a member? Please signup for AT Premium monthly membership , AT Premium yearly membership , AT Premium yearly membership educator , AT Premium yearly membership student or AT Premium Access membership .MENAFN24012022000159011032ID1103582480
Biden's January 19 press conference drew pity from the global press, with verbal gaffes unlike anything that has escaped the mouth of an American president before. He predicted a Russian military move into Ukraine: 'My guess is he will move in. He has to do something.' Russia will be 'held accountable if it invades,' Biden said, but added, 'It depends on what it does. It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera.'
It must be a hitherto unreported side-effect of the Omicron strain, perhaps a malignant protein activated by the rays of the full moon. America's political class, Democrat and Republican alike, appear to have gone babbling, barking mad, starting with President Joe Biden, but afflicting his political opponents as well.
A baffled reporter asked if he was giving Russia permission for aminor incursion, and Biden dug himself in deeper: 'If it's something significantly short of a significant invasion or not even significant  major military forces coming in...for example, it's one thing to determine that if they continue to use cyber efforts, we can respond the same way, with cyberThere are differences in NATO as to what countries are willing to do, depending on what happens. The degree to which they are able to go.'
MENAFN- Asia Times  It must be a hitherto unreported side-effect of the Omicron strain, perhaps a malignant protein activated by the rays of the full moon. America's political class, Democrat and Republican alike, appear to have gone babbling, barking mad, starting with President Joe Biden, but afflicting his political opponents as well.
