Estonian Delegation Visits Sites Of Russian War Crimes In Kyiv Chernihiv Regions
20220717
https://menafn.com/1104543103/Estonian-Delegation-Visits-Sites-Of-Russian-War-Crimes-In-Kyiv-Chernihiv-Regions
In addition, the parties discussed the assessment of the likely nature of the enemy's actions in the future, the security situation on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border, the development trends of the military-strategic situation in Eastern Europe and the Black Sea-Azov region.
According to Ukrinform, the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces said this in a Facebook  post.
The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces expressed gratitude to Estonia for its support and assistance.MENAFN17072022000193011044ID1104543103
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The delegation visited the hero cities of Hostomel, Borodianka and the territory of fierce fighting near Moshchun, Kyiv region.
MENAFN- UkrinForm A delegation of the Estonian Defense Forces, led by the commander, Lieutenant General Martin Herem, as part of an official visit to Ukraine, visited the sites of Russian war crimes in the Kyiv and Chernihiv regions. According to Ukrinform, the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces said this in a Facebook  post.
Meeting his Estonian colleague, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, General Valeriy Zaluzhny, said that Herem's arrival in Ukraine at this difficult time for the country is evidence of systemic support and solidarity in the war against Russia.
Also, together with the officers of the Operational Command North, the Estonian military visited the sites where Russian forces committed war crimes in the Chernihiv region. In particular, they saw the destroyed stadium, library, the Bobrovytsia residential neighborhood, etc. In addition, the foreign colleagues got acquainted with the security situation in the region and with how Ukrainian forces are countering Russia's armed aggression.
The commander of the Estonian Defense Forces emphasized that the example of Ukraine's struggle in the war with Russia is an invaluable experience for NATO countries, and Estonia is one of the states that has always supported Ukraine and its army, including by helping with the professional training of personnel.
The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces expressed gratitude to Estonia for its support and assistance.
'I appreciate the involvement and assistance of Estonia, the effective support of the military, the high level of our military cooperation, as well as the hospitality with which the Estonians accepted refugees from Ukraine,' Zaluzhny said.
During the visit, the delegation of the Estonian Defense Forces was familiarized with the security situation in Ukraine, the composition and number of Russian groups both in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and in the territory of the Russian Federation along the state border of Ukraine and the territory of neighboring states, the nature of the enemy's actions and directions of concentration, its losses in personnel and equipment, revealed facts of the enemy's violation of the rules of warfare and war crimes against humanity.
