EU assistance to Ukraine a signal to investors that theres nothing to fear  Dombrovskis
20220201
https://menafn.com/1103623297/EU-assistance-to-Ukraine-a-signal-to-investors-that-theres-nothing-to-fear-Dombrovskis&source=28
'The European Commission is going to adopt a new emergency macro-financial assistance package of EUR 1.2 billion tomorrow.  One of the reasons why we are moving so swiftly with the macro-financial program is not only to provide financial assistance to Ukraine but also to reassure investors that the EU will continue to support Ukraine. We clearly see that the situation with this massive Russian military build-up on Ukraine's border  is also undermining the confidence of investors. There's a complicated situation on financial markets. That's why the purpose of this macro-financial program is also to give a reassuring signal to investors of continued EU support,' Dombrovskis said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The provision of EUR 1.2 billion in emergency macro-financial assistance to Ukraine by the European Commission should be a signal to investors that there is no reason to withdraw funds from Ukraine. European Commission Executive Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis said this after a meeting with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal in Kyiv on Monday, January 31, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
European Commission Executive Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis said this after a meeting with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal in Kyiv on Monday, January 31, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced on January 24 that the European Commission will provide Ukraine with a new package of financial assistance of EUR 1.2 billion.
Dombrovskis said that the EU would be stepping up its support for Ukraine, both in the immediate and medium term.
During his visit to Kyiv, EU Commissioner for Neighborhood and Enlargement Oliver Varhelyi said that the European Union plans to provide Ukraine with the first tranche of macro-financial assistance as soon as possible.
