EU on Crimea census Russias attempt to legitimize illegal annexation
20211016
https://menafn.com/1102977112/EU-on-Crimea-census-Russias-attempt-to-legitimize-illegal-annexation&source=138
"The European Union will continue to work for a peaceful end of Russia's illegal annexation of the peninsula, as reiterated at the first summit of the International Crimea Platform on 23 August. The European Union will continue and to enforce its non-recognition policy," the statement reads.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The European Union condemns Russia's decision to conduct a population census in the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, according to a statement made by EU Spokesperson Peter Stano. "The EU condemns the decision of the Russian Federation to conduct a population census in the illegally annexed Ukrainian territory of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol from 15 October until 14 November, and the launching of yet another conscription campaign on 1 October," the statement reads.  Read also:  Ukraine condemns census in  Crimea  The EU stressed that Russia's actions were an attempt "to legitimize the illegal annexation of Crimea and further undermine the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders."
The EU stressed that Russia's actions were an attempt "to legitimize the illegal annexation of Crimea and further undermine the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders."
"The EU condemns the decision of the Russian Federation to conduct a population census in the illegally annexed Ukrainian territory of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol from 15 October until 14 November, and the launching of yet another conscription campaign on 1 October," the statement reads.
The EU called on Russia to stop violating international law and international humanitarian law in Crimea.
