EU Representatives Of Russian Federation Will Be Held Accountable For Atrocities In Ukraine
20220730
https://menafn.com/1104616769/EU-Representatives-Of-Russian-Federation-Will-Be-Held-Accountable-For-Atrocities-In-Ukraine
The perpetrators of war crimes and other serious violations, as well as the responsible government officials and military representatives, will be held accountable. The European Union actively supports all measures to ensure accountability for human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law committed during the Russian aggression in Ukraine, Borrell stressed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russia's ongoing illegitimate and unjustified war of aggression against Ukraine and its people brings further horrific atrocities day by dayThe European Union condemns in the strongest possible terms the atrocities committed by the Russian armed forces and their proxies. These inhumane, barbaric acts represent severe breaches of the Geneva conventions and their Additional Protocol and amount to war crimes, the EU high representative said.
EU High Representative Josep Borrell said in a statement published on the website of the Diplomatic Service of the European Union, Ukrinform reports.
It is said in the statement that in Olenivka, in eastern Ukraine, Russia is reported to have killed dozens of Ukrainian prisoners of war, including defenders of Mariupol's Azovstal steel plant, who surrendered to Russia, were registered by the ICRC in May and were in Russia's legal protection under international humanitarian law. Evidence in form of appalling video footage has been widely shared on pro-Kremlin social networks today, in which Russian soldiers commit a heinous atrocity against a Ukrainian prisoner of war.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Every day of Russia's military aggression against Ukraine brings new atrocities, which is evidenced by mass murder of Ukrainian prisoners of war in occupied Olenivka and terrible videos showing Russian soldiers torturing a Ukrainian prisoner of war. EU High Representative Josep Borrell said in a statement published on the website of the Diplomatic Service of the European Union, Ukrinform reports.
