EU Will Suspend Agreement With Russia That Eases Visa Issuance
20210831
https://menafn.com/1104787891/EU-Will-Suspend-Agreement-With-Russia-That-Eases-Visa-Issuance
He said the agreement that eases visa issuance will be suspended with a qualified majority support. He did not say whether Hungary backed this measure.
'There won't be a general blanket visa ban imposed for Russian citizens,' he said. 'Several member states have raised their voice against this, including myself.'
Gazprom started to increase gas supplies to Hungary earlier this month, adding to its previously agreed deliveries via the Turkstream pipeline.
MENAFN- The Peninsula  Reuters  BUDAPEST: The European Union will suspend an agreement with Russia that eases visa issuance but there will not be a blanket visa ban imposed as there is no unanimity on that, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook on Wednesday.
Szijjarto also announced that Hungary has signed a deal with Russia's Gazprom for additional gas shipments from Sept. 1.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Szijjarto said Gazprom would increase daily additional gas shipments on top of an existing long-term supply deal with Russia to a maximum 5.8 million cubic metres per day from Sept. 1 versus 2.6 million cubic metres per day delivered in August.
Eastern and Nordic countries strongly back a tourism ban, while Germany and France have warned their peers it would be counter-productive, saying ordinary Russians should still be allowed access to the West.
Under a deal signed last year, before the start of the war in neighbouring Ukraine, Hungary received 3.5 billion cubic metres bcm of gas per year via Bulgaria and Serbia under its long-term deal with Russia and a further 1 bcm via a pipeline from Austria. The agreement with Gazprom is for 15 years
BUDAPEST: The European Union will suspend an agreement with Russia that eases visa issuance but there will not be a blanket visa ban imposed as there is no unanimity on that, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook on Wednesday.
He said Hungary, along with some other member states, opposed a Russian visa ban at a meeting of EU ministers in Prague.
