European Council To Consider Ukraines Application For EU Candidate Status In June  Michel
20220511
https://menafn.com/1104183318/European-Council-To-Consider-Ukraines-Application-For-EU-Candidate-Status-In-June-Michel&source=138
The President of Ukraine also noted that, at the difficult time of Russia's invasion, Ukrainians are very grateful for the bold position of Charles Michel and his personal presence in Odesa.
Zelensky also thanked for the sanctions policy of the European Union. He stressed that Ukraine is waiting for the adoption of the next packages of sanctions against the aggressor country.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Zelensky noted that Ukraine delivers grain to about 400 million people in the world. In his words, blocking the export of Ukrainian agricultural products is already leading to rising food prices across the globe. As a result, this may lead to growing famine and political instability in a number of regions on the planet.
I am confident that the EU and the world will not stop at six sanctions packages. It is not the number of these packages that matters but their effectiveness. I am convinced that the main result is peace on our land and, therefore, in Europe, Zelensky noted.
According to the President of the European Council, today the Ukrainian people are fighting not only for their homeland, but also for the common European values of democracy and freedom. The European Union supports Ukraine and is impressed by the resilience and courage of the Ukrainian people, Michel added.
I am very pleased that today, at the highest level, the European Union supports Ukraine, at a time when manifestations of Nazism, unfortunately, exist and are being revived. But they should not be spread, and we are doing everything for this together, the President of Ukraine said.
In his words, the European Council will consider Ukraine's application for EU candidate status in June 2022.
The relevant statement was made by President of the European Council Charles Michel during a video conference with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, an Ukrinform correspondent reports, referring to the Office of the President of Ukraine.
The President of the European Council, who visited Odesa Sea Port, where the blocked ship with Ukrainian grain is located, stressed that wheat should be available to all people in the world so that famine does not spread across the planet.
The European Union supports Ukraine not in words but in deeds. Today, financial support is also very important for us, Zelensky said, adding that he counts on Michel's assistance in the dialogue with African and Asian countries to support Ukraine.
There must be a 'Marshall Plan' for your initiatives. We must mobilize global support so that you can cope with humanitarian challenges and start rebuilding Ukraine's economy, Michel noted.
Zelensky congratulated Michel on the anniversary of the victory in World War II and thanked him for his visit to Ukraine.
According to Zelensky, it is important to prevent the global food crisis, which could be caused by Russia's aggressive actions. Russian warships in the Black Sea are blocking the passage of merchant ships to Ukrainian ports.
Meanwhile, the President of the European Council assured Zelensky that the European Union will continue to provide maximum financial and defense assistance to Ukraine. The EU has already approved a plan to support Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The European Council will consider Ukraine's application for EU candidate status in June 2022. The relevant statement was made by President of the European Council Charles Michel during a video conference with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, an Ukrinform correspondent reports, referring to the Office of the President of Ukraine.
I want to thank you for your political support, for being here. For the fact that you see Ukraine in the near future equal among other members of the European family, the President of Ukraine stressed.
Zelensky and Michel stressed the importance of taking immediate measures for Russia to unblock Ukrainian ports for grain exports.
