Fierce Fighting InUkraines East As Kyiv Claims Slowing Russian Advance
20220518
https://menafn.com/1104232093/Fierce-Fighting-InUkraines-East-As-Kyiv-Claims-Slowing-Russian-Advance&source=19
From inside, Sviatoslav Palamar, one of the leaders of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, told the online Kyiv Security Forum there were 600 wounded there and pleaded for help to evacuate them.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Friday said his troops would fight to recapture all occupied territory, and those under siege.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Kharkiv Regional Governor Oleh Synegubov meanwhile said in a video on Telegram that Ukrainian forces were counterattacking in the direction of the northeastern city of Izium.
Aerial images showed dozens of destroyed armoured vehicles on the river bank and wrecked pontoon bridges.
In Washington, a senior US defence official said most of the activity was now in the Donbas area.
The Ukrainian general staff said in an update Saturday that Russian forces continuedto blockade our units near the Azovstal plant and carried outmassive artillery and air strikes.
Russia, which sent in troops to Ukraine on February 24, has increasingly turned its attention to eastern Ukraine since the end of March.
UK military intelligence also said Russian forces had sustained heavy losses as they attempted the river crossing.
There's heavy fighting on the border with Donetsk region, Gaidai said, reporting big Russian losses of equipment and personnel.
That included those in the southern port city of Mariupol, where the last defenders are holed up in the vast Azovstal steelworks.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine on Saturday claimed it was holding back a Russian assault in the eastern Donbas region and vowed to extract its last remaining fighters from a besieged steel plant.
The enemy's main efforts are focused on ensuring the withdrawal of its units from the city of Kharkiv, a spokesman said.
Russian forces hadfailed to make any significant advances despite concentrating forces in this area, it said.
The governor of the eastern Lugansk region, Serhiy Gaidai, said Ukrainian forces had prevented Russian attempts to cross a river and encircle the city of Severodonetsk.
MENAFN- Jordan Times  KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine on Saturday claimed it was holding back a Russian assault in the eastern Donbas region and vowed to extract its last remaining fighters from a besieged steel plant.The G-7 group of the world's top industrialised nations meanwhile reiterated it would 'never recognise' the borders Russia has attempted to redraw through aggression and pledged more sanctions to tighten the screw on Moscow.Ukraine's head of military intelligence, however, predicted a turning point in the months ahead, and claimed that one of Europe's biggest conflicts since World War II could even be over by the end of the year.Russia, which sent in troops to Ukraine on February 24, has increasingly turned its attention to eastern Ukraine since the end of March.Western analysts believe President Vladimir Putin has his sights on annexing southern and eastern Ukraine in the months ahead but his troops have appeared to be encountering stiff resistance.The governor of the eastern Lugansk region, Serhiy Gaidai, said Ukrainian forces had prevented Russian attempts to cross a river and encircle the city of Severodonetsk.There's heavy fighting on the border with Donetsk region, Gaidai said, reporting big Russian losses of equipment and personnel.From interceptions phone calls, we understand that a whole Russian battalion has refused to attack, because they see what's happening.Aerial images showed dozens of destroyed armoured vehicles on the river bank and wrecked pontoon bridges.'Counter-attack'UK military intelligence also said Russian forces had sustained heavy losses as they attempted the river crossing.The highly risky manoeuvre reflectedthe pressure the Russian commanders are under to make progress in their operations in eastern Ukraine, it added.Russian forces hadfailed to make any significant advances despite concentrating forces in this area, it said.In Washington, a senior US defence official said most of the activity was now in the Donbas area.Kharkiv Regional Governor Oleh Synegubov meanwhile said in a video on Telegram that Ukrainian forces were counterattacking in the direction of the northeastern city of Izium.The Ukrainian General Staff said troops had managed to push Russian troops out of the Kharkiv, a priority target for Moscow.The enemy's main efforts are focused on ensuring the withdrawal of its units from the city of Kharkiv, a spokesman said.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Friday said his troops would fight to recapture all occupied territory, and those under siege.That included those in the southern port city of Mariupol, where the last defenders are holed up in the vast Azovstal steelworks.Currently, very difficult negotiations are underway on the next stage of the evacuation mission, the rescue of the seriously wounded, medics. It is a large number of people, he said.Women, children and the elderly who had taken refuge in the tunnels and bunkers in the Azovstal plant were evacuated at the end of April with the help of the United Nations and Red Cross.The Ukrainian general staff said in an update Saturday that Russian forces continuedto blockade our units near the Azovstal plant and carried outmassive artillery and air strikes.From inside, Sviatoslav Palamar, one of the leaders of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, told the online Kyiv Security Forum there were 600 wounded there and pleaded for help to evacuate them.We continue to defend ourselves, and we shall not surrender, he said.MENAFN17052022000028011005ID1104232093
From interceptions phone calls, we understand that a whole Russian battalion has refused to attack, because they see what's happening.
The Ukrainian General Staff said troops had managed to push Russian troops out of the Kharkiv, a priority target for Moscow.
The G-7 group of the world's top industrialised nations meanwhile reiterated it would 'never recognise' the borders Russia has attempted to redraw through aggression and pledged more sanctions to tighten the screw on Moscow.
Women, children and the elderly who had taken refuge in the tunnels and bunkers in the Azovstal plant were evacuated at the end of April with the help of the United Nations and Red Cross.
The highly risky manoeuvre reflectedthe pressure the Russian commanders are under to make progress in their operations in eastern Ukraine, it added.
Ukraine's head of military intelligence, however, predicted a turning point in the months ahead, and claimed that one of Europe's biggest conflicts since World War II could even be over by the end of the year.
Western analysts believe President Vladimir Putin has his sights on annexing southern and eastern Ukraine in the months ahead but his troops have appeared to be encountering stiff resistance.
Currently, very difficult negotiations are underway on the next stage of the evacuation mission, the rescue of the seriously wounded, medics. It is a large number of people, he said.
