FM Kuleba Calls On Partners To Recognize Russia As Terrorist State After Shelling Of Olenivka
20220729
https://menafn.com/1104615028/FM-Kuleba-Calls-On-Partners-To-Recognize-Russia-As-Terrorist-State-After-Shelling-Of-Olenivka
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Twitter , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
In Donetsk Region's Olenivka, near Mariupol, two filtration prisons were established by Russian invaders. Here, they keep former law enforcement officers, pro-Ukrainian activists, the 'unfaithful' until they are sentenced or undergo filtration procedures, and volunteers who evacuated Mariupol residents. It was also reported that the Ukrainian servicemen taken captive in Mariupol had been brought there.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russia has committed another petrifying war crime by shelling a correctional facility in the occupied Olenivka, where it held Ukrainian POWs. I call on all partners to strongly condemn this brutal violation of international humanitarian law and recognize Russia a terrorist state, Kuleba wrote.
A reminder that, according to the data from the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Russian troops deliberately launched an artillery strike on a correctional facility in Olenivka, where Ukrainian prisoners of war were kept. The effects of the enemy shelling are yet to be checked.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Minister Dmytro Kuleba has called on partners to strongly condemn Russia's shelling of a correctional facility in the occupied Olenivka and recognize Russia as a terrorist state. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Twitter , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
