Forcible Mobilization Fails In Temporarily Occupied Izium
20220519
https://menafn.com/1104243544/Forcible-Mobilization-Fails-In-Temporarily-Occupied-Izium
Kharkiv Regional Military Administration head Oleh Syniehubov shared the news in an interview with Fokus , Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As Ukrinform reported, the Russian invaders blocked the city of Izium in early March and gave no consent to opening humanitarian evacuation corridors. Amid intensive shelling and airstrikes lasting since March 6, all of the city's infrastructure has been destroyed, and almost 80 of residential buildings have been ruined.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The 'mobilization' campaign that the invaders launched in the temporarily captured city of Izium, Kharkiv region, has failed at its core. Kharkiv Regional Military Administration head Oleh Syniehubov shared the news in an interview with Fokus , Ukrinform reports.
'We have information that they tried to do it forcibly mobilize people - ed., but, in fact, it was a failure. That is, they actually offered people to either flee Izium for Russia or join their armed forces. They gave people a choice. There is no information that anyone at all has volunteered to join the Russian military, Syniehubov said.
'We have information that they tried to do it forcibly mobilize people - ed., but, in fact, it was a failure. That is, they actually offered people to either flee Izium for Russia or join their armed forces. They gave people a choice. There is no information that anyone at all has volunteered to join the Russian military, Syniehubov said.  Read also:  Even women could be drafted into Russian army in occupied areas, Ombudsperson warns As Ukrinform reported, the Russian invaders blocked the city of Izium in early March and gave no consent to opening humanitarian evacuation corridors. Amid intensive shelling and airstrikes lasting since March 6, all of the city's infrastructure has been destroyed, and almost 80 of residential buildings have been ruined.
After an unsuccessful disinformation campaign carried out in cooperation with local traitors, the Russian invaders forcibly deported people from the city. The local Ukrainian authorities said that some of the citizens were primarily sent to Belgorod. Having gone throughfiltration camps, the deportees further moved from Russia to the European Union's Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Poland to later return to Ukraine.MENAFN19052022000193011044ID1104243544
After an unsuccessful disinformation campaign carried out in cooperation with local traitors, the Russian invaders forcibly deported people from the city. The local Ukrainian authorities said that some of the citizens were primarily sent to Belgorod. Having gone throughfiltration camps, the deportees further moved from Russia to the European Union's Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Poland to later return to Ukraine.
