Four Ukrainian soldiers wounded in JFO area over past day
20211118
https://menafn.com/1103197684/Four-Ukrainian-soldiers-wounded-in-JFO-area-over-past-day&source=138
In the area of Shumy 41km north of Donetsk, the occupiers fired tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Without resorting to weapons prohibited under the Minsk agreements, Ukrainian defenders returned fire and forced the enemy to cease shelling.
In the area of Novooleksandrivka 65km west of Luhansk, the occupiers launched two attacks, using 82mm and 120mm mortars, as well as tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns.
Outside Prychepylivka 50km north-west of Luhansk, three attacks, using 152mm artillery, 82mm mortars, tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns, and heavy machine guns, were launched.
Outside Zolote-4 59km west of Luhansk, Russian mercenaries launched two attacks on positions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, using 120mm mortars and tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns.
Towards Krymske 42km north-west of Luhansk, the enemy fired 82mm mortars and tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns.
MENAFN- UkrinFormOver the past day, the occupiers launched 14 attacks on the positions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Joint Forces Operation JFO area in eastern Ukraine. Over the past day, November 17, 14 ceasefire violations by Russian-occupation troops, including nine with the use of the weapons banned under the Minsk agreements, were recorded, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine informs.
Towards Lebedynske 16km east of Mariupol, the armed formations of the Russian Federation used grenade launchers of different systems.
Over the past day, November 17, 14 ceasefire violations by Russian-occupation troops, including nine with the use of the weapons banned under the Minsk agreements, were recorded, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine informs.
