Four Russian Tanks And Attack Helicopter Destroyed In JFO Area
20220606
https://menafn.com/1104327329/Four-Russian-Tanks-And-Attack-Helicopter-Destroyed-In-JFO-Area
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian defenders have destroyed four Russian tanks, one attack helicopter and three artillery systems in the Joint Forces Operation JFO area over the past day. The relevant statement was made by the Joint Forces Task Force on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
All over the defense line, the enemy is using combat aviation, multiple launch rocket systems, cannon artillery, tanks, mortars, and launching missile and air strikes on civil infrastructure facilities and peaceful residential areas.
The relevant statement was made by the Joint Forces Task Force on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The Ukrainian military have repulsed seven enemy attacks in the JFO area over the past day. Battles are still raging within two more locations.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Seven civilians were killed in Russia's shelling of Donetsk Region and Luhansk Region. The data on casualties are yet to be updated.
Russian invaders opened fire on more than 20 settlements in Donetsk Region and Luhansk Region, having destroyed and damaged 41 civilian objects, namely 33 residential houses, hospital, water pipeline, mixed fodder plant, engineering plant and agricultural enterprise.
The JFO fighters continue to keep the defense within the designated control area in the Donetsk and Luhansk directions.
On June 5, 2022, the Joint Forces destroyed four Russian tanks, three artillery systems, eight armored fighting vehicles and three motor vehicles. The Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense units shot down Russia's Ka-52 helicopter and unmanned aerial vehicle in the east.
