G7 ministers EU call on Russia to withdraw troops from Ukraine
20220407
https://menafn.com/1103977300/G7-ministers-EU-call-on-Russia-to-withdraw-troops-from-Ukraine&source=28
It is also noted that those responsible for the heinous acts and atrocities, including any attacks targeting civilians and destruction of civilian infrastructure, will be held accountable and prosecuted.
Any use by Russia of such a weapon would be unacceptable and result in severe consequences. We condemn Russia's unsubstantiated claims and false allegations against Ukraine, a respected member of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention that is in compliance with its legal obligations under those instruments. We express concern about other countries and actors that have amplified Russia's disinformation campaign, the statement reads.
Further, we urge Russia to withdraw completely its military forces and equipment from the entire territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders, the officials state.
It is underscored that the massacres in the town of Bucha and other Ukrainian towns will be inscribed in the list of atrocities and severe violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, committed by the aggressor on Ukrainian soil.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Moreover, the G7 ministers and the EU High Representative underline that Russia must immediately comply with the legally binding order of the International Court of Justice ICJ to suspend the military operations that it commenced on 24 February 2022 in the territory of Ukraine.
We, the G7 Foreign Ministers of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America, and the High Representative of the European Union, condemn in the strongest terms the atrocities committed by the Russian armed forces in Bucha and a number of other Ukrainian towns. Haunting images of civilian deaths, victims of torture, and apparent executions, as well as reports of sexual violence and destruction of civilian infrastructure show the true face of Russia's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine and its people, reads the joint statement by G7 foreign ministers and the High Representative of the European Union issued following today's NATO meeting.
We will provide investigative support, technical experts and funding. We will continue to promote accountability for all those complicit in Moscow's war of choice, including the Lukashenka regime in Belarus. We are convinced that now is the time to suspend Russian membership of the UN Human Rights Council, the statement says.
The G7 ministers and the EU High Representative also reiterate their demand that Russia upholds its obligations under international humanitarian law and provides for safe, rapid and unimpeded humanitarian access to besieged cities.
As noted, the G7 ministers and the EU High Representative expressed their heart-felt solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their deepest condolences to the victims of this war and their families in the presence of Foreign Minister of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba.
In addition, the statement underscored the need to further increase economic pressure on Russia and the Lukashenko regime in Belarus. 'Together with international partners, the G7 will sustain and increase pressure on Russia by imposing coordinated additional restrictive measures to effectively thwart Russian abilities to continue the aggression against Ukraine. We will work together to stop any attempts to circumvent sanctions or to aid Russia by other means. We are taking further steps to expedite plans to reduce our reliance on Russian energy, and will work together to this end,' the statement says.
We underline our unwavering support for Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders and express our readiness to assist further, including with military equipment and financial means, to allow Ukraine to defend itself against Russia's aggression and to rebuild Ukraine, reads the statement.
The statement expresses the gravest concernwith Russia forcefully seizing control of nuclear facilities, and other violent actions in connection with a number of nuclear facilities, nuclear and other radioactive material, which have caused and continue to pose serious and direct threats to the safety and security of these facilities and their civilian personnel, significantly raising the risk of a nuclear accident or incident, which endangers the population of Ukraine, neighbouring States and the international community.
The G7 ministers and the EU High Representative warn against any threat or use of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. They recall Russia's obligations under international treaties of which it is a party, and which protect us all.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The G7 foreign ministers and European Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell condemned the atrocities, committed by Russians in Bucha and other Ukrainian towns, and called on Russia to end the war against Ukraine. We, the G7 Foreign Ministers of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America, and the High Representative of the European Union, condemn in the strongest terms the atrocities committed by the Russian armed forces in Bucha and a number of other Ukrainian towns. Haunting images of civilian deaths, victims of torture, and apparent executions, as well as reports of sexual violence and destruction of civilian infrastructure show the true face of Russia's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine and its people, reads the joint statement by G7 foreign ministers and the High Representative of the European Union issued following today's NATO meeting.  Read also:  Kuleba proposes  deal  to the world: You help, Ukraine fights and defeats Russia It is underscored that the massacres in the town of Bucha and other Ukrainian towns will be inscribed in the list of atrocities and severe violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, committed by the aggressor on Ukrainian soil.
The G7 ministers and the EU High Representative pledge to support Ukraine with humanitarian aid and funding.
