Germany Mulls Supply Of Ten Air Defense Systems To Ukraine  Bild
20220514
https://menafn.com/1104211962/Germany-Mulls-Supply-Of-Ten-Air-Defense-Systems-To-Ukraine-Bild&source=19
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In the coming days, Ukrainian artillerymen will be trained to handle PzH 2000 tank howitzers, which Germany and the Netherlands plan to deliver to Kyiv.
It should be recalled that on April 28, the Bundestag approved the supply of heavy weapons to Ukraine. On May 9, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said that Russia's aggression leaves Germany no choice but to supply weapons to Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The German Security Council is discussing the supply of ten Diehl IRIS-T SLM air defense systems to Ukraine. This was reported by Bild  citing sources in the German government, Ukrinform reports.
In the coming days, Ukrainian artillerymen will be trained to handle PzH 2000 tank howitzers, which Germany and the Netherlands plan to deliver to Kyiv.MENAFN14052022000193011044ID1104211962
If the supply is approved by the German Security Council, Ukraine may receive the first complexes in November 2022.  Read also:  Russia failing to restore combat capability of units withdrawn from Ukraine - intel It will take three to four years to produce all ten complexes requested by Ukraine. Ukrainian soldiers will have to undergo appropriate training in Germany.
If the supply is approved by the German Security Council, Ukraine may receive the first complexes in November 2022.
It will take three to four years to produce all ten complexes requested by Ukraine. Ukrainian soldiers will have to undergo appropriate training in Germany.
The range of IRIS-T SLM system is 40 km, while its operating altitude is 20 km. With the help of these air defense systems, the forces can repel the attacks of combat aircraft, helicopters, cruise missiles, and drones.
