Global Food Crisis Is One Of Russias Intentional Goals  Kyslytsya
20220506
https://menafn.com/1104168890/Global-Food-Crisis-Is-One-Of-Russias-Intentional-Goals-Kyslytsya&source=138
In his words, Russia is also attacking grain elevators, agricultural infrastructure and fertilizer depots, as well as stealing agricultural vehicles.
Russia has already stolen about 400,000 tonnes of grain within the temporarily occupied areas of Zaporizhzhia Region, Kherson Region, Donetsk Region and Luhansk Region. This accounts to a third of all reserves in these regions.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Kyslytsya mentioned the UN report, based o which more than 1.7 billion people in the world might be at risk of poverty and hunger as a result of disruptions in the food production system caused by Russia's full-scale war against Ukraine. Meanwhile, the Russian Federation continues to deliberately block the sowing campaign in Ukraine.
We call on the international community to strengthen economic sanctions against Russia in order to stop its military aggression against Ukraine, prevent a humanitarian catastrophe and the global food crisis, Kyslytsya stressed.
According to Kyslytsya, the robbery of granaries, the blockade of Ukrainian ports and the mining of sea routes are threatening the global food security.
The relevant statement was made by Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations Sergiy Kyslytsya at a meeting of the UN Security Council on Thursday, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The Ukrainian side demands that Russia stop illegal grain theft, unblock Ukrainian ports and restore the freedom of navigation.
Given that the stolen grain was to be used for the next harvest, this has already increased the threat of famine, Kyslytsya said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Creating a food crisis in Ukraine and around the world is likely to be one of Russia's intentional goals in the war against Ukraine. The relevant statement was made by Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations Sergiy Kyslytsya at a meeting of the UN Security Council on Thursday, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
