Hunting Enemy Down Ukrainian Troops Destroy Three Russian Grad MLR Systems
20220613
https://menafn.com/1104367670/Hunting-Enemy-Down-Ukrainian-Troops-Destroy-Three-Russian-Grad-MLR-Systems
Our colleagues destroyed three of the four enemy MLR systems with high-precision strikes. Another Grad was damaged,' the statement said.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the defenders of Ukraine from February 24 to June 13 eliminated about 32,300 Russian servicemen.MENAFN13062022000193011044ID1104367670
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
That's according to the Special Operations Forces' report on Telegram , as seen by Ukrinform.
Our colleagues destroyed three of the four enemy MLR systems with high-precision strikes. Another Grad was damaged,' the statement said.  Read also:  Russians attacking Donetsk region with hypersonic missiles, tanks, artillery The SOF noted that the enemy used Grad MLR systems in shelling the city of Sieverodonetsk, other settlements and positions of the Defense Forces of Ukraine.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the defenders of Ukraine from February 24 to June 13 eliminated about 32,300 Russian servicemen.
In the Sieverodonetsk direction, operators of the Special Operations Forces located BM-21 Grad multiple rocket launchers during a reconnaissance mission in the enemy's rear. Having established the exact coordinates of enemy vehicles with a drone, the task force units passed the data to the artillery crew of an M777 howitzer manned by the National Guard.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian artillery units have destroyed three Russian Grad launchers outside Sieverodonetsk, Luhansk region. That's according to the Special Operations Forces' report on Telegram , as seen by Ukrinform.
The SOF noted that the enemy used Grad MLR systems in shelling the city of Sieverodonetsk, other settlements and positions of the Defense Forces of Ukraine.
