In Intercepted Call Soldier Of Russian ProxyDPR Army Complains About Lack Of Infantry
20220812
https://menafn.com/1104689927/In-Intercepted-Call-Soldier-Of-Russian-ProxyDPR-Army-Complains-About-Lack-Of-Infantry
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm A member of the illegal military formation 'DPR' discusses with a friend the recent explosions in Crimea and the issues observed in his army's ranks. That's according to the latest intercept  released by Ukraine's military intelligence, Ukrinform reports.
The two also discuss the lack of infantry in the Russian proxyDPR army, as well as their future plans. 'The DPR does not have enough infantry, which would be able to perform basic tasks. Maybe in another six months we will be disbanded and all go home, the man says.
'In Crimea, the airport blew up, all the ammunition was destroyed. Our people say it was an accident due to careless handling. But it's the vaunted anti-aircraft defense that didn't work, again,' the soldier says in the call.
'In Crimea, the airport blew up, all the ammunition was destroyed. Our people say it was an accident due to careless handling. But it's the vaunted anti-aircraft defense that didn't work, again,' the soldier says in the call.  Read also:  Invaders tell their relatives about great losses at front   intercept  His friend is heard saying that it was the Ukrainians who fired missiles at Crimea.
Probably, we will go to the 'DPR,' but I'm not sure there'll be our home there,' the Russian says.MENAFN12082022000193011044ID1104689927
His friend is heard saying that it was the Ukrainians who fired missiles at Crimea.
Probably, we will go to the 'DPR,' but I'm not sure there'll be our home there,' the Russian says.
