In Mykolaivka Donetsk Region Every Third Household Destroyed Or Damaged By Russian Strikes
20220612
https://menafn.com/1104362131/In-Mykolaivka-Donetsk-Region-Every-Third-Household-Destroyed-Or-Damaged-By-Russian-Strikes
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Thirty-nine households were hit today by the Russian occupiers in the small village of Mykolaivka, Donetsk region, which is every third home in the settlement. This was announced on Telegram  by the chief of the Donetsk Regional Military Administration, Pavlo Kyrylenko, Ukrinform reports.  Read also:  Russia sowing fear, panic to make Ukraine surrender - defense chief 'In fact, every third household was affected. The damage caused by Russian missiles is significant: two households were completely destroyed, 22 had their roofs blown off, and the rest saw their windows shattered, doors knocked out, and walls cracked. There are no soldiers in the village. But the occupiers don't care as they know exactly who they are targeting,' the official wrote.
This was announced on Telegram  by the chief of the Donetsk Regional Military Administration, Pavlo Kyrylenko, Ukrinform reports.
'In fact, every third household was affected. The damage caused by Russian missiles is significant: two households were completely destroyed, 22 had their roofs blown off, and the rest saw their windows shattered, doors knocked out, and walls cracked. There are no soldiers in the village. But the occupiers don't care as they know exactly who they are targeting,' the official wrote.
As reported, Russian troops are trying to establish full control over Luhansk and Donetsk regions, but to date they have failed to achieve their goal. The areas remain under constant enemy shelling.MENAFN12062022000193011044ID1104362131
As reported, Russian troops are trying to establish full control over Luhansk and Donetsk regions, but to date they have failed to achieve their goal. The areas remain under constant enemy shelling.
