Invaders Fire Artillery On Azovstal To Identify Positions Of Ukrainian Fighters
20220428
https://menafn.com/1104108271/Invaders-Fire-Artillery-On-Azovstal-To-Identify-Positions-Of-Ukrainian-Fighters&source=138
As reported, about 1,000 civilians and Ukrainian servicemen, including about 500 wounded, stay on the territory of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol. Ukrainian authorities demand that Russians must provide an urgent humanitarian corridor from the plant.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In Mariupol, Russian invaders fire artillery on the Azovstal steel plant, trying to identify the positions of Ukrainian defenders. 'Mariupol. Azovstal. Slag mountain. The occupiers are firing their artillery in an attempt to identify the positions of our defenders. What did the lame emperor of the lame empire say? No fighting is taking place. No comments,' Petro Andriushchenko, the adviser to Mariupol mayor, posted on Telegram .
'Mariupol. Azovstal. Slag mountain. The occupiers are firing their artillery in an attempt to identify the positions of our defenders. What did the lame emperor of the lame empire say? No fighting is taking place. No comments,' Petro Andriushchenko, the adviser to Mariupol mayor, posted on Telegram .
Mariupol experiences one of the biggest humanitarian catastrophes due to Russia's aggression. The invaders bomb unarmed residents and block the delivery of humanitarian aid.
Earlier, Russian president Putin called the assault on the Azovstal industrial zone inexpedient and ordered defense minister Sergei Shoigu to abandon it and impose a blockade.
He published a photo of the shelling of the slag mountain at the steel plant.
