Iron Curtain Shutting In Russia Ukrainians Should Leave ASAP  Vereshchuk
20220709
https://menafn.com/1104504447/Iron-Curtain-Shutting-In-Russia-Ukrainians-Should-Leave-ASAP-Vereshchuk
She said that, even in the absence of a passport and other IDs, Ukrainians can reach the border of Ukraine in any way or the border of Estonia and Latvia, and call 15-48 to get help.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In addition, Vereshchuk reported that, as of now, there are indeed cases being reported where people are held in filtration camps for weeks. However, there are even more cases where there is an opportunity to leave Russia but people don't dare, believing that in Ukraine, they will be considered collaborators. She assured that all Ukrainians, who for various reasons ended up in the territory of the aggressor power, can always return to Ukraine and receive government assistance.MENAFN08072022000193011044ID1104504447
In addition, Vereshchuk reported that, as of now, there are indeed cases being reported where people are held in filtration camps for weeks. However, there are even more cases where there is an opportunity to leave Russia but people don't dare, believing that in Ukraine, they will be considered collaborators. She assured that all Ukrainians, who for various reasons ended up in the territory of the aggressor power, can always return to Ukraine and receive government assistance.
Commenting on the information that the Russians are already starting to set up filtration camps on the border of Estonia and are actually preventing Ukrainians who seek to leave for EU territory, the Deputy Prime Minister noted: 'Not only on the border with Estonia, unfortunately, we are aware of filtration camps along the entire Russian border with other states.'
'I urge such people to make a decision in favor of Ukraine, and also at least to leave toward the territory of the European Union. There is already an 'iron curtain' over Russia, only cracks and narrow channels remain, which will allow Ukrainians and Ukrainian citizens to leave to the territory of the EU. Russia will do everything to ensure that these people who are there work and also serve - they can be mobilized into the Russian army - and then all legal paths will be severed,' urged Vereshchuk.
Currently, the Russian authorities are already setting up filtration camps on the EU border and making it difficult for Ukrainians to cross out, the official  said, speaking on the issue on the air of a nationwide telethon, as reported by Ukrinform.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Reintegration of Temporarily Occupied Territories Iryna Vereshchuk has called on Ukrainians who currently stay in the territory of the Russian Federation and have decided to 'wait out the war' there, to leave at least to the European Union, as they may soon be deprived of such an opportunity. Currently, the Russian authorities are already setting up filtration camps on the EU border and making it difficult for Ukrainians to cross out, the official  said, speaking on the issue on the air of a nationwide telethon, as reported by Ukrinform.
'I urge such people to make a decision in favor of Ukraine, and also at least to leave toward the territory of the European Union. There is already an 'iron curtain' over Russia, only cracks and narrow channels remain, which will allow Ukrainians and Ukrainian citizens to leave to the territory of the EU. Russia will do everything to ensure that these people who are there work and also serve - they can be mobilized into the Russian army - and then all legal paths will be severed,' urged Vereshchuk.  Read also:  Relatives of abducted residents of Kherson region forced to obtain Russian passports She said that, even in the absence of a passport and other IDs, Ukrainians can reach the border of Ukraine in any way or the border of Estonia and Latvia, and call 15-48 to get help.
