Is the welcome to Ukrainian refugees unusually generous  or overtly racist
20220317
https://menafn.com/1103862524/Is-the-welcome-to-Ukrainian-refugees-unusually-generous-or-overtly-racist&source=138
Similarly, Canada detained Tamils arriving by boat in 2009 and 2010 with the pretext that they were potential terrorists and human smugglers . Ten years later, many of them were still in limbo .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
While the current response is evidence of the enormous capacity to host refugees, it also reveals selective generosity based on the idea that some refugees are more deserving than others.
As if a border wall and police with tear gas aren't bad enough, the U.S. has been implementing agreements with Mexico and some Central American states to ensure that migrants are stopped before they even reach the American border.
The European Union and countries like Canada and the United States certainly resettle refugees of diverse backgrounds. But they also crack down on those attempting to reach their borders on their own initiative through militarized land and sea borders .
Through layers of border control and other migration laws, wealthy states sort people into hierarchies , keepingunwanted people in their regions of origin while facilitating mobility for supposedly ideal migrants.
Consider the migrant crisis by the Belarus-Polish border last year, when the European Union increased sanctions against Belarus and Poland started building a 353 million euro border wall .
Some recent commentators have argued that the Ukrainian refugee crisis has proven that humanitarianism can trump bureaucracy.
Although the geographical limitation was lifted in 1967, the definition of a refugee hasn't been reconsidered and the refugee regime has continued to be particularly difficult for countries of the Global South.  An African migrant helps another as they arrive on Spanish soil after crossing the fences separating the Spanish enclave of Melilla from Morocco, in Melilla, Spain, in March 2022. AP PhotoJavier Bernardo  During the 1980s and 1990s, a shift within refugee law and policy created what's known as the myth of difference by which refugees from the so-called Third World were different than those from Europe. That narrative has served as a pretext to contain refugees near their region of origin. People from the Global South were regarded as economic migrants rather than real refugees, the latter of which were white and anti-Communist.
Racial discrimination is recognized as one of the grounds for refugee protection in the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention . However, the convention was itself drafted with a bias towards European refugees, even though non-European countries protested this narrow focus and pointed to displaced populations in their own regions.
Read more: Help for Ukraine's fleeing refugees shows the power of support when the political will is there
Ukrainians fleeing should of course have the possibility to seek safety. But so should all refugees. Unfortunately, the existing legal infrastructure itself contributes to vastly unequal outcomes for people fleeing conflict depending on the colour of their skin and their country of origin. MENAFN16032022000199003603ID1103862522
Some recent commentators have argued that the Ukrainian refugee crisis has proven that humanitarianism can trump bureaucracy.    Read more: Help for Ukraine's fleeing refugees shows the power of support when the political will is there   While the current response is evidence of the enormous capacity to host refugees, it also reveals selective generosity based on the idea that some refugees are more deserving than others.
Mexico, traditionally a country of emigration, has its own discriminatory laws due to U.S. pressure, but historically also due to its own state-building project with a specific ethnic composition in mind .
The invasion of Ukraine and the ensuing flow of refugees into neighbouring countries has caused some western media to ask in horror how this could happen torelatively civilized people withblonde hair and blue eyes lookinglike any European family that you would live next door to.
The result is that less than one per cent of refugees are resettled every year.
Because international refugee law is developed in such a political context, it isn't aimed simply at helping refugees  it's also a tool for states to manage the movement of people.
While this is nothing new, its candour has startled many. For people like me working in the migration and refugee field, this racist distinction between supposedly civilized and non-civilized populations comes as no surprise, because this logic is deeply ingrained in the migration and refugee policies themselves.
Ukrainians throwing Molotov cocktails are hailed as freedom fighters , but non-white populations experiencing conflict  like Afghans, Syrians and Yemenis  are treated with far less generosity  and are frequently labelled as criminals, terrorists or economic migrants abusing generous asylum systems.
During the 1980s and 1990s, a shift within refugee law and policy created what's known as the myth of difference by which refugees from the so-called Third World were different than those from Europe. That narrative has served as a pretext to contain refugees near their region of origin. People from the Global South were regarded as economic migrants rather than real refugees, the latter of which were white and anti-Communist.
Ukrainians fleeing should of course have the possibility to seek safety. But so should all refugees. Unfortunately, the existing legal infrastructure itself contributes to vastly unequal outcomes for people fleeing conflict depending on the colour of their skin and their country of origin.
The welcoming of Ukrainian refugees bluntly illustrates this hierarchy.    Read more: Is Canada's welcome to fleeing Ukrainians a new era of refugee policy?   The European Union and countries like Canada and the United States certainly resettle refugees of diverse backgrounds. But they also crack down on those attempting to reach their borders on their own initiative through militarized land and sea borders .
As wealthy states make it increasingly challenging to enter their territories, they can cherry-pick who they consider desirable refugees through resettlement programs and other immigration schemes . Those not selected are left in difficult situations in transit states or risk their lives in an attempt to reach safety.
For those who manage to overcome such obstacles, sophisticated safe third-country agreements are in place, including in Canada, as yet another hurdle that bars many from applying for asylum.    Read more: U.S.-Canada agreement on refugees is now unconstitutional   Consider the migrant crisis by the Belarus-Polish border last year, when the European Union increased sanctions against Belarus and Poland started building a 353 million euro border wall .
MENAFN- The Conversation  The invasion of Ukraine and the ensuing flow of refugees into neighbouring countries has caused some western media to ask in horror how this could happen torelatively civilized people withblonde hair and blue eyes lookinglike any European family that you would live next door to.
For people like me working in the migration and refugee field, this racist distinction between supposedly civilized and non-civilized populations comes as no surprise, because this logic is deeply ingrained in the migration and refugee policies themselves.
This past January, an Indian family of four died while attempting to cross the U.S.-Canada border , a direct result of harsh migration control.
This bias continues as nations of the Global North  many of which are reluctant to host refugees  are at the vanguard of developing refugee policy and knowledge.
Academic institutions in the Global North are vastly over-represented in publications about refugees, while international organizations such as the United High Commission for Refugees UNHCR are dependent on northern funding .
These comments have rightfully been criticized by scholars, activists and other media outlets that have called out the double standards of news organizations and politicians.
Mexico, traditionally a country of emigration, has its own discriminatory laws due to U.S. pressure, but historically also due to its own state-building project with a specific ethnic composition in mind .    Read more: In Mexico, how erasing Black history fuels anti-Black racism   As wealthy states make it increasingly challenging to enter their territories, they can cherry-pick who they consider desirable refugees through resettlement programs and other immigration schemes . Those not selected are left in difficult situations in transit states or risk their lives in an attempt to reach safety.   Manitoba RCMP Superintendent Rob Lasson holds a news conference about four Indian citizens who died while crossing the Canada-U.S. border in January 2022. THE CANADIAN PRESSJohn Woods  This past January, an Indian family of four died while attempting to cross the U.S.-Canada border , a direct result of harsh migration control.
For those who manage to overcome such obstacles, sophisticated safe third-country agreements are in place, including in Canada, as yet another hurdle that bars many from applying for asylum.
Although the geographical limitation was lifted in 1967, the definition of a refugee hasn't been reconsidered and the refugee regime has continued to be particularly difficult for countries of the Global South.
