Kherson Is Ukraine Patriotic Ribbons Seen Hanging Across Occupied City Again
20220820
https://menafn.com/1104728422/Kherson-Is-Ukraine-Patriotic-Ribbons-Seen-Hanging-Across-Occupied-City-Again
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The resistance movement has also called on Kherson residents 'not to take Russian passports and not to support the invading government.'
The resistance movement has also called on Kherson residents 'not to take Russian passports and not to support the invading government.'  Read also:  Russian invaders intimidate teachers in occupied areas, forcing them to cooperate As reported, the 'Yellow Ribbon' resistance movement is holding an open-ended protest against the 'referendum' in the occupied territories.
As reported, the 'Yellow Ribbon' resistance movement is holding an open-ended protest against the 'referendum' in the occupied territories.
'Kherson is Ukraine! Our brave activists resist the enemy! We remind the Russians every day that Kherson does not surrender!' the statement reads.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In Kherson, patriotic ribbons and graffiti in support of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, as well as leaflets against the sham 'referendum' on accession to Russia can be seen across town. This was announced on Telegram by the 'Yellow Ribbon ' resistance movement, Ukrinform reports.
Raids and inspections are ongoing in the enemy-captured territory of Kherson region, while the so-calledfiltration measures are expected to be strengthened ahead of Ukraine's Independence Day marked on August 24.MENAFN20082022000193011044ID1104728422
Raids and inspections are ongoing in the enemy-captured territory of Kherson region, while the so-calledfiltration measures are expected to be strengthened ahead of Ukraine's Independence Day marked on August 24.
