Knauf Plant In Donetsk Region Hit By Russian Air Strike
20220520
https://menafn.com/1104230393/Knauf-Plant-In-Donetsk-Region-Hit-By-Russian-Air-Strike&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian occupiers have launched an air strike on the Knauf Ukraine plant, operated by a leading manufacturer of construction and finishing materials. Rescuers have deployed to the scene to put out the fire. Donetsk Regional Military Administration chief Pavlo Kyrylenko reported the incident on Telegram , Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Kyrylenko noted that, fortunately, no one was injured in the attack.  Read also:  Ukraine obtains new evidence of Russia's atrocities in Kharkiv region 'Once again, the Russians have attacked a fully civilian facility. They are deliberately destroying Donetsk region's industry in an attempt to wipe out what has been developed for years and decades. But they didn't take into account how ardent Ukrainians are. We will live through this. We will fight. We will rebuild everything,' the Regional Military Administration head stressed.MENAFN17052022000193011044ID1104230393
'An important enterprise for the region - Knauf Ukraine - was attacked today by Russian aircraft. The premises of the enterprise were damaged by fire. The team of the State Emergency Service is trying to contain the flame, the head of the region wrote.
'Once again, the Russians have attacked a fully civilian facility. They are deliberately destroying Donetsk region's industry in an attempt to wipe out what has been developed for years and decades. But they didn't take into account how ardent Ukrainians are. We will live through this. We will fight. We will rebuild everything,' the Regional Military Administration head stressed.
Donetsk Regional Military Administration chief Pavlo Kyrylenko reported the incident on Telegram , Ukrinform reports.
