Kremlin Spokesman MoscowKyiv Dialogue Possible
20220721
https://menafn.com/1104568579/Kremlin-Spokesman-Moscow-Kyiv-Dialogue-Possible
MENAFN- The Peninsula  QNA  Moscow:Russia's Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov said Thursday there is a possibility for a Moscow-Kyiv dialogue, stressing that both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov never ruled out the option to engage in talks with Kiev.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Read Also   U.S. Capitol probe's 'season finale' to focus on Trump supporters' three-hour rage   UK regulators tell airlines: minimise flight disruptions or face action   Hot and humid weather to continue in Qatar during weekend   The Russian military operations in Ukraine have continued unabated since Feb. 24, with no indications of an armistice in the horizons despite strong international condemnations and severe economic sanctions imposed on Moscow by the West.
Russian-Ukranian talks were launched in late February with both delegations holding direct meetings in Belorussia. Afterwards, talks continued via videoconference. In late March, both delegations held another round of talks in Turkey's Istanbul in a bid to discuss controversial issues and find a means to end the ongoing conflict. However, since then, the negotiations hit a stalemate
During his recent visit to Tehran, the Russian president said the Kyiv authorities rejected to implement the accords reached by both sides. Putin added that the final outcome of negotiations relies on the contracting parties' desire to fulfil reached agreements, noting that the Kyiv authorities lack such a desire.
The Russian military operations in Ukraine have continued unabated since Feb. 24, with no indications of an armistice in the horizons despite strong international condemnations and severe economic sanctions imposed on Moscow by the West.
Moscow:Russia's Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov said Thursday there is a possibility for a Moscow-Kyiv dialogue, stressing that both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov never ruled out the option to engage in talks with Kiev.
