Kremlin Spreads Fake Claiming 90 Of Residents Of Donetsk And Luhansk Regions Want To Join Russia
20220828
https://menafn.com/1104768221/Kremlin-Spreads-Fake-Claiming-90-Of-Residents-Of-Donetsk-And-Luhansk-Regions-Want-To-Join-Russia
Andrey Belousov, the deputy head of the Russian delegation, said at the NPT Conference: 'the Conference became hostage to those who... poisoned the discussions with their... false statements about Ukraine and did everything to prevent constructive work.' The Center for Countering Disinformation underscores that this is manipulation.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
This is stated in yet another selection of Russian fakes published by the Center for Countering Disinformation at the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine on Telegram  on the evening of August 27.
In particular, the propaganda spread the manipulative statement by Sergey Kiriyenko, first deputy head of the administration of the president of the Russian Federation: 'according to the results of social surveys... 91-92 of respondents in Donbas want to join the Russian Federation, and about 75-77 in Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions ... the decision will be adopted by the residents of this land, and the Russian Federation will treat it with respect.'
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian propaganda spreads the fake claiming that 92 of the population of the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk and Luhansk regions want to join Russia. This is stated in yet another selection of Russian fakes published by the Center for Countering Disinformation at the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine on Telegram  on the evening of August 27.
As reported, Russia's Ministry of Defense is spreading disinformation that the Ukrainian troops allegedly plan to blow up a bridge in Slovyansk.
In turn, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov spread disinformation saying that Russia 'categorically rejects the neo-colonial order imposed by the collective West, which involves the racist division of the world into an 'exceptional' group which has an indulgence for any actions and other countries that are obliged to... serve its interests'.
