Kremlin spreading fakes to cover up own armys war crimes  US Embassy
20220421
https://menafn.com/1104053089/Kremlin-spreading-fakes-to-cover-up-own-armys-war-crimes-US-Embassy&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Against the background of photos of the destruction caused by Russian troops, they also cited Russians' claims that they are not bombing homes, churches, schools, museums, shops, and evacuation routes.
The Kremlin is spreading lies to cover up war crimes. Stay aware. Don't be deceived,' wrote U.S. diplomats.
Martial law was imposed and general mobilization was announced in Ukraine. The nation has been repelling Russian invaders.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian authorities are spreading misinformation to cover up war crimes committed by the Russian army in Ukraine. This was stated on Twitter  by the U.S. Embassy in Ukraine, according to Ukrinform.
This was stated on Twitter  by the U.S. Embassy in Ukraine, according to Ukrinform.
The Kremlin is spreading lies to cover up war crimes. Stay aware. Don't be deceived,' wrote U.S. diplomats. Against the background of photos of the destruction caused by Russian troops, they also cited Russians' claims that they are not bombing homes, churches, schools, museums, shops, and evacuation routes.  Read also:  Russian propaganda denies deploying mobile crematoria in Ukraine 'Disinformation hides crimes. Record. Remember. Stay aware, the U.S. embassy urged.
As reported, on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages, using artillery, multiple rocket launchers, and ballistic missiles.
Martial law was imposed and general mobilization was announced in Ukraine. The nation has been repelling Russian invaders.MENAFN19042022000193011044ID1104053089
