Kubrakov On Grain Exports Ukraine Will Shift To Plan B If Russia Attacks Ports
20220727
https://menafn.com/1104602801/Kubrakov-On-Grain-Exports-Ukraine-Will-Shift-To-Plan-B-If-Russia-Attacks-Ports
Ukraine's Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov said this in an interview posted on YouTube , according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
Turkey's Ministry of Defense said that a joint coordination center for monitoring 'grain corridors,' the creation of which is envisaged by the agreements reached as part of the deal, has already started operating in Istanbul.
Turkey's Ministry of Defense said that a joint coordination center for monitoring 'grain corridors,' the creation of which is envisaged by the agreements reached as part of the deal, has already started operating in Istanbul.MENAFN27072022000193011044ID1104602801
He added that agricultural products would be exported by rail through Poland, Slovakia and Hungary.
'We will move to Plan B if Russia continues shelling the port infrastructure, which we already used before. That is, we will use the Danube ports, we will use the railways and load as much grain as possible,' the minister said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'That is, we will use everything that is available. And we will also use trucks. We have done a lot for this,' Kubrakov said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine will supply agricultural products to foreign markets via alternative routes if Russia continues shelling the port infrastructure. Ukraine's Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov said this in an interview posted on YouTube , according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
On July 22 in Istanbul, after a quadrilateral meeting between Ukraine, Turkey, the UN and Russia, a deal was brokered on the export of grain and other food from Ukrainian ports.
