Kuleba Speaks Words Of Support To Moldova Amid New Russian Threats
20220625
https://menafn.com/1104431226/Kuleba-Speaks-Words-Of-Support-To-Moldova-Amid-New-Russian-Threats
We stand with the people and the government of friendly Moldova amid renewed threats coming from Moscow. All Russia has left is spitting out threats at other states after decades of failed policies based on aggression, coercion, and disrespect. This only shows Russia's weakness, Kuleba tweeted.  Read also:  Moldova's  Sandu  plans to come to Ukraine As reported earlier, Deputy Head of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev, in response to Moldova's statement of its readiness to join EU sanctions targeting Russian energy, threatened Chisinau to sever energy supplies and recalled that nearly 220,000 Russian citizens live in Transnistria, the unrecognized entity that is formally part of Moldova.MENAFN25062022000193011044ID1104431226
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Dmytro Kuleba, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, says Ukraine will support the people of Moldova and the country's government in the wake of the latest threats coming from the Russian Federation. That's according to the top diplomat's tweet , seen by Ukrinform.
We stand with the people and the government of friendly Moldova amid renewed threats coming from Moscow. All Russia has left is spitting out threats at other states after decades of failed policies based on aggression, coercion, and disrespect. This only shows Russia's weakness, Kuleba tweeted.
As reported earlier, Deputy Head of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev, in response to Moldova's statement of its readiness to join EU sanctions targeting Russian energy, threatened Chisinau to sever energy supplies and recalled that nearly 220,000 Russian citizens live in Transnistria, the unrecognized entity that is formally part of Moldova.
