Kuleba Russias noncompliance with ICJ ruling to impact on amount of compensation to Ukraine
20220317
https://menafn.com/1103864407/Kuleba-Russias-non-compliance-with-ICJ-ruling-to-impact-on-amount-of-compensation-to-Ukraine&source=138
'That was one of the arguments of president Putin in justifying his military aggression against Ukraine. Today, it was completely shattered at the highest international level,' Kuleba stressed.
As Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba said on the air of the nationwide telethon, the ICJ ruling at the highest legal level documented Russia's illegal military actions in the territory of Ukraine. The text of the judgment also states that the Court did not find any evidence in favor of Russia's allegations that Ukraine committed a crime of genocide in its territory.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Now anyone who wants to say that there is no Russian aggression, or that Russia is doing everything right  these arguments will be shattered by the decision of the UN International Court of Justice, which we received today. Therefore, this is an important political and legal victory to consolidate the international community in support of Ukraine,' the minister concluded.
As reported, Ukraine gained a complete victory in the case against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice. The Court ordered Russia to immediately stop the invasion of Ukraine.
The Court recognized its jurisdiction to interpret the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Russia was denied closure of the case, the case will be considered on the merits.
MENAFN- UkrinForm If Russia does not comply with the decision of the UN International Court of Justice, this will affect its final ruling in this case, in particular in the context of determining the amount of compensation to Ukraine.  Read also:  International Court of Justice orders Russia to immediately end its invasion of Ukraine As Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba said on the air of the nationwide telethon, the ICJ ruling at the highest legal level documented Russia's illegal military actions in the territory of Ukraine. The text of the judgment also states that the Court did not find any evidence in favor of Russia's allegations that Ukraine committed a crime of genocide in its territory.  Read also:   ICJ  to consider issue of Russian reparations to Ukraine 'That was one of the arguments of president Putin in justifying his military aggression against Ukraine. Today, it was completely shattered at the highest international level,' Kuleba stressed.
Ukraine's top diplomat added that the ICJ delivered its judgment within an unprecedentedly short time. If Russia fails to comply with it and there is every reason to believe that it will, this will negatively affect the court's final ruling in the case, in particular in the context of determining the amount of compensation to Ukraine.
The UN International Court of Justice ruled that Russia must stop firing and withdraw its troops ordered Russia to take the following interim measures: to immediately terminate military operations launched on February 24, 2022, in the territory of Ukraine.
