Kuleba On NATO Summit Alliance Has Proved It Can Take Difficult But Essential Decisions
20220629
https://menafn.com/1104453717/Kuleba-On-NATO-Summit-Alliance-Has-Proved-It-Can-Take-Difficult-But-Essential-Decisions
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has hailed NATO's clear position on Russia and the accession of Finland and Sweden. That's according to Kuleba's tweet , seen by Ukrinform.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As reported earlier, on June 29, NATO leaders at their summit in Madrid approved a new Strategic Concept, which defines the priorities of the Alliance's development and designates Russia as the main threat to Euroatlantic and European security.
Today in Madrid, NATO proved it can take difficult, but essential decisions. We welcome a clear-eyed stance on Russia, as well as accession for Finland and Sweden. An equally strong and active position on Ukraine will help to protect the Euro-Atlantic security and stability, Kuleba tweeted.  Read also:   Kuleba  : Ukraine already working with EU on seventh package of sanctions As reported earlier, on June 29, NATO leaders at their summit in Madrid approved a new Strategic Concept, which defines the priorities of the Alliance's development and designates Russia as the main threat to Euroatlantic and European security.
The Alliance also officially invited into its ranks Sweden and Finland  both neutral countries until recently. The nations will become the 31st and 32nd members, accordingly.
The Alliance also officially invited into its ranks Sweden and Finland  both neutral countries until recently. The nations will become the 31st and 32nd members, accordingly.MENAFN29062022000193011044ID1104453717
Today in Madrid, NATO proved it can take difficult, but essential decisions. We welcome a clear-eyed stance on Russia, as well as accession for Finland and Sweden. An equally strong and active position on Ukraine will help to protect the Euro-Atlantic security and stability, Kuleba tweeted.
