Kyslytsia at UN Ukraine calls on Red Cross to help repatriate bodies of dead Russian soldiers
20220308
https://menafn.com/1103811166/Kyslytsia-at-UN-Ukraine-calls-on-Red-Cross-to-help-repatriate-bodies-of-dead-Russian-soldiers&source=27
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In this regard, Ukraine calls on the International Committee of the Red Cross to create a database of defeated occupiers and prisoners of war on the basis of the ICRC Central Tracing Agency, as well as assistance in returning the remains of Russia invaders.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations Serhiy Kyslytsia has called on the International Committee of the Red Cross to assist Ukraine in removing the thousands of bodies of dead Russian soldiers decomposing in the fields of Ukraine. Serhiy Kyslytsia stated this on Monday at a meeting of the UN Security Council on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
As Ukrinform reported, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Ukraine Iryna Vereshchuk stated that the Russian leadership flatly refused to remove its fallen soldiers from Ukraine.
'Given that the Russian leadership is trying to hide the real losses and strongly denies any talk of ways to repatriate the bodies of their soldiers, Ukraine faces an additional threat of a health crisis. We are talking about many thousands of bodies decomposing in the fields of Ukraine - the bodies of Russian soldiers, he said.
In this regard, Ukraine calls on the International Committee of the Red Cross to create a database of defeated occupiers and prisoners of war on the basis of the ICRC Central Tracing Agency, as well as assistance in returning the remains of Russia invaders.  Read also:  Russian Defense Ministry ordered disposing  bodies  of own soldiers killed in Ukraine As Ukrinform reported, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Ukraine Iryna Vereshchuk stated that the Russian leadership flatly refused to remove its fallen soldiers from Ukraine.
Serhiy Kyslytsia stated this on Monday at a meeting of the UN Security Council on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
