Little Respite For Doctors On Ukraines Eastern Front
20220815
https://menafn.com/1104697185/Little-Respite-For-Doctors-On-Ukraines-Eastern-Front
Russian forces captured virtually all of Luhansk region in battles through June that killed thousands on both sides. Now, they are pushing steadily southward in Donetsk.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Andrii and his colleagues treat the most debilitating injuries inflicted on Ukrainian soldiers. They work 12-hour shifts in theory but often stay longer if there are a lot of urgent cases.
'The only thing important is that there is a person that does this job. To a certain extent at least. I'm not saying that I'm doing something 'extra', just everyone is doing their work, and all of this together creates a certain teamwork spirit.'
'The most difficult moments are psychological,' says Mykhailo, the head of the hospital's surgery department, who also did not want his surname to be published.
'I'm just doing my job. All of us do what's needed, we're just fulfilling our duty,' he says.
Mykhailo has dealt with the stress by setting up a fitness club with some of his colleagues.
He cuts off the trousers of one injured man and instructs a nurse to prepare an infusion.
Andrii, 47, is from Kyiv and was working there until Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February when he moved to the front line. Treating young soldiers seemed the most natural thing to do in conditions of war, he says.
Still, the medical teams keep working as ambulances keep arriving and patients are brought in for immediate attention.
A nurse starts humming a tune to try and lighten the atmosphere and offers encouragement to one of the injured.
No sooner has he recorded the time of death of one serviceman than he is examining another wheeled in on a stretcher.
Ambulances shuttle back and forth to the hospital, carrying soldiers wounded in fighting that has engulfed towns in Ukrainian-held parts of Donetsk.
MENAFN- The Peninsula  Reuters  DONETSK REGION, Ukraine: Andrii, a doctor working in Ukraine's Donetsk region, has virtually no time to take breaks during his shifts at a military hospital near the front lines of the war against Russia.
The Kremlin, which calls its actions in Ukraine a 'special military operation', said it would concentrate on securing the entire Donbass region of eastern Ukraine - parts of which were occupied by Russian forces and their proxies in 2014.
DONETSK REGION, Ukraine: Andrii, a doctor working in Ukraine's Donetsk region, has virtually no time to take breaks during his shifts at a military hospital near the front lines of the war against Russia.
'A grenade may be concealed where you least expect it,' reads a poster taped to a corridor wall in the hospital.
Andrii, who asked to be identified only by his first name, meets patients being brought in by ambulances and scurries down narrow corridors to assess and treat the most recent arrivals.
'When you get 20 or 22-year old boys, young boys, and they have serious injuries. When they lose their limbs, or their sight, when they become disabled.'
Russian forces initially planned to advance on the capital Kyiv but changed strategy after meeting resistance from the Ukrainian army.
