Malyar Russia currently unable to launch new offensive in Ukraine
20220418
https://menafn.com/1104036214/Malyar-Russia-currently-unable-to-launch-new-offensive-in-Ukraine&source=138
'They are ready and amass their efforts and people. They roll out medical infrastructure and accumulate ammunition. They also accumulate provisions as their personnel used to starve here. They command sent them soldiers for 2-3 days, thinking that they would capture everything but they were left without anything instead. They prepare now everything, but they are currently unable to start the second aggressive stage simply because the Armed Forces of Ukraine deter them,' Ukraine's Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar said during the nationwide telethon, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops are currently unable to launch a new offensive in Ukraine as they are being deterred by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. 'They are ready and amass their efforts and people. They roll out medical infrastructure and accumulate ammunition. They also accumulate provisions as their personnel used to starve here. They command sent them soldiers for 2-3 days, thinking that they would capture everything but they were left without anything instead. They prepare now everything, but they are currently unable to start the second aggressive stage simply because the Armed Forces of Ukraine deter them,' Ukraine's Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar said during the nationwide telethon, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As NBC News reported with reference to two senior U.S. defense officials, Russia could begin the next phase of its military campaign in Ukraine as soon as this weekend or early next week.
