Markarova warned US of possible chemical attack in Ukraine
20220227
https://menafn.com/1103768133/Markarova-warned-US-of-possible-chemical-attack-in-Ukraine&source=19
'But we want to declare that, unlike Russian occupants, Ukraine does not resort to such methods,' Markarova declared.  Read also:  SBU warns of possible provocations in Donetsk  chemical tank explosions She underscored Ukrainian Armed Forces operate in a most responsible way.
'They're defending our country while also trying to be very responsible about the Ukrainian citizens because of the very simple fact - they are there to defend Ukraine together with Ukrainian citizens,' Markarova stressed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'According to reports obtained by the Security Service of Ukraine, the occupying forces are actively handing out gas masks to local militants and Russian militaries in Donetsk Oblast. I'm making this information public to warn that there might be a possibility of provocation,' the ambassador said.
As she said, there are different versions of what Russian could do, including 'to blow up some industrial tanks with chemicals.'
'But we want to declare that, unlike Russian occupants, Ukraine does not resort to such methods,' Markarova declared.
According to her, the Russian enemy also plans to accuse the Ukrainian Arms Forces to sabotage.
'They're defending our country while also trying to be very responsible about the Ukrainian citizens because of the very simple fact - they are there to defend Ukraine together with Ukrainian citizens,' Markarova stressed.MENAFN26022022000193011044ID1103768133
She said this on Saturday during a press briefing in Washington DC, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian Ambassador to the United States Oksana Markarova warned the United States and international community about the threat of chemical attack by Russia in the Donetsk region. She said this on Saturday during a press briefing in Washington DC, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
