Markets Expert Reacts To Russias Invasion Of Ukraine
20220224
https://menafn.com/1103759787/Markets-Expert-Reacts-To-Russias-Invasion-Of-Ukraine&source=24
In terms of financial impact, the Russian stock market is already down 28, with the Bank of Russia intervening in FX markets to stabilise the situation. Up until now, sanctions have been targeted, with the US placing curbs on two state-owned financial institutions and five Kremlin-connected elite. This will have a measured impact on Russia's financial system, its defence sector, and its ability to raise funds  but these are not institutions that ordinary Russians bank with.
Going forward, any further sanctions imposed  especially those placed on Russia's largest state-run banks  could have a sweeping effect on everyday Russian people, as well as the current production of oil and gas. Just yesterday, the Bank of England's Governor, Andrew Bailey, stated that there is an upside risk to energy prices from the invasion. With commodity prices also expected to surge, global stocks are down, as well as bonds bid on safe haven flows. Right now, the UK FTSE 100 is holding up much better than most of its global counterparts.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Should investors be worried? As sad as the human cost is during this event, financial costs tend to be limited. A glance back at some of the gravest world events in recent history reminds us of this  the bombing of Syria in 2017, the US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the North Korean Missile crisis, for example, show us the market reaction to these events can be surprisingly mild. Most dips end up being bought, so medium-term buyers can often find good value in these bleak times.
Get the entire 10-part series on Ray Dalio in PDF. Save it to your desktop, read it on your tablet, or email to your colleagues
MENAFN- ValueWalk 12019  Pixabay As Russia invades Ukraine today, Giles Coghlan Chief Analyst, HYCM provides his comments below, reflecting on the wider economic implications for traders and investors. Get The Full Ray Dalio Series in PDF
In the first quarter of 2021, a new position appeared in the US portfolio of Mohnish Pabrai's Pabrai Investments. In recent years, the value investor has been investing heavily outside the US, as he has struggled to find any interesting North American opportunities for his portfolios. Q4 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more Yet, Read More
Markets have woken to the news that Russian President Putin has ordered a 'special military operation' to 'demilitarise' Ukraine, just a day after the West imposed new sanctions on Russia. As military action escalates, we can now expect a steady trickle of further sanctions throughout the day, which will have ramifications across the markets.
As Russia invades Ukraine today, Giles Coghlan Chief Analyst, HYCM provides his comments below, reflecting on the wider economic implications for traders and investors.
Get the entire 10-part series on Ray Dalio in PDF. Save it to your desktop, read it on your tablet, or email to your colleagues   Q4 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more   Why Mohnish Pabrai Sold Alibaba To Buy TencentProsusIn the first quarter of 2021, a new position appeared in the US portfolio of Mohnish Pabrai's Pabrai Investments. In recent years, the value investor has been investing heavily outside the US, as he has struggled to find any interesting North American opportunities for his portfolios. Q4 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more Yet, Read More
