Massive Missile Attack Is Attempt To Intimidate Ukraine  Podolyak
20220625
https://menafn.com/1104431220/Massive-Missile-Attack-Is-Attempt-To-Intimidate-Ukraine-Podolyak
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia will be punished for today's massive missile attack on Ukraine. 48 Russian cruise missiles. At night. Throughout whole Ukraine. Exclusively on civilian targets Russia is still trying to intimidate Ukraine, cause panic and make people be afraid of Z-monsters Ukraine knows everything and ready for anything. And it will punish for all the evil Mykhailo Podolyak, Adviser to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, posted on Twitter .  Read also:  Intelligence: Latest  missile  strikeslarge-scale provocation by Russia to draw Belarus into war As reported, according to the Defense Ministry's Chief Directorate of Intelligence data, the missile attacks on Ukraine on June 25 launched from Belarus are a large-scale provocation by Russia to further involve Belarus in the war against Ukraine.
48 Russian cruise missiles. At night. Throughout whole Ukraine. Exclusively on civilian targets Russia is still trying to intimidate Ukraine, cause panic and make people be afraid of Z-monsters Ukraine knows everything and ready for anything. And it will punish for all the evil Mykhailo Podolyak, Adviser to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, posted on Twitter .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As reported, according to the Defense Ministry's Chief Directorate of Intelligence data, the missile attacks on Ukraine on June 25 launched from Belarus are a large-scale provocation by Russia to further involve Belarus in the war against Ukraine.
