Mcdonalds Decides To Fully Withdraw From Russia Sell Business There  Yermak
20220516
https://menafn.com/1104223145/Mcdonalds-Decides-To-Fully-Withdraw-From-Russia-Sell-Business-There-Yermak&source=24
Since the onset of the war, the European Union has shown solidarity with Ukraine and is providing the country with effective political, economic, financial, humanitarian, and military assistance. It has introduced five packages of sectoral and individual sanctions, which are deemed as painful for the Russian economy, and is now working on the sixth package, which may apply to Russian energy supplies. So far, member states have failed to reach a consensus on imposing an embargo on Russian oil supplies to EU countries.MENAFN16052022000193011044ID1104223145
He stressed that sanctions need to be strengthened so that Russia has no money to fund its terrible war in Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The head of the President's Office Andriy Yermak stated that McDonald's has decided to leave Russia completely and is selling its business in the country. The official made the report on Telegram , Ukrinform reports.
He stressed that sanctions need to be strengthened so that Russia has no money to fund its terrible war in Ukraine.  Read also:   Yermak  : Russia has earned over $ 65B selling energy during war As reported, on February 24, 2022, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine and expanded its military aggression that had begun in 2014. Russian troops have been massively bombing and shelling peaceful Ukrainian towns and villages, having unleashed mass terror against civilians in the temporarily occupied territories.
Since the onset of the war, the European Union has shown solidarity with Ukraine and is providing the country with effective political, economic, financial, humanitarian, and military assistance. It has introduced five packages of sectoral and individual sanctions, which are deemed as painful for the Russian economy, and is now working on the sixth package, which may apply to Russian energy supplies. So far, member states have failed to reach a consensus on imposing an embargo on Russian oil supplies to EU countries.
'McDonald's has decided to leave Russia completely and is selling its business there. According to NYT, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has forced the company to take action, including anti-Russian sanctions. This is a very important signal. The more businesses leave Russia, the more their economy will suffer, Yermak said.
As reported, on February 24, 2022, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine and expanded its military aggression that had begun in 2014. Russian troops have been massively bombing and shelling peaceful Ukrainian towns and villages, having unleashed mass terror against civilians in the temporarily occupied territories.
