MFA advises Ukrainians to leave Russia immediately
20220224
https://menafn.com/1103753310/MFA-advises-Ukrainians-to-leave-Russia-immediately&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to the statement , ignoring these recommendations will significantly complicate the proper protection of Ukrainian citizens in Russia.
On February 22, Putin said the borders of 'DPR' and 'LPR' are enshrined in their constitutions and coincide with the borders of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has recommended that citizens of Ukraine refrain from any travel to Russia and those who already stay in this country should leave its territory immediately, according to a statement posted on the ministry's website. In particular, in connection with the intensification of Russian aggression against Ukraine, which, among other things, may significantly limit the ability to provide consular assistance in Russia, the ministry recommends that Ukrainian citizens refrain from any trips to the Russian Federation and those who are in this country should leave its territory immediately.
As reported, on February 21, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed decrees recognizing two self-proclaimed entities in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine. The agreements concluded between these quasi-republics and Russia provide for the provision of military assistance to them. Russia has thus openly acknowledged its military presence in certain districts of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
Leaders of the EU, the United States and most democracies have condemned the Kremlin's actions as a direct violation of international law and Russia's own international obligations.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine said that Moscow will bear full responsibility for the destruction of the Minsk agreements and the process of finding a peaceful solution to the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine in the event of recognition of these illegal entities.
In particular, in connection with the intensification of Russian aggression against Ukraine, which, among other things, may significantly limit the ability to provide consular assistance in Russia, the ministry recommends that Ukrainian citizens refrain from any trips to the Russian Federation and those who are in this country should leave its territory immediately.
