MFA Ukraine refutes Putins allegation of Kyiv preparing offensive in Donbas
20211225
https://menafn.com/1103441480/MFA-Ukraine-refutes-Putins-allegation-of-Kyiv-preparing-offensive-in-Donbas&source=138
According to Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar, the situation around Ukraine's borders remains difficult, while Russia continues to amass troops to maintain tensions in the region.
'The statement of the president of Russia about the alleged preparation of a 'military operation' in Donbas by Ukraine is false,' Nikolenko said.  Read also:  No guarantees of non-invasion from  Putin  He has noted that Ukraine only seeks peace and that the constant efforts of the Ukrainian leadership to bring the peace process out of a standstill, especially in the Normandy format, clearly illustrate Ukraine's commitment to political and diplomatic tools toward settling the armed conflict.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The United States and the European Union have maintained steadfast support for Ukraine amid military escalation by Russia. Washington and Brussels are in constant consultation to develop a common position in response to Russia's hostile rhetoric and the buildup of troops near Ukraine.
Moscow has denied accusations of plotting an incursion into Ukraine, explaining the latest mobilization with the efforts to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO.
'People on both sides of the line of contact in Donetsk and Luhansk regions deserve peace and tranquility, especially on the eve of the New Year's holidays,' said the MFA spokesman.  Read also:   Putin  claims gas prices in Europe rising due to reverse flow to Ukraine On Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin told a news conference that 'Ukraine may be preparing for a military operation.'
'Moreover, the head of the Ukrainian President's Office and our delegation in the Trilateral Contact Group did a titanic job to restore ceasefire yesterday,' Nikolenko said.
He has noted that Ukraine only seeks peace and that the constant efforts of the Ukrainian leadership to bring the peace process out of a standstill, especially in the Normandy format, clearly illustrate Ukraine's commitment to political and diplomatic tools toward settling the armed conflict.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian President Vladimir Putin's claim about Ukraine's alleged preparations for a 'military operation' in the east is false. Ukraine seeks only peace. That's according to a comment provided to Ukrinform by Foreign Ministry Spokesman Oleh Nikolenko.
'People on both sides of the line of contact in Donetsk and Luhansk regions deserve peace and tranquility, especially on the eve of the New Year's holidays,' said the MFA spokesman.
On Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin told a news conference that 'Ukraine may be preparing for a military operation.'
Moscow has denied accusations of plotting an incursion into Ukraine, explaining the latest mobilization with the efforts to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO.  Read also:  Stoltenberg calls on Putin to use holidays to withdraw troops from Ukraine On December 5, Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov  said that the total number of Russian troops deployed near Ukraine's border could rise to 175,000.
The foreign ministry also called on Russia to focus on implementing the ceasefire agreements and ceasing the international armed conflict in eastern Ukraine.
On December 5, Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov  said that the total number of Russian troops deployed near Ukraine's border could rise to 175,000.
As Ukrinform reported, on December 22, the Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council Oleksiy Danilov  stated that 122,000 Russian servicemen have been deployed at a 200-km distance from the Ukrainian border, and another 143,500  at a distance of 400 km.
NATO has warned Russia that further aggression against Ukraine would have far-reaching 'strategic and economic' consequences.
'The statement of the president of Russia about the alleged preparation of a 'military operation' in Donbas by Ukraine is false,' Nikolenko said.
