MFA Switzerland To Represent Ukraines Interests In Russia
20220810
https://menafn.com/1104678733/MFA-Switzerland-To-Represent-Ukraines-Interests-In-Russia
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'On behalf of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reached an agreement in principle with Switzerland on the representation of Ukrainian interests in the territory of Russia. The choice in favor of Switzerland was made because of its extensive experience in performing such functions, and we are grateful to the Swiss government for its willingness to provide its services,' Oleh Nikolenko, Spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, stated in a commentary provided to Ukrinform.
As noted, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs makes every effort to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens in Russia. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who were illegally deported from Ukrainian cities and villages temporarily captured by the Russian army need help, including children, and many Ukrainian citizens also found themselves in Russia's territory without documents. The spokesperson added that there were no Ukrainian diplomatic missions in the territory of the Russian Federation.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine reached an agreement in principle with Switzerland on the representation of Ukrainian interests in the territory of Russia. 'On behalf of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reached an agreement in principle with Switzerland on the representation of Ukrainian interests in the territory of Russia. The choice in favor of Switzerland was made because of its extensive experience in performing such functions, and we are grateful to the Swiss government for its willingness to provide its services,' Oleh Nikolenko, Spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, stated in a commentary provided to Ukrinform.
Nikolenko emphasized that the modalities of Switzerland's representation of Ukraine's interests in the Russian Federation would be determined by a bilateral agreement. In accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, the host party shall give consent to the representation of Ukraine's interests by Switzerland in Russia. Nikolenko promised to reveal details after the completion of this process.
As reported, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is in talks with the Embassy of Switzerland in the Russian Federation on the provision of consular services to Ukrainians, who have lost their documents, in Russia.
