New Zealand allocates 2M in humanitarian aid to Ukraine
20220228
https://menafn.com/1103773791/New-Zealand-allocates-2M-in-humanitarian-aid-to-Ukraine&source=19
Mahuta repeated New Zealand's call for Russia to cease military operations in Ukraine, immediately withdraw, and return to diplomatic negotiations to de-escalate the conflict.  Read also:   Australia  imposes sanctions on Putin, supports Russia's expulsion from SWIFT Russian president Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24 and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities. Missiles hit residential buildings.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukraine officially filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague.
MENAFN- UkrinForm New Zealand will allocate $2 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine to support health facilities and provide food and hygiene items for the population. 'It is deeply disturbing to hear reports of the growing numbers of deaths and injuries from this conflict. The harrowing and horrific images of displaced or suffering civilians in Ukraine speak volumes of this unfolding tragedy, and underlines the consequences of Russia's unprovoked aggression,' Foreign Minister of New Zealand Nanaia Mahuta said, Ukrinform reports citing Radio New Zealand .
Mahuta repeated New Zealand's call for Russia to cease military operations in Ukraine, immediately withdraw, and return to diplomatic negotiations to de-escalate the conflict.
Russian president Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24 and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities. Missiles hit residential buildings.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the support of all Ukrainian people, courageously resist the Russian aggression.
As noted, the funding will go towards supporting health facilities on the ground and providing basic needs  such as food and hygiene items.
According to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the losses of the Russian army currently total about 4,500 people.
'It is deeply disturbing to hear reports of the growing numbers of deaths and injuries from this conflict. The harrowing and horrific images of displaced or suffering civilians in Ukraine speak volumes of this unfolding tragedy, and underlines the consequences of Russia's unprovoked aggression,' Foreign Minister of New Zealand Nanaia Mahuta said, Ukrinform reports citing Radio New Zealand .
