No stabilization observed enemy accumulating forces  deputy defense minister
20220411
https://menafn.com/1103989085/No-stabilization-observed-enemy-accumulating-forces-deputy-defense-minister&source=19
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
This was announced by Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar, who spoke at the national telethon, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm There is no stabilization being observed in Ukraine as the Russians are massing troops, while their ultimate goal is to grab the whole of Ukraine. This was announced by Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar, who spoke at the national telethon, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
'People are waiting for news every day, but certain military operations take days and sometimes weeks. And what's happening now seems to be a kind of stabilization, but in fact it's not. Now the enemy is accumulating forces, there is no calm, no stabilization. The Russian army is trying to fulfill its minimum plan  to seize the east of Ukraine. If they continue to change their plans in line with the operational situation, we must understand that their ultimate goal is the whole of Ukraine,' said Maliar.  Read also:  Russia continues moving troops to regions bordering Ukraine -  General  Staff As Ukrinform reported earlier, according to the General Staff, Russia continues to move troops toward the regions bordering Ukraine. In particular, the occupiers are moving battalion tactical groups from the Eastern and Central Military Districts to the border areas of Belgorod, Voronezh, and Kursk regions.MENAFN10042022000193011044ID1103989085
'People are waiting for news every day, but certain military operations take days and sometimes weeks. And what's happening now seems to be a kind of stabilization, but in fact it's not. Now the enemy is accumulating forces, there is no calm, no stabilization. The Russian army is trying to fulfill its minimum plan  to seize the east of Ukraine. If they continue to change their plans in line with the operational situation, we must understand that their ultimate goal is the whole of Ukraine,' said Maliar.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, according to the General Staff, Russia continues to move troops toward the regions bordering Ukraine. In particular, the occupiers are moving battalion tactical groups from the Eastern and Central Military Districts to the border areas of Belgorod, Voronezh, and Kursk regions.
