Nuland did not discuss with Moscow issue of special status to Donbas  Kuleba
20211027
https://menafn.com/1103053634/Nuland-did-not-discuss-with-Moscow-issue-of-special-status-to-Donbas-Kuleba
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
"No, this isn't true. Our American partners inform us in detail about their contacts, the minister wrote in response to a user's question as to whether it was true that Ms. Nuland spoke in Moscow about the idea of Ukraine granting special status to the temporarily occupied Donbas.
"No, this isn't true. Our American partners inform us in detail about their contacts, the minister wrote in response to a user's question as to whether it was true that Ms. Nuland spoke in Moscow about the idea of Ukraine granting special status to the temporarily occupied Donbas.  Read also:  Weak justification -  Kuleba  on Lavrov's refusal of Normandy Four meeting As Ukrinform reported earlier, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nuland on October 11-13 paid a visit to Moscow, where she met with a number of Russian officials.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nuland on October 11-13 paid a visit to Moscow, where she met with a number of Russian officials.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba has refuted reports claiming U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nuland during her Russia visit discussed with the Kremlin the granting by Ukraine of special status to the temporarily occupied areas in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Kuleba made the statement during a Q  A on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
On October 22, Andriy Yermak, Head of the Ukrainian President's Office, discussed with Nuland the results of her latest visit to Russia and coordination of actions to resolve the crisis in eastern Ukraine.
