Number Of ProRussian Politicians In JapanMicroscopic  Ambassador
20220612
https://menafn.com/1104362135/Number-Of-Pro-Russian-Politicians-In-JapanMicroscopic-Ambassador
Korsunsky noted that these politicians do not call on Ukraine to recognize the annexation of territories as 'this would be beyond the Japanese perception of the world.' At the same time, the diplomat adds, they say it's NATO's approach to Russia's borders that is to blame for the ongoing war.  Read also:   Japan  to increase aid to Ukraine by USD 500 million 'It's allegedly Russia that was threatened and that it was all Americans who provoked everyone and so on, despite the fact that Japan's security is guaranteed by the U.S. But no one listens to them. These are well-known people who have clearly stated their position,' Korsunsky said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
This was emphasized by Ukraine's Ambassador to Japan Serhiy Korsunsky, who spoke in an interview with Radio NV , Ukrinform reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Pro-Russian politicians in Japan, who argue that NATO's approach to Russia's borders is to blame for the invasion of Ukraine, comprise only a microscopic part that no one listens to. This was emphasized by Ukraine's Ambassador to Japan Serhiy Korsunsky, who spoke in an interview with Radio NV , Ukrinform reports.
'It's still a completely different situation than in Europe. The countries of the region are almost independent of Russia economically, except for China, India, and Vietnam. Here, China's position is more important and it is being watched,' the ambassador explained.
'It's allegedly Russia that was threatened and that it was all Americans who provoked everyone and so on, despite the fact that Japan's security is guaranteed by the U.S. But no one listens to them. These are well-known people who have clearly stated their position,' Korsunsky said.
Korsunsky noted that these politicians do not call on Ukraine to recognize the annexation of territories as 'this would be beyond the Japanese perception of the world.' At the same time, the diplomat adds, they say it's NATO's approach to Russia's borders that is to blame for the ongoing war.
'In Japan, there are several former and sitting politicians who are openly pro-Russian and who aren't hiding it. All of Japan is aware of their attitude. Not only are they on the fringe, they also comprise a microscopic part of Japanese politics,' he said.
As Ukrinform reported, on May 23, U.S. President Joe Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida condemned Russia's aggression against Ukraine and expressed solidarity with the Ukrainian people.MENAFN12062022000193011044ID1104362135
As Ukrinform reported, on May 23, U.S. President Joe Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida condemned Russia's aggression against Ukraine and expressed solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
