Oil Prices Spike Higher as Russia Launches Full Scale Invasion of Ukraine
20220226
https://menafn.com/1103757756/Oil-Prices-Spike-Higher-as-Russia-Launches-Full-Scale-Invasion-of-Ukraine&source=138
Oil , Russia Analysis and News:   Oil Soars as Putin Launches a Full Scale Invasion of Ukraine   FX Complancency Prompts Squeeze Higher in Safe-Havens   Oil Soars as Putin Launches a Full Scale Invasion of Ukraine Overnight, Russian President Putin launched a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine, in other words a full scale invasion of Ukraine, in which several cities have reported explosions, including the capital, Kyiv. Unsurprisingly, a significant bout of risk aversion has ensued with European equities posting losses of 4-5, prompting a flight to safety as havens outperform. Meanwhile, oil prices have spiked higher, reflecting the geopolitical risk premium with both Brent and WTI crude futures breaking through the $100bbl mark. As the conflict unfolds, risks will remain tilted to the upside in the commodity space with Brent crude futures heading towards $110-115bbl. Oil Prices Skewed to the UpsideSource: RefinitivIt must be said, however, that up until today, FX markets had been rather sanguine with the exception of RUB in light of the geopolitical backdrop.This does in part signal a degree of complacency, which is made all the more apparent as CFTC positioning data highlights that FX markets are not appropriately positioned for a significant escalation in Russia-Ukraine tensions, with safe-havens among the most crowded shorts in the G10 space Figure 1. As such, Russian invasion risks beyond Donetsk and Luhansk is best expressed via short EURJPY . Figure 1. Speculative Positioning Across G10 FXSource: CFTC, RefinitivMENAFN24022022000076011015ID1103757756
Overnight, Russian President Putin launched a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine, in other words a full scale invasion of Ukraine, in which several cities have reported explosions, including the capital, Kyiv. Unsurprisingly, a significant bout of risk aversion has ensued with European equities posting losses of 4-5, prompting a flight to safety as havens outperform. Meanwhile, oil prices have spiked higher, reflecting the geopolitical risk premium with both Brent and WTI crude futures breaking through the $100bbl mark. As the conflict unfolds, risks will remain tilted to the upside in the commodity space with Brent crude futures heading towards $110-115bbl.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
It must be said, however, that up until today, FX markets had been rather sanguine with the exception of RUB in light of the geopolitical backdrop.This does in part signal a degree of complacency, which is made all the more apparent as CFTC positioning data highlights that FX markets are not appropriately positioned for a significant escalation in Russia-Ukraine tensions, with safe-havens among the most crowded shorts in the G10 space Figure 1. As such, Russian invasion risks beyond Donetsk and Luhansk is best expressed via short EURJPY .
