On Europe Day Millions Of Europeans Are On Ukraines Side  Von Der Leyen
20220512
https://menafn.com/1104182280/On-Europe-Day-Millions-Of-Europeans-Are-On-Ukraines-Side-Von-Der-Leyen&source=138
'Europe could achieve all these things because we were united and determined. That is why I am convinced and optimistic that our Union can also master the challenge posed by the war in Ukraine. The citizens of Europe are showing the way. Millions of Europeans  at all corners of our Union and from all walks of life  have mobilised to help their neighbours in need. Millions have opened their door to Ukrainian refugees. Millions more have sent food and clothes, or made a donation. More than even before, Europeans feel that they belong to one European family. That fills my heart with pride,' von der Leyen said.
'Europe could achieve all these things because we were united and determined. That is why I am convinced and optimistic that our Union can also master the challenge posed by the war in Ukraine. The citizens of Europe are showing the way. Millions of Europeans  at all corners of our Union and from all walks of life  have mobilised to help their neighbours in need. Millions have opened their door to Ukrainian refugees. Millions more have sent food and clothes, or made a donation. More than even before, Europeans feel that they belong to one European family. That fills my heart with pride,' von der Leyen said.MENAFN09052022000193011044ID1104182280
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
At the same time, she noted that the Kremlin's invasion of Ukraine reminded all Europeans why it is so important to celebrate Europe Day. The day when our peaceful, prosperous and united Europe was born. Seventy-two years later, Europe is stronger and more united than ever. We stand united in supporting our Ukrainian friends. We are recovering from the COVID crisis. Member States have already received 100 billion euros from our recovery fund NextGenerationEU. Vast investments are securing millions of jobs and creating new chances in Europe every day. We're working hard to protect the climate and make our continent independent of imported fossil energies. Our Union is creating rules that will shape the digital age beyond our borders,' she said.
'Today our continent encounters shadows of a past we thought we had long left behind. An atrocious war, senseless aggression and destroyed cities. Millions of innocents fleeing their homes. A people desperately struggling to determine its own future. Europe stands at the side of Ukraine,' von der Leyen said.
According to Ukrinform, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said this on the occasion of Europe Day. The full text of her address was published on the website  of the European Commission.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia's war against Ukraine has brought back to Europe the horrors of war, but it has reminded Europeans of who they are and united them in supporting Ukraine in its fight against Russian aggression. According to Ukrinform, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said this on the occasion of Europe Day. The full text of her address was published on the website  of the European Commission.
