Part of Russian units pulls out of Ukraine for replenishments  Defense Ministry spox
20220401
https://menafn.com/1103926877/Part-of-Russian-units-pulls-out-of-Ukraine-for-replenishments-Defense-Ministry-spox&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On February 24, on the instructions of Russian President Putin, Russian troops began a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian forces have been shelling and bombing key infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages, using artillery, rockets, and missiles.
It was stated by the spokesman for the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, Oleksandr Motuzianyk, at a briefing on Monday, March 28, according to Ukrinform.
'I can say that quite a large number of the Russian military units are compelled to withdraw their forces, their troops outside of Ukraine to the territory of Russia or Belarus in order to restore their combat capabilities, replenish munitions stocks because the Russian army can no longer conduct offensive operations in certain areas with the existing forces and means,' said Motuzianyk.  Read also:  Enemy troops regrouping and preparing for offensive actions  General Staff At the same time, he noted that he could not specify the share of the Russian army units withdrawn beyond the borders of Ukraine.
'I can say that quite a large number of the Russian military units are compelled to withdraw their forces, their troops outside of Ukraine to the territory of Russia or Belarus in order to restore their combat capabilities, replenish munitions stocks because the Russian army can no longer conduct offensive operations in certain areas with the existing forces and means,' said Motuzianyk.
At the same time, he noted that he could not specify the share of the Russian army units withdrawn beyond the borders of Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Quite a large number of Russian units are forced to withdraw their troops from Ukraine to Russia or Belarus to replenish munitions stocks and manpower.
