Podoliak warns Europeans Bucha is just the beginning of truth about modern Russia
20220409
https://menafn.com/1103968370/Podoliak-warns-Europeans-Bucha-is-just-the-beginning-of-truth-about-modern-Russia&source=138
Europe which still fears losing gasoil must know that Bucha is just the beginning of the truth about rf Russian Federation. There'll be hundreds of other Ukraine's cities where the cannibalistic 'Russian world' came. Give heavy weapons today if you don't want to suffer from the 'Bucha syndrome' tomorrow, Podoliak wrote.
As Ukrinform reported, the cities of Irpin, Bucha, Hostomel, and the entire Kyiv region were liberated from Russian invaders. Mass killings of civilians by Russians have been recorded in liberated towns and villages. In particular, a mass grave was found in Bucha, liberated from the invaders, where almost 300 people are buried. Dozens of bodies lie on the streets, some of them with their hands tied
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Europe which still fears losing gasoil must know that Bucha is just the beginning of the truth about rf Russian Federation. There'll be hundreds of other Ukraine's cities where the cannibalistic 'Russian world' came. Give heavy weapons today if you don't want to suffer from the 'Bucha syndrome' tomorrow, Podoliak wrote.  Read also:  EU at UN:  Bucha  massacre shows true face of Russia's war against Ukraine As Ukrinform reported, the cities of Irpin, Bucha, Hostomel, and the entire Kyiv region were liberated from Russian invaders. Mass killings of civilians by Russians have been recorded in liberated towns and villages. In particular, a mass grave was found in Bucha, liberated from the invaders, where almost 300 people are buried. Dozens of bodies lie on the streets, some of them with their hands tied
MENAFN- UkrinForm Mykhailo Podoliak, an adviser to the head of the President's Office, emphasizes that the crimes committed by Russian troops in Bucha, Kyiv region, are just the beginning of the truth about modern Russia. He wrote this on his Twitter account, Ukrinform reports.
