Podoliak on UkraineRussia talks There are positive results on humanitarian corridors
20220310
https://menafn.com/1103808319/Podoliak-on-Ukraine-Russia-talks-There-are-positive-results-on-humanitarian-corridors&source=138
'The third round of talks is over. We have received some positive results in terms of logistics of humanitarian corridors. They will be changed and we will receive more effective assistance to people who are currently suffering from the aggression of the Russian Federation,' he said.
On February 28, the Ukrainian and Russian delegations held the first round of talks in Belarus and traveled to their capitals to consult on further decisions. According to Podoliak, negotiations between the delegations were difficult, but without any mandatory ultimatums.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Mykhailo Podoliak, an adviser to the head of the Ukrainian President's Office, announced this on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
According to Podoliak, the Ukrainian delegation did not achieve the results it expected to get in the talks with the Russian delegation. At the same time, the parties agreed to jointly provide humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians, as well as for the delivery of medicines and food to the sites of the fiercest fighting with the possibility of a temporary ceasefire for the period of evacuation in the sectors where it is held.
At the same time, Podoliak said that no results had been achieved during the third round of talks, which would significantly improve a ceasefire, truce and cessation of hostilities. However, according to him, the consultations will continue and they will have results.
According to Podoliak, the Ukrainian delegation did not achieve the results it expected to get in the talks with the Russian delegation. At the same time, the parties agreed to jointly provide humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians, as well as for the delivery of medicines and food to the sites of the fiercest fighting with the possibility of a temporary ceasefire for the period of evacuation in the sectors where it is held.MENAFN07032022000193011044ID1103808319
MENAFN- UkrinForm During the third round of talks with the Russian delegation, the Ukrainian delegation received positive results in the context of the logistics of humanitarian corridors. Mykhailo Podoliak, an adviser to the head of the Ukrainian President's Office, announced this on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
