Poor Russian morale hindering their combat effectiveness  British intelligence
20220424
https://menafn.com/1104082807/Poor-Russian-morale-hindering-their-combat-effectiveness-British-intelligence&source=19
The UK Ministry of Defense said this in its latest intelligence update published on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm According to British intelligence, demoralization and limited time to reconstitute, re-equip and reorganize forces are likely hindering Russian combat effectiveness. The UK Ministry of Defense said this in its latest intelligence update published on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the beginning of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities, conducting massive shelling of residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers and ballistic missiles.
It is noted that Ukraine has repelled numerous Russian assaults along the line of contact in the eastern regions this week.
Despite Russia making some territorial gains, Ukrainian resistance has been strong across all axes and inflicted significant cost on Russian forces, the report says.
Poor Russian morale and limited time to reconstitute, re-equip and reorganise forces from prior offensives are likely hindering Russian combat effectiveness, the report says.
From February 24 to April 24, the total estimated losses of Russian forces included: 21,800 personnel, tanks  873, armored combat vehicles  2,238, artillery systems - 408, MLRS - 147, air defense means - 69, aircraft - 179, helicopters - 154, vehicles  1,557, shipsboats - 8, UAVs of the operational and tactical level  191, special equipment  28, and mobile SRBM systems  4.
