President Zelensky Israel can help Ukrainian people to defend themselves
20220320
https://menafn.com/1103879246/President-Zelensky-Israel-can-help-Ukrainian-people-to-defend-themselves&source=225
MENAFN- UkrinForm The State of Israel can help the Ukrainian people to defend themselves, as well as Ukrainian Jews, in the war with the Russian Federation. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address to the Knesset, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
What will be left of such places in Ukraine after this terrible war? I am confident that every word of my address is echoing in your hearts with the pain, as you feel what I am talking about. Why are we still asking the whole world for help? We are asking you for help Even regarding simple visas. What is this? Indifference? Calculation? Or mediation? I will let you find answers to these questions on your own. I will note just one thing. Indifference happens. Calculations are often erroneous. And mediation can be between the states but not between good and evil, Zelensky said.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address to the Knesset, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
One can ask for a long time, why we cannot receive weapons from you why Israel has not imposed strong sanctions on Russia why you are not putting pressure on Russian business But, the answer is up to you, dear brothers and sisters. And you, the Israeli, will have to live with this answer then. Ukrainians made their choice. Eighty years ago, we were saving Jews, and that is why the Righteous among the Nations are among us. The people of Israel, now you have to make a choice too, Zelensky stressed.
A reminder that, on February 24, 2022, Russian President Vladimir Putin initiated a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, starting a war. Russian troops are shelling and destroying the key infrastructure facilities, launching missile strikes on residential areas in Ukrainian cities and villages, killing civilians.
In his words, everyone knows that the Israeli anti-missile defense is the best and most powerful, weapons are strong, and citizens are good, as they can defend the interests of the state, the interests of the people. Zelensky stressed that Israel could definitely help the Ukrainian people to defend themselves, as well as Ukrainian Jews.
The President of Ukraine reminded the Israeli that Russian missiles had hit Babyn Yar in Kyiv, where more than 100,000 victims of the Holocaust were buried. On the first days of the war, Russian shells also damaged the city of Uman, which is annually visited by dozens of thousands of Jews to make a pilgrimage to tzaddik Nachman's grave.
