President Zelensky Europe Must Now Switch To Life Without Russian Gas
20220617
https://menafn.com/1104389810/President-Zelensky-Europe-Must-Now-Switch-To-Life-Without-Russian-Gas
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The President of Ukraine also noted that Russia had provoked the global food crisis through the blockade of Ukrainian sea ports.
I believe that it is not a coincidence that the situation with gas in Europe has worsened today  the price has jumped again. Russia has done this on purpose, restricting supplies to harm Europe, to strike at Europeans. Gazprom is simply pulling on the gas chain in which they have been trying to shackle Europe for a long time. And this is another argument in favor of the fact that Europe must now switch to life without Russian gas. There should be no such dependence, Zelensky told.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia has again raised gas prices in Europe, and this is another argument in favor of the fact that Europe must refuse gas supplies from the Russian Federation. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that, on June 16, 2022, Dutch TTF gas futures exceeded $1,500 per 1,000 cubic meters, as Russia's Gazprom reduced pumping volumes via Nord Stream.
The resumption of exports of Ukrainian agricultural products is vital for dozens of countries. And there is only one reason why the food crisis has become possible at all: Russia is to blame, and no one else, Zelensky stressed.
