President Zelensky calls on Ukrainians to not lose vigilance
20220330
https://menafn.com/1103934782/President-Zelensky-calls-on-Ukrainians-to-not-lose-vigilance&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Zelensky expressed gratitude to all Ukrainian defenders, who ensure the defense of Kyiv, as their brave and effective actions force the enemy to retreat in this direction. Meanwhile, the President of Ukraine called on Ukrainians to not lose vigilance.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The military situation in Ukraine has not become easier, and the scale of challenges has not diminished. The Russian Army still has a significant potential to continue attacks against Ukraine. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Zelensky stressed that the enemy is still in the Ukrainian territory. The shelling of Ukrainian cities continues. Mariupol is blocked. Missile and air strikes do not stop. In this regard, the President of Ukraine emphasized that the Armed Forces of Ukraine, intelligence and all those who have joined the defense of the state are the only guarantee of Ukraine's survival today.
According to Zelensky, all Ukrainians must have seen the news today that the Russian military command has allegedly decided to reduce hostilities in the directions of Kyiv and Chernihiv.
Well, the same can be said about Chornobaivka  as if the Russian aviation simply decided to fly less, and the Russian military vehicles  to drive less, Zelensky said.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that, on February 24, 2022, Russian President Vladimir Putin initiated a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, starting a war. Russian troops are shelling and destroying the key infrastructure facilities, launching missile and air strikes on Ukrainian cities and villages, killing civilians.
The situation has not become easier. The scale of the challenges has not diminished. The Russian Army still has significant potential to continue attacks against our state. They still have a lot of equipment and enough people completely deprived of rights whom they can send to the cauldron of war. Therefore, we stay alert and do not reduce our defense efforts. Both in the north of our state and in all other regions of Ukraine, where Russian troops have temporarily entered, Zelensky noted, adding that the defense of Ukraine is the number one task now, and everything else is derived from it.
