Pummeling RussianSpeaking Cities In Ukraine Kremlins Main Mistake  Defense Minister
20220508
https://menafn.com/1104175596/Pummeling-Russian-Speaking-Cities-In-Ukraine-Kremlins-Main-Mistake-Defense-Minister&source=138
According to the Minister of Defense, after Ukraine gains victory, it will extremely important to hold re-elections of local councils and parliament in order to finally get rid of pro-Russian political forces in Ukraine.
According to the Minister of Defense, after Ukraine gains victory, it will extremely important to hold re-elections of local councils and parliament in order to finally get rid of pro-Russian political forces in Ukraine.MENAFN07052022000193011044ID1104175596
That's according to Minister of Defense of Ukraine Oleksiy Reznikov , who announced this on the air of the national telethon, Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The destruction of Ukraine's cities with the predominantly Russian-speaking population is the Kremlin's revenge for their refusal to meet Russian invaders with flowers. This is a big mistake of Russia because now the electoral preferences in these regions will be anti-Russian. That's according to Minister of Defense of Ukraine Oleksiy Reznikov , who announced this on the air of the national telethon, Ukrinform reports.
'The Kremlin's main mistake is that they began to destroy mostly Russian-speaking cities in Ukraine. The ones on the border with Russia  Volnovakha, Kharkiv, Mariupol, and others. In fact, they took revenge and continue to take revenge on Russian-speaking Ukrainians who didn't meet them with flowers, as they dreamed  that they would be out there on the streets, in the squares, as was in some cases in 2014 Relatively speaking, Crimea surrendered without a fight, the defense chief said.
'The Kremlin's main mistake is that they began to destroy mostly Russian-speaking cities in Ukraine. The ones on the border with Russia  Volnovakha, Kharkiv, Mariupol, and others. In fact, they took revenge and continue to take revenge on Russian-speaking Ukrainians who didn't meet them with flowers, as they dreamed  that they would be out there on the streets, in the squares, as was in some cases in 2014 Relatively speaking, Crimea surrendered without a fight, the defense chief said.  Read also:  Russia may stage provocations on May 9  Ukraine official speaks of missile threat He added that Ukraine is putting up a fight and not surrendering. And hence their revenge. That is why there are so many bomb and artillery strikes on peaceful cities, where the Russian-speaking population predominates. I am convinced that today, if we run some sociological research, the map of some electoral sympathies for something pro-Kremlin has changed significantly,' Reznikov said.
He added that Ukraine is putting up a fight and not surrendering. And hence their revenge. That is why there are so many bomb and artillery strikes on peaceful cities, where the Russian-speaking population predominates. I am convinced that today, if we run some sociological research, the map of some electoral sympathies for something pro-Kremlin has changed significantly,' Reznikov said.
