Putin Warns West Russia Will Strike Harder If LongerRange Missiles Supplied
20220605
https://menafn.com/1104325453/Putin-Warns-West-Russia-Will-Strike-Harder-If-Longer-Range-Missiles-Supplied
London: President Vladimir Putin warned the West that Russia would strike new targets if the United States started supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles, the TASS news agency reported on Sunday.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In an excerpt of the same interview aired on Saturday, Putin boasted that Russian anti-aircraft forces have shot down dozens of Ukrainian weapons and are 'cracking them like nuts.'
Putin did not name the targets Russia planned to pursue if Western countries began supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles. He said the 'fuss' around Western weapon supplies to Ukraine was designed to drag out the conflict.
'We understand that this supply of advance rocket systems from the United States and some other countries is meant to make up for the losses of this military equipment,' Putin said.
Ukraine has been seeking Multiple Rocket Launch Systems MLRS such as the M270 and M142 HIMARS to strike troops and weapons stockpiles at the Russian forces' rear.
MENAFN- The Peninsula  Reuters  London: President Vladimir Putin warned the West that Russia would strike new targets if the United States started supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles, the TASS news agency reported on Sunday.
USPresident Joe Biden announced plans this week to give Ukraine precision HIMARS rocket systems after receiving assurances from Kyiv that it would not use them to hit targets inside Russia.
If such missiles are supplied, 'we will strike at those targets which we have not yet been hitting,' Putin was quoted as saying in an excerpt of an interview with Rossiya-1 state television channel.
Although Russian officials have warned that the USdecision to supply Ukraine with advanced rocket systems could exacerbate the conflict, Putin said it would not bring on any fundamental changes on the battlefield.
