Putin orders troops into Eastern Ukraine Essential points from his important speech
20220222
https://menafn.com/1103740897/Putin-orders-troops-into-Eastern-Ukraine-Essential-points-from-his-important-speech&source=30
The decision toimmediately recognize the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic.
Otherwise, all the responsibility for the possible continuation of the bloodbath will be on the conscience of the regime that is ruling in Kyiv,he cautioned.
The following are some of the most key points from Putin's speech   Putin referred to Ukraine as an important part of Russian history, claiming that eastern Ukraine was once Russian territory.   He said,I would like to emphasize again that Ukraine is not just a neighboring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture, and spiritual space.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukraine and other western allies will regard Putin'sintention to send his troops to executepeacekeeping duties as an occupation of the land. It will almost certainly result in harsh sanctions and a military response from Ukraine.
Russian forces may have already crossed rebel territory, Ukrainian officials claimed Monday night. Residents in Makiivka, 15 kilometers west of rebel-held Donetsk, noticed what appeared to be Russian armored vehicles on the move, according to officials.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the deployment of troops to two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine. Thus, the Russia-Ukraine conflict grew much worse. During a major televised address on Monday February 21, he recognized the two regions as independent.
Russia created Modern Ukraine   Putin also referenced the NATO  membership talks with Ukraine. He says,If Ukraine was to join NATO it would serve as a direct threat to the security of Russia.     Putin also discussed the history of modern Ukraine. He explainedModern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia, more precisely, Bolshevik, communist Russia. This process began immediately after the revolution of 1917.     In response to the sanctions, Putin talks about howWe are being blackmailed, they are threatening us with sanctions . But I think they will impose those sanctions.     Criticizing the Western stance, Putin stated,so-called civilized world, the representatives of the self-proclaimed western colleagues, they act as if they do not notice anything. He added,As if nothing is happening, as if this nightmare did not exist.   MENAFN22022022005762012635ID1103740897
Putin had already issued decrees declaring the two territories to be independent states. Sanctions from Western allies might be useful to offset Russia's decision. The decision could in turn jeopardize recent diplomatic efforts to defuse the conflict.
These are our comrades, those dearest to us  not only colleagues, friends, and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties, he added.
Putin ordered Russian peacekeepers to dispatch to Ukraine's two breakaway areas. The areas being the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic, in his crucial speech.
He said,I would like to emphasize again that Ukraine is not just a neighboring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture, and spiritual space.
The deployment of troops came out in the wording of two treaty treaties signed by Putin on Tuesday with separatist republic leaders.
Putin had already issued decrees declaring the two territories to be independent states. Sanctions from Western allies might be useful to offset Russia's decision. The decision could in turn jeopardize recent diplomatic efforts to defuse the conflict. Ukraine and other western allies will regard Putin'sintention to send his troops to executepeacekeeping duties as an occupation of the land. It will almost certainly result in harsh sanctions and a military response from Ukraine.
These are our comrades, those dearest to us  not only colleagues, friends, and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties, he added.   Putin informed the leaders of Germany and France of his decision via phone calls.     He also spoke on the issue of recognition of pro-Russian separatists. Putin said that it isnecessary to make a decision that should have been made a long time ago.   The decision toimmediately recognize the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic.  Those who seized power and keep power in Kyiv, we demand they stop the hostilities immediately,the Russian leader replied when asked who was to blame for the bloodshed.   Otherwise, all the responsibility for the possible continuation of the bloodbath will be on the conscience of the regime that is ruling in Kyiv,he cautioned.
