Putins DecreeLegalizes Abduction Of Children From Ukraine  MFA
20220605
https://menafn.com/1104301234/Putins-DecreeLegalizes-Abduction-Of-Children-From-Ukraine-MFA
As of May 26, Russia has deported more than 238,000 Ukrainian children to its territory.MENAFN31052022000193011044ID1104301234
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine considers Vladimir Putin's decree that streamlines the process of granting citizenship to Ukrainian orphans as an attempt by the Kremlin to legalize the illegal displacement of Ukrainian children to Russia. That's according to a statement  issued by the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, Ukrinform reports.
As reported, on May 30, Putin signed a decree on a simplified procedure for orphans from Ukraine to acquire Russian citizenship.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As of May 26, Russia has deported more than 238,000 Ukrainian children to its territory.
'We consider the decree of the President of the Russian Federation to simplify the admission of Ukrainian orphans or those left without parental care to Russian citizenship as an attempt by the Kremlin to legalize the illegal movement of Ukrainian children from the Ukrainian territories temporarily occupied by the Russian army to Russia. By his decree, Vladimir Putin actually legalized the abduction of children from the territory of Ukraine,' the Foreign Ministry stressed.  Read also:  Russian military kill 243  children  in Ukraine The diplomats noted that Russia's actions grossly violate the 1949 Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, which obliges the occupying state not to change the citizenship status of children, and the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Ukraine's Foreign Ministry believes that Russia's actions can also be qualified as forcible transfer of children from one human group to another under international law.
The Foreign Ministry added that Ukraine would take all possible measures, including at the international level, to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of abducted Ukrainian children and their return home.
'We consider the decree of the President of the Russian Federation to simplify the admission of Ukrainian orphans or those left without parental care to Russian citizenship as an attempt by the Kremlin to legalize the illegal movement of Ukrainian children from the Ukrainian territories temporarily occupied by the Russian army to Russia. By his decree, Vladimir Putin actually legalized the abduction of children from the territory of Ukraine,' the Foreign Ministry stressed.
The diplomats noted that Russia's actions grossly violate the 1949 Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, which obliges the occupying state not to change the citizenship status of children, and the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Ukraine's Foreign Ministry believes that Russia's actions can also be qualified as forcible transfer of children from one human group to another under international law.
Ukraine's Foreign Ministry has called on the international community to take decisive action against Moscow, including increasing sanctions to force it to cease its aggression against Ukraine and blatant violations of international law.
'The most serious international crimes against children committed by Russian high-ranking officials and servicemen in Ukraine will be investigated, and the perpetrators will be prosecuted. Russia will not be able to avoid the strictest accountability,' the statement reads.
