Putin Mobilizing Russian Economy To Sustain War In Ukraine
20220702
https://menafn.com/1104467190/Putin-Mobilizing-Russian-Economy-To-Sustain-War-In-Ukraine
As for the operational situation on the front lines, the think tank says Russian forces on Friday pursued their efforts to encircle Lysychansk and carried out offensive operations to the south and southwest of the city.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
At the same time, he has not yet taken parallel measures to mobilize Russian manpower on a large scale, says Institute for the Study of War , according to Ukrinform.
The amendment would prohibit Russian businesses from refusing to accept state orders for special military operations and allow the Kremlin to change employee contracts and work conditions, such as forcing workers to work during the night or federal holidays.
The Ukrainian Army, in turn, continues to deliver precision strikes on Russian supply depots and equipment near Izium.
It is noted that the invading troops have not yet advanced to the Bakhmut-Lysychansk highway but are hindering Ukraine's logistics via the route by shelling and bombing Ukrainian positions along the road.
Also, the Russian army has focused on regrouping troops and improving its tactical positions to the south of Sloviansk, likely aiming to relaunch an offensive on the city.  Read also:  Ukraine's south: Air Force pilots hit Russian ammo depot, group of troops The Ukrainian Army, in turn, continues to deliver precision strikes on Russian supply depots and equipment near Izium.
Also, the Russian army has focused on regrouping troops and improving its tactical positions to the south of Sloviansk, likely aiming to relaunch an offensive on the city.
The Kremlin proposed an amendment to federal laws on Russian Armed Forces supply matters to the Russian State Duma on June 30, that would introducespecial measures in the economic sphere obliging Russian businesses regardless of ownership to supply Russian special military and counterterrorist operations, the report reads.  Read also:  Russia's Snake Island retreat shows Ukraine's ability to fight back  UK PM Johnson The amendment would prohibit Russian businesses from refusing to accept state orders for special military operations and allow the Kremlin to change employee contracts and work conditions, such as forcing workers to work during the night or federal holidays.
The Kremlin proposed an amendment to federal laws on Russian Armed Forces supply matters to the Russian State Duma on June 30, that would introducespecial measures in the economic sphere obliging Russian businesses regardless of ownership to supply Russian special military and counterterrorist operations, the report reads.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian President Vladimir Putin is likely mobilizing the Russian economy and industry to sustain the ongoing war effort. At the same time, he has not yet taken parallel measures to mobilize Russian manpower on a large scale, says Institute for the Study of War , according to Ukrinform.
