Putins Russia people increasingly identify with the Soviet Union  heres what that means
20220414
https://menafn.com/1104015712/Putins-Russia-people-increasingly-identify-with-the-Soviet-Union-heres-what-that-means&source=138
So which of these is most important among Russian citizens? Our data do not support the idea that expansionist or anti-western attitudes are the primary reason people want to identify with the USSR, although they may have been a strong catalyst in 2014.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The view that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, wants to restore territories of the Soviet Union has been a big part of the commentary on Russia's invasion of Ukraine. But how much is he in tune with the wishes of the Russian people? Our research suggests that while Russian citizens increasingly identify with the USSR, this is only partially explained by their desire to expand Russia's borders.
People's identification with the Soviet Union appears to have a clear and growing basis in Russian public opinion. Surveys we have conducted throughout the Putin period show that Soviet identification among the general population  something that had been steadily declining after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991  began to increase in 2014, when the Russian government annexed Crimea and supported rebellions in the Ukrainian regions of Luhansk and Donetsk . By 2021, almost 50 of those surveyed identified with the Soviet Union rather than the Russian Federation.
The magnitude of the current conflict has the potential to deepen anti-western attitudes in Russia and to stimulate a further bout ofrallying around the flag in support of Putin's expansionist war.
People's identification with the Soviet Union appears to have a clear and growing basis in Russian public opinion. Surveys we have conducted throughout the Putin period show that Soviet identification among the general population  something that had been steadily declining after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991  began to increase in 2014, when the Russian government annexed Crimea and supported rebellions in the Ukrainian regions of Luhansk and Donetsk . By 2021, almost 50 of those surveyed identified with the Soviet Union rather than the Russian Federation.  Survey asks respondents to consider the statement: 'I identify more strongly with the Soviet Union than I do with the Russian Federation.' The responses are reported in percentages. Data: Survey conducted by R-Research Ltd. Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford, Author provided  This pattern was also evident among Putin's supporters. As the graph below shows, after we have controlled for age and affluence  two variables that are strong predictors of identifying with the Soviet Union, with older and less affluent people more inclined to identify with the USSR  the probability that Putin voters are likely to be Soviet rather than Russian identifiers increases significantly after 2014.   In this figure, we report the differences between the predicted probabilities that Putin voters would identify with either the Russian Federation or the Soviet Union, holding all other factors including controls for age and economic affluence at their means. Data: Survey conducted by R-Research Ltd. Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford, Author provided  But is this growth in Soviet identity motivated by support for Putin's expansionist policies? In other words, did the annexation of Crimea create a bedrock of expansionist support for the Kremlin's military assault on Ukraine in 2022? Hankering for the past
The chart below reports the probabilities for a direct measure of support forexpanding Russian borders to include the 'near abroad', which we asked in 2001, 2003, 2014 and 2018. We also asked about people's views of the market economy, whether they had conservative cultural views,Leninist notions of worker political participation and anti-western sentiment. Our findings suggest that expansionism played little role for Russian citizens in 2001 or 2003  and was not the most significant element driving Soviet identity in 2018 either. Its effect was greatest in 2014, which is consistent with therally around the flag effect that followed Russia's annexation of Crimea.  Note: Each variable is binary. In this figure, we report the differences between the predicted probabilities for each explanatory factor, holding all other factors including controls for age and economic affluence at their means. Data: Survey conducted by R-Research Ltd. Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford, Author provided  Likewise, anti-western sentiment has not been the main driver of recent Soviet identification among Russians. Our fourth graph, below, summarises probabilities for the effects of anti-western attitudes across all the surveys we conducted from 2001 to 2021, along with the other measures. As can be seen, the effect of anti-western attitudes has largely diminished over time. In most years, we find that cultural conservatism and anti-market sentiment have been the main reasons why people might prefer to identify with the Soviet Union.  Note: Each variable is binary. In this figure, we report the differences between the predicted probabilities for each explanatory variable, holding all other factors including controls for age and economic affluence at their means. Data: Survey conducted by R-Research Ltd. Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford, Author provided  Rally round the flag?
Yet the economic and cultural bases of Soviet identity are likely to remain key to Putin's support. These factors have enabled Putin to broaden his political coalition since returning to the presidency in 2012. Support for Soviet-style social benefits featured in his election campaign in 2018 and was part of the political offer made to the Russian people in 2020 to secure constitutional changes that could keep him in office until 2036 .
The economic costs imposed on Russians through sanctions could undermine this appeal, but as we argue in other research , this is unlikely to have an immediate impact. MENAFN13042022000199003603ID1104015712
Likewise, anti-western sentiment has not been the main driver of recent Soviet identification among Russians. Our fourth graph, below, summarises probabilities for the effects of anti-western attitudes across all the surveys we conducted from 2001 to 2021, along with the other measures. As can be seen, the effect of anti-western attitudes has largely diminished over time. In most years, we find that cultural conservatism and anti-market sentiment have been the main reasons why people might prefer to identify with the Soviet Union.
But is this growth in Soviet identity motivated by support for Putin's expansionist policies? In other words, did the annexation of Crimea create a bedrock of expansionist support for the Kremlin's military assault on Ukraine in 2022?
The economic costs imposed on Russians through sanctions could undermine this appeal, but as we argue in other research , this is unlikely to have an immediate impact.
This pattern was also evident among Putin's supporters. As the graph below shows, after we have controlled for age and affluence  two variables that are strong predictors of identifying with the Soviet Union, with older and less affluent people more inclined to identify with the USSR  the probability that Putin voters are likely to be Soviet rather than Russian identifiers increases significantly after 2014.
The chart below reports the probabilities for a direct measure of support forexpanding Russian borders to include the 'near abroad', which we asked in 2001, 2003, 2014 and 2018. We also asked about people's views of the market economy, whether they had conservative cultural views,Leninist notions of worker political participation and anti-western sentiment. Our findings suggest that expansionism played little role for Russian citizens in 2001 or 2003  and was not the most significant element driving Soviet identity in 2018 either. Its effect was greatest in 2014, which is consistent with therally around the flag effect that followed Russia's annexation of Crimea.
MENAFN- The Conversation  The view that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, wants to restore territories of the Soviet Union has been a big part of the commentary on Russia's invasion of Ukraine. But how much is he in tune with the wishes of the Russian people? Our research suggests that while Russian citizens increasingly identify with the USSR, this is only partially explained by their desire to expand Russia's borders.
Identification with the Soviet past can derive from many sources. These tend to include nostalgia for Soviet era economic and welfare policies as well as a cultural nostalgia for a particular Sovietway of life and traditional values. It can also manifest as a desire for direct worker participation in politics, and a rejection ofelitist forms of representative liberal democracy. Finally  and in line with the primary focus of our research  identifying with the Soviet Union may stem from hostility towards perceived western interference and a desire to expand Russia's borders to include parts of the former Soviet Union  the so-callednear abroad.
