Putin must realize Nord Stream 2 not to be launched should he attack Ukraine  US senator
20220118
https://menafn.com/1103554419/Putin-must-realize-Nord-Stream-2-not-to-be-launched-should-he-attack-Ukraine-US-senator&source=19
'The clearest thing we could do is to make sure he Putin  ed. doesn't have the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.  The Nord Stream 2 pipeline is not going to operate, he's not going to have that wealth if he does any action to will not have this wealth if he takes any action to overthrow the government in Ukraine,' the senator said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russia will face collective sanctions from the collective West, not just the United States, should Moscow resort to another round of aggression against Kyiv.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell said the fate of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline depended on any potential conflict Russia could unleash with Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Western governments must make it clear to Russian President Putin that the Nord Stream 2 pipeline will not be put into operation if Russia invades Ukraine. This was stated to NBC News  by U.S. Senator Mitt Romney, Ukrinform reports.
Romney believes the Russian president is trying to re-establish the type of the Soviet Union: 'That can't be allowed to happen.'
The politician also added that the Kremlin leader is trying to take NATO apart and weaken it.
Russia will face collective sanctions from the collective West, not just the United States, should Moscow resort to another round of aggression against Kyiv.  Read also:  Zelensky, Baerbock talk Russian aggression,  Nord  Stream 2 Romney believes the Russian president is trying to re-establish the type of the Soviet Union: 'That can't be allowed to happen.'
