Qatar  Islamabad United beat Karachi Kings in PSL thriller
20220214
https://menafn.com/1103694778/Qatar-Islamabad-United-beat-Karachi-Kings-in-PSL-thriller&source=20
LAHORE, Pakistan  - Islamabad United's left-arm fast bowler Waqas Maqsood dropped a catch off his final ball but still ran out Chris Jordan of Karachi Kings to clinch a dramatic one-run victory in the Pakistan Super League on Monday.
MENAFN- The Peninsula  AP    LAHORE, Pakistan  - Islamabad United's left-arm fast bowler Waqas Maqsood dropped a catch off his final ball but still ran out Chris Jordan of Karachi Kings to clinch a dramatic one-run victory in the Pakistan Super League on Monday.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Karachi, led by Pakistan skipper Babar Azam, agonizingly finished on 190-8 for their seventh loss in a row and were eliminated from the playoff race with three league games still to go.
Wasim hammered Maqsood 3-34 to fine leg for a boundary off the second ball before he holed out at mid-off off the next delivery. Needing two runs off the last two deliveries, Maqsood held his nerve to clean bowl Jordan Thompson off a slower delivery before hitting the wickets at the non-striker's end after dropping Jordan's return catch.
Little cameos from Faheem Ashraf 29 off 10 balls and Asif Ali 28 off 11 balls had earlier lifted Islamabad total to 191-7 with left-arm spinner Wasim picking up 2-30.
Imad Wasim 55 and Pakistan Under-19 captain Qasim Akram 51 not out had narrowed Karachi's target to eight runs off the final over with their 108-run sixth-wicket stand, thanks to at least three dropped catches by the sloppy Islamabad fielders. Read Also   Russia's planning to invade Ukraine very clear, British PM says   Microsoft Returning to the Office on Feb. 28 as Covid Cases Decline   UN chief speaks with Russia, Ukraine, still believes there will not be conflict   Wasim hammered Maqsood 3-34 to fine leg for a boundary off the second ball before he holed out at mid-off off the next delivery. Needing two runs off the last two deliveries, Maqsood held his nerve to clean bowl Jordan Thompson off a slower delivery before hitting the wickets at the non-striker's end after dropping Jordan's return catch.
Imad Wasim 55 and Pakistan Under-19 captain Qasim Akram 51 not out had narrowed Karachi's target to eight runs off the final over with their 108-run sixth-wicket stand, thanks to at least three dropped catches by the sloppy Islamabad fielders.
Islamabad jumped to No. 3 with eight points from seven games behind table-toppers Multan Sultans 12 points and Lahore Qalandars 10 points.
Islamabad sorely missed their skipper Shadab Khan's, who had to leave the field with a strained groin while fielding in only the second over of Karachi run-chase. Asif perfectly filled the shoes of his skipper and chipped in with 2-27 and could have got few more had Islamabad held on to their catches.
