Qatar  G7 warns Russia of massive consequences if Ukraine attacked
20211212
https://menafn.com/1103345936/Qatar-G7-warns-Russia-of-massive-consequences-if-Ukraine-attacked&source=19
In 2014, Russia seized the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea from Ukraine, prompting the West to slap sanctions on Russia.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
US intelligence assesses that Russia could be planning a multi-front offensive on Ukraine as early as next year, involving up to 175,000 troops.
At a meeting in the northern English city Liverpool, the G7 delegates said they were united in their condemnation of Russia's military build-up near Ukraine and they called on Moscow to de-escalate.
'We reconfirm our support for the efforts of France and Germany in the Normandy Format to achieve full implementation of the Minsk Agreements in order to resolve the conflict in eastern Ukraine,' the draft said. MENAFN12122021000067011011ID1103345936
Putin has demanded legally binding security guarantees that NATO will not expand further east or place its weapons close to Russian territory Washington has repeatedly said no country can veto Ukraine's NATO hopes.
'We reconfirm our support for the efforts of France and Germany in the Normandy Format to achieve full implementation of the Minsk Agreements in order to resolve the conflict in eastern Ukraine,' the draft said.
'We call on Russia to de-escalate, pursue diplomatic channels and abide by its international commitments on transparency of military activities,' the G7 said in the draft.
The Group of Seven warned Russia on Sunday of massive consequences and severe costs if President Vladimir Putin attacks Ukraine, according to a draft statement seen by Reuters.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said there were very serious conceptual differences between Russia and the United States on Moscow's 'red lines'.
MENAFN- Gulf Times    G7 condemns Russian military build-up near Ukraine - draft
The Kremlin denies it plans to invade and says the West is gripped by Russophobia. Moscow says the expansion of NATO threatens Russia and has contravened assurances given to it as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.
For Moscow, the growing NATO embrace of a neighbouring former Soviet republic - and what it sees as the nightmare possibility of alliance missiles in Ukraine targeted against Russia - is a 'red line' it will not allow to be crossed.
The G7 comprises Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Canada and the United States, and includes a representative from the European Union.
'Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost,' the draft statement said, confirmed by G7 sources.
'We reaffirm our unwavering commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the right of any sovereign state to determine its own future,' the draft said.
The Kremlin said on Sunday that Putin told US President Joe Biden that Russian troops posed no threat and that Moscow was being demonised for moving troops around its own territory.
