Qatar  Nato warns Russia of severe costs if Ukraine attacked
20220111
https://menafn.com/1103516991/Qatar-Nato-warns-Russia-of-severe-costs-if-Ukraine-attacked
We are working hard for a peaceful political path and we are ready to continue to work with Russia to try to find that path towards a peaceful solution, Stoltenberg said before meeting Ukraine's deputy prime minister.
We are aiming for an agreement on a way forward, a process, a series of meetings, he said.
Olga Stefanishyna, one of Ukraine's four deputy prime ministers, saidany discussions on the security guarantees should start with the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukrainian territory.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
He pointed out that the alliance providessupport to Ukraine, helping them to uphold the right for self-defence.
At the same time, we need to be prepared that Russia once again chooses to use armed force, chooses confrontation instead of co-operation.
Moscow has laid down a raft of security demands for the US and Nato  such as excluding granting Ukraine membership of the alliance and pulling back forces close to Russia.
Stoltenberg said he did not expect the talks this week tosolve all the issues, but wanted to kickstart a process towards a political solution.
Russia demands unconditional surrender, demands to undermine the basic principles of functioning of the democratic countries and the principles of Nato, she said.We believe that Russia miscalculates the situation and we strongly rely on our allies and their unity and assertiveness in protecting security and stability in Europe.MENAFN10012022000067011011ID1103516991
MENAFN- Gulf Times  Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg warned Russia yesterday ofsevere costs if it launches a further attack on Ukraine, saying he hoped crunch talks could chart a way towards a diplomatic solution.
We also need to send a very clear message to Russia, that we are united and that there will be severe costs  economic, political costs  for Russia if they once again use military force against Ukraine, Stoltenberg said.
Russia demands unconditional surrender, demands to undermine the basic principles of functioning of the democratic countries and the principles of Nato, she said.We believe that Russia miscalculates the situation and we strongly rely on our allies and their unity and assertiveness in protecting security and stability in Europe.
Stoltenberg was speaking as high-ranking US and Russian officials held a high-stakes meeting in Geneva over the crisis.
Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg warned Russia yesterday ofsevere costs if it launches a further attack on Ukraine, saying he hoped crunch talks could chart a way towards a diplomatic solution.
That will be followed tomorrow by talks in Brussels between Russia and all 30 Nato allies.
The US and allies say it is not up to Moscow to determine the path taken by other countries  but insist they are willing to listen to Russia'sconcerns.
