Qatar  UkraineRussia Germany suspends NorthStream 2 gas pipeline
20220222
https://menafn.com/1103742206/Qatar-Ukraine-Russia-Germany-suspends-NorthStream-2-gas-pipeline&source=24
MENAFN- The Peninsula  AP  Berlin: Germany has taken steps to halt the process of certifying theNorthStream 2 gas pipeline from Russia, Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Tuesday, as the West started taking punitive measures against Moscow over the Ukraine crisis.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Berlin: Germany has taken steps to halt the process of certifying theNorthStream 2 gas pipeline from Russia, Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Tuesday, as the West started taking punitive measures against Moscow over the Ukraine crisis.
The decision is a significant move for the German government, which had long resisted pulling the plug on the project despite pressure from the United States and some European countries to do so. Washington has for years argued that building another pipeline bringing natural gas from Russia to Germany increases Europe's reliance on Russian energy supplies.
The government aims to end the use of all fossil fuels in Germany by 2045.
Scholz added that Germany's Economy Ministry would reassess the situation in light of the latest developments.
'Now it's up to the international community to react to this one-sided, incomprehensible and unjustified action by the Russian president, he told reporters in Berlin, adding that it was necessary to 'send a clear signal to Moscow that such actions won't remain without consequences.
Scholz said his government made the decision in response to Russian President Vladimir Putin's recognition of the independence of two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine that he said marked a 'serious break of international law.
Germany meets about a quarter of its energy needs with natural gas, a share that will increase in the coming years as the country switches off its last three nuclear power plants and phases out the use of coal. About half of the natural gas used in Germany comes from Russia.
'The situation now is fundamentally different,' Scholz said, explaining that the government had decided to withdraw a report on the impact that the pipeline - which hasn't begun operating yet - would have on the security of Germany's gas supplies.
'That may sound technical, but it's a necessary administrative step without which the certification of the pipeline cannot happen now, he said.
The decision is a significant move for the German government, which had long resisted pulling the plug on the project despite pressure from the United States and some European countries to do so. Washington has for years argued that building another pipeline bringing natural gas from Russia to Germany increases Europe's reliance on Russian energy supplies. Read Also   Why Donetsk and Luhansk matter to Putin and global security: QA   UK says: The Russian invasion of Ukraine has begun   War fears grow as Putin orders Russian troops to Ukraine after recognising breakaway regions   'The situation now is fundamentally different,' Scholz said, explaining that the government had decided to withdraw a report on the impact that the pipeline - which hasn't begun operating yet - would have on the security of Germany's gas supplies.
