Reznikov Other countries should be involved in Normandy format
20210928
https://menafn.com/1102880652/Reznikov-Other-countries-should-be-involved-in-Normandy-format
As reported, Reznikov stated that the participation of the United States as the OSCE member and the guarantor of the Budapest Memorandum was possible and acceptable at the level of the Normandy format and the Trilateral Contact Group.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
"We need to preserve the Normandy format and give it a chance. But this does not mean that other partners cannot join this format. We are completely open. We talk not about narrowing but, on the contrary, about expanding the format," Reznikov said in the program "Freedom of Speech" on the ICTV channel, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
The Deputy Prime Minister told how he had recently discussed this issue with his colleagues from France and Germany and explained to them that Ukraine did not criticize the Normandy format. According to him, "we are satisfied with this format, but Ukraine criticizes the result which has not been achieved in seven years" because the war is not over, Russia has not withdrawn its troops and has not liberated the occupied Ukrainian territory.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Deputy Prime Minister  Minister of Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Ukraine Oleksiy Reznikov believes that the Normandy format should be preserved by involving other countries in it. "We need to preserve the Normandy format and give it a chance. But this does not mean that other partners cannot join this format. We are completely open. We talk not about narrowing but, on the contrary, about expanding the format," Reznikov said in the program "Freedom of Speech" on the ICTV channel, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
