Reznikov on potential Russian invasion of Ukraine I dont believe Russia will win
20211208
https://menafn.com/1103321231/Reznikov-on-potential-Russian-invasion-of-Ukraine-I-dont-believe-Russia-will-win&source=138
According to Reznikov, 'we don't need American or Canadian soldiers here' fighting for Ukraine, but the country needs support in modernizing its own Armed Forces.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to Reznikov, the West's strong position in support of Ukraine as an ally could be a deterrent to Moscow's further aggressive actions.
He also noted that the idea of 'not provoking Russia' will not work, as evidenced by the events in Georgia, the British city of Salisbury and Crimea.
Earlier, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that the United States has made it clear to the Kremlin that it will give a decisive response, including through a number of economic measures. He did not specify which sanctions are being considered, but one of them could be Russia's disconnection from the SWIFT international payment system. The European Parliament in April passed a resolution calling for Russia to be excluded from SWIFT if its troops enter Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine's defense minister, Oleksiy Reznikov, has said he does not believe that Russia could win if it decides to invade Ukraine. He said this in an interview with CNN , Ukrinform reports.
U.S. President Joe Biden said last Friday that his administration was preparing a set of initiatives to make it more difficult for Russian President Vladimir Putin to take military action in Ukraine.
The Washington Post earlier reported that it had an unclassified U.S. intelligence document with satellite photos, which shows Russian troops amassing in three locations near Ukraine's border, as well as in Russia-occupied Crimea. Currently, 50 battlefield tactical groups are deployed, along with 'newly arrived' tanks and artillery.
Reznikov told Estonia's television channel ERR on December 5 that the number of Russian troops near the Ukrainian border could grow to 175,000.
'I don't believe that Russia will have a victory in Ukraine. It's different. It will be a really bloody massacre, and Russian guys will also come back in coffins,' he said.
