Russian forces fully withdraw from northern Ukraine UK
20220408
https://menafn.com/1103979794/Russian-forces-fully-withdraw-from-northern-Ukraine-UK&source=30
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
It also said that many of these of these forces will need 'significant replenishment before being ready to deploy further east'.
'Any mass redeployment from the north likely to take at least a week minimum,' the Ministry said in the update posted on Twitter.
London, April 8 IANS In its latest update on Friday, the UK's Ministry of Defence announced that Russian forces have fully withdrawn from northern Ukraine to Belarus and Russia.
The Ministry added that 'at least some of these forces will transferred to east Ukraine to fight in Donbas' which comprises the separatist regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Russia's main effort now is eastern Ukraine, after withdrawing its forces from the area around Kiev in the north, the BBC said in a report.
MENAFN- IANS London, April 8 IANS In its latest update on Friday, the UK's Ministry of Defence announced that Russian forces have fully withdrawn from northern Ukraine to Belarus and Russia.The Ministry added that 'at least some of these forces will transferred to east Ukraine to fight in Donbas' which comprises the separatist regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.It also said that many of these of these forces will need 'significant replenishment before being ready to deploy further east'. 'Any mass redeployment from the north likely to take at least a week minimum,' the Ministry said in the update posted on Twitter.It added that Russian shelling of cities in Ukraine's 'east and south continues and Russian forces have advanced further south from the strategically important city of Izyum' which remains under Moscow's control.Russia's main effort now is eastern Ukraine, after withdrawing its forces from the area around Kiev in the north, the BBC said in a report.--IANSkskMENAFN08042022000231011071ID1103979794
It added that Russian shelling of cities in Ukraine's 'east and south continues and Russian forces have advanced further south from the strategically important city of Izyum' which remains under Moscow's control.
