Russian defense officials silent on own losses in Ukraine war
20220309
https://menafn.com/1103799640/Russian-defense-officials-silent-on-own-losses-in-Ukraine-war&source=138
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the losses of Russian forces since the launch of the invasion of Ukraine amounted to nearly 9,000. Most of the bodies have not been retrieved.MENAFN05032022000193011044ID1103799640
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
At the same time, the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers is overwhelmed by letters and calls from Russian women who are unaware of the whereabouts of their children sent to wage war against Ukraine.
The Russian senator complained that out of a company of 100 soldiers, only four survived and were extracted from the warzone.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia's military commanders offer no comment on Russian military casualties amid an ongoing invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine's Center for Countering Disinformation told about this via Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
On Friday, Russian Senator Liudmyla Narusova spoke about Russian servicemen dying in Ukraine. She said that Russia had deployed conscripts, who had either been forced to sign contracts or someone had done this in their name, thus forging paperwork.
The Russian senator complained that out of a company of 100 soldiers, only four survived and were extracted from the warzone.  Read also:  Zelensky: I wouldn't like Ukraine story to be that of 300 Spartans - I want peace for my nation Russian military officials refused to either confirm or deny this report.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the losses of Russian forces since the launch of the invasion of Ukraine amounted to nearly 9,000. Most of the bodies have not been retrieved.
