Russia strikes Kyiv suburb presses offensive in port city of Mariupol
20220418
https://menafn.com/1104037092/Russia-strikes-Kyiv-suburb-presses-offensive-in-port-city-of-Mariupol&source=22
Russia's defence ministry published video of the head of the navy, Admiral Nikolai Yevmenov, meeting on a parade ground with about a hundred sailors it said were members of the crew.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Britain has been part of an international effort to punish Russia with asset freezes, travel bans and economic sanctions, and Moscow's new entry blacklist includes Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, and Defence Secretary Ben Wallace.
The Ukrainian military said Russian warplanes that took off from Belarus had fired missiles at the Lviv region near the Polish border and four cruise missiles were shot down by Ukrainian air defences.
Zelensky said about 2,500-3,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed so far and up to 20,000 Russian troops.
A month and a half into President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, Russia is trying to capture territory in the south and east after withdrawing from the north following an assault on Kyiv that was repelled at the capital's outskirts.
Britain has been part of an international effort to punish Russia with asset freezes, travel bans and economic sanctions, and Moscow's new entry blacklist includes Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, and Defence Secretary Ben Wallace. MENAFN17042022000067011011ID1104037092
The situation is very difficult in Mariupol, President Volodymyr Zelensky told the Ukrainska Pravda news portal.Our soldiers are blocked, the wounded are blocked. There is a humanitarian crisis ... nevertheless, the guys are defending themselves.
MENAFN- Gulf Times  Russian air raids and missile strikes hit Ukraine's capital Kyiv and other major cities yesterday as Moscow launched more long-range attacks following the sinking of its Black Sea fleet's flagship.
However, Putin appears determined to capture more Donbas territory to claim victory in a war that has left Russia subject to increasingly punitive Western sanctions and with few allies.
In the port of Mariupol, scene of the war's heaviest fighting and worst humanitarian catastrophe, Russian troops pressed their advances, hoping to make up for their failure to capture Kyiv by seizing their first big prize of the war.
Kyiv and Washington say the ship, whose sinking has become a symbol of Ukrainian defiance, was hit by Ukrainian missiles.
Russia denies targeting civilians and says the aim of itsspecial military operation is to disarm its neighbour, defeat nationalists and protect separatists in the southeast.
Ukraine gained the upper hand in the early phase of a war, in part by successfully deploying mobile units armed with anti-tank missiles supplied by the West against Russian armoured convoys confined to roads by muddy terrain.
In a rare sign of life, one red car drove slowly down an otherwise empty street, the wordchildren scrawled on a card taped to the windshield.
Overall, around one-quarter of Ukrainians have been driven from their homes, including one-tenth of the population that has fled abroad.
Ukraine needs weapons. Not in a month. Now, Mykhailo Podolyak said in a Twitter post.
Moscow has given no updates on its casualties since March 25, when it said 1,351 had died.
The western city has been relatively unscathed so far and serves as a haven for refugees and international aid agencies.
Western estimates of Russian losses are many times higher, while there are few independent estimates of Ukraine's losses.
In Mykolaiv, a city close to the southern front, Russia said it had struck a military vehicle repair factory.
Smoke billowed from burning cars and the remains of what appeared to be an office building at the scene of an attack in the city as rescuers cleared mounds of debris that blocked the road outside.
Despite the attack in Darnytskyi, Kyiv continued to reopen slowly in the wake of the Russian withdrawal from its outskirts in recent weeks, with the French embassy staging a flag-raising ceremony to mark its reopening.
Moscow says it sank after a fire and that its crew of around 500 were evacuated.
Several bodies of civilians lay scattered on nearby streets, including a woman in a pink parka and white shoes.
Zelensky held a ceremony to award medals to soldiers in the lobby of an office building with sandbags partly blocking the doors.
Ukraine says civilian deaths are impossible to count, estimating at least 20,000 killed in Mariupol alone.
The owner of both of the giant steelworks in Mariupol, Ukraine's richest man Rinat Akhmetov, vowed to rebuild the city.
This step was taken as a response to London's unbridled information and political campaign aimed at isolating Russia internationally, creating conditions for restricting our country and strangling the domestic economy, the foreign ministry said in a statement.
It is the main port of the Donbas, a region of two provinces in the southeast which Moscow demands be fully ceded to separatists.
The factory was reduced to a ruin of twisted steel and blasted concrete, with no sign of defenders present.
An adviser to Zelensky said the country needed a swifter supply of weapons from its European Union partners.
Amid escalating tit-for-tat sanctions since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, Russia said it was banning entry to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and several other top United Kingdom officials.
Russian troops that pulled out of the north left behind towns littered with bodies of civilians, evidence of what US President Joe Biden this week called genocide  an attempt to erase Ukrainian national identity.
The governor of Kharkiv province in the east said at least one person had been killed and 18 were injured in a missile strike.
Russian air raids and missile strikes hit Ukraine's capital Kyiv and other major cities yesterday as Moscow launched more long-range attacks following the sinking of its Black Sea fleet's flagship.
The elimination of our troops, of our men in Mariupol will put an end to any negotiations between Ukraine and Russia, he said in an interview with the Ukrainska Pravda news website.That will be an impasse as we don't negotiate neither our territories nor our people.
It cited ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov as saying that as of yesterday, Ukrainian forces in the city had lost more than 4,000 people.
In the front-line Luhansk town of Lysychansk, civilians crouched and then fled for safety from incoming shells as thick smoke rose from a blackened shop and burned-out cars.
The Russian defence ministry said its troops had cleared the entire urban area of Mariupol of Ukrainian forces and had blockaded a few fighters in the Azovstal steelworks, RIA news agency said.
In Mariupol, Reuters journalists in Russian-held districts reached the Ilyich steelworks, one of two metals plants where defenders have held out in underground tunnels and bunkers.
The attacks followed Russia's announcement on Friday that it would intensify long-range strikes in retaliation for unspecified acts ofsabotage andterrorism, hours after it confirmed the sinking of its Black Sea flagship, the Moskva.
Ukraine says it has so far held off Russian advances elsewhere in the Donbas regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, where at least one person was killed in shelling overnight.
He has warned that the elimination of the last Ukrainian troops trapped in Mariupol would put an end to stalled peace talks with Moscow.
The ministry accused London ofunprecedented hostile actions, in particular referring to sanctions on Russia's senior officials, andpumping the Kyiv regime with lethal weapons.
The mayor said at least one person was killed and medics were fighting to save others.
