Russians make Ukraines territory one of the most contaminated by mines in the world  Zelensky
20220412
https://menafn.com/1103995812/Russians-make-Ukraines-territory-one-of-the-most-contaminated-by-mines-in-the-world-Zelensky&source=19
MENAFN- UkrinForm When retreating from northern Ukraine, Russian troops consciously left behind tens if not hundreds of thousands of explosive items, and this should be also considered as a war crime. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
A reminder that, on February 24, 2022, Russian President Vladimir Putin initiated a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, starting a war. Russian troops are shelling and destroying the key infrastructure facilities, launching missile and air strikes on residential areas in Ukrainian cities and villages, torturing and murdering civilians.
They consciously did everything to make the return to these areas after deoccupation as dangerous as possible. Due to the actions of the Russian army, our territory is currently one of the most contaminated by mines in the world. And I believe this should also be considered as a war crime of Russian troops. They deliberately did everything to kill or maim as many of our people as possible, even when they were forced to withdraw from our land. Without the appropriate orders, they would not have done it, Zelensky stressed.
According to the President of Ukraine, Russians were leaving mines everywhere: in the houses they seized, directly on the streets, in the fields. They also placed mines in civilians' property, cars, doors.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Security work is underway in the northern regions of our country, from where the occupiers were expelled. First of all, it is mine clearance. Russian troops left behind tens if not hundreds of thousands of dangerous objects. These are shells that did not explode, mines, tripwire mines. At least several thousand such items are disposed of daily, Zelensky told.
