Russian Hackers Coordinated Latest Missile Strikes On Odesa
20220509
https://menafn.com/1104175602/Russian-Hackers-Coordinated-Latest-Missile-Strikes-On-Odesa&source=138
Also on Saturday, the Ukrainian forces downed Russia's Forpost reconnaissance and strike UAV over Odesa, which had been reconnoitering the location of civilian and military infrastructure. A Russian Serna-class landing craft was hit in the Black Sea by a strike drone.MENAFN07052022000193011044ID1104175602
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Experts with Ukraine's Special Communications and Information Protection Service found that Russian hackers coordinated missile strikes on Odesa, launched by Russian strategic bombers on May 7. This was stated by the agency's press service , Ukrinform reports.
It is noted that this is another confirmation that 'Russian hackers act synchronously with the Russian military, which attacks Ukrainian cities with missiles.'  Read also:  Russian missiles hit civilian enterprise, airfield in  Odesa  As reported, on May 7 in Odesa, four Russian missiles hit a civilian enterprise located in a residential area and two more targeted the already destroyed runway at a local airfield.
As reported, on May 7 in Odesa, four Russian missiles hit a civilian enterprise located in a residential area and two more targeted the already destroyed runway at a local airfield.
Also on Saturday, the Ukrainian forces downed Russia's Forpost reconnaissance and strike UAV over Odesa, which had been reconnoitering the location of civilian and military infrastructure. A Russian Serna-class landing craft was hit in the Black Sea by a strike drone.
It is noted that this is another confirmation that 'Russian hackers act synchronously with the Russian military, which attacks Ukrainian cities with missiles.'
'Odesa was attacked by Russian invaders, again. According to Operational Command South, the enemy deployed strategic warplanes to launch cruise missiles. At about the same time, calls were posted on hostile platforms for a cyber attack on the Odesa City Council's website,' the statement said.
