Russia Has Already Used Over 2500 Missiles Against Ukraine  Zelensky
20220605
https://menafn.com/1104325239/Russia-Has-Already-Used-Over-2500-Missiles-Against-Ukraine-Zelensky
'As of this morning on June 4, the total number of various Russian missiles used against Ukraine is already 2,503,' he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said this in a nightly video address , according to Ukrinform.
Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced. The European Union, the United States and other countries have imposed strong sanctions against the aggressor country.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Zelensky noted that Russian troops again fired at the border areas of the Sumy region, Mykolaiv, cities and communities of the Zaporizhzhia and Kharkiv regions. The situation in Sievierodonetsk, where street fighting continues, remains extremely difficult. It is also difficult in Lysychansk, Marinka, Kurakhove, other cities and communities of Donbas, which are under constant air strikes, artillery and missile fire.
However, Ukrainian heroes hold their positions and do everything to inflict maximum losses on the enemy, Zelensky added.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops have fired 2,503 missiles against Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian all-out invasion. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said this in a nightly video address , according to Ukrinform.
Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced. The European Union, the United States and other countries have imposed strong sanctions against the aggressor country.MENAFN05062022000193011044ID1104325239
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops are shelling and destroying critical infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers, ballistic missiles, and air bombs.
