Russia Should Be Cut Off From Funds For Its War  Polish Foreign Ministry
20220505
https://menafn.com/1104145614/Russia-Should-Be-Cut-Off-From-Funds-For-Its-War-Polish-Foreign-Ministry&source=138
'And these are the main sources of income that allow Putin to finance this war. We emphasize that this embargo should be implemented as soon as possible,' said the Polish senior diplomat.
He noted that some governments, including Hungary, Germany, and Austria, remain unwilling to impose an embargo on Russian energy. However, they need to be convinced of the need to take the step. Jaboski stressed that if this fails to be done, Putin will continue to manipulate energy prices and increase the impact on European economies.
He added that these funds would be used to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine and the recovery of European economies.
According to him, if some countries aren't ready to introduce them immediately, transitional mechanisms should be applied, such as the introduction of customs duties on energy.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia must be deprived of the funds it is using to finance its armed aggression against Ukraine, while any possibility of circumventing western sanctions must be ruled out. The assets seized from Russian oligarchs should be allocated for Ukraine's recovery. This was stated during a press conference in Warsaw on Monday by Polish Deputy Foreign Minister Pawe Jaboski, Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
He added that these funds would be used to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine and the recovery of European economies.  Read also:  Ukraine to have access to LNG terminals in Poland, Baltic states The Deputy Minister stressed that the sanctions imposed on Russia so far are a very important but insufficient step, as Russia is actively seeking ways and loopholes to circumvent them.
This was stated during a press conference in Warsaw on Monday by Polish Deputy Foreign Minister Pawe Jaboski, Ukrinform reports.
The Deputy Minister stressed that the sanctions imposed on Russia so far are a very important but insufficient step, as Russia is actively seeking ways and loopholes to circumvent them.
'Massive funds  hundreds of billions of reserves in foreign currency, Russian oligarchs' stocks, accumulated in the banks of Europe and around the world  must be seized in order to bring Russia to justice, to prevent them from fighting now and make them pay for this war,' said Jaboski.
Jaboski called the biggest problem that Russia has not yet been cut off from profits from oil and gas.
