Russian Occupiers Recruit Collaborators To Stage Referendum Rallies  Intelligence
20220801
https://menafn.com/1104627373/Russian-Occupiers-Recruit-Collaborators-To-Stage-Referendum-Rallies-Intelligence
The working headquarters of such representatives opened in the seized premises of the Foxtrot store. In addition, a recruiting center for those willing to collaborate with Russian occupation authorities opened in Berdiansk. However, there are very few of those, even though Russian occupiers offer significant 'financial incentives'. In order to produce pictures for the Kremlin TV channels, Russian invaders have to bring 'activists' from the temporarily occupied Crimea.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In the temporarily occupied major population centers in the south of Zaporizhzhia Region, the representative of Russian occupation authorities are looking for collaborators who will create a 'crowd scene' at the so-called 'unprompted rallies' in support of the referendum. The representatives of occupation authorities believe this will defuse dissatisfaction with the war. This will also allow them to make a necessary TV picture for Russian citizens. In particular, Russian specialists were spotted arriving in Melitopol to hold PR campaigns, the report states.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In the temporarily occupied areas of Zaporizhzhia Region, Russian invaders are looking for collaborators to create a 'crowd scene' at the so-called 'unprompted rallies' in support of the pseudo-referendum. The relevant statement was made by the Main Intelligence Directorate at the Ukrainian Defense Ministry on Telegram , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The relevant statement was made by the Main Intelligence Directorate at the Ukrainian Defense Ministry on Telegram , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that about 400,000 Ukrainians have left the temporarily occupied areas via Zaporizhzhia since the Russian invasion started.
