Russia Threatens Swiss Newspaper Over Putin Caricature
20220717
https://menafn.com/1104540677/Russia-Threatens-Swiss-Newspaper-Over-Putin-Caricature
'We believe that freedom of expression is in no way compatible with the freedom to disseminate insults and fakes,' the Russian embassy wrote.
The war in Ukraine is forcing Switzerland to explain its neutrality.  Articles in this story   How neutral is Switzerland, really?   Tags:
Russia has threatened Swiss newspaper Neue Zrcher Zeitung with legal action after it published critical reports and a caricature of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Since sending troops to Ukraine, Russia has been taking unprecedented domestic action against the media and opposition. The country has declared several organisations 'undesirable' and described them as a 'threat'. If foreign organisations, foundations or companies are deemed 'undesirable', Russians with links to such organisations face heavy fines or prison sentences of up to six years.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Contributions under this article have been turned off. You can find an overview of ongoing debates with our journalists here . Please join us!
This content was published on July 16, 2022 - 18:08 July 16, 2022 - 18:08 Keystone-SDAjc In a letter to NZZ editor Eric Gujer published on Saturday on the Russian Embassy in Switzerland's press service website, it said it wasoutraged by publication of aninsulting caricature of the President of the Russian Federation and reserved the right to take legal action for defamation and slander.'We believe that freedom of expression is in no way compatible with the freedom to disseminate insults and fakes,' the Russian embassy wrote.The reason is reportedly an article in the NZZ edition of July 9 entitled 'Superheroes and villains show their clout on the Internet', in which the paper looked at the propaganda war on social media by both sides that has been part of the Ukraine war on the ground. The article was accompanied by a photo of Putin with a red clown nose and rainbow streaks on his face that had originally been published on Twitter. Swiss newspaper NZZ has not so far issued any comment.Since sending troops to Ukraine, Russia has been taking unprecedented domestic action against the media and opposition. The country has declared several organisations 'undesirable' and described them as a 'threat'. If foreign organisations, foundations or companies are deemed 'undesirable', Russians with links to such organisations face heavy fines or prison sentences of up to six years. More
If you want to start a conversation about a topic raised in this article or want to report factual errors, email us at englishswissinfo.ch .
In a letter to NZZ editor Eric Gujer published on Saturday on the Russian Embassy in Switzerland's press service website, it said it wasoutraged by publication of aninsulting caricature of the President of the Russian Federation and reserved the right to take legal action for defamation and slander.
The reason is reportedly an article in the NZZ edition of July 9 entitled 'Superheroes and villains show their clout on the Internet', in which the paper looked at the propaganda war on social media by both sides that has been part of the Ukraine war on the ground. The article was accompanied by a photo of Putin with a red clown nose and rainbow streaks on his face that had originally been published on Twitter.
In compliance with the JTI standards More: SWI swissinfo.ch certified by the Journalism Trust Initiative  Contributions under this article have been turned off. You can find an overview of ongoing debates with our journalists here . Please join us!
Since the start of the Ukraine war, Russia has clamped down on critical media and opposition inside the country. Sputnik
If you want to start a conversation about a topic raised in this article or want to report factual errors, email us at englishswissinfo.ch . Read more   More
