Russia Blocking 300 Cargo Ships In Black Sea  US
20220512
https://menafn.com/1104196791/Russia-Blocking-300-Cargo-Ships-In-Black-Sea-US&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm As part of the invasion of Ukraine, Russia has blocked about 300 cargo ships in the Black Sea that cannot export grain and other food for export from Ukraine. This was announced on Wednesday by the U.S. State Department on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
This was announced on Wednesday by the U.S. State Department on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the United States constantly emphasizes the global threat of Putin's war in Ukraine, including for world food security. At the same time, it is pointed out that Russia is deliberately blocking grain supplies from Ukrainian ports, as well as destroying and stealing food stocks in Ukraine. Earlier, U.S. President Joe Biden called Russia's war one of the main reasons for rising global food and fuel prices.
'While Ukraine used to export up to 5 million tons of grain per month, shipments have all but stopped due to the Kremlin's blockade of Ukrainian ports and nearly 300 cargo ships in the Black Sea,' the statement said.
The US State Department stressed that these actionsthreaten to put millions at risk of famine and malnutrition.
The US State Department stressed that these actionsthreaten to put millions at risk of famine and malnutrition.  Read also:  Nearly 25 million tonnes of  grain  stuck in Ukraine  UN As Ukrinform reported earlier, the United States constantly emphasizes the global threat of Putin's war in Ukraine, including for world food security. At the same time, it is pointed out that Russia is deliberately blocking grain supplies from Ukrainian ports, as well as destroying and stealing food stocks in Ukraine. Earlier, U.S. President Joe Biden called Russia's war one of the main reasons for rising global food and fuel prices.MENAFN11052022000193011044ID1104196791
