Russia intends to encircle Ukrainian troops to issue ultimatums during talks
20220325
https://menafn.com/1103903604/Russia-intends-to-encircle-Ukrainian-troops-to-issue-ultimatums-during-talks&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russia, having disrupted all terms of the offensive operation, continues to consider the possibility of encircling the certain groups of troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to issue further ultimatums during the negotiation process, the report states.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Having failed during its offensive operation, Russia is planning to encircle the certain groups of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to issue ultimatums during talks. The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
In the Slobozhanskyi direction, the city of Vovchansk, Russian occupiers organized a demonstrative delivery of the so-called 'humanitarian aid' for local residents who put signatures and showed their Ukrainian passport.
Within the temporarily occupied areas in Zaporizhzhia Region, due to logistic issues, Russian invaders are trying to replenish fuel reserves by seizing fuel from civilians and farmers.
In violation of the international humanitarian law, Russian troops continue to intentionally destroy urban infrastructure with artillery, missile and aviation strikes. Chaotically mining the areas and destroying agricultural machinery, Russian invaders put the sowing campaign in certain Ukrainian regions at risk.
