Russians Launch One More Strike On Kharkiv Leaving Two Civilians Injured And One Killed
20220430
https://menafn.com/1104120837/Russians-Launch-One-More-Strike-On-Kharkiv-Leaving-Two-Civilians-Injured-And-One-Killed&source=138
In his words, Russian invaders also shelled one of settlements in Kharkiv Region, destroying a building.
The relevant statement was made by Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Head Oleh Syniehubov on Telegram , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
A reminder that, on February 24, 2022, Russian President Vladimir Putin initiated a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, starting a war. Russian troops are shelling and destroying the key infrastructure facilities, launching missile and air strikes on Ukrainian cities and villages, torturing and murdering civilians.
Half an hour ago, Russians again launched strikes on one of Kharkiv's eastern districts. Two civilians were injured and one killed, unfortunately, Syniehubov wrote.
According to Syniehubov, the information about casualties is yet to be updated. Rescuers and medics are working at the scene.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Russian military have launched one more strike on the eastern part of Kharkiv, leaving two civilians injured and one killed. The relevant statement was made by Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Head Oleh Syniehubov on Telegram , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
According to the preliminary data, people who were rescued from under the rubble had received minor injuries and did not need hospitalization. As of now, four civilians have been injured and one killed in Kharkiv District, Syniehubov noted.
