Russias attack on Ukraine unjustified
20220224
https://menafn.com/1103759049/Russias-attack-on-Ukraine-unjustified&source=24
A vast invasion is underway by land by sea and by air. And this is not in the infamous phrase some faraway country of which we know little. We have Ukrainian friends in this country neighbours, co-workers Ukraine is a country that for decades has enjoyed freedom and democracy and the right to choose its own destiny.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
OTTAWA, Canada   Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, in a statement condemning Russia's attack on Ukraine meanwhile leaders of the G7, and the United States and our Allies and partners will be imposing severe sanctions on Russia.We will continue to provide support and assistance to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, said US president Joe Biden during a phone call with president Volodymyr Zelenskyy ofUkraine, February 24, 2022.
Canada calls on Russia to immediately cease all hostile and provocative actions against Ukraine and withdraw all military and proxy forces from the country. Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity must be respected and the Ukrainian people must be free to determine their own future.
I know that it will blaze bright again in Ukraine because for all his bombs and tanks and missiles I don't believe that the Russian dictator will ever subdue the national feeling of the Ukrainians and their passionate belief that their country should be free and I say to the British people and all who have heard the threats from Putin against those who stand with Ukraine.
It is an attack on democracy and freedom in East Europe and around the world. This crisis is about the right of a free, sovereign independent European people to choose their own future and that is a right that the UK will always defend.   MENAFN24022022000232011072ID1103759049
Shortly after 4 O'clock this morning I spoke to president Zelenskyy of Ukraine to offer the continued support of the UK because our worst fears have now come true and all our warnings have proved tragically accurate president Putin of Russia has unleashed war in our European continent. He has attacked a friendly country without any provocation and without any credible excuse Innumerable missiles and bombs have been raining down on an entirely innocent population.
Canada condemns in the strongest possible terms Russia's egregious attack on Ukraine. These unprovoked actions are a clear further violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. They are also in violation of Russia's obligations under international law and the Charter of the United Nations.
Russia's actions will be met with severe consequences. Tomorrow morning, I will be meeting with G7 partners, and we will continue working closely and quickly with NATO and our allies to collectively respond to these reckless and dangerous acts, including by imposing significant sanctions in addition to those already announced.
We will of course do everything to keep our country safe. We are joined in our outrage by friends and allies around the world.
We will work with them  for however long it takes  to ensure that the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine is restored because this act of wanton and reckless aggression is an attack not just on Ukraine.
We stand in solidarity with Ukraine and its people who are enduring the horrors of war. Belize is resolute that all states must respect and adhere to norms and principles of international law which are fundamental to the maintenance of the international system and peace and security, including respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity within internationally recognised borders, non-interference in the internal affairs of another state, and the prohibition on the threat or use of force and peaceful resolution of disputes.
In the face of these attacks on Ukraine, Canada will take additional action to stop Russia's unwarranted aggression. We continue to stand with Ukraine, its people, and the Ukrainian Canadian community here in Canada. Russia's brazen acts will not go unpunished.
Belize calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities, withdrawal of all Russian troops and military hardware from Ukraine and urges all sides to exercise restraint.
In an address to the nation on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, February 24, 2022, prime minister Boris Johnson,  said   :
Belize roundly condemns Russia's unjustified and unprovoked attack on Ukraine. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a blatant breach of international law and of its obligations under the United Nations Charter. It also constitutes an unacceptable violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Russia's actions are an assault on the international system itself and cannot be countenanced by any peace-loving state.
Today in concert with our allies we will agree a massive package of economic sanctions designed in time to hobble the Russian economy. And to that end we must also collectively cease the dependence on Russian oil and gas that for too long has given Putin his grip on western politics
Belize regards Russia's recognition of Luhansk and Donetsk as a violation of international law. Belize does not recognize the so-called Donetsk People's Republic or the so-called Luhansk People's Republic.
Aggression has been defined as thesupreme international crime and it undoubtedly constitutes an attack against the peace and security of humanity, as well as civilized relations between States.
Russian aggression constitutes a crime against international peace. The armed attack perpetrated against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine is reprehensible and constitutes a very serious act in violation of international law.
The parents of Russian soldiers who will lose their lives. I cannot believe this is being done in your name or that you really want the pariah status it will bring to the Putin regime and I say to the Ukrainians in this moment of agony we are with you we are praying for you and your families and we are on your side. And if the months ahead are grim, and the flame of freedom burns low
The General Secretariat of the Organization of American States OAS condemns the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine and calls for an immediate cessation of the hostilities that it has irresponsibly initiated.
Diplomatically, politically, economically  and eventually, militarily  this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure. And so I say to the people of Russia, whose president has just authorised a tidal wave of violence against a fellow Slavic people.
It is an attack on democracy and freedom in East Europe and around the world. This crisis is about the right of a free, sovereign independent European people to choose their own future and that is a right that the UK will always defend.
We  and the world  cannot allow that freedom just to be snuffed out. We cannot and will not just look away. It is because we have been so alarmed in recent months at the Russian intimidation that the UK became one of the first countries in Europe to send defensive weaponry to help the Ukrainians Other allies have now done the same and we will do what more we can in the days ahead.
