Russians who dug trenches in the Red Forest will face radiation sickness  Energoatom
20220411
https://menafn.com/1103986651/Russians-who-dug-trenches-in-the-Red-Forest-will-face-radiation-sickness-Energoatom&source=138
It is reported that when getting into a human body, this type of radiation is tens and hundreds of times more powerful than gamma and beta rays.
Therefore all the occupiers, who were based in the Red Forest and were digging trenches there for almost 30 days, will face radiation sickness of varying severity.MENAFN10042022000193011044ID1103986651
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'The rate of external radiation gamma background in the researched areas stood at 3.2-4 Svh microsieverts per hour, which is 10-15 times above the norm.  Read also:  Russian troops kick up clouds of radioactive dust near Chornobyl NPP One of the indicators measuring the internal radiation received by the occupiers from the soil surface Beta contamination in the researched areas was 90 Sr, which is 160 times above the norm.
The report says abnormally high levels of radiation background were recorded at the sites where the occupiers had been digging to strengthen their positions.
'The rate of external radiation gamma background in the researched areas stood at 3.2-4 Svh microsieverts per hour, which is 10-15 times above the norm.
One of the indicators measuring the internal radiation received by the occupiers from the soil surface Beta contamination in the researched areas was 90 Sr, which is 160 times above the norm.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Chief of Ukraine's Energoatom Petro Kotin visited one of the areas in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone, where the Russian occupiers had been digging trenches. The official says all Russian soldiers, who have already retreated from the area, are now facing radiation sickness. That's according to the Ukrainian Pravda citing the nuclear operator's press service , Ukrinform reports.
That's according to the Ukrainian Pravda citing the nuclear operator's press service , Ukrinform reports.
Another factor of internal radiation is Alpha contamination, which is formed due to the fragments of nuclear fuel and graphite from the reactor scattered in this part of the so-calledRed Forest. These fragments are now 40-80 cm below the surface, but the occupiers dug deeper.
Therefore all the occupiers, who were based in the Red Forest and were digging trenches there for almost 30 days, will face radiation sickness of varying severity.
