Russia To Launch Spy Satellite For Iran But Use It First Over Ukraine  WP
20220805
https://menafn.com/1104651173/Russia-To-Launch-Spy-Satellite-For-Iran-But-Use-It-First-Over-Ukraine-WP
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russia, which has struggled to achieve its military objectives in its five-month-old assault on Ukraine, has told Tehran that it plans to use the satellite for several months, or longer, to enhance its surveillance of military targets in that conflict, WP says.
The pending launch is the latest indicator of increased military and political cooperation between Moscow and Tehran.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia will launch a surveillance satellite for Iran, but will first use it to spy on targets in Ukraine. That's according to The Washington Post , referring to Western security officials, Ukrinform reports.
Russia's Roscosmos space agency said it would launch the spacecraft on August 9, fulfilling a deal negotiated with Iran over the past four years.  Read also:  Foreign Ministry calls on  Iran  to refrain from any steps fueling Russia's war against Ukraine Russia agreed to build and launch the Kanopus-V system, which will include a high-resolution camera that would give Tehran unprecedented capabilities, including near-continuous monitoring of sensitive facilities in Israel and the Persian Gulf, the report reads.
Russia agreed to build and launch the Kanopus-V system, which will include a high-resolution camera that would give Tehran unprecedented capabilities, including near-continuous monitoring of sensitive facilities in Israel and the Persian Gulf, the report reads.
The satellite's camera boasts a 1.2-m resolution, which substantially improves Iran's current capabilities, the report says.
A new satellite that Russia is set to launch on Iran's behalf next week will massively improve Tehran's ability to spy on military targets in the Middle East. At the same time, Moscow first intends to use it to assist its invasion of Ukraine, the report says.
Russia's Roscosmos space agency said it would launch the spacecraft on August 9, fulfilling a deal negotiated with Iran over the past four years.
The satellite's camera boasts a 1.2-m resolution, which substantially improves Iran's current capabilities, the report says.MENAFN05082022000193011044ID1104651173
