Russia Uses OperationalTactical Strategic Aircraft To Strike Ukraine
20220506
https://menafn.com/1104157627/Russia-Uses-Operational-Tactical-Strategic-Aircraft-To-Strike-Ukraine&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'The enemy used operational-tactical and strategic aircraft to launch air strikes on Kharkiv, Donetsk, Kirovohrad, Odesa, Lviv, and Zakarpattia regions. Almost 50 airstrikes were carried out, including with guided missiles,' Oleksandr Motuzianyk, Spokesperson for the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, said during a briefing at the Ukraine Media Center  Ukrinform.
As reported, on the evening of May 3, Russian troops launched missile strikes on various regions of Ukraine. Destructions and casualties were reported.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The enemy used operational-tactical and strategic aircraft to launch air strikes on facilities in Ukraine. 'The enemy used operational-tactical and strategic aircraft to launch air strikes on Kharkiv, Donetsk, Kirovohrad, Odesa, Lviv, and Zakarpattia regions. Almost 50 airstrikes were carried out, including with guided missiles,' Oleksandr Motuzianyk, Spokesperson for the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, said during a briefing at the Ukraine Media Center  Ukrinform.  Read also:   Eight  regions came under enemy missile attack yesterday According to him, Russian Tu-160 strategic bombers launched 18 airborne cruise missiles from the airspace over the Caspian Sea targeting facilities in Ukraine, trying to damage the transport infrastructure.  Read also:  Russia fired 18  cruise  missiles on Ukraine Tuesday. Eight missiles shot down As reported, on the evening of May 3, Russian troops launched missile strikes on various regions of Ukraine. Destructions and casualties were reported.
According to him, Russian Tu-160 strategic bombers launched 18 airborne cruise missiles from the airspace over the Caspian Sea targeting facilities in Ukraine, trying to damage the transport infrastructure.
