Russia Scraps Remaining COVID Restrictions
20220701
https://menafn.com/1104463451/Russia-Scraps-Remaining-COVID-Restrictions
It said the dynamics of the virus were consistent with global trends and 93 of confirmed cases were mild or asymptomatic.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russia was quick to develop and launch its Sputnik V vaccine when the pandemic struck but take-up was slow, with many Russians citing distrust of the authorities and fear of new medical products. About 52 of the population has been fully vaccinated.
Consumer watchdog Rospotrebnadzor said it was 'suspending previously introduced restrictions, including the mask regime, a ban on public catering at night, and a number of other measures'. Read Also   At least 18 dead in Russian missile attack on Odesa building   Japanese asked to save power as country's east sizzles   Philippines' Marcos appoints career diplomat as foreign minister   It said the dynamics of the virus were consistent with global trends and 93 of confirmed cases were mild or asymptomatic.
Since the start of the pandemic in Russia in April 2020, over 800,000 people have died from coronavirus or causes related to COVID-19, Reuters calculations show, with the country recording over 18 million infections.
Russia said on Friday it was ending all restrictions to combat the spread of COVID-19, including the requirement to wear masks, citing a steady decline in deaths from the virus.
Consumer watchdog Rospotrebnadzor said it was 'suspending previously introduced restrictions, including the mask regime, a ban on public catering at night, and a number of other measures'.
MENAFN- The Peninsula  Reuters  Russia said on Friday it was ending all restrictions to combat the spread of COVID-19, including the requirement to wear masks, citing a steady decline in deaths from the virus.
