Russia planned to use deported Ukrainians as labor force to build cities in Siberia
20220425
https://menafn.com/1104076566/Russia-planned-to-use-deported-Ukrainians-as-labor-force-to-build-cities-in-Siberia&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia had a plan to use Ukrainians, deported from the occupied territories, to build three to five big cities in the remote region of Siberia. This was stated by Secretary of the Security and Defense Council Oleksiy Danilov in an interview with the Ukrainian Pravda outlet, Ukrinform reports.
'Shoigu wrote in his article that the citizens of the CIS countries would be building all that. If you look at the citizens of the CIS nations, who else, besides our nation, is to be involved? Other nations do not have the capacity, they have no such numbers physically that would be enough to implement such projects,' the top security official stressed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
An article by Minister of Defense of the Russian Federation Sergei - ed. Shoigu, entitled 'On the New Cities of Siberia,' came out September 6, 2021. Few took note of that article, but we do pay attention to such things. After reading it carefully, we understood that they will never give up the intention to develop Siberia at the expense of our citizens, our country, as they have repeatedly done before,' he said.  Read also:  NSDC Secretary doesn't believe in any peace deal with Russia According to the secretary of the Security Council, Shoigu directly announced the plan  to build from three to five large cities with a population of 300,000 to a million, and, accordingly, it was Ukrainians who were supposed to build them.
'Shoigu wrote in his article that the citizens of the CIS countries would be building all that. If you look at the citizens of the CIS nations, who else, besides our nation, is to be involved? Other nations do not have the capacity, they have no such numbers physically that would be enough to implement such projects,' the top security official stressed.MENAFN22042022000193011044ID1104076566
An article by Minister of Defense of the Russian Federation Sergei - ed. Shoigu, entitled 'On the New Cities of Siberia,' came out September 6, 2021. Few took note of that article, but we do pay attention to such things. After reading it carefully, we understood that they will never give up the intention to develop Siberia at the expense of our citizens, our country, as they have repeatedly done before,' he said.
Danilov confirmed that this is where the idea of camps, which the Western media reported before the invasion started, came from.
This was stated by Secretary of the Security and Defense Council Oleksiy Danilov in an interview with the Ukrainian Pravda outlet, Ukrinform reports.
According to the secretary of the Security Council, Shoigu directly announced the plan  to build from three to five large cities with a population of 300,000 to a million, and, accordingly, it was Ukrainians who were supposed to build them.
