Russian Offensive Operations Likely To Stall In Coming Weeks  ISW
20220624
https://menafn.com/1104425858/Russian-Offensive-Operations-Likely-To-Stall-In-Coming-Weeks-ISW
MENAFN- UkrinForm In the coming weeks, Russian offensive operations are likely to stall, whether or not Russian forces capture the Sievierodonetsk-Lysychansk area. The relevant statement was made by the Institute for the Study of War ISW in the Russian offensive campaign assessment  of June 23, 2022, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukrainian troops have succeeded for weeks in drawing substantial quantities of Russian personnel, weapons, and equipment into the area and have likely degraded Russian forces' overall capabilities while preventing Russian forces from focusing on more advantageous axes of advance.
Russian troops have made substantial gains in the Sievierodonetsk-Lysychansk area in recent days. Meanwhile, Ukrainian forces have fundamentally accomplished their objective in the battle by slowing down and degrading Russian forces.
The Kremlin's ideological fixation on the capture of Sievierodonetsk, much like the earlier siege of Azovstal, will likely be to the ultimate detriment of Russian capabilities in future advances in Ukraine, the ISW experts noted.
Based on their estimates, the loss of Sievierodonetsk is a loss for Ukraine in the sense that any terrain captured by Russian forces is a loss, but the battle of Sievierodonetsk will not be a decisive Russian victory.
The relevant statement was made by the Institute for the Study of War ISW in the Russian offensive campaign assessment  of June 23, 2022, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that, in the Sievierodonetsk direction, Russian troops seized such settlements as Loskutivka and Rai-Oleksandrivka. The enemy continues assault operations to gain control over Syrotyne and is preparing to force a crossing over the Siverskyi Donets.
