Russian invaders kill 213 children in Ukraine
20220424
https://menafn.com/1104082811/Russian-invaders-kill-213-children-in-Ukraine&source=19
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
More than 602 children suffered in Ukraine as a result of Russia's armed aggression. In particular, 213 children were killed and more than 389 were injured. These figures are not final, as work is underway in the areas of active hostilities, in the temporarily occupied and liberated territories, the PGO's press service wrote on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
On April 23, near the village of Novokyivka, Snihurivskyi district, Mykolaiv region, a 9-year-old boy and a 17-year-old girl received mine injuries and shrapnel wounds in a mine explosion.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the beginning of the full-scale invasion into Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities, conducting massive shelling of residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers and ballistic missiles.
In addition, regular air strikes and shelling of civilian infrastructure and residential areas by the Russian armed forces damaged 1,500 educational institutions. Of which, 102 were completely destroyed.
On April 22, a 17-year-old boy was killed in enemy shelling of civilian infrastructure in the village of Kamianske, Vasylivka district, Zaporizhzhia region. On the same day, during the recording of criminal offenses committed by the occupiers in the Bucha district of Kyiv region, the body of a 16-year-old boy with shrapnel wounds was found.
Thus, on April 23, a mother with a three-month-old child died in Russian shelling of a residential area in Odesa. On the same day, it became known about the death of two girls - young actresses of the Donetsk Regional Drama Theater. The girls died in Russian shelling of Mariupol.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops have killed 213 children in Ukraine since February 24, according to data provided by the Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office. More than 602 children suffered in Ukraine as a result of Russia's armed aggression. In particular, 213 children were killed and more than 389 were injured. These figures are not final, as work is underway in the areas of active hostilities, in the temporarily occupied and liberated territories, the PGO's press service wrote on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
The largest number of victims has been recorded Donetsk region - 122, Kyiv region - 114, Kharkiv region - 91, Chernihiv region - 66, Kherson region - 44, Mykolaiv region - 43, Luhansk region - 37, Zaporizhzhia region - 27, Sumy region - 17, Kyiv city - 16, and Zhytomyr region - 15.
