Russia Spreading Fake Bomb Reports Across Transnistria To Destabilize Region  Land Forces
20220523
https://menafn.com/1104249383/Russia-Spreading-Fake-Bomb-Reports-Across-Transnistria-To-Destabilize-Region-Land-Forces
'In the Bessarabian direction, Russian special services are taking measures to destabilize the region. Fake bomb reports as regards infrastructure facilities and so-called 'state' institutions in the cities of Tiraspol, Bendery, Dubossary, and Rybnitsa have been spread again,' the statement reads.  Read also:  Ukraine, together with Moldova, EU, will try to prevent escalation in  Transnistria  - Kuleba As Ukrinform reported earlier, Russia's Defense Ministry announced their current objective of the ongoing war in Ukraine: full control of Donbas and southern Ukraine, including the land corridor to Crimea and Transnistria.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian intelligence services are circulating false reports claiming a bomb threat targeting social infrastructure facilities in the Transnistrian Moldovan Republic in order to destabilize the situation in the region. This was reported on Telegram by the press service of Ukraine Army's Land Forces , according to Ukrinform.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Russia's Defense Ministry announced their current objective of the ongoing war in Ukraine: full control of Donbas and southern Ukraine, including the land corridor to Crimea and Transnistria.
This was reported on Telegram by the press service of Ukraine Army's Land Forces , according to Ukrinform.
Control over the south of Ukraine could give Russia another path to Transnistria, where allegedly 'the facts of oppression of the Russian-speaking population' have been recorded, a Russian military official said.
'In the Bessarabian direction, Russian special services are taking measures to destabilize the region. Fake bomb reports as regards infrastructure facilities and so-called 'state' institutions in the cities of Tiraspol, Bendery, Dubossary, and Rybnitsa have been spread again,' the statement reads.
