Russian Army May Try To Seize Entire Kherson Region Ahead Of Referendum  Adviser To Interior Minister
20220813
https://menafn.com/1104692362/Russian-Army-May-Try-To-Seize-Entire-Kherson-Region-Ahead-Of-Referendum-Adviser-To-Interior-Minister
Smirnov noted that the Russians had redeployed up to 90 of its assault troops to the south of Ukraine because they were afraid of losing their positions.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'We know that they set a pontoon crossing near the Antonivka Bridge. But we have to understand that a pontoon crossing does not replace a bridge and the speed of redeploying equipment is much slower. We know that the personnel are transported by barges among other means... This will definitely not replace the logistics that existed when the bridge functioned,' he said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Rostyslav Smirnov, Adviser to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, supposes that the invaders may go on a counteroffensive to try to seize the entire territory of Kherson region ahead of the 'referendum' in the temporarily occupied territories of the region. As Smirnov said during the nationwide news telethon, the invaders have no intention to hold 'referendum' in Kherson region in an online format.
'That's what they call it, 'online'. They will just show the number of 'votes' and that's it. Therefore, they need to prove a certain victory. And precisely for this purpose, we think that the enemy may try to go on counteroffensive just ahead of the 'referendum' and capture Kherson region in its administrative borders as they have not yet captured the entire region,' Smirnov explained.
As Smirnov said during the nationwide news telethon, the invaders have no intention to hold 'referendum' in Kherson region in an online format.
Moreover, since the bridges in Kherson region were damaged, the logistics of the Russians in this area of the front are extremely difficult.
According to him, in the near future, the south will be the hottest region on the front.
In this regard, he stated that 'it's always easier to defend than to attack.' 'Against the background of our defensive actions and offensive actions of the enemy, we will be able to inflict significant losses on them, and then, indeed, to go on counteroffensive and regain the south,' the adviser to the interior minister noted.
