Russia withdrawing troops to Belarus to restore combat capability  Ukraines defense ministry
20220402
https://menafn.com/1103952017/Russia-withdrawing-troops-to-Belarus-to-restore-combat-capability-Ukraines-defense-ministry&source=19
According to the official, the situation is politically difficult for Lukashenko, as there is no unanimity among the Belarusian military. 'On the one hand, there is a risk of escalation, and on the other hand, they are hampered by the attitude of the Belarusians, including the military, to this war,' Malyar said.
'The territory of Belarus is still being actively used by Russia to conduct aggression. They also use the medical infrastructure of Belarus for their wounded, they use their airports and military infrastructure. In fact, the Belarusian armed forces remain in combat readiness. However, there is one interesting fact  Russia is partially withdrawing troops from Kyiv and Chernihiv regions, and they are using the territory of Belarus in order to restore the combat capability of these troops. The threat from across the Belarusian border persists, and it should not be underestimated,' said Malyar, adding that Ukrainian Armed Forces are ready for such developments.  Read also:  US announces new sanctions against Russian and  Belarus  ian companies According to the official, the situation is politically difficult for Lukashenko, as there is no unanimity among the Belarusian military. 'On the one hand, there is a risk of escalation, and on the other hand, they are hampered by the attitude of the Belarusians, including the military, to this war,' Malyar said.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, missile systems are being deployed and amassed in Belarus' Gomel region for further strikes on Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
This was announced on UA:Together by Deputy Minister of Defense of Ukraine Hanna Malyar, who was answering the question of whether Belarus has decided to take part in the war on the territory of Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The invaders are actively using the territory of Belarus to conduct aggressive actions against Ukraine. They are currently withdrawing their troops from Kyiv and Chernihiv regions to Belarus in order to restore their combat capability. This was announced on UA:Together by Deputy Minister of Defense of Ukraine Hanna Malyar, who was answering the question of whether Belarus has decided to take part in the war on the territory of Ukraine.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, missile systems are being deployed and amassed in Belarus' Gomel region for further strikes on Ukraine.MENAFN01042022000193011044ID1103952017
'The territory of Belarus is still being actively used by Russia to conduct aggression. They also use the medical infrastructure of Belarus for their wounded, they use their airports and military infrastructure. In fact, the Belarusian armed forces remain in combat readiness. However, there is one interesting fact  Russia is partially withdrawing troops from Kyiv and Chernihiv regions, and they are using the territory of Belarus in order to restore the combat capability of these troops. The threat from across the Belarusian border persists, and it should not be underestimated,' said Malyar, adding that Ukrainian Armed Forces are ready for such developments.
