Russian paratroopers redeployed to eastern Ukraine from Kaliningrad region
20220406
https://menafn.com/1103956495/Russian-paratroopers-redeployed-to-eastern-Ukraine-from-Kaliningrad-region&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia redeploys some units of the Kaliningrad-based 37th Separate Air Assault Brigade to Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine. As of 18:00, the Russian Armed Forces started to withdraw units from Sumy region. Having not achieved the goal of the operation, the enemy probably decided to abandon the offensive in Siversky and, in part, Slobozhansky directions, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook .
It is reported that the invaders suffered manpower and equipment losses. In particular, in Kharkiv region, the motorized infantry company of the 59th Tank Regiment lost almost 80 of its personnel.
According to the General Staff data, the withdrawal of units of the occupying forces to the territory of Belarus is nearing completion in the Siversky area. Belarusian border guards do not carry out any control, including radiation control. The occupiers continue to deliver stolen vehicles and other property from Ukraine to Belarus without hindrance.
According to the General Staff, the enemy's violation of international humanitarian law is confirmed daily by numerous civilian casualties in the liberated localities. All facts are documented and submitted to international judicial institutions.
Due to significant personnel losses, about 25 servicemen of the 31st Separate Assault Brigade from Ulyanovsk refused to take part in the war with Ukraine and wish to resign. In addition, Deputy Commander of the 83rd Guards Air Assault Brigade, Lieutenant Colonel Vitaliy Slabtsov, was eliminated.
As reported, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Russian Federation lost about 18,000 personnel, 644 tanks, 143 planes, 134 helicopters, and many other weapons and equipment from February 24 to April 3.
As of 18:00, the Russian Armed Forces started to withdraw units from Sumy region. Having not achieved the goal of the operation, the enemy probably decided to abandon the offensive in Siversky and, in part, Slobozhansky directions, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook .
The General Staff notes that the enemy is taking measures to regroup and strengthen the existing troops in Donetsk direction. In particular, the redeployment of some units of the 37th Separate Air Assault Brigade Chernyakhovsk, Kaliningrad region to the territory of Donetsk and Luhansk regions is confirmed.
