Russia May Start Gas Blackmail Of Europe Once Cold Weather Sets In  Yermak
20220529
https://menafn.com/1104288530/Russia-May-Start-Gas-Blackmail-Of-Europe-Once-Cold-Weather-Sets-In-Yermak
'It cannot be ruled out that Russia, in addition to the food crisis, will start blackmailing Europe over gas with the onset of cold weather. Given that the Kremlin now wants to exchange the unblocking of Ukrainian ports for sanction lift, we can see Moscow's ultimate goal. 'Economic support for Ukraine, tariffs and embargoes on Russian oil, sanctions against the Russian banking system, auxiliary sanctions, as well as the weapons requested by our state are a strong, united response,' Yermak wrote.
'It cannot be ruled out that Russia, in addition to the food crisis, will start blackmailing Europe over gas with the onset of cold weather. Given that the Kremlin now wants to exchange the unblocking of Ukrainian ports for sanction lift, we can see Moscow's ultimate goal. 'Economic support for Ukraine, tariffs and embargoes on Russian oil, sanctions against the Russian banking system, auxiliary sanctions, as well as the weapons requested by our state are a strong, united response,' Yermak wrote.  Read also:  Foreign companies' interest in  gas  storage in Ukraine growing According to the office chief, the attacks on Russia must be swift and without hesitation, otherwise the Kremlin will try to split the EU and pursue its own blackmail.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In addition to provoking a global food crisis, Russia may start blackmailing Europe over natural gas supplies with the onset of cold weather, so it is now necessary for the Western world to stand strong and united. The head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Andriy Yermak , made the statement on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
Russia has blocked all ports and trade routes through which Ukrainian grain is traditionally exported worldwide. More than 20 million tonnes of grain remain stuck in Ukrainian ports and silos.
The head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Andriy Yermak , made the statement on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky stated that the Russian Federation is trying to disrupt Ukrainian grain shipments even via alternative routes.
According to the office chief, the attacks on Russia must be swift and without hesitation, otherwise the Kremlin will try to split the EU and pursue its own blackmail.
