Russian Losses Over Past Day Include 24 Servicemen Two Orlan Drones
20220506
https://menafn.com/1104168881/Russian-Losses-Over-Past-Day-Include-24-Servicemen-Two-Orlan-Drones&source=138
It is noted that in the temporarily occupied territories of Kherson and Mykolaiv regions, the Russians continue to campaign for implanting puppet authorities. Grains stocks are being plundered. At the same time, the occupiers try to accuse e Ukrainian authorities ofcreating a humanitarian catastrophe. For propaganda purposes, the invaders film their forces distributing food kits and medicine to the local population.
In Transnistria, the unrecognized entity bordering Ukraine's Odesa region, an information spin was circulated about the alleged series of shots heard from the Ukrainian territory.
The invaders are also circulating fake news claiming Ukraine is deploying command posts in clinics, maternity hospitals, schools, and other civilian infrastructure facilities. 'Thus, the Ministry of Defense of Russia on its official platform accused the Ukrainian authorities of locating the command post of the Armed Forces in the Odesa regional hospital, while the orcs' sick minds drew armored vehicles, artillery units, and MLR systems in the hospital backyard,' the statement said.
It is noted that at the same time, in the north-western part of the Black Sea, the naval group involving cruise missile carriers continues to maneuver, maintaining tensions in the region over the possible missile strikes.
Reconnaissance drones are used to spot artillery fire, but due to the precise actions of our units, two Orlan-10 drones were 'permanently grounded' in Mykolaiv and Kherson regions, respectively. Over the past day, our units subtracted 24 Ruscists from the enemy horde,' the report says.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In the south of Ukraine on May 5, Ukrainian defenders killed 24 occupiers and two Orlan-10 unmanned aerial vehicles.
It is reported that the enemy continues the tactics of securing positions with no offensive involved, while focusing on fire damage along the line of contact. So, across Mykolaiv region, the enemy again employed Smerch MLR Systems and launched a Moskit missile. There are no victims reported among the local population.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Twenty-four servicemen with the Russian invasion forces were eliminated in Ukraine on Thursday, while Ukrainian air defense units also shot down two Orlan10-type drones. In the south of Ukraine on May 5, Ukrainian defenders killed 24 occupiers and two Orlan-10 unmanned aerial vehicles.
Reconnaissance drones are used to spot artillery fire, but due to the precise actions of our units, two Orlan-10 drones were 'permanently grounded' in Mykolaiv and Kherson regions, respectively. Over the past day, our units subtracted 24 Ruscists from the enemy horde,' the report says.  Read also:  Russian troops attempt to resume offensive on Lyman and Siversk  General Staff It is noted that in the temporarily occupied territories of Kherson and Mykolaiv regions, the Russians continue to campaign for implanting puppet authorities. Grains stocks are being plundered. At the same time, the occupiers try to accuse e Ukrainian authorities ofcreating a humanitarian catastrophe. For propaganda purposes, the invaders film their forces distributing food kits and medicine to the local population.
