Russian invasion hobbled by an infantry shortfall
20220323
https://menafn.com/1103900102/Russian-invasion-hobbled-by-an-infantry-shortfall&source=19
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Widespread critiques of Moscow's campaign plan have flailed its mistaken intelligence assumptions and multiplicity of objectives. The failings of the Russian Army's signals and logistics systems, and the incompetence and low morale of some of its troops, have also come in for withering criticism.
But a more structural problem is becoming apparent. While Russia is deploying fearsome artillery and massive weight of armor in Ukraine, it is coming up short in the central combat arm of any army: infantry.
While Moscow's special forces displayed impressive form in the former conflicts, the current struggle is exposing major chinks in the armor of its main-force units. As a result, the critics have been out in force.
MENAFN- Asia Times  Given the success it enjoyed in Crimea and Syria, the most striking surprise of the Ukrainian war thus far is the sub-par combat performance of the Russian Army.
Given the success it enjoyed in Crimea and Syria, the most striking surprise of the Ukrainian war thus far is the sub-par combat performance of the Russian Army.
But a more structural problem is becoming apparent. While Russia is deploying fearsome artillery and massive weight of armor in Ukraine, it is coming up short in the central combat arm of any army: infantry. To continue reading, please log in to your AT Premium account. Not yet a member? Please signup for AT Premium monthly membership , AT Premium yearly membership , AT Premium yearly membership educator , AT Premium yearly membership student or AT Premium Access membership .MENAFN23032022000159011032ID1103900102
