Russia Deploys Its Only Terminator Company To Sievierodonetsk  British Intelligence
20220523
https://menafn.com/1104253015/Russia-Deploys-Its-Only-Terminator-Company-To-Sievierodonetsk-British-Intelligence
MENAFN- UkrinForm According to British intelligence data, Russia's only operational company of BMP-T Terminator tank support vehicles has likely been deployed to the Sievierodonetsk axis of the Donbas offensive. 'Their presence suggests that the Central Grouping of Forces CGF is involved in this attack, which is the only formation fielding this vehicle. CGF previously suffered heavy losses while failing to break through to eastern Kyiv in the first phase of the invasion, the British Ministry of Defence posted on Twitter .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
It is underscored that the area of Sievierodonetsk remains one of Russia's immediate tactical priorities. However, with a maximum of ten Terminators deployed they are unlikely to have a significant impact on the campaign.
The British intelligence officers note that Russia developed Terminator after identifying the need to provide dedicated protection to main battle tanks it used during the Afghan and Chechen wars.
As reported, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said in his video address to the citizens that the situation in Donbas was extremely difficult. As in previous days, the Russian army is trying to attack Slovyansk and Sievierodonetsk. The Armed Forces of Ukraine restrain the offensive.
'Their presence suggests that the Central Grouping of Forces CGF is involved in this attack, which is the only formation fielding this vehicle. CGF previously suffered heavy losses while failing to break through to eastern Kyiv in the first phase of the invasion, the British Ministry of Defence posted on Twitter .
