Russians trying to encircle heavily fortified Ukrainian positions in the east  British intelligence
20220427
https://menafn.com/1104093985/Russians-trying-to-encircle-heavily-fortified-Ukrainian-positions-in-the-east-British-intelligence&source=138
According to Ukrinform, the UK Ministry of Defense said this in its latest intelligence update published on Twitter .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On February 24, Russia launched a new phase of its eight-year war against Ukraine - a full-scale offensive. The enemy is shelling and bombing peaceful Ukrainian cities, towns and villages. The Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Territorial Defense Forces and the entire Ukrainian people are effectively resisting Russian troops and inflicting heavy losses on them.
The Zaporizhia regional military administration said on Tuesday that Russian air strikes were recorded in Zaporizhzhia this morning.
Ukrainian forces have been preparing defenses in Zaporizhzhia in preparation for a potential Russian attack from the south, the ministry said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm According to British intelligence, Russian troops are likely attempting to encircle heavily fortified Ukrainian positions in the east of Ukraine. According to Ukrinform, the UK Ministry of Defense said this in its latest intelligence update published on Twitter .
On February 24, Russia launched a new phase of its eight-year war against Ukraine - a full-scale offensive. The enemy is shelling and bombing peaceful Ukrainian cities, towns and villages. The Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Territorial Defense Forces and the entire Ukrainian people are effectively resisting Russian troops and inflicting heavy losses on them.MENAFN26042022000193011044ID1104093985
'The city of Kreminna has reportedly fallen and heavy fighting is reported south of Izium, as Russian forces attempt to advance towards the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk from the north and east,' the update said.
