Russia destroys worlds biggest plane Mriya in Ukraine
20220228
https://menafn.com/1103773887/Russia-destroys-worlds-biggest-plane-Mriya-in-Ukraine&source=22
The biggest plane in the worldMriya The Dream was destroyed by Russian occupants on an airfield near Kyiv. We will rebuild the plane. We will fulfill our dream of a strong, free, and democratic Ukraine, tweeted Ukraine from their official Twitter handle.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Mriya' was built as a part of the Soviet aeronautical program. After the Soviet Union collapsed, the lone operational An-225 was placed in storage in 1994.
However, in the wake of anxieties with the West over his invasion of Ukraine Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for nuclear deterrent forces to be on high alert. Meanwhile, following a phone conversation between President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, Ukraine agreed to start talks with Russia near the Chernobyl exclusion zone on its border with Belarus. Ukraine has already declined to speak to Russian forces stationed in Belarus before the invasion.
Ukroboronprom, a weapons manufacturer, predicted that rebuilding theMriya would cost more than $3 billion and take more than five years. Moreover, the aircraft was one-of-a- kind in the world. It measured 84 meters in length and is certainly capable of transporting up to 250 tonnes of cargo at a top speed of 850 kilometres per hour.
However, in the wake of anxieties with the West over his invasion of Ukraine Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for nuclear deterrent forces to be on high alert. Meanwhile, following a phone conversation between President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, Ukraine agreed to start talks with Russia near the Chernobyl exclusion zone on its border with Belarus. Ukraine has already declined to speak to Russian forces stationed in Belarus before the invasion.  Mriya world's biggest planeMENAFN28022022005762012635ID1103773887
The largest plane in the world, Ukraine's Antonov-225 cargo planewas, unfortunately, destroyed by Russian strikes outside Kyiv on the fourth day of Moscow's invasion Ukraine's state-owned Ukroboronprom group said Sunday. 'Mriya', the aircraft was certainlya symbol of hope in the darkest hours of COVID-19.
The biggest plane in the worldMriya The Dream was destroyed by Russian occupants on an airfield near Kyiv. We will rebuild the plane. We will fulfill our dream of a strong, free, and democratic Ukraine, tweeted Ukraine from their official Twitter handle. A symbol of hope in the darkest hours of COVID-19 Mriya Dream, the world's largest plane, carried vast quantities of life-saving vaccine and PPE around the globe. It is now destroyed by Russian invaders in itswar against Ukraineand the wider world, the ministry of foreign affairs tweeted.Moreover, he added,Russia may have destroyed our 'Mriya'. But they will never be able to destroy our dream of a strong, free and democratic European state. We shall prevail.  Mriya was a part of the Soviet aeronautical program
