Russian occupiers detain writer Volodymyr Vakulenko and his son in Izium
20220412
https://menafn.com/1103988177/Russian-occupiers-detain-writer-Volodymyr-Vakulenko-and-his-son-in-Izium&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The relevant statement was made by Volodymyr's ex-wife Iryna Novytska on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that the city of Izium has been under the Russian occupation since early March 2022. Russian occupiers do not allow for humanitarian corridors. Since March 6, 2022, Izium has been under extensive shelling and air strikes. The city's infrastructure was completely destroyed.
According to the data from local authorities, within the occupied territories, Russian invaders are searching houses for ATOJFO participants, members of territorial defense units and their relatives, volunteers and generally people who have pro-Ukrainian views.
Yesterday I got a confirmation for what I had been suspecting since late March. Volodymyr Vakulenko, an Izium volunteer and writer, my former husband and the father of our son, was taken away from his home, either by Russian troops or by the representatives of the occupation authorities, a week ago or so. His further fate, same as Vitalik's fate, is unknown, Novytska wrote.
Volodymyr Vakulenko is a Ukrainian writer and public person. He is a compiler and co-organizer of several printed projects, an organizer and participant of many literary events and festivals, a recipient of international and Ukrainian literary prizes.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In the city of Izium, Kharkiv Region, Russian occupiers have detained the Ukrainian writer, Volodymyr Vakulenko, and his son. The relevant statement was made by Volodymyr's ex-wife Iryna Novytska on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
