Russian Fake News Over Past Day Biolabs In Kharkiv Fuel Scheming Amid Shortage In Ukraine
20220514
https://menafn.com/1104211956/Russian-Fake-News-Over-Past-Day-Biolabs-In-Kharkiv-Fuel-Scheming-Amid-Shortage-In-Ukraine&source=19
As Ukrinform reported, Russia is spreading fake messages accusing Ukraine of allegedly creating bio laboratories with the support of American pharmaceutical companies Pfizer, Moderna, and Merck.MENAFN14052022000193011044ID1104211956
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russian propaganda also spread the following misinformation, citing Russia's permanent representative to the UN Vasily Nebenzia, who said that in Russia 'there is information that American scientists allegedly tested potentially hazardous biological drugs on patients at Kharkiv Regional Clinical Psychiatric Hospital No. 3.' Similar experiments were allegedly conducted at Psychiatric Hospital No. 1 in the village of Strelecha, Kharkiv region. However, none of this is true.
As Ukrinform reported, Russia is spreading fake messages accusing Ukraine of allegedly creating bio laboratories with the support of American pharmaceutical companies Pfizer, Moderna, and Merck.
In addition, Russian State Duma Deputy Oleg Morozov said that by its statement about Russia, Poland allegedly encourages the Kremlin to 'put it in the first place in the line for de-Nazification after Ukraine.' This message being spread is due to the 'harsh statements about Russia.'
In particular, the Russian Defense Ministry claimed that 'against the background of the mounting fuel crisis in Kharkiv region, militants with nationalist battalions cynically speculate on illegally misappropriated fuel coupons intended for ambulances and other emergency services.' The Center warns that this is fake news.  Read also:  Ukraine refutes  fake  news of Russian troops reaching administrative border of Luhansk region Russian propaganda also spread the following misinformation, citing Russia's permanent representative to the UN Vasily Nebenzia, who said that in Russia 'there is information that American scientists allegedly tested potentially hazardous biological drugs on patients at Kharkiv Regional Clinical Psychiatric Hospital No. 3.' Similar experiments were allegedly conducted at Psychiatric Hospital No. 1 in the village of Strelecha, Kharkiv region. However, none of this is true.
In particular, the Russian Defense Ministry claimed that 'against the background of the mounting fuel crisis in Kharkiv region, militants with nationalist battalions cynically speculate on illegally misappropriated fuel coupons intended for ambulances and other emergency services.' The Center warns that this is fake news.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Center for Countering Disinformation at the National Security and Defense Council has published a selection of manipulative and fake news that Russian propaganda circulated as of the morning of May 14. The Center posted the report on Facebook , Ukrinform saw.
