Russians Trying To Encircle Ukrainian Troops In Donetsk Direction
20220614
https://menafn.com/1104367659/Russians-Trying-To-Encircle-Ukrainian-Troops-In-Donetsk-Direction
The General Staff informs that the Russian army systematically shells the Ukrainian positions, enhances their fortifications, and conducts air reconnaissance in Slobozhansky direction.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As reported, the defenders of Ukraine eliminated about 32,300 Russian personnel from February 24 to June 13.
As of 18:00 on June 13, the situation in Volyn and Polissya directions has not changed.
In Kharkiv direction, the enemy's main efforts are focused on attempts to disrupt the logistical routes of a group of Ukrainian troops operating in Slovyansk direction.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia has significant problems with staffing the units that carry out assault operations in eastern Ukraine. 'The enemy has significant problems with staffing the units that carry out assault operations in Donetsk and Luhansk regions,' reads the evening report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine published on Facebook .
At the same time, in Sievierodonetsk direction, the enemy carried out assault operations to establish full control over Sievierodonetsk, launched an offensive on the positions of Ukrainian troops in the area of Metiolkine but failed.
In Slovyansk direction, the enemy made an attempt to assault Bohorodychne, but failed and retreated. Now the invaders gain a foothold in the north-western part of the village.
In Donetsk direction, the Russian invaders regroup their units and strengthen groups, trying to encircle the units of Ukrainian troops in the area of Lysychansk, Pryvillia, Sievierodonetsk, and Borivske.
The aggressor did not take active action in Avdiivka, Kurakhove, Novopavlivsk, and Zaporizhzhia directions. In order to restrain and prevent the advance of the Ukrainian troops to other directions, the invaders fired mortars, tube and rocket artillery.
In Bakhmut direction, the enemy continued to shell the positions of Ukrainian troops with artillery and multiple rocket launchers, fought in the directions Toshkivka  Ustynivka, Orikhove  Zolote, Komyshuvakha  Vrubivka, Vasylivka  Bilohorivka, Nyrkove  Mykolaivka, Dolomitne  Novoluhanske but had no success.
At the same time, the invaders strengthen the group of troops operating in Kryvyi Rih direction.
'The enemy has significant problems with staffing the units that carry out assault operations in Donetsk and Luhansk regions,' reads the evening report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine published on Facebook .
In Siversky direction, the invaders fired mortars and grenade launchers on Zapsillia, Sumy region, and Hirske and Hremyach, Chernihiv region. The enemy units continue to equip the defensive positions in border areas in this direction.
According to the General Staff data, the enemy continues to defend in the Southern Buh direction. The enemy's main efforts are focused on reconnaissance, counter-battery operations, increasing the combat capabilities of reserve formations and anti-aircraft defense systems in the direction, fortifications.
