Russia moves from covert attempts to destabilize Ukraine to overt military action  Stoltenberg
20220225
https://menafn.com/1103746346/Russia-moves-from-covert-attempts-to-destabilize-Ukraine-to-overt-military-action-Stoltenberg&source=138
Stoltenberg noted that this security crisis was created by Russia alone and commended Ukraine for its restraint in not responding to Russia's repeated provocations.
This is a serious escalation by Russia. And a flagrant violation of international law.It further undermines Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. It damages efforts to find a peaceful resolution to the conflict, he said, adding that it has grave consequences for European security.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
We will continue to provide Ukraine with strong political support and Allies are providing equipment to help Ukraine defend itself, as well as sustained financial support, Stoltenberg said.
Stoltenberg stressed thatallies are united in their full support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders.
NATO Secretary Jens Stoltenberg said this following an extraordinary meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
We condemn Moscow's decision to recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic, he said.
Stoltenberg stressed that Moscow had moved from covert attempts to destabilize Ukraine, to overt military action, with many Russian units forward deployed in combat formations andready to strike.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia has now moved from covert attempts to destabilize Ukraine, to overt military action, creating the most dangerous crisis in European security for a generation. NATO Secretary Jens Stoltenberg said this following an extraordinary meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
