Russian troops building up forces for offensive in eastern Ukraine
20220407
https://menafn.com/1103961412/Russian-troops-building-up-forces-for-offensive-in-eastern-Ukraine&source=138
To identify the positions of units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the enemy is conducting aerial reconnaissance in the area of the village of Barvinkove with the use of UAVs and tries to restore the bridge over the Siversky Donets River near the town of Izium. Outside Brazhkivka, the enemy conducted combat reconnaissance with the help of a tank company tactical group but failed and retreated to the previously occupied frontiers.
In Siversky direction, the enemy withdrew units of the Central Military District to Kursk region and began their further redeployment.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As noted, the situation in Volyn direction has not changed, the units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus, up to four battalion tactical groups, continue to cover the border.
'There is still a high probability of air and missile strikes on civilian facilities in Kharkiv, preparations are underway for an offensive in the direction of Slovyansk. In Donetsk and Tavriysky directions, the main efforts of the enemy are focused in the areas of the localities of Rubizhne, Popasna. The aggressor prepares for the offensive on Severodonetsk and wants to gain full control over the town of Mariupol. Eight airstrikes have been launched on Mariupol today, street fights are ongoing. Ukrainian servicepersons defend the town,' the report reads.
In Slobozhansky direction, the enemy continues to block Kharkiv, carries out artillery attacks on the city, regroups troops, strengthens the air cover of important facilities in the area of the town of Belgorod and areas of concentration of troops in Kharkiv direction.
At the same time, the enemy completes the regrouping and replacement of units that lost offensive capabilities in order to resume active offensive operations.
The General Staff also reports that enemy units of the Eastern Military District and airborne troops were moving from the territory of the Republic of Belarus to the Russian Federation. The weapons, military equipment and personnel are redeployed by rail and air.
According to available information, separate units of the 35th Combined Arms Army Belogorsk and the 36th Combined Arms Army Ulan-Ude of the Eastern Military District are located in the localities of Rechitsa and Yampol Gomel region of the Republic of Belarus.
In the Southern Buh direction, Ukrainian troops push back the occupiers in Kherson region. The enemy carried out aerial reconnaissance around Mykolayiv with the use of UAV.
In Polissya direction, there is a high probability of missile and bomb strikes on military and civilian infrastructure by enemy planes operating from Belarusian airfields.
'The enemy continues to conduct full-scale armed aggression against our state. The enemy command deploys elements of the operational structure of the offensive group and builds up the management system in order to prepare for an offensive operation in eastern Ukraine. The occupying forces are regrouping and trying to improve the tactical positions in some areas in southern Ukraine. The formation and redeployment of additional units of the Russian Federation to participate in hostilities in the territory of Ukraine continue,' the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook , informing about the operational situation as of 12:00.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian terrorist forces are regrouping in eastern Ukraine and trying to improve tactical positions in some areas in the south. 'The enemy continues to conduct full-scale armed aggression against our state. The enemy command deploys elements of the operational structure of the offensive group and builds up the management system in order to prepare for an offensive operation in eastern Ukraine. The occupying forces are regrouping and trying to improve the tactical positions in some areas in southern Ukraine. The formation and redeployment of additional units of the Russian Federation to participate in hostilities in the territory of Ukraine continue,' the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook , informing about the operational situation as of 12:00.  Read also:  Ukraine  Army  destroyed about 18,300 enemy troops since Russian invasion started As noted, the situation in Volyn direction has not changed, the units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus, up to four battalion tactical groups, continue to cover the border.
In the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov operational zones, the activity of the enemy ship group in the Black Sea is reduced due to difficult weather conditions storm raging with force up to 4. The rest of the enemy ships perform tasks in certain areas.
