Sixth plane with US military assistance arrives in Ukraine
20220201
https://menafn.com/1103626678/Sixth-plane-with-US-military-assistance-arrives-in-Ukraine&source=19
Since the end of October, Russia has been amassing troops near Ukraine's borders. Western media reported, citing sources, that the Russian invasion of Ukraine could take place in early 2022, involving about 175,000 Russian troops.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
We vastly prefer the path of dialogue and diplomacy, but we will continue to provide Ukraine the defensive assistance needed to defend against Russia's massive military force assembled on its borders. We StandWithUkraine, the U.S. Embassy in Ukraine posted on Twitter .
The day hasn't passed yet and we're unloading the 6th bird from our friends from the United States! 84 tons of ammunition arrived in Kyiv! In total, for today we've received about 500 tons of defense equipment from the United States! And this isn't the end, Defense Minister of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov posted on Twitter .
In this regard, the United States, Britain and other international partners provide Ukraine with defensive weapons. In particular, anti-tank weapons from Great Britain arrived in Ukraine on January 18.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Another plane with U.S. military assistance has arrived in Kyiv, delivering 84 tonnes of small arms ammunition for the needs of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The day hasn't passed yet and we're unloading the 6th bird from our friends from the United States! 84 tons of ammunition arrived in Kyiv! In total, for today we've received about 500 tons of defense equipment from the United States! And this isn't the end, Defense Minister of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov posted on Twitter .
The United States prefers the path of diplomacy but will continue to provide Ukraine the defensive assistance needed to defend against Russia.
