Sixth Sanctions Package Served As Trigger To Reject Russian Oil Just Now  Chentsov
20220606
https://menafn.com/1104331818/Sixth-Sanctions-Package-Served-As-Trigger-To-Reject-Russian-Oil-Just-Now-Chentsov
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The relevant statement was made by Head of the Mission of Ukraine to the EU Vsevolod Chentsov at an online briefing, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
According to Chentsov, Russia's metallurgical industry has already faced significant problems at the production level. Cloud services are no longer provided to the Russian Federation, and they do not have a similar domestic product that would ensure the normal operation of enterprises.
We consider this step the implementation of the sixth sanctions package against Russia  Ed. to be very strong. Despite the fact that the transition to the new conditions will last 6-8 months  i.e. eight months for petroleum products and six months for crude oil,  the effect of this decision will become noticeable in the near future, as a number of member states and private companies have already started to refocus on the new supply sources, without waiting for such sanctions to be approved, Chentsov told.
Hence, this package has been of great importance, both in essence and politically, as it served as a powerful trigger to reject Russian oil just now, Chentsov stressed.
In addition, Chentsov expects that disconnecting Russia's Sberbank and other banks from SWIFT will have a systemic effect on the Russian financial sector.
In his words, Germany is already receiving about two-thirds of oil from other sources than Russia.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine considers the implementation of the sixth sanctions package against Russia as a very strong step, which has served as a trigger to reject Russian oil just now. The relevant statement was made by Head of the Mission of Ukraine to the EU Vsevolod Chentsov at an online briefing, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
