Slovakias defense chief likens Putin to Hitler
20220417
https://menafn.com/1104029698/Slovakias-defense-chief-likens-Putin-to-Hitler&source=138
Mr. Jaroslav Nad' stressed that the only thing he considers now was the lives that can be saved in Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
But this is the world's new reality. We are a frontline state. We have war on our border and more than 330,000 Ukrainians coming to our country. The paradigm is completely different now, said the Slovak minister in the interview.
Russia is killing thousands of people in Ukraine and I am not going to count the votes that I would lose - or gain - based on the decisions of the government to help. The only thing that I am counting is the lives we can save in Ukraine, the minister said.
Mr. Jaroslav Nad' said it would have been unthinkable before Russia's invasion for his country to send large quantities of weapons across its eastern border free of charge.
In the words of Slovakia's Defence Minister, Ukraine is literally fighting for the future of Europe.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Defense Minister of the Slovak Republic Jaroslav Na said that Russian President Vladimir Putin wasequal to Hitler after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. That's according to his interview with The New York Times , Ukrinform reports
As Ukrinform reported, President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda stated that Putin and the Russian army were committing unprecedented crimes in Ukraine, as Hitler and the SS once were.
Read also:   Czech  Embassy intends to return to Kyiv Mr. Jaroslav Nad' stressed that the only thing he considers now was the lives that can be saved in Ukraine.
'Mr. Putin, he Jaroslav Na - ed. said,is equal to Hitler and must be stopped in Ukraine before he can move further West, reads the article.
As Ukrinform reported, President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda stated that Putin and the Russian army were committing unprecedented crimes in Ukraine, as Hitler and the SS once were.MENAFN15042022000193011044ID1104029698
