Soldier wounded amid three ceasefire breaches by enemy forces in Donbas Aug 26
20210827
https://menafn.com/1102690212/Soldier-wounded-amid-three-ceasefire-breaches-by-enemy-forces-in-Donbas-Aug-26&source=138
"As a result of enemy shelling, a Ukrainian serviceman suffered a gunshot wound. The soldier has been evacuated to a medical facility. He is in satisfactory condition," the press service said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The Ukrainian military is monitoring the situation in the area of the Joint Forces Operation to repel and deter armed aggression of the Russian Federation, the press service of the Armed Forces stressed.
It is noted that near the settlement of Orikhove, the occupiers engaged Ukrainian positions with anti-tank missile systems, and near Avdiivka  fired at the positions of the Ukrainian military using 82-caliber mortars.
In the Novoluhansk area, Russian mercenaries fired small arms.  Read also:  Tackling demographic, human capital challenges must be at the heart of  Donbas  economic recovery: World "As a result of enemy shelling, a Ukrainian serviceman suffered a gunshot wound. The soldier has been evacuated to a medical facility. He is in satisfactory condition," the press service said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In the Joint Forces Operation zone over the past 24 hours, on August 26, three ceasefire violations by the Russian occupation forces were documented, while a Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in one of the enemy attacks. This was reported by the press service of the Joint Forces Operation on Facebook , Ukrinform saw.
This was reported by the press service of the Joint Forces Operation on Facebook , Ukrinform saw.
It is noted that the Ukrainian military returned fire to the attacks by Russian occupation forces. The Ukrainian side to the Joint Ceasefire Control and Coordination Center informed the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission through the established coordination mechanism about the violations by Russian-controlled armed groups.
