South Ukraines Armed Forces Attack Five Russian Strongholds In Kherson Region
20220725
https://menafn.com/1104585021/South-Ukraines-Armed-Forces-Attack-Five-Russian-Strongholds-In-Kherson-Region
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Over the past day, Ukrainian missile and artillery units carried out about 190 fire missions and eliminated 66 Russians, five tanks, two Gvozdika self-propelled howitzers, Fagot anti-tank missile system, three armored personnel vehicles, nine vehicles.
'Our aviation launched five strikes on the enemy. A pair of attack aircraft and front-line bombers attacked three enemy strongholds in Beryslav district, and a pair of Mi-8 and Mi-24 targeted two enemy strongholds in Kherson district,' the report says.
As reported, on May 30, the invaders disconnected the Internet and mobile communications from Ukrainian operators in Kherson region they block 'green corridors', evacuation, kidnap residents of the region.
'Our aviation launched five strikes on the enemy. A pair of attack aircraft and front-line bombers attacked three enemy strongholds in Beryslav district, and a pair of Mi-8 and Mi-24 targeted two enemy strongholds in Kherson district,' the report says.  Read also:  Ukrainian forces to liberate  Kherson  region from Russian invaders by September - deputy Over the past day, Ukrainian missile and artillery units carried out about 190 fire missions and eliminated 66 Russians, five tanks, two Gvozdika self-propelled howitzers, Fagot anti-tank missile system, three armored personnel vehicles, nine vehicles.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian aviation struck five targets of the Russian army. The Armed Forces of Ukraine attacked three enemy strongholds in Beryslav district and two more in Kherson district. This is stated in the report  of the Operational Command 'South', Ukrinform reports.
The enemy tried to launch counteroffensives in two directions in Beryslav district of Kherson region to restore the lost position. However, the invaders did not succeed and retreated suffering losses.
A command and observation post of the 785th special unit of the Russian National Guard, two ammunition depots, and Merlin-VR drone were also destroyed in the area of Ivanivka.
