Suspects in war crimes among Russian POWs  top prosecutor
20220329
https://menafn.com/1103926880/Suspects-in-war-crimes-among-Russian-POWs-top-prosecutor&source=138
On February 24, on the instructions of Russian President Putin, Russian troops began a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian forces have been shelling and bombing key infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages, using artillery, rockets, and missiles.MENAFN28032022000193011044ID1103926880
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On February 24, on the instructions of Russian President Putin, Russian troops began a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian forces have been shelling and bombing key infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities and villages, using artillery, rockets, and missiles.
That's according to Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova, who spoke at a briefing on March 28, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
'We have such suspects, and in order for me to remain a successful prosecutor, I will remain silent on this, she told journalists, answering a question of whether there are suspects in war crimes among the POWs and if the PGO will recommend that they not be swapped.
'We have such suspects, and in order for me to remain a successful prosecutor, I will remain silent on this, she told journalists, answering a question of whether there are suspects in war crimes among the POWs and if the PGO will recommend that they not be swapped.  Read also:  PGO already registered 3,085 criminal cases over Russian aggression  This really is confidential information, and I hope that you will have work to do in Ukrainian courtrooms and see how we will work with this article on war crimes  it's Art. 438. So we will move on and see what happens. We are working on this line, there are such suspects, Venediktova said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Among the Russian forces captured in Ukraine are those suspected of committing war crimes in its territory. That's according to Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova, who spoke at a briefing on March 28, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
As reported earlier, the Office of the Prosecutor General said the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies had already initiated 3,085 criminal proceedings into crimes of aggression and war crimes committed by the Russian forces.
This really is confidential information, and I hope that you will have work to do in Ukrainian courtrooms and see how we will work with this article on war crimes  it's Art. 438. So we will move on and see what happens. We are working on this line, there are such suspects, Venediktova said.
