Swiss hesitant to impose sanctions on Russia over Ukraine crisis
20220306
https://menafn.com/1103800015/Swiss-hesitant-to-impose-sanctions-on-Russia-over-Ukraine-crisis&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The demonstration was organised by the pacifist Switzerland without an Army group and several left-wing parties.
In a statementExternal link published on Wednesday, the government said it is examining the situation closely and remains in contact with several countries to exchange intelligence.
Switzerland may adopt compulsory measures to enforce sanctions adopted by the Untied Nations, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE or Switzerland's main trading partners, the government said.
              However, it did not announceany concrete measures.In a statementExternal link published on Wednesday, the government said it is examining the situation closely and remains in contact with several countries to exchange intelligence.Switzerland may adopt compulsory measures to enforce sanctions adopted by the Untied Nations, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE or Switzerland's main trading partners, the government said.It added that possible punitive measures were aimed to ensure Russia's compliance with international law, in particular respect for human rights.The government condemned Russia's recognition of two breakaway regions earlier this week as a breach of Ukraine's territorial integrity.It reiterated a commitment by the foreign ministry on Tuesday that Switzerland supports the efforts of the OSCE for a peaceful solution of the conflict in eastern Ukraine.In 2014, neutral Switzerland didn't adopt EU sanctions against Moscow for annexing Crimea, instead implementing its own measures designed to keep the country and its financial centre from being used as a place to dodge EU measures.
A small group of protestors gathered outside the headquarters of the Russian company, Nord Stream 2, in the town of Zug earlier in the day, according to the Keystone-SDA news agency.
The situation in Ukraine is coming to a dramatic head. What do Ukrainians in Switzerland think about it?
The situation in Ukraine is coming to a dramatic head. What do Ukrainians in Switzerland think about it?  ProtestAlso on Wednesday about a hundred people staged a protest outside the Russian embassy in the Swiss capital, Bern.They called on Russia to withdraw its troops from eastern Ukraine and demanded that Switzerland join the sanctions against Russia.The demonstration was organised by the pacifist Switzerland without an Army group and several left-wing parties.The youth chapter of the Green Party accused the Swiss authorities of shirking their responsibilities in the crisis, notably about the offshore gas pipeline from Russia to Germany.A small group of protestors gathered outside the headquarters of the Russian company, Nord Stream 2, in the town of Zug earlier in the day, according to the Keystone-SDA news agency. More
It added that possible punitive measures were aimed to ensure Russia's compliance with international law, in particular respect for human rights.
Also on Wednesday about a hundred people staged a protest outside the Russian embassy in the Swiss capital, Bern.
Could Ukraine stop being a pawn of the great powers and defuse the crisis with Russia by becoming a neutral state? More
Could Ukraine stop being a pawn of the great powers and defuse the crisis with Russia by becoming a neutral state?
It reiterated a commitment by the foreign ministry on Tuesday that Switzerland supports the efforts of the OSCE for a peaceful solution of the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
The youth chapter of the Green Party accused the Swiss authorities of shirking their responsibilities in the crisis, notably about the offshore gas pipeline from Russia to Germany.
The government condemned Russia's recognition of two breakaway regions earlier this week as a breach of Ukraine's territorial integrity.
They called on Russia to withdraw its troops from eastern Ukraine and demanded that Switzerland join the sanctions against Russia.
In 2014, neutral Switzerland didn't adopt EU sanctions against Moscow for annexing Crimea, instead implementing its own measures designed to keep the country and its financial centre from being used as a place to dodge EU measures.
International Geneva is an important hub for multilateralism. But it is facing some unprecedented challenges. MENAFN05032022000210011054ID1103800015
International Geneva is an important hub for multilateralism. But it is facing some unprecedented challenges.
