Switzerland Calls For Return Of Crimea To Ukraine
20220724
https://menafn.com/1104743101/Switzerland-Calls-For-Return-Of-Crimea-To-Ukraine
Switzerland is a founding participant of the Crimea Platform and has refused to recognise Russia's claim on Crimea since its occupation in 2014.
Last month, Switzerland hosted an international conferenceExternal link in support of Ukraine in the southern Swiss city of Lugano. The Ukraine Recovery Conference agreed a set of principles to oversee the reconstruction of the war-torn country.
Several international leaders addressed the Crimea Platform summit on Tuesday, including the heads of state of Germany, Canada, Britain and Japan, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis has again called for Russia to end hostilities and withdraw from Ukraine, including the Crimea territory it has occupied for eight years.
In a video address on the Crimea Platform, Cassis condemned Russia's invasion of Ukrainein the strongest possible terms.
The Crimea Platform is an international demonstration of solidarity for Ukraine that was set up exactly a year ago. The second Crimea Platform summit was staged on August 23, one day before Ukraine celebrates the 31st anniversary of its independence from the former Soviet Union.
Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty must be restored immediately. I reiterate Switzerland's unwavering support for a Ukrainian Crimea, for the Ukrainian people now facing Russia's military aggression, he said.
This content was published on August 23, 2022 - 17:07 August 23, 2022 - 17:07 swissinfo.chmga In a video address on the Crimea Platform, Cassis condemned Russia's invasion of Ukrainein the strongest possible terms.Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty must be restored immediately. I reiterate Switzerland's unwavering support for a Ukrainian Crimea, for the Ukrainian people now facing Russia's military aggression, he said.The Crimea Platform is an international demonstration of solidarity for Ukraine that was set up exactly a year ago. The second Crimea Platform summit was staged on August 23, one day before Ukraine celebrates the 31st anniversary of its independence from the former Soviet Union.Switzerland is a founding participant of the Crimea Platform and has refused to recognise Russia's claim on Crimea since its occupation in 2014.Last month, Switzerland hosted an international conferenceExternal link in support of Ukraine in the southern Swiss city of Lugano. The Ukraine Recovery Conference agreed a set of principles to oversee the reconstruction of the war-torn country.Several international leaders addressed the Crimea Platform summit on Tuesday, including the heads of state of Germany, Canada, Britain and Japan, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.MENAFN23082022000210011054ID1104743101
