Trkiye Negotiate With Ukraine Russia After Strike On Odesa
20220724
https://menafn.com/1104582314/T%C3%BCrkiye-Negotiate-With-Ukraine-Russia-After-Strike-On-Odesa
On July 22, the agreement on exports of grain and other foodstuffs from the Ukrainian ports was signed following a quadripartite meeting in Istanbul between Ukraine, Turkey, the United Nations, and Russia.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Today, Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, confirmed  that the missile attack had been launched by Russia.
As reported, on July 23, the enemy attacked the Odesa Sea Trade Port with Kalibr cruise missiles. Two missiles were shot down by the anti-aircraft defense forces, two more hit the port's infrastructure facilities. UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres condemned the missile attack on Odesa port. U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Bridget Brink called the missile attack on the Odesa port less than 24 hours after signing an agreement to allow shipments of agricultural exports 'outrageous' and urged to hold Russia to account.
As noted, Trkiye will continue to fulfill its obligations under the agreement signed on July 22 in Istanbul.
'The Russians told us that they had nothing to do with this attack and that they were studying this issue very carefully and in detail. The fact that such an incident happened immediately after the conclusion of the grain exports agreement raised our concerns,' Akar said, Anadolu  news agency reports.
'We are concerned about this missile strike. However, we continue to fulfill our obligations under the agreement reached in Istanbul,' Akar added.
MENAFN- UkrinForm After the Russian missile attack on Odesa on July 23, Defense Minister of Trkiye Hulusi Akar had a conversation with Defense Minister of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov and Infrastructure Minister of Ukraine Oleksandr Kubrakov. According to Akar, he also had a phone call with Russia on this issue. 'The Russians told us that they had nothing to do with this attack and that they were studying this issue very carefully and in detail. The fact that such an incident happened immediately after the conclusion of the grain exports agreement raised our concerns,' Akar said, Anadolu  news agency reports.
