Turkish drones could decide who wins a Ukraine war
20211222
https://menafn.com/1103431536/Turkish-drones-could-decide-who-wins-a-Ukraine-war
But who is right?A lot depends on whether the Russians can actually deliver positive results thwarting drone attacks in the Donbass region in Ukraine. So far, there has been at leastone successful Bayraktar attack .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- Asia Times  Russia says it recently shot down40 Turkish Bayraktar drones  although they have turned up only one as evidence  in Syria, whileFrancis Fukuyama a leading American political scientist at Stanford, says the transfer of Turkish Bayraktar TB2drones to Ukraine could be a 'game-changer.'
But who is right?A lot depends on whether the Russians can actually deliver positive results thwarting drone attacks in the Donbass region in Ukraine. So far, there has been at leastone successful Bayraktar attack .  To continue reading, please log in to your AT Premium account. Not yet a member? Please signup for AT Premium monthly membership , AT Premium yearly membership , AT Premium yearly membership educator , AT Premium yearly membership student or AT Premium Access membership .MENAFN22122021000159011032ID1103431536
Russia says it recently shot down40 Turkish Bayraktar drones  although they have turned up only one as evidence  in Syria, whileFrancis Fukuyama a leading American political scientist at Stanford, says the transfer of Turkish Bayraktar TB2drones to Ukraine could be a 'game-changer.'
The Russians are placing their bets based on thePantsir short-range and mobile air defense system that has seen action in Syria and Libya.The Turks and Fukuyama base their arguments on Bayraktar's success in Nagorno-Karabakh, Libya and Syria  and more recentlyin the Ethiopian Tigray war.
