UAE  Russia warns of 300 per barrel oil if US Europe ban imports
20220308
https://menafn.com/1103809356/UAE-Russia-warns-of-300-per-barrel-oil-if-US-Europe-ban-imports&source=24
'European politicians need to honestly warn their citizens and consumers what to expect,' Novak said.
Novak said Russia, which supplies 40 per cent of Europe's gas, was fulfilling its obligations in full but that it would be entirely within its rights to retaliate against the European Union after Germany last month froze the certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Oil prices spiked to their highest levels since 2008 on Monday after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington and European allies were considering banning Russian oil imports.
'In connection with...the imposition of a ban on Nord Stream 2, we have every right to take a matching decision and impose an embargo on gas pumping through the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline,' Novak said.
Western countries could face oil prices of over $300 per barrel and the possible closure of the main Russia-Germany gas pipeline if governments follow through on threats to cut energy supplies from Russia, a senior minister said on Monday.
'So far we are not taking such a decision,' he said. 'But European politicians with their statements and accusations against Russia push us towards that.'
Novak said it would take Europe more than a year to replace the volume of oil it receives from Russia and it would have to pay significantly higher prices.
'It is absolutely clear that a rejection of Russian oil would lead to catastrophic consequences for the global market,' Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said in a statement on state television.
'If you want to reject energy supplies from Russia, go ahead. We are ready for it. We know where we could redirect the volumes to.'
MENAFN- Khaleej Times  Published: Tue 8 Mar 2022, 6:54 AM Last updated: Tue 8 Mar 2022, 6:55 AM Western countries could face oil prices of over $300 per barrel and the possible closure of the main Russia-Germany gas pipeline if governments follow through on threats to cut energy supplies from Russia, a senior minister said on Monday. Oil prices spiked to their highest levels since 2008 on Monday after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington and European allies were considering banning Russian oil imports. 'It is absolutely clear that a rejection of Russian oil would lead to catastrophic consequences for the global market,' Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said in a statement on state television. 'The surge in prices would be unpredictable. It would be $300 per barrel if not more.' Novak said it would take Europe more than a year to replace the volume of oil it receives from Russia and it would have to pay significantly higher prices. 'European politicians need to honestly warn their citizens and consumers what to expect,' Novak said. 'If you want to reject energy supplies from Russia, go ahead. We are ready for it. We know where we could redirect the volumes to.' Novak said Russia, which supplies 40 per cent of Europe's gas, was fulfilling its obligations in full but that it would be entirely within its rights to retaliate against the European Union after Germany last month froze the certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.   ALSO READ:     US, Europe mulling bans on Russia oil imports, Blinken says     Russia-Ukraine crisis: European leaders oppose banning Russian energy imports     LIVE Russia-Ukraine crisis: US sends more troops to Europe, says all Russia forces deployed    'In connection with...the imposition of a ban on Nord Stream 2, we have every right to take a matching decision and impose an embargo on gas pumping through the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline,' Novak said. 'So far we are not taking such a decision,' he said. 'But European politicians with their statements and accusations against Russia push us towards that.'MENAFN07032022000049011007ID1103809356
'The surge in prices would be unpredictable. It would be $300 per barrel if not more.'
