UAE  US warns Putin invading Ukraine will kill Russian gas supplies to Germany
20220208
https://menafn.com/1103655691/UAE-US-warns-Putin-invading-Ukraine-will-kill-Russian-gas-supplies-to-Germany&source=138
The two leaders met at the White House for talks aimed at closing ranks against any prospective Russian action in Ukraine, but there was still some daylight between them, with Scholz pledging to work with the US without once mentioning the pipeline.
'If Russia invades  that means tanks or troops crossing the  the border of Ukraine again  then there will be no longer a Nord Stream 2. We will bring an end to it,' Biden said. Asked how exactly would he do that, since the project and control of the project are within Germany's control, Biden said, 'I promise you, we'll be able to do it.'
Pressed to specifically confirm this would include the Nord Stream 2 pipeline built by Russia's Gazprom to step up the supply of gas to Germany, Scholz said, 'We Germany and US are acting together, we are absolutely united, and we will not be taking different steps. We will do the same steps, and they will be very, very hard to Russia, and they should understand.'
MENAFN- Khaleej Times  Published: Tue 8 Feb 2022, 3:00 AM Last updated: Tue 8 Feb 2022, 10:16 AM If Russian tanks or troops cross the border into Ukraine again, the United States will shut down the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that is poised to supply Russian gas to Germany, American President Joe Biden warned on Monday, with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz standing by his side. The two leaders met at the White House for talks aimed at closing ranks against any prospective Russian action in Ukraine, but there was still some daylight between them, with Scholz pledging to work with the US without once mentioning the pipeline. 'We will be united, we will act together, and we will take all the necessary steps. And all the necessary steps will be done by all of us together,' Scholz said. Pressed to specifically confirm this would include the Nord Stream 2 pipeline built by Russia's Gazprom to step up the supply of gas to Germany, Scholz said, 'We Germany and US are acting together, we are absolutely united, and we will not be taking different steps. We will do the same steps, and they will be very, very hard to Russia, and they should understand.' However, President Biden was emphatic in asserting that any further Russian intrusion into Ukraine will trigger unprecedented sanctions and void the gas pipeline all set to go on stream now.   ALSO READ:     Putin says possible to move forward on some of Macron's proposals     Ukraine crisis talks move to Moscow and Washington   'If Russia invades  that means tanks or troops crossing the  the border of Ukraine again  then there will be no longer a Nord Stream 2. We will bring an end to it,' Biden said. Asked how exactly would he do that, since the project and control of the project are within Germany's control, Biden said, 'I promise you, we'll be able to do it.' Scholz did not contest the assertion, sovereignty matters notwithstanding. The US President also pushed back at suggestions that Germany is not a reliable ally, asserting, 'Germany is completely reliable  completely, totally, thoroughly reliable. I have no doubt about Germany at all.' The US is holding talks with gas-producing countries around the world to try and secure backup supplies for Europe in case Russia shuts off its pipeline, which could also be devastating for all sides. If that happens, Washington will tap into Gulf states to keep Germany's home fires burning.MENAFN08022022000049011007ID1103655691
The US is holding talks with gas-producing countries around the world to try and secure backup supplies for Europe in case Russia shuts off its pipeline, which could also be devastating for all sides. If that happens, Washington will tap into Gulf states to keep Germany's home fires burning.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'We will be united, we will act together, and we will take all the necessary steps. And all the necessary steps will be done by all of us together,' Scholz said.
The US President also pushed back at suggestions that Germany is not a reliable ally, asserting, 'Germany is completely reliable  completely, totally, thoroughly reliable. I have no doubt about Germany at all.'
However, President Biden was emphatic in asserting that any further Russian intrusion into Ukraine will trigger unprecedented sanctions and void the gas pipeline all set to go on stream now.
If Russian tanks or troops cross the border into Ukraine again, the United States will shut down the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that is poised to supply Russian gas to Germany, American President Joe Biden warned on Monday, with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz standing by his side.
