UK  Arabs Afghans decry racist double standard in Ukraine media commentary
20220302
https://menafn.com/1103785663/UK-Arabs-Afghans-decry-racist-double-standard-in-Ukraine-media-commentary&source=27
Many have highlighted what they saw as an emphasis media has put on Christian Europeans withblond hair and blue eyes becoming refugees, marking them out as different from other victims of war.
Salem Barahmeh, director of the pro-Palestinian platform Rabet, was quick to point out seeming discrepancies in the commentary.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Contacted by AFP, the broadcaster said Corbe's remarks wereclumsy but taken out of context... and led to the mistaken belief that he was defending a position opposite to the one he wanted to emphasise, and he regrets this.
Some also drew a comparison between Europe's welcoming of Ukrainian refugees and the influx of Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans, which was declared amigrant crisis.
These are not, obviously, refugees trying to get away from areas in the Middle East that are still in a big state of war, said one of its anchors.They look like any European family that you would live next door to.
'This is a relatively civilised, relatively European, I have to choose those words carefully too, city where you wouldn't expect that or hope it is going to happen.'
Refugees are welcome depending where they come from, he wrote on Twitter, adding thatresistance to occupation is not only legitimate but a right.
Many Arabs were quick to point out the double standard, noting that while the toll of war may be similar in the respective conflicts, the media treatment is not.
BAGHDAD  The world has been stunned by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but shock quickly gave way to indignation in other strife-torn parts of the world over media commentary many saw as racist against them.
This was just one of many remarks on reputable media outlets drawing a line between the conflict unfolding in Ukraine and those in other parts of the world.
The Western media claims to protect human rights and defend democracy, when in reality it is ignorant, racist and cannot see beyond its own nose, it charged.
But he stressed thatwhen we hear some commentators speaking about 'people like us', this suggests that those coming from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Africa are not like them.
Afghans have also expressed exasperation over Ukraine coverage, just six months after the Taliban seized control in a lightning offensive that sent the country spiralling into chaos and hundreds of thousands of people into exile.
AdeelaOfficial, an Instagram account dedicated to humorous commentary on celebrity news, took a break from the jokes to decry mediaracism.
A day later, after much online furore, D'Agata apologised for his 'poor choice of words'.
We are not talking about Syrians fleeing the bombardment of the Syrian regime, supported by Vladimir Putin, he said.
'This isn't a place, with all due respect, you know, like Iraq or Afghanistan that has seen conflict raging for decades,' said Charlie D'Agata of US network CBS News.
We are talking about Europeans who are leaving in their cars, that look like our cars... and who are just trying to save their lives.
It is the same point being made again and again: People in all other conflicts were half humans, of lesser worthy origin and race, but Europeans are full humans. So this war matters, said Muska Dastageer, a university lecturer.
The normalisation of war in the Middle East and so-called third world countries andthe assumption that they deserve war is just one of the reasons why those wars lasted so long, added Aisha Khurram, a former youth representative to the United Nations.
Journalist Philippe Corbe referenced that conflict when he spoke about the Ukraine refugee flow on French broadcaster BFM TV.
Political scientist Ziad Majed said that, while there wasmagnificent solidarity from the world over the Ukraine conflict, it also revealed ashocking distinction.
MENAFN- Jordan Times  BAGHDAD  The world has been stunned by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but shock quickly gave way to indignation in other strife-torn parts of the world over media commentary many saw as racist against them.'This isn't a place, with all due respect, you know, like Iraq or Afghanistan that has seen conflict raging for decades,' said Charlie D'Agata of US network CBS News.'This is a relatively civilised, relatively European, I have to choose those words carefully too, city where you wouldn't expect that or hope it is going to happen.'A day later, after much online furore, D'Agata apologised for his 'poor choice of words'.This was just one of many remarks on reputable media outlets drawing a line between the conflict unfolding in Ukraine and those in other parts of the world.Many Arabs were quick to point out the double standard, noting that while the toll of war may be similar in the respective conflicts, the media treatment is not.Some also drew a comparison between Europe's welcoming of Ukrainian refugees and the influx of Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans, which was declared amigrant crisis.Political scientist Ziad Majed said that, while there wasmagnificent solidarity from the world over the Ukraine conflict, it also revealed ashocking distinction.The discrepancies in media treatment revealed thede-humanisation of refugees from the Middle East, said Majed, a professor at the American University of Paris.We can understand that the Ukrainians are Europeans, and that the memory of war in Europe can revive a lot of emotions, he said.But he stressed thatwhen we hear some commentators speaking about 'people like us', this suggests that those coming from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Africa are not like them.'Racist coverage'The Qatari channel Al Jazeera English was also not immune to the controversy.These are not, obviously, refugees trying to get away from areas in the Middle East that are still in a big state of war, said one of its anchors.They look like any European family that you would live next door to.The network later issued an apology, describing the remarks asinsensitive and irresponsible.Salem Barahmeh, director of the pro-Palestinian platform Rabet, was quick to point out seeming discrepancies in the commentary.Refugees are welcome depending where they come from, he wrote on Twitter, adding thatresistance to occupation is not only legitimate but a right.The Arab and Middle Eastern Journalists' Association condemnedexamples of racist news coverage that ascribes more importance to some victims of war than others.This type of commentary reflects the pervasive mentality in Western journalism of normalising tragedy in parts of the world such as the Middle East, Africa, South Asia and Latin America.'Civilised'For Syrians, the disparity in media treatment is particularly striking.Journalist Philippe Corbe referenced that conflict when he spoke about the Ukraine refugee flow on French broadcaster BFM TV.We are not talking about Syrians fleeing the bombardment of the Syrian regime, supported by Vladimir Putin, he said.We are talking about Europeans who are leaving in their cars, that look like our cars... and who are just trying to save their lives.Contacted by AFP, the broadcaster said Corbe's remarks wereclumsy but taken out of context... and led to the mistaken belief that he was defending a position opposite to the one he wanted to emphasise, and he regrets this.AdeelaOfficial, an Instagram account dedicated to humorous commentary on celebrity news, took a break from the jokes to decry mediaracism.The Western media claims to protect human rights and defend democracy, when in reality it is ignorant, racist and cannot see beyond its own nose, it charged.Afghans have also expressed exasperation over Ukraine coverage, just six months after the Taliban seized control in a lightning offensive that sent the country spiralling into chaos and hundreds of thousands of people into exile.Many have highlighted what they saw as an emphasis media has put on Christian Europeans withblond hair and blue eyes becoming refugees, marking them out as different from other victims of war.It is the same point being made again and again: People in all other conflicts were half humans, of lesser worthy origin and race, but Europeans are full humans. So this war matters, said Muska Dastageer, a university lecturer.The normalisation of war in the Middle East and so-called third world countries andthe assumption that they deserve war is just one of the reasons why those wars lasted so long, added Aisha Khurram, a former youth representative to the United Nations.MENAFN01032022000028011005ID1103785663
The Arab and Middle Eastern Journalists' Association condemnedexamples of racist news coverage that ascribes more importance to some victims of war than others.
The discrepancies in media treatment revealed thede-humanisation of refugees from the Middle East, said Majed, a professor at the American University of Paris.
We can understand that the Ukrainians are Europeans, and that the memory of war in Europe can revive a lot of emotions, he said.
This type of commentary reflects the pervasive mentality in Western journalism of normalising tragedy in parts of the world such as the Middle East, Africa, South Asia and Latin America.
