UK expands sanctions against individuals legal entities for Russias aggression against Ukraine
20220324
https://menafn.com/1103910627/UK-expands-sanctions-against-individuals-legal-entities-for-Russias-aggression-against-Ukraine&source=19
According to the press release, the expanded sanctions list includes Galina Danilchenko, a member of parliament from the Opposition Bloc, who was appointed a so-called acting mayor of Melitopol, Polina Kovaleva, stepdaughter of Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Sberbank president Herman Gref, and Oleg Tinkov, founder of Tinkoff Bank.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
That's according to a press release published on the website  of the British government, Ukrinform reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The British government has imposed new sanctions against Russian and Ukrainian individuals and legal entities for their involvement in Russia's aggression against Ukraine. That's according to a press release published on the website  of the British government, Ukrinform reports.
Restrictive measures also target a number of legal entities, including Alfa-Bank, Alrosa, the world's largest diamond mining company specializing in exploration, mining, manufacture, and sale of diamonds, Russian Railways, defense company Kronshtadt, the main producer of Russian drones, and the Wagner Group.
On February 24, Russian leader Putin announced the beginning of a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure, residential neighborhoods of Ukrainian cities and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers and ballistic missiles.
'All those sanctioned today will have their assets in the UK frozen which means no UK citizen or company can do business with them, and individuals subject to travel bans are also prohibited from travelling to or from the UK,' said UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
