Ukraine  Enemy set up camps for mercenaries from Syria in Rostov Gomel regions
20220316
https://menafn.com/1103845168/Ukraine-Enemy-set-up-camps-for-mercenaries-from-Syria-in-Rostov-Gomel-regions&source=138
According to Ukrinform, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine announced this on Facebook .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Russian invaders continue to accumulate reserves on their territory to wage war against Ukraine. They are forming detachments of mercenaries who are ready to carry out the criminal orders of Russian commanders for a reward. According to available information, mercenary recruitment centers were opened in Syria, where more than a thousand people have been recruited in recent days, and about 400 people have already arrived in Russia. Camps for their accommodation and training have been set up near the Ukrainian border in Rostov Russia and Gomel Belarus regions.MENAFN14032022000193011044ID1103845168
MENAFN- UkrinForm The enemy has set up camps to accommodate and train mercenaries from Syria near the Ukrainian border in Rostov Russia and Gomel Belarus regions. According to Ukrinform, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine announced this on Facebook .
Russian troops, following the criminal orders of the military-political leadership of the Russian Federation, continue the offensive operation against Ukraine. However, to date, the main tasks of defeating groups of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, reaching the administrative borders of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and establishing control over the left bank of Ukraine have not been fulfilled.
Russian invaders continue to accumulate reserves on their territory to wage war against Ukraine. They are forming detachments of mercenaries who are ready to carry out the criminal orders of Russian commanders for a reward. According to available information, mercenary recruitment centers were opened in Syria, where more than a thousand people have been recruited in recent days, and about 400 people have already arrived in Russia. Camps for their accommodation and training have been set up near the Ukrainian border in Rostov Russia and Gomel Belarus regions.
