UkraineEU association deal envisages no military alliance Borrell recalls
20211117
https://menafn.com/1103188017/Ukraine-EU-association-deal-envisages-no-military-alliance-Borrell-recalls
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
At the same time, Borrell recalled that the bilateral Association Agreement concluded by the EU and Ukraine covers a wide range of issues, while not providing for setting up a military alliance.  Read also:  Ukraine, U.S. sign updated Charter on Strategic  Partnership  Recalling the association deal, as well as the Eastern Partnership, the EU High Representative has noted EU's solidarity with Ukraine and engagement in efforts to protect and uphold Ukraine's territorial integrity, adding that such efforts will continue the same way.
MENAFN- UkrinFormThe EU has an Association Agreement with Ukraine, but it does not provide for a defense alliance, so in the event of an escalation at the borders, Ukraine can continue to count on the European Union's political, diplomatic, economic, and financial assistance. This was stated by EU High Representative Josep Borrell, who spoke at a press conference in Brussels on Tuesday, following a meeting of the EU defense ministers, Ukrinform's own correspondent reported.
Recalling the association deal, as well as the Eastern Partnership, the EU High Representative has noted EU's solidarity with Ukraine and engagement in efforts to protect and uphold Ukraine's territorial integrity, adding that such efforts will continue the same way.
At the same time, Borrell recalled that the bilateral Association Agreement concluded by the EU and Ukraine covers a wide range of issues, while not providing for setting up a military alliance.
This was stated by EU High Representative Josep Borrell, who spoke at a press conference in Brussels on Tuesday, following a meeting of the EU defense ministers, Ukrinform's own correspondent reported.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, citing the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense's Main Intelligence Directorate, as of early November, a nearly 90,000-strong grouping of Russian troops had amassed near the Ukrainian border and in the territories temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. The governments of the United States, Germany, and France, NATO Allies, and key EU institutions have expressed solidarity with Ukraine and warned Russia against escalating military tensions around Ukraine.
He noted that the EU is closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine . According to the official, the EU has at its disposal the information on the current situation on the eastern border of Ukraine, provided only by the Ukrainian and American partners.
Noting that the EU has no military alliance with Ukraine, Borrell said that, if the question arises of what the bloc will do facing the fact of what may happen at the border, the EU will continue to act in exactly the same way, within the efforts that have been taken since Russia seized Crimea and started the war in Donbas. He emphasized that Ukraine could be confident in political, diplomatic, economic, and financial support on the part of the European Union," Borrell said.
