Ukraine denies Russian military buildup on border
20211103
https://menafn.com/1103094211/Ukraine-denies-Russian-military-build-up-on-border&source=22
Under pressure from Kiev's Western allies, Moscow later announced a pullback, but both Ukraine and the United States said at the time the withdrawal was limited.
Ukraine and its Western allies accuse Russia of sending troops and arms across the border to support the separatists, claims denied by Moscow.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukraine and its Western allies accuse Russia of sending troops and arms across the border to support the separatists, claims denied by Moscow.MENAFN03112021000067011011ID1103094211
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Tuesday he had discussed the conflict with US President Joe Biden on the sidelines of the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow.
After an uptick in violence at the beginning of this year, Russia in March amassed around 100,000 troops on Ukraine's borders, sparking fears of a major escalation in the conflict.
The conflict, which has claimed more than 13,000 lives, has seen at least 59 Ukrainian soldiers killed since the start of the year, compared with 50 in all of 2020.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday also dismissed the reports of a potential build-up, saying there was no need to "waste time" on "low-quality" claims.
"The US continues to support territorial integrity and reforms in Ukraine," Zelensky wrote on Twitter.
MENAFN- Gulf Times  Ukraine has denied reports of a Russian military build-up near its eastern border that raised fears of a new escalation in fighting with pro-Moscow separatists.
But Ukraine's defence ministry said in a statement late Monday that "no additional deployment" of Russian forces had been observed near the border.
Social media videos in recent days showed Russian military trains and truck convoys moving tanks and missiles in the country's southwest near the Ukrainian border.
It said the published videos could be an "element of special informational and psychological actions" and showed a planned movement of troops after a Russian military exercise.
The Ukrainian army is locked in a simmering conflict with pro-Russian separatists that erupted after Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014.
Ukraine's military said Tuesday that one of its soldiers had been killed in an attack by the separatists.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters Monday that Washington was monitoring the situation and The Washington Post quoted US officials saying they were concerned.
"The movement of our military equipment and army units... is exclusively our business," he told reporters. "Russia has never threatened anyone."
