Ukrainian Army Strikes Ammo Depot Outside Kherson Causing Havoc Among Russians
20220714
https://menafn.com/1104532782/Ukrainian-Army-Strikes-Ammo-Depot-Outside-Kherson-Causing-Havoc-Among-Russians
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'In Kherson region, a depot with 'saltpetre and humanitarian aid' in it is on fire once again. In addition, in the area of the explosion, you can hear the howling of sirens and see the hustling of the orcs who are fleeing in all directions, hastily taking out the loot and their own stuff. Local residents report that some of the orcs are changing into civilian clothes in panic, packing their large bags into seized civilian cars,' the post reads.  Read also:  Invaders  panic  king over capabilities of Ukraine's new weapons - intercept As Ukrinform reported earlier, Ukrainian defense forces attacked two Russian command and control points and a landing pad in Nova Kakhovka.
That's according to the Center  for Strategic Communications reporting on a successful operation via Telegram, as seen by Ukrinform.
'In Kherson region, a depot with 'saltpetre and humanitarian aid' in it is on fire once again. In addition, in the area of the explosion, you can hear the howling of sirens and see the hustling of the orcs who are fleeing in all directions, hastily taking out the loot and their own stuff. Local residents report that some of the orcs are changing into civilian clothes in panic, packing their large bags into seized civilian cars,' the post reads.
In total, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated about 37,870 Russian invaders, with 300 occupiers killed over the previous day alone.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine's Armed Forces have destroyed another ammunition depot of the enemy troops in Kherson region, southern Ukraine. Russian soldiers were seen changing into civilian outfits and fleeing in stolen cars. That's according to the Center  for Strategic Communications reporting on a successful operation via Telegram, as seen by Ukrinform.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Ukrainian defense forces attacked two Russian command and control points and a landing pad in Nova Kakhovka.
In total, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated about 37,870 Russian invaders, with 300 occupiers killed over the previous day alone.MENAFN14072022000193011044ID1104532782
