Ukraine  Russian invasion update evening of March 15
20220316
https://menafn.com/1103852370/Ukraine-Russian-invasion-update-evening-of-March-15&source=25
In the Siverskyi direction, Russian invaders were focusing efforts on reconnaissance operations. They are struggling with ammunition supplies.
In the Southern Bug direction, the enemy focused efforts on the defense of the previously taken positions and was enhancing the engineering equipment of its current positions. Russian invaders are also attempting to advance towards Kryvyi Rih. Thanks to the effective actions of the Ukrainian Defense Forces near Chornobaivka, seven enemy helicopters were destroyed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In the Volyn direction, the enemy's actions remained unchanged. The enemy's efforts are focused on the defense of the Ukrainian-Belarusian border. The subdivisions of the 120th separate motor rifle brigade Minsk of the North-Western Operational Command of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus moved to the border with Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm At the end of the twentieth day of war, Russian troops failed to break the defense line of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, as well as reach the administrative borders of Donetsk Region and Luhansk Region and complete other tasks. The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
As of March 15, 2022, the enemy lost up to 40 of subdivisions involved in the so-called 'special operation' within the territory of Ukraine.
The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
According to the General Staff, the enemy is attempting to enhance its troops with additional tactical groups made of consolidated subdivisions, which had suffered losses over the first 10 days of hostilities, as well as mercenaries from other countries.
In the Donetsk direction, Russian invaders failed to advance towards Rubizhne, Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk, suffered losses and retreated to the initial positions. The enemy is attempting to keep the positions near Popasna and has no success near Avdiivka.
In the Polissia direction, the enemy did not take active actions. Having suffered losses, in violation of the international humanitarian law, Russian troops are chaotically mining the area, creating dangerous conditions for Ukrainian civilians. In addition, the enemy was regrouping, replenishing the combat capability of subdivisions, which suffered losses in previous battles. Thanks to the effective actions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the enemy is suffering significant losses in terms of manpower and military vehicles.
According to the available data, the Russian military leadership decided to make the cadets of higher military educational institutions graduate early and involve them in hostilities against Ukraine.
The worst situation is remaining near Mariupol, where the enemy is attempting to block the city in the western and eastern outskirts. Russian invaders suffered significant losses and had to use reserves from the 810th separate marine brigade.
A reminder that, on February 24, 2022, Russian President Vladimir Putin initiated a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops are shelling and destroying the key infrastructure facilities, launching missile and air strikes on residential areas in Ukrainian cities and villages, killing civilians in Ukraine.
In the Slobozhanskyi direction, the enemy is attempting to enhance the current groups by concentrating reserves near the state border, block the access to Sumy from the south and block the city of Izium. No success has been achieved.
