Ukraine dealt biggest blow to Russian army in decades  President Zelensky
20220312
https://menafn.com/1103837167/Ukraine-dealt-biggest-blow-to-Russian-army-in-decades-President-Zelensky&source=22
Since the beginning of the invasion, 31 battalion tactical groups of the enemy have lost their combat capability. The Russian militaries are being taken prisoners not just alone, but in groups. Groups are trying to leave Ukraine and come back to Russia as well.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Most of the world's armies do not have as much as Russian troops lost during the invasion, Zelensky noted.
The enemy's losses in terms of technical capabilities are astounding: more than 360 tanks, 1,205 armored vehicles. And that's without counting the losses in the battles last night and in the morning.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian invaders are suffering enormous losses in Ukraine, which is the biggest blow dealt to the Russian army in decades. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Our Armed Forces are doing everything to deprive the enemy of any desire to continue the war against Ukraine. The losses of Russian troops are enormous. The dynamics of the invaders' losses on the 17th day is such that it is safe to say that this is the biggest blow to the Russian army in decades. They've never lost more than that in such a time period, Zelensky said.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
According to Zelensky, the enemy also lost about 60 aircrafts, more than 80 helicopters and hundreds of other advanced military equipment units, which Russia is proud of.
