Ukraine  Denisova Invaders terrorizing population in temporarily occupied territories
20220316
https://menafn.com/1103842100/Ukraine-Denisova-Invaders-terrorizing-population-in-temporarily-occupied-territories&source=138
On February 24, Russian president Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops shell and destroy infrastructure, conduct massive shelling of residential areas of Ukrainian cities and towns using artillery, MLRS, and ballistic missiles.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The Commissioner stressed that the terror of civilians is a war crime defined by the Charter of the International Military Tribunal and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and a violation of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War.
'In the city of Enerhodar, Russcist soldiers beat and torture people right on the streets, abduct passers-by, take away cars. In the temporarily occupied villages in Kyiv region, Russian militants loot and smash houses, taking away residents' belongings and food, she wrote.
As Russian prisoners of war confess, their command ordered them to switch to self-sustaining, which means that the looting of the aggressor state's army in Ukraine was 'legitimized.'
'Russcist occupiers are terrorizing the local population in the temporarily occupied territories,' Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights Liudmyla Denisova posted on Telegram.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Invaders are terrorizing the local population in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. 'Russcist occupiers are terrorizing the local population in the temporarily occupied territories,' Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights Liudmyla Denisova posted on Telegram.
According to Denisova, violators of these 'requirements' are threatened to be brought to severe responsibility and taken to the military law enforcement agencies.
Denisova called on the international community to take these facts into account when increasing pressure on the terrorist state to end the war and withdraw the army of Russian invaders from Ukraine.
According to her, on Sunday, the so-called 'military commander' signed an appeal to the residents of Nova Kakhovka, Tavriysk, and Kakhovka, announcing a curfew and a ban on carrying weapons and holding assemblies, rallies, or pickets.
