Ukraine  99 people including 35 children evacuated from Avdiivka
20220314
https://menafn.com/1103845150/Ukraine-99-people-including-35-children-evacuated-from-Avdiivka&source=138
On February 24, Russian president Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops shell and destroy infrastructure, conduct massive shelling of residential areas of Ukrainian cities and towns using artillery, MLRS, and ballistic missiles.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As Kyrylenko reported earlier, the shelling of Avdiivka has been going on since last night March 13. The Russians fire from the Tochka-U tactical missile system and multiple-launch rocket systems. The occupiers also opened fire from Grad system on the Avdiivka Coke Plant. In addition, a gas pipeline, a school, and private houses were damaged.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ninety-nine people, including 35 children, were evacuated from the town Avdiivka, Donetsk region, which is currently shelled by Russian invaders. We continue to evacuate people from frontline towns. Today, 99 people were taken out of Avdiivka, which has been under Russian fire yesterday and today. Thirty-five children are among the evacuees. We are saving Ukrainians from the Russian invasion! Head of the Donetsk Regional Military Administration Pavlo Kyrylenko posted on Telegram.
We continue to evacuate people from frontline towns. Today, 99 people were taken out of Avdiivka, which has been under Russian fire yesterday and today. Thirty-five children are among the evacuees. We are saving Ukrainians from the Russian invasion! Head of the Donetsk Regional Military Administration Pavlo Kyrylenko posted on Telegram.
Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced. Ukraine repels Russian invaders.
