Ukraine  Nineteen ceasefire violations recorded in JFO area over past day
20211115
https://menafn.com/1103172435/Ukraine-Nineteen-ceasefire-violations-recorded-in-JFO-area-over-past-day
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
A driver of a medical vehicle was injured in the enemy shelling. Two vehicles were damaged.
Without resorting to weapons prohibited under the Minsk agreements, Ukrainian defenders returned fire and forced the enemy to cease shelling.
Towards Krymske 42km north-west of Luhansk, the enemy opened fire from 82mm and 120mm mortars, tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns, heavy machine guns and other small arms twice.
Towards Nevelske 18km north-west of Donetsk, the occupiers fired 120mm mortars. The outskirts of locality came under 122mm artillery fire  the residential buildings and adjacent territory were damaged. No civilian casualties were reported.
MENAFN- UkrinFormOver the past day, the occupiers launched 19 attacks on the positions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Joint Forces Operation JFO. Over the past day, November 14, 19 ceasefire violations by Russian-occupation troops, including seven with the use of the weapons banned under the Minsk agreements, were recorded, the press center of JFO Headquarters posted on Facebook.
Near Prychepylivka 50km north-west of Luhansk, Russian mercenaries fired tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns, hand-held antitank grenade launchers, and heavy machine guns. In addition, the occupiers delivered POM-2 mines near the locality.
Outside Zolote-4 59km west of Luhansk, the armed formations of the Russian Federation launched three attacks, using 82mm mortars, grenade launchers of different systems and heavy machine guns.
Over the past day, November 14, 19 ceasefire violations by Russian-occupation troops, including seven with the use of the weapons banned under the Minsk agreements, were recorded, the press center of JFO Headquarters posted on Facebook.
In the area of Novoluhanske 53km north-east of Donetsk, Russian mercenaries fired hand-held antitank grenade launchers and small arms twice.
Near Katerynivka 64km west of Luhansk, the enemy launched two attacks on Ukrainian positions, using grenade launchers of different systems and small arms.
