Ukraine President Expects Russia Attacks To Intensify With EU Summit This Week
20220620
https://menafn.com/1104400039/Ukraine-President-Expects-Russia-Attacks-To-Intensify-With-EU-Summit-This-Week
Ukraine applied to join the EU four days after Russian troops poured across its border in February. The EU's executive, the European Commission, on Friday recommended that Ukraine receive candidate status.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The governor of Russia's Bryansk region said the border village of Suzemka had been shelled from northern Ukraine, and one person was wounded and a power station was damaged.
In Sievierodonetsk's twin city of Lysychansk, residential buildings and private houses had been destroyed by Russian shelling, Gaidai said. 'People are dying on the streets and in bomb shelters,' he said.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the Ukraine war could last for years and urged Western governments to continue sending state-of-the-art weaponry to Ukrainian troops, Germany's Bild am Sonntag newspaper reported.
Ukraine and its allies dismiss that as a baseless pretext for a war of aggression.
Russia has said it launched what it calls a 'special military operation' to disarm its neighbour and protect Russian speakers there from dangerous nationalists.
'Whole generations fought for a chance to escape from the prison of the Soviet Union and, like a free bird, to fly to European civilisation,' the speaker of Ukraine's parliament, Ruslan Stefanchuk, said in a statement.
An EU decision in favour of Kyiv's ultimate membership would put Ukraine on track to realize an aspiration that would have been out of reach for the former Soviet republic before the Russian invasion.
Towards Kharkiv, the Russians were trying to stop Ukrainian forces from advancing to the border, it added.
In Ukraine's second-largest city, Kharkiv, northwest of Luhansk, Russia's defence ministry said its Iskander missiles had destroyed weaponry recently supplied by Western countries.
'Whole generations fought for a chance to escape from the prison of the Soviet Union and, like a free bird, to fly to European civilisation,' the speaker of Ukraine's parliament, Ruslan Stefanchuk, said in a statement.MENAFN20062022000067011011ID1104400039
'We must prepare for the fact that it could take years. We must not let up in supporting Ukraine,' Stoltenberg was quoted as saying.
Australia's defence ministry said it had sent the first four of 14 promised armoured personnel carriers to Ukraine, part of a $200 million aid pledge.
Leaders of the 27-nation union will consider the question at a summit on Thursday and Friday and are expected to endorse Ukraine's application despite misgivings from some member states. The process could take many years to complete.
'Obviously, this week we should expect from Russia an intensification of its hostile activities,' Zelenskiy said in a Sunday nightly video address. 'We are preparing. We are ready.'
Ukraine's general staff said Russia had deployed an anti-aircraft missile division in Bryansk and had up to three battalion tactical groups were covering the border in the Bryansk and neighbouring Kursk regions.
Putin on Friday said Moscow had 'nothing against' Ukraine's EU membership, but a Kremlin spokesperson said Russia was closely following Kyiv's bid especially in light of increased defence cooperation among EU members.
The EU's embrace of Ukraine would interfere with one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's stated goals when he ordered his troops into Ukraine: to keep Moscow's southern neighbour outside of the West's sphere of influence.
In Sievierodonetsk itself, a city of 100,000 before the war, Gaidai said Russia controlled 'the main part' but not the entire town after intense fighting. Reuters could not independently confirm the battlefield accounts.
On the battlefield, Russian forces are trying to take complete control of the eastern Donbas region, parts of which were already held by Russian-backed separatists before the Feb. 24 invasion.
Russian forces were trying to approach Kharkiv, which experienced intense shelling earlier in the war, and turn it into a 'front-line city', a Ukrainian interior ministry official said.
Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington-based think tank, wrote in a note that 'Russian forces will likely be able to seize Sievierodonetsk in the coming weeks, but at the cost of concentrating most of their available forces in this small area'.
Both Russia and Ukraine have continued heavy bombardment around Sievierodonetsk 'with little change to the front line', Britain's Ministry of Defence said on Sunday.
In southern Ukraine, Western weaponry had helped Ukrainian forces advance 10 km 6 miles towards Russian-occupied Melitopol, its mayor said in a video posted on Telegram from outside the city.
Luhansk Governor Serhiy Gaidai told Ukrainian TV that a Russian attack on Toshkivka, 35 km south of Sievierodonetsk, also 'had a degree of success'.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy predicted Russia will escalate its attacks this week as European Union leaders consider whether to back his country's bid to join the bloc and Russia presses its campaign to win control of east Ukraine.
A prime target of Moscow's eastern assault is the industrial city of Sievierodonetsk. Russia said on Sunday it had seized Metyolkine, a village on the outskirts, and Russian state news agency TASS reported that many Ukrainian fighters had surrendered there. Ukraine's military said Russia had 'partial success' in the area.
