Ukraine  Russian troops destroy 12 residential buildings in Luhansk region over past day
20220323
https://menafn.com/1103881293/Ukraine-Russian-troops-destroy-12-residential-buildings-in-Luhansk-region-over-past-day&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The Administration informed that two people were injured in yesterday's shelling  in Popasna and Komyshuvaha. Five people have been rescued from under the rubble.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops continue to fire on Severodonetsk, Rubizhne, and Popasna towns in Luhansk region. Over the past 24 hours, 20 buildings were destroyed or damaged, including 12 residential buildings. No casualties were reported. 'The Russians again opened heavy fire on Severodonetsk, Rubizhne, and Popasna. Our towns firmly hold the fort, the Armed Forces beat the enemy. But again we have about 20 damaged or destroyed facilities, including three apartment blocks and nine private houses, food warehouses, garages, infrastructure facilities,' the press service of the Luhansk Regional Military Administration posted on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
Russia's large-scale invasion of Ukraine has been going on since February 24. The aggressor shells and destroys key infrastructure, residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns and villages using artillery, multiple-launch rocket systems, and ballistic missiles.
The Administration informed that two people were injured in yesterday's shelling  in Popasna and Komyshuvaha. Five people have been rescued from under the rubble.  Read also:  Whole Luhansk region in ruins: Every  single  locality shelled by Russian troops Russia's large-scale invasion of Ukraine has been going on since February 24. The aggressor shells and destroys key infrastructure, residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns and villages using artillery, multiple-launch rocket systems, and ballistic missiles.
'The Russians again opened heavy fire on Severodonetsk, Rubizhne, and Popasna. Our towns firmly hold the fort, the Armed Forces beat the enemy. But again we have about 20 damaged or destroyed facilities, including three apartment blocks and nine private houses, food warehouses, garages, infrastructure facilities,' the press service of the Luhansk Regional Military Administration posted on Telegram, Ukrinform reports.
