Ukrainian Presidents Office Responds To Putins War To The Last Ukrainian Comment
20220708
https://menafn.com/1104501259/Ukrainian-Presidents-Office-Responds-To-Putins-War-To-The-Last-Ukrainian-Comment
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'There is no 'collective West' plan. Only a specific z-army which entered sovereign Ukraine, shelling cities and killing civilians. Everything else is a primitive propaganda. That's why Mr.Putin's mantra of the 'war to the last Ukrainian' is yet another proof of deliberate Russian genocide,' Podolyak tweeted.
It should be recalled that during a meeting with the Russian State Duma faction leaders on July 7, Putin said Russia had not yet taken any serious action in the course of its 'special operation' in Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Mykhailo Podolyak, the advisor to the head of the President's Office, called Putin's statements claiming the West allegedly wants to fight with Russia 'to the last Ukrainian' another proof of deliberate genocide committed by the Russians. The advisor addressed the issue on Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
'Today we hear that they want to defeat us on the battlefield. What can you say, let them try. We have already heard many times that the West wants to fight with us to the last Ukrainian. This is a tragedy for the Ukrainian people, but it seems that everything is heading towards this. But everyone should know that, by and large, we haven't started anything yet in earnest,' Putin said.
'There is no 'collective West' plan. Only a specific z-army which entered sovereign Ukraine, shelling cities and killing civilians. Everything else is a primitive propaganda. That's why Mr.Putin's mantra of the 'war to the last Ukrainian' is yet another proof of deliberate Russian genocide,' Podolyak tweeted.  Read also:  ISW analysts comment on  Putin  's war goals in Ukraine It should be recalled that during a meeting with the Russian State Duma faction leaders on July 7, Putin said Russia had not yet taken any serious action in the course of its 'special operation' in Ukraine.
