Ukraine  OSCE SMM spots over 250 silence breaches at weekstart
20211216
https://menafn.com/1103373878/Ukraine-OSCE-SMM-spots-over-250-silence-breaches-at-week-start&source=138
'In Luhansk region, the SMM recorded 126 ceasefire violations, including 18 undetermined explosions,' the SMM said.  Read also:  Russians deploy heavy military hardware in  Donbas  in breach of Minsk agreements - JFO command It is specified that most of the breaches occurred near the disengagement site in the area of Zolote village government-controlled, 60 km west of Luhansk.
It is noted that the majority of these cases occurred in areas north of Shyrokyne government-controlled, 100km south of Donetsk.  Read also:  Zelensky, PM of Italy discuss security situation around Ukraine In addition, the Mission recorded 30 ceasefire violations near Oleksandrivske formerly Rozy Liuksemburh, non-government-controlled, 90km south-east of Donetsk, which were assessed as live-fire training exercises outside the security zone.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission says 253 ceasefire violations were reported on Monday December 13, including 127 in Donetsk region and 126 in Luhansk region. That's according to Daily report No. 2932021 , published by the OSCE SMM in Ukraine on December 14 and seen by Ukrinform.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In addition, the Mission recorded 30 ceasefire violations near Oleksandrivske formerly Rozy Liuksemburh, non-government-controlled, 90km south-east of Donetsk, which were assessed as live-fire training exercises outside the security zone.
'In Donetsk region, the SMM recorded 127 ceasefire violations, including 11 undetermined explosions,' the report said.
It is specified that most of the breaches occurred near the disengagement site in the area of Zolote village government-controlled, 60 km west of Luhansk.
According to observers, 278 ceasefire violations were recorded in Luhansk region the previous day most of them were also near the disengagement area near Zolote.
On the previous day, 164 ceasefire violations were recorded in Donetsk region most of them were also near Shyrokyne.
That's according to Daily report No. 2932021 , published by the OSCE SMM in Ukraine on December 14 and seen by Ukrinform.
'In Luhansk region, the SMM recorded 126 ceasefire violations, including 18 undetermined explosions,' the SMM said.
It is noted that the majority of these cases occurred in areas north of Shyrokyne government-controlled, 100km south of Donetsk.
