Ukraine Calls On Canada Not To Return Russian Gas Turbine After Repair
20220708
https://menafn.com/1104501260/Ukraine-Calls-On-Canada-Not-To-Return-Russian-Gas-Turbine-After-Repair
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Memo. Last month, Gazprom reduced the capacity of the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to 40 of the usual level, referring to the delay with the return of equipment serviced by Siemens Energy in Canada.
According to Reuters sources, a total of seven turbines are used to pump natural gas. Those still in operation allow the system to operate at full capacity.
It is noted that the sanctions prohibit the transfer of any equipment related to gas. According to Reuters, Canada, in agreement with Germany, is preparing to hand over the turbine to Russia, as the countries do not want this to serve as an excuse for the Russian Federation to reduce gas supplies through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline.
Ukraine has said it will appeal to its European partners to influence the developments.  Read also:  Gazprom shares plunge 30 against failure to pay dividends Earlier, Minister of Energy of Ukraine German Galushchenko in a letter urged the Canadian government not to return the turbine to Gazprom. The minister claimed that Russia has more than enough transit capacity for supplies even without the said turbine, which was undergoing repairs in Canada.
Gas turbines are Canadian-made. They undergo regular maintenance at Siemens Energy AG facilities. One of the turbines was sent to Montreal for overhaul.MENAFN08072022000193011044ID1104501260
Gas turbines are Canadian-made. They undergo regular maintenance at Siemens Energy AG facilities. One of the turbines was sent to Montreal for overhaul.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine has asked Canada not to return a turbine to Russia's Gazprom that is set to be used in gas transmission to Germany, as this would be in violation of sanctions earlier imposed on Russia. This was reported by Reuters with reference to its own sources, according to Ukrinform.
Earlier, Minister of Energy of Ukraine German Galushchenko in a letter urged the Canadian government not to return the turbine to Gazprom. The minister claimed that Russia has more than enough transit capacity for supplies even without the said turbine, which was undergoing repairs in Canada.
The Ukrainian community of Canada also insists that the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau does not return the turbine to Russia. It is noted that its transfer to the Russian Federation will become a precedent where the two G7 nations bypass the sanctions imposed against Moscow.
