Ukraine  Lviv square sees 109 empty prams in installation to commemorate children killed by Russian invaders
20220318
https://menafn.com/1103873592/Ukraine-Lviv-square-sees-109-empty-prams-in-installation-to-commemorate-children-killed-by-Russian-invaders&source=19
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Within 22 days of the full-scale invasion, Russian troops have ruthlessly murdered 109 Ukrainian children. One hundred and nine children have become angels and are now protecting the sky of Ukraine in place of resolute actions by other nations. This figure does not account for the losses in Mariupol, which remains under continuous fire. The death toll is growing by the day as a result of the genocide being committed by the enemy against the Ukrainian people, the event organizers emphasized.  Read also:  222 people, including four  children  , killed in Kyiv since Russian invasion began The City Hall calls on adults around the world to shield Ukrainian children and give them a future as they can call on their governments to close the sky over Ukraine. People seeing the installation are encouraged to tell the world all the truth about the enemy's war crimes, take pictures of the project, and post them on social media platforms with the closethesky hashtag.
As reported, Russian President Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24, launching a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and bombarding infrastructure facilities, targeting residential areas of Ukrainian cities and towns in artillery, rocket, and missile fire.
The installation in the city's central Rynok Square consists of 109 empty prams as a tribute to 109 children, killed since the start of a massive Russian invasion of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports citing the press service of the Lviv City Council.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Lviv is hosting the Tsina Viyny Price of War art effort to draw worldwide attention to the deaths of innocent Ukrainian children amid a full-blown Russian invasion. The installation in the city's central Rynok Square consists of 109 empty prams as a tribute to 109 children, killed since the start of a massive Russian invasion of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports citing the press service of the Lviv City Council.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, explosions were heard in Lviv Friday, March 18, at 6:25 am local time. Lviv Mayor Andrii Sadovyi said that the missiles hit the area outside the local airport, destroying the aircraft repair plant. According to the military, six missiles were fired from the Black Sea, targeting Lviv. Two of those missiles were downed before reaching their targets. One person was injured in the Russian attack.
The City Hall calls on adults around the world to shield Ukrainian children and give them a future as they can call on their governments to close the sky over Ukraine. People seeing the installation are encouraged to tell the world all the truth about the enemy's war crimes, take pictures of the project, and post them on social media platforms with the closethesky hashtag.
Within 22 days of the full-scale invasion, Russian troops have ruthlessly murdered 109 Ukrainian children. One hundred and nine children have become angels and are now protecting the sky of Ukraine in place of resolute actions by other nations. This figure does not account for the losses in Mariupol, which remains under continuous fire. The death toll is growing by the day as a result of the genocide being committed by the enemy against the Ukrainian people, the event organizers emphasized.
