Ukraines disinfo watchdog helping Russian Belarusian soldiers officers defy criminal orders
20220313
https://menafn.com/1103837709/Ukraines-disinfo-watchdog-helping-Russian-Belarusian-soldiers-officers-defy-criminal-orders&source=19
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Center for Countering Disinformation under the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine reports that Russian and Belarusian military personnel involved in military operations on the territory of Ukraine are facing a simple choice  to fulfill a criminal order or to act in good conscience and refuse deployment. This was reported by Ukrinform with reference to the Center's press service .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
For those decent Russian and Belarusian soldiers and officers who are now on the territory of Russia and Belarus, not agreeing with the order of their superiors to carry out punitive operations on the territory of an independent state, a website has been developed, with contacts of government organizations and detailed instructions on how to skip war,' the Center noted.
On February 24, Russian President Putin launched an invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure, massively shelling and bombing residential areas.
The organizations added that if they have already been deployed in Ukraine and made up their mind to surrender, they can use step-by-step instructions. 'All Russian soldiers and officers who will lay down their arms and voluntarily surrender will receive full pardon and 5 million rubles in compensation,' the Center for Counteracting Disinformation under the National Security and Defense Council emphasized.
