Ukraine calls on partners to announce another package of sanctions against Russia  Shmyhal
20220402
https://menafn.com/1103950271/Ukraine-calls-on-partners-to-announce-another-package-of-sanctions-against-Russia-Shmyhal&source=138
He also noted that the current visit by the president of the European Parliament is another evidence of strong relations between Ukraine and the EU: 'Every day of the war, the European Parliament has supported and continues to support our country in its struggle for freedom and common values.'
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said this at a meeting of the leadership of the Government and the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine with European Parliament President Roberta Mezzola, who is on a visit to Kyiv, Ukrinform reports, referring to a statement posted by Shmyhal on Telegram .
Shmyhal thanked Mezzola for supporting the provision of EUR 1.2 billion in macro-financial assistance to Ukraine, as well as for the call to expand the scope of EU sanctions against Russia.
'Ukraine, for its part, calls on its partners to announce another package of sanctions against the aggressor country, as well as to develop mechanisms to prevent the circumvention of restrictive measures from previous packages,' Shmyhal said.
Shmyhal also stressed that Ukraine is fully prepared for the next step in relations with the European Union and hopes to complete all bureaucratic procedures as soon as possible.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine has called on its partners to announce another package of sanctions against Russia. Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said this at a meeting of the leadership of the Government and the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine with European Parliament President Roberta Mezzola, who is on a visit to Kyiv, Ukrinform reports, referring to a statement posted by Shmyhal on Telegram .
Both parties discussed the need to limit imports of key Russian exports, including oil and gas significantly expand sectoral sanctions and increase the number of banks disconnected from international financial systems, including SWIFT, close ports for Russian ships.
'We must be sure that this property will not be lost and could be the subject of reparations in the future,' Shmyhal said.
He stressed that the civilized world stop Russia only in unity, with a joint front of concerted action.
The Ukrainian side also calls for continued pressure on Russian high-ranking officials and oligarchs by not only arresting but also seizing their property and assets in Europe.
The meeting was attended by Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine Ruslan Stefanchuk, First Deputy Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada Oleksandr Korniienko, and Deputy Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada Olena Kondratiuk.
The meeting was attended by Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine Ruslan Stefanchuk, First Deputy Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada Oleksandr Korniienko, and Deputy Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada Olena Kondratiuk.MENAFN01042022000193011044ID1103950271
