Ukraine  EU adopts decision to expand Crimearelated sanctions against Russia
20220210
https://menafn.com/1103671724/Ukraine-EU-adopts-decision-to-expand-Crimea-related-sanctions-against-Russia&source=19
According to the minister, there are enough grounds to sanction Russia for its illegal mass issuing of Russian passports to the Ukrainian citizens in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donbas.Sanctions for this clear violation of Minsk agreements are long overdue, Kuleba stressed.
I welcome today's COREPER decision to add five persons to the EU sanctions list for facilitating the illegal organization and conduct of elections to Russian Duma in the temporarily occupied Crimea. Crimea is Ukraine. Every violation of international law by Russia will be punished, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba commended the decision on Twitter .
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Committee of Permanent Representatives in the European Union COREPER added five persons, involved in the conduct of Russian Duma elections in the temporarily occupied Crimea, to the sanctions list. I welcome today's COREPER decision to add five persons to the EU sanctions list for facilitating the illegal organization and conduct of elections to Russian Duma in the temporarily occupied Crimea. Crimea is Ukraine. Every violation of international law by Russia will be punished, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba commended the decision on Twitter .
As RFERL's editor Rikard Jozwiak posted earlier on Twitter , the Committee of Permanent Representatives in the European Union decided to add another five people to the sanctions list for undermining the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The decision will be formally adopted later in February. The current sanctions list stands at 177 people and 48 entities.
