Ukraine at OSCE Russia launches another campaign to denigrate Ukrainians
20211217
https://menafn.com/1103388074/Ukraine-at-OSCE-Russia-launches-another-campaign-to-denigrate-Ukrainians&source=19
MENAFN- UkrinForm A new campaign where Ukrainians are being massively accused of extremism has kicked off in Russia, similar to how whole nations used to be tarred in the Stalin era. That's according to Ukraine's Permanent Representative to international organizations in Vienna, Yevhenii Tsymbaliuk, who spoke at the meeting of the OSCE Permanent Council on Thursday, December 16, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
In addition, the only Ukrainian journalist in Russia, UNIAN's own correspondent in Moscow Roman Tsymbalyuk, is being targeted by law enforcers for what is alleged to be 'inciting ethnic hatred.'
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Russian media outlets have lately been inciting hysteria around the Ukraine issue.
That's according to Ukraine's Permanent Representative to international organizations in Vienna, Yevhenii Tsymbaliuk, who spoke at the meeting of the OSCE Permanent Council on Thursday, December 16, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
For Putin, the USSR's collapse equates to that of historic Russia, said the head of Ukraine's OSCE mission.  Read also:  SBU refutes yet another  FSB  -doctored fake story of 'Ukrainian saboteurs' As Ukrinform reported earlier, Russian media outlets have lately been inciting hysteria around the Ukraine issue.
Russia has launched a new campaign to denigrate Ukrainians as extremists, Tsymbaliuk said, adding that Ukraine's only journalist accredited to Russia has also been targeted.  Read also:  Roman  Tsymbaliuk  , journalist The diplomat pointed out that recent opinion polls run in Russia testify to the threatening consequences of such rhetoric as about 75 of Russians recognize that war with Ukraine was possible.
Russia has launched a new campaign to denigrate Ukrainians as extremists, Tsymbaliuk said, adding that Ukraine's only journalist accredited to Russia has also been targeted.
The mood of the Russian leadership becomes even clearer due to a documentary starring Russian President Vladimir Putin, aired on the 30th anniversary of the Soviet Union's fall, the Ukrainian envoy noted.
The SBU decried the FSB statement as 'part of a coordinated psy-op that should be viewed solely through the prism of hybrid warfare.'
The FSB security service claimed more than a hundred members of the allegedlyUkrainian radical community, 'MKU,' were arrested across Russian regions. In fact, those arrested are Russian nationals, members of various right-wing radical groups.
For Putin, the USSR's collapse equates to that of historic Russia, said the head of Ukraine's OSCE mission.
The diplomat pointed out that recent opinion polls run in Russia testify to the threatening consequences of such rhetoric as about 75 of Russians recognize that war with Ukraine was possible.
