Ukraine  By recognizingLPRDPR Russia to withdraw from Minsk accords  Reznikov
20220125
https://menafn.com/1103593072/Ukraine-By-recognizingLPRDPR-Russia-to-withdraw-from-Minsk-accords-Reznikov&source=19
'I believe it will be an obvious step on the part Russia of withdrawing from the Minsk accords, a demonstration that they are, in fact, abandoning the Minsk deal, which, while not being an international legal act, are political and diplomatic accords that have even been reached and even green-lighted by the UN Security Council, 'Reznikov said.
As reported earlier, on January 19, 2022, lawmakers with Russia's Communist Party tabled in the State Duma a draft appeal to Russian President Vladimir Putin on the need to recognize the so-called 'LPR andDPR. The relevant draft is to be considered by the State Duma in February.MENAFN25012022000193011044ID1103593072
MENAFN- UkrinForm If the State Duma of Russia votes to recognize the so-called 'LPR' and 'DPR' as independent states, it will equal Russia's rejection of the Minsk accords. That's according to Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov, who spoke at a briefing in Kyiv, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to Reznikov, he has a feeling that Russia will not dare recognize the so-calledrepublics. He also branded asprovocation the initiative for possible recognition of 'LPR DPR.'
That's according to Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov, who spoke at a briefing in Kyiv, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
'I believe it will be an obvious step on the part Russia of withdrawing from the Minsk accords, a demonstration that they are, in fact, abandoning the Minsk deal, which, while not being an international legal act, are political and diplomatic accords that have even been reached and even green-lighted by the UN Security Council, 'Reznikov said.  Read also:  Motion tabled in Russian parliament to recognizerepublics' in Donbas According to Reznikov, he has a feeling that Russia will not dare recognize the so-calledrepublics. He also branded asprovocation the initiative for possible recognition of 'LPR DPR.'
As reported earlier, on January 19, 2022, lawmakers with Russia's Communist Party tabled in the State Duma a draft appeal to Russian President Vladimir Putin on the need to recognize the so-called 'LPR andDPR. The relevant draft is to be considered by the State Duma in February.
'Such initiatives by the Russian Communists are also provocations designed to make us anxious. We will not be anxious about this,' the defense chief said.
