Ukraine Forces Shoot Down Ten Russian Drones May 1
20220502
https://menafn.com/1104141830/Ukraine-Forces-Shoot-Down-Ten-Russian-Drones-May-1&source=19
There is enough information about this UAV in the public domain. It is a Russian project, but there is almost nothing Russian in Orlan-10, all the 'stuffing' is imported from USA, Japan, China, Germany, etc.. The role of this should not be underestimated. 'Orlan-10 can perform various tasks, including targeting, serving as a broadcaster or an interference asset. So it poses a serious threat to our troops,' the military said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
And although this target is small and hard to spot, every day, defenders of the Ukrainian sky hit more and more of these UAVs, using various weapons.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ukrainian Air Force continues to destroy Russian aircraft: over the past day alone, t 10 Russian Orlan-10 unmanned aerial vehicles were downed. This was reported by Ukrinform with reference to the Air Force Command .
The Air Force Command says enemy warplanes mainly operate outside the Ukrainian airspace of Ukraine or in the temporarily occupied territory, where the Russian has significantly expanded their own air defenses of various types. Orlan-10 drones mostly conduct aerial reconnaissance and spot artillery fire.  Read also:  Ukraine Army destroys 57 invaders, tank, over 20 units of enemy equipment in eastern Ukraine There is enough information about this UAV in the public domain. It is a Russian project, but there is almost nothing Russian in Orlan-10, all the 'stuffing' is imported from USA, Japan, China, Germany, etc.. The role of this should not be underestimated. 'Orlan-10 can perform various tasks, including targeting, serving as a broadcaster or an interference asset. So it poses a serious threat to our troops,' the military said.
The Air Force Command also recalled the price of one such drone  it ranges from US$80,000 to $120,000, depending on its configuration.
The Russian Orlan-10 UAV is nowthe most popular target for the Ukrainian Army's air defense units, the statement reads.
As Ukrinform earlier reported, the Armed Forces of Ukraine destroyed in the southern regions the Russian electronic warfare station Repellent-1, three anti-aircraft guns, the Strela-10 anti-aircraft missile system, as well as a communications vehicle. Also, 42 Russian servicemen were eliminated over the past 24 hours.
As Ukrinform earlier reported, the Armed Forces of Ukraine destroyed in the southern regions the Russian electronic warfare station Repellent-1, three anti-aircraft guns, the Strela-10 anti-aircraft missile system, as well as a communications vehicle. Also, 42 Russian servicemen were eliminated over the past 24 hours.MENAFN01052022000193011044ID1104141830
The Air Force Command says enemy warplanes mainly operate outside the Ukrainian airspace of Ukraine or in the temporarily occupied territory, where the Russian has significantly expanded their own air defenses of various types. Orlan-10 drones mostly conduct aerial reconnaissance and spot artillery fire.
