Ukrainian Soldiers Blocked At Azovstal Ask Elon Musk For Help
20220514
https://menafn.com/1104200512/Ukrainian-Soldiers-Blocked-At-Azovstal-Ask-Elon-Musk-For-Help&source=138
Soldiers of the Azov Regiment, the National Guard, marines, and motorized riflemen continue to defend Mariupol.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
He also asks everyone to help make Musk see his appeal:It is said that his task was to inspire humanity, to make people believe in the impossible. He has proved that there are no unsolvable problems for him, that anything is possible! He never gives up just like us! We need the support from a superhuman!  Read also:   Azov  stal on fire after bombardment. Enemy trying to assault steelworks with tanks As reported, Russian invaders attack the defenders of Mariupol at Azovstal steelworks with aircraft and artillery. On May 10, the Russian invaders launched 38 airstrikes on Azovstal, including four sorties by strategic bombers.  Read also:   Azov  stal assault: plume of black smoke rising over Mariupol steelworks On May 7, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories Iryna Vereshchuk said that all women, children and the elderly had been evacuated from the Azovstal steelworks.  Read also:  Vereshchuk on situation at  Azov  stal: We are looking for workable option The Ukrainian military defends the territory of the steelworks, which is under constant attacks and assaults of Russians involving all kinds of weapons, including airplanes and naval artillery. Several hundred wounded Ukrainian servicemen stay in the Azovstal steelworks. There is an acute shortage of medicines. People are dying in agony.
elonmusk people say you come from another planet to teach people to believe in the impossible. Our planets are next to each other, as I live where it is nearly impossible to survive. Help us get out of Azovstal to a mediating country. If not you, then who? Give me a hint, Volyna tweeted .
The Ukrainian military defends the territory of the steelworks, which is under constant attacks and assaults of Russians involving all kinds of weapons, including airplanes and naval artillery. Several hundred wounded Ukrainian servicemen stay in the Azovstal steelworks. There is an acute shortage of medicines. People are dying in agony.
He also asks everyone to help make Musk see his appeal:It is said that his task was to inspire humanity, to make people believe in the impossible. He has proved that there are no unsolvable problems for him, that anything is possible! He never gives up just like us! We need the support from a superhuman!
Serhiy Volyna, commander of the 36th Marine Brigade of Ukraine, posted a relevant publication on Facebook .
As reported, Russian invaders attack the defenders of Mariupol at Azovstal steelworks with aircraft and artillery. On May 10, the Russian invaders launched 38 airstrikes on Azovstal, including four sorties by strategic bombers.
According to President Zelensky, the Ukrainian authorities now work on diplomatic options to save the Ukrainian military defending the Azovstal.
On May 7, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories Iryna Vereshchuk said that all women, children and the elderly had been evacuated from the Azovstal steelworks.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukrainian defenders, blocked by Russian aggressors at Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, ask SpaceX founder Elon Musk for help. Serhiy Volyna, commander of the 36th Marine Brigade of Ukraine, posted a relevant publication on Facebook .
