Ukrainian Foreign Ministry condemns Russias decision to recognize LPRDPR
20220223
https://menafn.com/1103740735/Ukrainian-Foreign-Ministry-condemns-Russias-decision-to-recognize-LPRDPR&source=138
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba is staying in continuous communication with his colleagues to coordinate the diplomatic efforts and take action to conduct meetings of international agencies and summits as well as attract defense assistance and ensure the application of harsh sanctions against the Russian Federation.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said that at the instruction by President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian diplomatic service is currently making use of the entire arsenal of instruments of diplomacy to avert the expansion of the armed conflict.
On February 21, Russian President Vladimir signed decrees recognizing two self-proclaimed entities in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.
'This decision sharply escalates the situation and can mean the Russian Federation's unilateral withdrawal from the Minsk agreements. The Ukrainian side understands Russia's intentions and its objective to provoke Ukraine. We are taking into account all the risks and not giving in to the provocations as we remain committed to politico-diplomatic settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict,' the statement said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has condemned Russia's decision to recognize the so-called 'LPR' and 'DPR,' according to a statement posted on the ministry's website. 'Ukraine condemns the Russian Federation's decision to recognize the 'independence' of the quasi-entities it had created in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the so-called 'Luhansk People's Republic' and 'Donetsk People's Republic',' the statement  reads.
'Ukraine condemns the Russian Federation's decision to recognize the 'independence' of the quasi-entities it had created in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the so-called 'Luhansk People's Republic' and 'Donetsk People's Republic',' the statement  reads.
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said that with this action the Russian side has blatantly defied the fundamental norms and principles of international law, the UN Charter, violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders.
'The Russian Federation's next decisions and moves depend greatly on global reactions to today's developments. We therefore insist on application against Russia of harsh sanctions to send a clear signal of inadmissibility of further escalation. The time has come to act in order to stop Russian aggression and restore peace and stability in Europe,' the statement said.
It also emphasized that Russia's decision to recognize the so-called 'LPR' and 'DPR' will have no legal implications.
