Ukraine Belongs To European Family  Maasikas
20220509
https://menafn.com/1104179803/Ukraine-Belongs-To-European-Family-Maasikas&source=28
According to Ukrinform, the Head of the EU Delegation to Ukraine, Matti Maasikas, said this in a message  to Ukrainians on the occasion of Europe Day.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Europe Day is marked in the EU and other countries on May 9 to celebrate peace and unity on the continent.
Europe Day is celebrated by the Council of Europe on May 5 and by the European Union on May 9. Ukraine has marked Europe Day since 2003 on the third Saturday of May.MENAFN09052022000193011044ID1104179803
Europe Day is celebrated by the Council of Europe on May 5 and by the European Union on May 9. Ukraine has marked Europe Day since 2003 on the third Saturday of May.
'After Ukrainians stood up for European values of peace, freedom, dignity, democracy and human rights, the European Union supports you in your fight. With arms, with financial assistance, with sanctions against the aggressor, with humanitarian aid. And maybe most importantly, we are working on Ukraine's application to join the European Union,' Maasikas said.
He said that the EU will not leave Ukraine alone with the aggressor, as Ukraine belongs to the European family.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The European Union will continue to fully support Ukraine's fight for its sovereignty and freedom until its victory over the Russian aggressor. According to Ukrinform, the Head of the EU Delegation to Ukraine, Matti Maasikas, said this in a message  to Ukrainians on the occasion of Europe Day.
'The EU and our partners will continue to fully support Ukraine's fight for its sovereignty and freedom until Ukraine's victory,' Maasikas said, concluding the message of congratulations with the words 'Glory to Ukraine!'
