Ukraine  Eight more victims pulled out of rubble in Kharkiv
20220301
https://menafn.com/1103784393/Ukraine-Eight-more-victims-pulled-out-of-rubble-in-Kharkiv&source=33
'As of 16:00, as a result of an air strike between the 2nd and 3rd entrances of a five-storey residential building a total of 6 entrances in Kharkiv, 8 people were killed and 6 more were injured. Thirty-eight people were rescued, 2 of them were pulled out of rubble,' the State Emergency Service of Ukraine posted on Telegram.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukraine officially filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague.
Russian president Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24 and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities. Missiles hit residential buildings.  Read also:  President:  Kharkiv  and Kyiv are enemy's main targets Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced.
Russian president Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24 and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities. Missiles hit residential buildings.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In Kharkiv, the bodies of eight people were pulled out of the rubble of a five-story building shelled by Russian troops. Six people more were injured. 'As of 16:00, as a result of an air strike between the 2nd and 3rd entrances of a five-storey residential building a total of 6 entrances in Kharkiv, 8 people were killed and 6 more were injured. Thirty-eight people were rescued, 2 of them were pulled out of rubble,' the State Emergency Service of Ukraine posted on Telegram.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the support of all Ukrainian people, courageously resist the Russian aggression.
As reported, 10 people were killed as a result of the shelling of the central square in Kharkiv by Russian troops.
Rescuers are still working on the scene.  Read also:  At least 10 people killed in Russian strike on central  Kharkiv  As reported, 10 people were killed as a result of the shelling of the central square in Kharkiv by Russian troops.
