Ukraine  Biden discusses Russias military buildup with Bucharest Nine
20211211
https://menafn.com/1103337782/Ukraine-Biden-discusses-Russias-military-build-up-with-Bucharest-Nine&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm U.S. President Joe Biden has spoken to representatives of the Bucharest Nine B9 group of eastern flank NATO Allies to discuss Russia's destabilizing military build-up along Ukraine's border. That's according to a press release published on the White House's website.
Speaking to the leaders, Biden underscored the United States' commitment to Transatlantic security and its sacred commitment to NATO's Article 5.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'The leaders discussed Russia's destabilizing military buildup along Ukraine's border and the need for a united, ready, and resolute NATO stance for the collective defense of Allies. President Biden stressed the U.S. commitment to continued close consultation and coordination with all our Transatlantic Allies and partners as we work towards de-escalation of the current crisis through deterrence, defense, and dialogue,' the statement said.
U.S. President Joe Biden called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on December 9 to discuss the results of his December 7 video call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, formats for resolving the conflict in eastern Ukraine, and reform in Ukraine.
'The leaders discussed Russia's destabilizing military buildup along Ukraine's border and the need for a united, ready, and resolute NATO stance for the collective defense of Allies. President Biden stressed the U.S. commitment to continued close consultation and coordination with all our Transatlantic Allies and partners as we work towards de-escalation of the current crisis through deterrence, defense, and dialogue,' the statement said.  Read also:  Biden calls Zelensky following virtual summit with Putin U.S. President Joe Biden called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on December 9 to discuss the results of his December 7 video call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, formats for resolving the conflict in eastern Ukraine, and reform in Ukraine.
Joining the call with Biden were the presidents of Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, as well as the prime ministers of the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
