Ukraine  Russian mercenaries violate ceasefire in JFO area six times over past day
20211116
https://menafn.com/1103180408/Ukraine-Russian-mercenaries-violate-ceasefire-in-JFO-area-six-times-over-past-day&source=138
Outside Zolote-4 59km west of Luhansk, the occupiers fired tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns and under-barrel grenade launchers on positions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In the area of Svitlodarsk 57km north-east of Donetsk, the enemy opened fire from grenade launchers of different systems. Near Novozvanivka 70km west of Luhansk, Russian mercenaries used tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns. Outside Talakivka 17km north-east of Mariupol, the enemy troops launched an attack, using tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns and small arms. Towards Popasna 69km west of Luhansk, the enemy launched two attacks, firing grenade launchers of different systems and heavy machine guns, the press center of the JFO Headquarters posted on Facebook.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinFormOver the past day, Russian-occupation troops violated the ceasefire in the Joint Forces Operation JFO area in eastern Ukraine six times. Outside Zolote-4 59km west of Luhansk, the occupiers fired tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns and under-barrel grenade launchers on positions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In the area of Svitlodarsk 57km north-east of Donetsk, the enemy opened fire from grenade launchers of different systems. Near Novozvanivka 70km west of Luhansk, Russian mercenaries used tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns. Outside Talakivka 17km north-east of Mariupol, the enemy troops launched an attack, using tripod-mounted man-portable antitank guns and small arms. Towards Popasna 69km west of Luhansk, the enemy launched two attacks, firing grenade launchers of different systems and heavy machine guns, the press center of the JFO Headquarters posted on Facebook.
