Ukrainian Army closing in on Chernihiv
20220402
https://menafn.com/1103942843/Ukrainian-Army-closing-in-on-Chernihiv&source=138
As Ukrinform reported earlier, a large convoy of Russians came under Ukrainian attack in Chernihiv region yesterday. Thirteen units of enemy equipment were destroyed or damaged.
Chernihiv remains almost besieged by the Russian forces, who have been shelling and bombarding the city for weeks, while failing to break its defenses.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Ukrainian troops knocked Russian occupiers out of the village of Sloboda, Chernihiv region. Our soldiers just sent me the video. I am proud to be friends with these heroic people. They say people cried and hugged them as the Ukrainian Army entered the village. That's where I was wounded,' wrote Tsaplienko.  Read also:  Danilov: Russia redeploying troops from Kyiv,  Chernihiv  direction to east As Ukrinform reported earlier, a large convoy of Russians came under Ukrainian attack in Chernihiv region yesterday. Thirteen units of enemy equipment were destroyed or damaged.
Humanitarian aid to the city, as well as the evacuation routes out of it, have been massively complicated after the Russians blew up a bridge on the motorway leading to Kyiv.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ukrainian forces have liberated from the Russian invaders the village of Sloboda, Chernihiv region, just 22 kilometers from the regional center. War journalist Andriy Tsaplienko reported the news on his Telegram  channel, Ukrinform reports.
Humanitarian aid to the city, as well as the evacuation routes out of it, have been massively complicated after the Russians blew up a bridge on the motorway leading to Kyiv.MENAFN31032022000193011044ID1103942843
'Ukrainian troops knocked Russian occupiers out of the village of Sloboda, Chernihiv region. Our soldiers just sent me the video. I am proud to be friends with these heroic people. They say people cried and hugged them as the Ukrainian Army entered the village. That's where I was wounded,' wrote Tsaplienko.
