Ukraine war sparks European debate on merits of neutrality
20220410
https://menafn.com/1103975196/Ukraine-war-sparks-European-debate-on-merits-of-neutrality&source=138
In another survey in February, almost half of respondents said the country's eight-decades-old concept of neutrality was out of date.
Six countries in Europe have embraced the stance, although to varying degrees. Finland and Sweden were neutral during the cold war but are tilting towards joining NATO the principle is written into the constitutions of Austria and Malta and Ireland and Switzerland have made it a cornerstone of foreign policy.
However, political leaders are treading cautiously as they juggle widespread revulsion at Russia's invasion, security concerns and in some cases, fierce political opposition to altering long-held policies.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Six countries in Europe have embraced the stance, although to varying degrees. Finland and Sweden were neutral during the cold war but are tilting towards joining NATO the principle is written into the constitutions of Austria and Malta and Ireland and Switzerland have made it a cornerstone of foreign policy.But recent polls suggest Russia's aggression is accelerating a shift in public opinion in some of the nations.
External Content  Surveys just after February's invasion found that for the first time, a majority of Finns and Swedes favoured their countries joining NATO.Many in Ireland still oppose the country joining the western alliance, but a poll published late last month found 48 were now in favour of membership and 46 would voteyes in any referendum on whether Irish troops should serve in a future EU army.In another survey in February, almost half of respondents said the country's eight-decades-old concept of neutrality was out of date.However, political leaders are treading cautiously as they juggle widespread revulsion at Russia's invasion, security concerns and in some cases, fierce political opposition to altering long-held policies.Swiss balancing actMalta  where two in three people strongly support neutrality, according to a poll two weeks before the Russian invasion  Switzerland and Austria are not contemplating policy shifts. But Bern has moved in lockstep with EU nations in enforcing sanctions on Russia. Austria and Ireland have expressed willingness to join a proposed 5,000-strong EU rapid-reaction force that would intervene in international crises.MENAFN07042022000210011054ID1103975196
Surveys just after February's invasion found that for the first time, a majority of Finns and Swedes favoured their countries joining NATO.
But recent polls suggest Russia's aggression is accelerating a shift in public opinion in some of the nations.
Many in Ireland still oppose the country joining the western alliance, but a poll published late last month found 48 were now in favour of membership and 46 would voteyes in any referendum on whether Irish troops should serve in a future EU army.
Malta  where two in three people strongly support neutrality, according to a poll two weeks before the Russian invasion  Switzerland and Austria are not contemplating policy shifts. But Bern has moved in lockstep with EU nations in enforcing sanctions on Russia. Austria and Ireland have expressed willingness to join a proposed 5,000-strong EU rapid-reaction force that would intervene in international crises.
