Ukraine  Russian war crimes Over eight days of war 28 children killed 64 wounded
20220306
https://menafn.com/1103797880/Ukraine-Russian-war-crimes-Over-eight-days-of-war-28-children-killed-64-wounded&source=138
This was announced by Daria Herasymchuk , an adviser to the President of Ukraine on Children's Rights and Rehabilitation, Ukrinform reports with reference to the Office of the Head of State.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Over the eight days of the Russian war in Ukraine, 28 children were killed and 64 were wounded in Russian attacks. This was announced by Daria Herasymchuk , an adviser to the President of Ukraine on Children's Rights and Rehabilitation, Ukrinform reports with reference to the Office of the Head of State.
Ukraine has filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation with the UN Criminal Court in The Hague.
'Maternity hospitals, kindergartens, and schools have been destroyed. About one and a half million children remain in the areas affected by shelling and under siege, including orphans and children with disabilities who require immediate assistance,' she said.
'Maternity hospitals, kindergartens, and schools have been destroyed. About one and a half million children remain in the areas affected by shelling and under siege, including orphans and children with disabilities who require immediate assistance,' she said.  Read also:  ICC's team leaves to investigate war  crimes  in Ukraine As reported, on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops are shelling and destroying infrastructure, massively shelling residential areas across Ukrainian cities and towns, using artillery, MLR systems, and ballistic missiles.
Ukraine has filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation with the UN Criminal Court in The Hague.MENAFN04032022000193011044ID1103797880
As reported, on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops are shelling and destroying infrastructure, massively shelling residential areas across Ukrainian cities and towns, using artillery, MLR systems, and ballistic missiles.
