Ukraine  Navalnys team calls on Russian women to take part in antiwar rallies on Mar 8
20220310
https://menafn.com/1103809566/Ukraine-Navalnys-team-calls-on-Russian-women-to-take-part-in-anti-war-rallies-on-Mar-8&source=138
I really want you to realize, Putin does not believe in any 'Russian world', does not believe in fascists or denazification. The life of your relatives, friends and loved ones, ground by war, is nothing for him, Yarmysh stressed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
March 8, Women's Day. This is the moment when we must firmly declare what we indeed want on this day. We want this war not to happen. We want this war to stop immediately. We are also here, and our opinion must be considered, Yarmysh told.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Press Secretary of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, Kira Yarmysh, has posted a video address to Russian women, calling on them to take to the streets in their cities as part of anti-war rallies on March 8, 2022. The relevant video is available on YouTube , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that, on March 2, 2022, Alexei Navalny and his team called on Russians to take to the streets as part of daily and indefinite rallies to protest against war with Ukraine. On Sunday, anti-war rallies took place across 69 Russian cities. As of Monday, a total of 5,063 persons were detained, which is the maximum number of detainees over one day.
She called on people to take to the central square in their cities at 02:00 p.m., March 8, 2022. In her words, 'Putin does not care about any human life, either Russian or Ukrainian he is only interested in his money and power'. For him, all people fighting at the frontline are 'nameless, cannon fodder, expendable option, literally the cattle he drives to slaughter, so that he can sit on a bag of money as long as possible'.
