Ukraine  Defense Ministry refutes Kremlins fakes about US military chemical weapons in Donetsk region
20211224
https://menafn.com/1103435922/Ukraine-Defense-Ministry-refutes-Kremlins-fakes-about-US-military-chemical-weapons-in-Donetsk-region&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm The statement spread by the Russian military leadership about the allegedlyreliably established presence of more than 120 employees of American private military companies in Avdiyivka and Pryazovske in Donetsk region is deliberate disinformation. The corresponding statement was made by the Center for Operational Information of the Ministry of Defense.
At the same time, the Ministry of Defense points out that the current fake was voiced by Russia's top leadership so it should be treated as a possible future provocation.
The corresponding statement was made by the Center for Operational Information of the Ministry of Defense.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As reported, Russian defense minister Sergey Shoigu said at a meeting of the board of the Russian Defense Ministry with the participation of Putin that Ukraine and the United States were allegedly preparing a provocation in certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions with the use of chemical weapons.
The Ministry of Defense also stresses that the Armed Forces of Ukraine respect international humanitarian law, adhere to the Minsk Agreements, and hold their borders.
There are no private military companies, including foreign ones, in Ukraine. Apart from those used by the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. The other allegation of 'delivery of reserves of an unidentified chemical component for provocations in the towns of Avdiivka and Lyman' is also untrue, the Defense Ministry states, adding that the only threat to peace and security of Ukrainian citizens and territories comes from Russian-occupation forces who violate the ceasefire, kill Ukrainian citizens and block the work of the international mission.
Since the latest disinformation has been voiced at the highest military and political level, it should be taken seriously, it should be regarded as the preparation of a specific provocation, the scenario of which has already been developed in the Kremlin, reads the statement.
It is emphasized that the war against Ukraine includes not only armed aggression but also a hybrid component  information operations. The press service notes that the Russian Federation had previously resorted to such disinformation, spreading in 2018 fakes about the so-calledblue barrels with allegedly poisonous substance in Krasnohorivka.
