Ukraine  Trade embargo needed Zelensky calls on Japans Parliament to continue exerting pressure on Russia
20220325
https://menafn.com/1103902089/Ukraine-Trade-embargo-needed-Zelensky-calls-on-Japans-Parliament-to-continue-exerting-pressure-on-Russia&source=138
'I am grateful to your state for its principled position at such a historic moment. For real help to Ukraine. You were the first in Asia who put real pressure on Russia to restore peace. Who supported the sanctions against Russia. And I urge you to continue to do so. I call for the united efforts of the Asian countries, your partners, to stabilize the situation. So that Russia seeks peace. And stops the tsunami of its brutal invasion of our state, Ukraine. It is necessary to impose an embargo on trade with Russia. It is necessary to withdraw companies from the Russian market so that the money does not go to the Russian army,' Zelensky said in his video address  to Japan's Parliament, streamed live on Ukraine's nationwide telethon, Ukrinform reports.
New security guarantees must be developed so that preventive and strong action can be taken whenever there is a threat to peace, Zelensky stressed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The President noted that today Ukraine, the partner states and our anti-war coalition can guarantee that world security will not be completely destroyed, that in the world there will be a foothold for the freedom of nations, for people and for the preservation of diversity in societies, for security of borders.
Is it possible to do this on the basis of existing international structures? After such a war - definitely not. We need to create new tools. New guarantees. Which will work preventively and strongly against any aggression. Which will really help. Japan's leadership can be indispensable in their development. For Ukraine, for the world. I offer it to you,' the President said.
He noted that Japan immediately started working to stop Russia's brutal war against Ukraine, to bring peace to Ukraine and, consequently, to Europe.
On February 24, Russian president Putin started a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops shell and destroy key infrastructure, massively fire on residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns, and villages using artillery, multiple-launch rocket systems, and ballistic missiles.
MENAFN- UkrinForm President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky has called on Japan to continue to put pressure on Russia and join in developing new instruments and security guarantees. 'I am grateful to your state for its principled position at such a historic moment. For real help to Ukraine. You were the first in Asia who put real pressure on Russia to restore peace. Who supported the sanctions against Russia. And I urge you to continue to do so. I call for the united efforts of the Asian countries, your partners, to stabilize the situation. So that Russia seeks peace. And stops the tsunami of its brutal invasion of our state, Ukraine. It is necessary to impose an embargo on trade with Russia. It is necessary to withdraw companies from the Russian market so that the money does not go to the Russian army,' Zelensky said in his video address  to Japan's Parliament, streamed live on Ukraine's nationwide telethon, Ukrinform reports.
At the same time, Zelensky pointed out the need to help Ukraine even more, to help Ukrainian soldiers who stop Russian troops.
The President of Ukraine believes that the world is destabilized and is on the verge of many new crises because of the war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine.
'You see that international institutions have not worked. Even the UN and the Security Council... What can they do? They need reform. They need an injection of honesty. To become effective. To really decide and really influence, not just discuss,' he said.
