Ukraine Army Repulses 13 Enemy Attacks In Donetsk Luhansk Directions June 1
20220602
https://menafn.com/1104311782/Ukraine-Army-Repulses-13-Enemy-Attacks-In-Donetsk-Luhansk-Directions-June-1
The enemy continues to lose unmanned aerial vehicles, now already using UAVs belonging to the Ministry of Emergencies.MENAFN02062022000193011044ID1104311782
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The enemy continues to use the network of civilian medical facilities in the temporarily occupied territories to treat its wounded.
The enemy took no significant action in the northern direction. The enemy's units, which suffered losses during the fighting on the territory of Ukraine, are being replenished with weapons and military equipment.
In the waters of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov, Russian warships continue to isolate the area of hostilities, ensuring reconnaissance and fire support in the coastal direction. The enemy continues to block civilian navigation in the northwestern part of the Black Sea.
In the Novopavlovsk and Zaporizhia directions, the enemy continues fortifying the occupied frontiers, replenishing stocks.
In the South Buh direction, the occupiers intensified shellings of Ukraine positions. The settlements of Shevchenkove, Trudolyubivka, Luch, Stepova Dolyna, and Shyroke also came under mortar and artillery fire. The enemy Mi-24 helicopters launched air strikes in the areas of Novohryhorivka and Oleksandrivka.
In the Lyman direction, the enemy fought in the direction of Raihorodok, suffering losses and eventually retreating.
This is stated by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in an update  released as of 6:00 on June 2, Ukrinform reports.
The enemy continues to lose unmanned aerial vehicles, now already using UAVs belonging to the Ministry of Emergencies.
The enemy took no significant action in the northern direction. The enemy's units, which suffered losses during the fighting on the territory of Ukraine, are being replenished with weapons and military equipment.  Read also:  Ukraine forces destroy two Russian landing boats in the Dnipro-Buh estuary From the Russian territory, the enemy fired mortars at the settlements of Seredyna-Buda and Progres in Sumy region, and Leonivka in Chernihiv Oblast.
From the Russian territory, the enemy fired mortars at the settlements of Seredyna-Buda and Progres in Sumy region, and Leonivka in Chernihiv Oblast.
In the Donetsk direction, the enemy continues to fire on the positions of Ukrainian troops along the entire line of contact with mortars, artillery, and jet artillery.  Read also:  Russians attempt to advance toward Lysychansk, avoiding fighting across the Siverskyi Donets In the Lyman direction, the enemy fought in the direction of Raihorodok, suffering losses and eventually retreating.
In the Kharkiv direction, the enemy's main efforts are focused on holding the occupied frontiers. In order to reduce the offensive potential of Ukrainian troops, the Russians fired on their positions with artillery and rocket-propelled grenade launchers in the areas of Mykhailivka, Prudyanka, and Verkhniy Saltiv.
In order to justify the destruction of civilian infrastructure, the Russians continue to spread disinformation about Ukraine's forces allegedly stationed in schools, hospitals, and kindergartens.
In the Sloviansk direction, the enemy focused on maintaining the occupied positions, conducting reconnaissance, and creating conditions for resuming the offensive. Their artillery shelled the areas of Dovgenke, Kurulka, Virnopillya, and Dolyna.
In the Donetsk direction, the enemy continues to fire on the positions of Ukrainian troops along the entire line of contact with mortars, artillery, and jet artillery.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Over the past 24 hours, 13 enemy attacks have been repulsed in the Donetsk and Luhansk directions, with two tanks, six artillery systems, eight armored combat vehicles, and four trucks having been destroyed and seven Orlan-10 UAVs downed. This is stated by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in an update  released as of 6:00 on June 2, Ukrinform reports.
In the Volyn and Polissya directions, certain units of the Belarusian Armed Forces are being rearmed with modern models of weapons and military equipment. The threat of missile and air strikes from the territory of the neighboring country remains in place.
In the Bakhmut direction, the enemy is storming the village of Komyshuvakha in order to take control of the city, seeing partial success. Fireghts continue. They stormed the settlements of Nahirne and Bilohorivka before withdrawing under Ukrainian fire.
In the Avdiivsky, Kurakhivsky, Novopavlovsky, and Zaporizhia directions, the enemy ran no active hostilities. They fired at Ukrainian troops with artillery and mortars in the areas of the settlements of Pisky, Avdiyivka, Uspenivka, Vuhledar, Novosilka, and Orikhiv.
In the Sievierodonetsk direction, the enemy is conducting assault operations in the settlement of Sievierodonetsk. With the support of mortar fire, they stormed the settlements of Bobrove and Ustynivka, to no avail.
