Ukraines actions in response to Russias unprovoked warjustified  Presidential Office chiefs advisor
20220417
https://menafn.com/1104032178/Ukraines-actions-in-response-to-Russias-unprovoked-warjustified-Presidential-Office-chiefs-advisor&source=138
The advisor to the head of the President's Office, Mykhailo Podoliak, made the relevant statement via Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'It was Russia that started an unprovoked war on foreign territory. With mass deliberate killings of civilians and large-scale destruction of civilian infrastructure. Therefore, any retaliatory actions of Ukraine are both morally and legally absolutely justified,' Podoliak said.  Read also:  Russian Tu-22M3 bombers strike Mariupol On February 24, Russia launched a new phase of the eight-year war against Ukraine  a full-scale offensive. The enemy has been massively shelling and bombarding peaceful Ukrainian towns and villages. The Armed Forces, Territorial Defense Forces, and the entire Ukrainian nation are effectively repelling the Russian onslaught, inflicting heavy losses on the Russian troops.
'It was Russia that started an unprovoked war on foreign territory. With mass deliberate killings of civilians and large-scale destruction of civilian infrastructure. Therefore, any retaliatory actions of Ukraine are both morally and legally absolutely justified,' Podoliak said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Any action in response to Russia's aggressive and criminal actions against Ukrainians is both legally and morally justified. The advisor to the head of the President's Office, Mykhailo Podoliak, made the relevant statement via Twitter , Ukrinform reports.
On February 24, Russia launched a new phase of the eight-year war against Ukraine  a full-scale offensive. The enemy has been massively shelling and bombarding peaceful Ukrainian towns and villages. The Armed Forces, Territorial Defense Forces, and the entire Ukrainian nation are effectively repelling the Russian onslaught, inflicting heavy losses on the Russian troops.
