Ukraine Lines Up Russias Vsevolod Bobrov Ship Off Coast Of Snake Island
20220515
https://menafn.com/1104204177/Ukraine-Lines-Up-Russias-Vsevolod-Bobrov-Ship-Off-Coast-Of-Snake-Island&source=138
'As a result of the actions of our Navy, the Vsevolod Bobrov logistics ship, one of the newest in the Russian fleet, set on fire. They say she is limping toward Sevastopol,' Bratchuk said.  Read also:  Ukrainian Bayraktar drones destroy two Russian assault boats near  Snake  Island However, the spokesman added, 'the information is yet to be clarified.' 'But the fact that she suffered a 'snake bite' in the area of Snake Island is true,' he said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to the head of the Institute of Black Sea Strategic Studies, Andriy Klymenko, the vessel was engaged overnight Thursday, May 12.
Serhiy Bratchuk, a spokesman for the Odesa Regional Military Administration, reported on Telegram  that the ship was damaged and set on fire as a result of a Ukrainian strike, Ukrinform reports.
As reported, over the recent weeks, near Snake Island, the Armed Forces of Ukraine lined up or destroyed half a dozen warships and cutters of the Russian Black Sea Fleet, including the flagship cruiser Moskva.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In a strike by Ukraine's Navy, Russia lost off the coast of Snake Island their logistics vessel Vsevolod Bobrov, launched in 2016. Serhiy Bratchuk, a spokesman for the Odesa Regional Military Administration, reported on Telegram  that the ship was damaged and set on fire as a result of a Ukrainian strike, Ukrinform reports.
'As a result of the actions of our Navy, the Vsevolod Bobrov logistics ship, one of the newest in the Russian fleet, set on fire. They say she is limping toward Sevastopol,' Bratchuk said.
However, the spokesman added, 'the information is yet to be clarified.' 'But the fact that she suffered a 'snake bite' in the area of Snake Island is true,' he said.
