Ukraine doesnt see onetime withdrawal of Russian troops as deescalation  Foreign Minister
20220207
https://menafn.com/1103653888/Ukraine-doesnt-see-one-time-withdrawal-of-Russian-troops-as-de-escalation-Foreign-Minister&source=19
'As for de-escalation, we need to see a systematic withdrawal of Russian troops from the Ukrainian border and the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Meanwhile, a one-time pullback doesn't mean de-escalation,' Kuleba said.  Read also:   Kuleba  on record high support to Ukraine: $1.5B, over 1,000 tonnes of weapons The head of Ukrainian diplomacy stressed that a clear signal of de-escalation would be the consistent withdrawal of all forces deployed along the border of Ukraine over the past year.
This was stated by Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, who spoke at an online briefing on Monday, February 7, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, on January 29, Russia announced that the troops and aircraft of the Western Military District had completed a 'scheduled combat readiness check' and were allegedly returning to their bases.
The head of Ukrainian diplomacy stressed that a clear signal of de-escalation would be the consistent withdrawal of all forces deployed along the border of Ukraine over the past year.
'As for de-escalation, we need to see a systematic withdrawal of Russian troops from the Ukrainian border and the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Meanwhile, a one-time pullback doesn't mean de-escalation,' Kuleba said.
On January 31, Kuleba said that distrust in Russia's actions and words persisted, so Russia's statements about the start of withdrawal from the areas of the exercise require more detailed information and verification.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The real signal of de-escalation would be a consistent withdrawal of all Russian forces deployed along the Ukrainian border, not a one-time pullback. This was stated by Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, who spoke at an online briefing on Monday, February 7, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
