Ukraine  Russia may implement Chechen scenario to declare full mobilization  General Staff
20220319
https://menafn.com/1103876564/Ukraine-Russia-may-implement-Chechen-scenario-to-declare-full-mobilization-General-Staff&source=27
The enemy continues to suffer significant losses and have logistical issues. The low level of moral and psychological condition of the personnel results in a growing number of deserters and refusals of the Russian military to take part in the war against Ukraine.
Ukraine's anti-aircraft missile forces and fighter jets hit 12 enemy air targets, including two planes, three helicopters, three UAVs and four cruise missiles.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine does not rule out that Russia's military and political leadership may stage provocations within its own territory to impose martial law and declare full mobilization. The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
As of 06:00 a.m., March 19, 2022, the situation and the nature of the actions of the Ukrainian defense forces remained mostly unchanged.The Armed Forces of Ukraine and other units of the Defense Forces continued to strike at the groups of enemy troops, which attempted to hold the captured frontiers, the report states.
Over the past day, Ukrainian defenders have destroyed several columns of enemy vehicles in Mykolaiv Region and Sumy Region. The enemy's losses are yet to be updated.
Considering heavy personnel losses, Russia's military and political leadership may decide to amend the current laws and declare an open mobilization to continue a protracted, exhausting war.
The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
In the city of Gomel, all health institutions with surgical departments are involved in the admission and treatment of the wounded occupiers. Surgeons are working around the clock all scheduled operations of Belarusian citizens are either canceled or postponed indefinitely. The high death rate is recorded among the severely wounded Russian invaders, the General Staff added.
In addition, as a result of fire on the enemy by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the commander of the 8th All-Military Army of the Southern Military District of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, Lieutenant General Andrey Mordvichev, was killed, the General Staff noted.
In order to justify such actions, it is possible that a number of provocations will be carried out within the territory of the Russian Federation with casualties among civilians, similar to what they did before the start of the second Chechen campaign. This will allow the pro-government leadership to impose martial law and declare full mobilization, the General Staff stressed.
