Ukraine reports 1 KIA 3 WIAs as Russialed forces violate ceasefire in Donbas
20210911
https://menafn.com/1102778273/Ukraine-reports-1-KIA-3-WIAs-as-Russia-led-forces-violate-ceasefire-in-Donbas&source=19
"In the area of Novohnativka, the enemy used 122 mm artillery systems proscribed by the Minsk agreements. Near Zolote-4, Russian occupation forces engaged the Ukrainian army positions with MANPADs, grenade launchers, and small arms," the statement said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As of 7:00 Kyiv time on September 11, Ukraine recorded two ceasefire violations by Russian occupation forces.  Read also:  Null games: Kuleba on Russian elections in occupied Crimea,  Donbas  "In the area of Novohnativka, the enemy used 122 mm artillery systems proscribed by the Minsk agreements. Near Zolote-4, Russian occupation forces engaged the Ukrainian army positions with MANPADs, grenade launchers, and small arms," the statement said.
The three servicemen, who remain in moderate condition, are now undergoing treatment at a medical facility.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine military reported eight ceasefire violations by Russian-led armed groups in the Joint Forces Operation zone over the past 24 hours, September 10. That's according to the press center of the Joint Forces Operation HQ , Ukrinform reports.
As of 7:00 Kyiv time on September 11, Ukraine recorded two ceasefire violations by Russian occupation forces.
"In the area of the settlement of Popasna, occupiers fired three times at our defenders' positions, employing automatic easel-mounted grenade launchers and 120 mm mortars.
Russian mercenaries fired at our positions near Zolote-4 using large-caliber machine guns and small arms. Russian occupation forces used grenade launchers of various systems near Shyrokyne and Vodiane, the statement reads.
In addition, two Orlan-10 type enemy UAVs were spotted flying over the line of contact in Luhansk and Donetsk regions.
In one of the enemy attacks, a Ukrainian soldier sustained a gunshot wound non-compatible with life, while three other military suffered shrapnel wounds.
That's according to the press center of the Joint Forces Operation HQ , Ukrinform reports.
"Ukrainian military is monitoring the situation in the Joint Forces Operation zone to repel and deter armed aggression by the Russian Federation," the JFO HQ stated.
Russian mercenaries fired at our positions near Zolote-4 using large-caliber machine guns and small arms. Russian occupation forces used grenade launchers of various systems near Shyrokyne and Vodiane, the statement reads.  Read also:  Ukraine Army's commander-in-chief: Threat of Russian provocations at border growing, mostly in  Donbas  In addition, two Orlan-10 type enemy UAVs were spotted flying over the line of contact in Luhansk and Donetsk regions.
