Ukraine war sending RussiaChina ties in new directions
20220319
https://menafn.com/1103874727/Ukraine-war-sending-Russia-China-ties-in-new-directions
While still short of an official alliance, the announcement by Moscow and Beijing of ano limits partnership made on the opening day of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing in February has shown that Russian and Chinese interests have increasingly converged.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The current escalation in Ukraine has alsoreinforced diplomatic support between Beijing and Moscow, including a Chinese abstention from the UN General Assemblyvote on March 2 to condemn Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.
China is also highlydependent on energy imports from other countries. In comparison with Russia or the US, it is far less able to influence the price of resources and far more vulnerable to energy disruptions. While Russia may be able to help meet the Chinese energy demand, the current spike in prices will likely accelerate China's push for energy self-sufficiency, removing a vital pillar of the Chinese-Russian relationship.
While Russia is also a major foodexporter to China, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustinsigned an order on March 14 that banned grain exports to Eurasian Economic Union EAEU members, indicative of the difficulty Russia is facing in meeting food-export demands even to close Russian allies.
However, the current flare-up in Ukraine has exacerbated larger global economic instability, and several immediate and longer-term consequences stemming from the Russian invasion may cause some strain to the China-Russia partnership.
These new international payments systemsinclude Russia's System for Transfer of Financial Messages SPFS and the National Payment Card System now known as Mir, as well as China's Cross-Border Interbank Payment System CIPS and UnionPay.
With the world's attention focused on Ukraine in the weeks since Russia began its invasion of the country on February 24, there has been fervent debate among foreign-policy experts on how Russia's relations with the West will be affected. Officials in Moscow and Western capitals havetraded barbs in the media, whilesanctions andcounter-sanctions have already begun to bite.
Since theprevious Ukraine crisis in 2014, Moscow has been particularly eager to promote these developments in its relationship with Beijing to limit the effects of diplomatic isolation and economic sanctions imposed by the West.
The additionalsanctions placed on Russia by the West in recent weeks tocripple Russia's financial system and hurt its wealthiest citizens are likely to spur greater investment by China and Russia in developing their own alternatives to US-dominated financial institutions, such as the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication SWIFT payment-verification system.
But the effects of Russia's invasion on Chinese-Russian relations have been far less discussed. In recent years, both Russia and China have publicly promoted their increasingly strong partnership. Chinese President Xi Jinpinghas called Russian President Vladimir Putin hisbest friend, while both Xi and Putinhave described the current state of Chinese-Russian relations asthe best they've been in history.
Russian and Chinese banks are active across these platforms, and the number of banks utilizing these alternative systems in Russia and China will only increase as the two countries seek to maintain anddeepen their business ties and bypass the sanctions by the West.
This has been reflected in collaborativemilitary drills , increasingweapons andenergy deals between China and Russia, and publicsupport for each other across their state-run media outlets and their dealings within international organizations like the UN.
For example, Ukraine is amajor exporter of corn maize to China. With food prices rising globally even before the Russian invasion, the Russian offensive has already hadnegative effects on China's food security.  While Russia is also a major foodexporter to China, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustinsigned an order on March 14 that banned grain exports to Eurasian Economic Union EAEU members, indicative of the difficulty Russia is facing in meeting food-export demands even to close Russian allies.
In early February , just weeks before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Beijing and Moscow also agreed to a 30-year natural-gas deal through a new pipeline. Transactions will be conducted in euros for this deal, which is part of wider efforts by both Russia and China to lower their vulnerability to the US dollar and the threat of sanctions.
China alsoendorsed a Russian security proposal to exclude Ukraine from joining NATO through a statement made by Xi with Putin on February 4,according to The New York Times, and there is no doubt that China received a warning from Moscow that it was planning an invasion of Ukraine within the coming weeks after this statement was made.
And in a rare public display of frustration toward China,a Russian official admitted that China refused to supply Russia with aircraft parts after Russiarepossessed roughly US$10 billion worth of Boeing and Airbus planes. China's dismissal showed a clear hesitation to risk a wider confrontation with the West despite Russia's increasing brinkmanship.
MENAFN- Asia Times  With the world's attention focused on Ukraine in the weeks since Russia began its invasion of the country on February 24, there has been fervent debate among foreign-policy experts on how Russia's relations with the West will be affected. Officials in Moscow and Western capitals havetraded barbs in the media, whilesanctions andcounter-sanctions have already begun to bite.
Ashundreds of Western companies declared their intention topull out from Russia after its invasion of Ukraine,Moscow stated that it was looking at nationalizing the infrastructure of these foreign companies andstripping them of patent protections. Western assets and intellectual-property rights may be of use to China, which is similarlywary of Western firms operating domestically, and the Chinese also seem intent on challenging these firms globally.
Russia and China both began to invest in their own international payments systems after several Russian banks wereblacklisted from SWIFT in 2014.
These new international payments systemsinclude Russia's System for Transfer of Financial Messages SPFS and the National Payment Card System now known as Mir, as well as China's Cross-Border Interbank Payment System CIPS and UnionPay.  Russian and Chinese banks are active across these platforms, and the number of banks utilizing these alternative systems in Russia and China will only increase as the two countries seek to maintain anddeepen their business ties and bypass the sanctions by the West.
The current escalation in Ukraine has alsoreinforced diplomatic support between Beijing and Moscow, including a Chinese abstention from the UN General Assemblyvote on March 2 to condemn Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.  China's state-run mediahave also promoted Russia's views on the war on Facebook and Instagram after Russian media outlets werebanned by several Western countries, and it has also supported Russia'sclaims of the USfinancing biological-weapons labs in Ukraine.
Since theThird Taiwan Strait Crisis in 1995, Beijing has been avoidant of confronting the US militarily. Aside from limited skirmishes in its border regions with India, China has preferred using its economic power rather than its military to pressure other countries into submission in recent decades.
But China's assistance to Russia will raise fears among China's neighbors with their own disputes with Beijing. This support being provided to Russia by China could be enough to galvanize coordinated regional antagonism toward Beijing, supported by a heightened US military presence in the Asia-Pacific region.
Despite these real and potential consequences, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has already instigated greater cooperation between China and Russia  a trend that will only continue.
The current crisis in Ukraine is prompting further efforts by China and Russia to confront the US. While Russia's core interest in doing so is inpreventing Ukraine from joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, China is keen to exploit any opportunity that arises during the conflict between Russia and Ukraine that challenges American influence.
China's state-run mediahave also promoted Russia's views on the war on Facebook and Instagram after Russian media outlets werebanned by several Western countries, and it has also supported Russia'sclaims of the USfinancing biological-weapons labs in Ukraine.
For example, Ukraine is amajor exporter of corn maize to China. With food prices rising globally even before the Russian invasion, the Russian offensive has already hadnegative effects on China's food security.
China is also wary of being perceived as enabling Putin, and Russia's heavy-handed approach in Ukraine hasattracted more attention to Taiwan's security.
Russia's need to shore up its situation may have expanded China's leverage over it, but both Beijing and Moscow are well aware of the need to work together to undermine the US dominance in world affairs  and they see the wider global instability resulting from the conflict in Ukraine as an effective way to do so.
Encouraging the development of separate financial systems outside Western control will also result in increased participation by so-calledrogue states in global finance, which are often accustomed to conducting business on the black market.
This has been reflected in collaborativemilitary drills , increasingweapons andenergy deals between China and Russia, and publicsupport for each other across their state-run media outlets and their dealings within international organizations like the UN.  Since theprevious Ukraine crisis in 2014, Moscow has been particularly eager to promote these developments in its relationship with Beijing to limit the effects of diplomatic isolation and economic sanctions imposed by the West.
