Ukraine  Zelensky on deterring Russian aggression Prevention better than resuscitation
20220201
https://menafn.com/1103626664/Ukraine-Zelensky-on-deterring-Russian-aggression-Prevention-better-than-resuscitation&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky discussed with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson a set of steps to deter Russian aggression. The Ukrainian leader spoke about this at a joint press conference with Johnson in Kyiv on Tuesday, February 1, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
'Prime Minister Johnson assured me of his full support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, readiness for further cooperation, including within the Crimea Platform for the deoccupation of our peninsula and the return of all our Ukrainian territories,' Zelensky said.  Read also:  Further invasion of Ukraine would lead to military disaster for Russia - PM  Johnson  Prior to his visit to Kyiv on Tuesday, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Boris Johnson, announced more than $118 million in financial assistance to Ukraine.
The Ukrainian leader spoke about this at a joint press conference with Johnson in Kyiv on Tuesday, February 1, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Prime Minister Johnson assured me of his full support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, readiness for further cooperation, including within the Crimea Platform for the deoccupation of our peninsula and the return of all our Ukrainian territories,' Zelensky said.
According to the Ukrainian president, the actions taken by the UK show that the country understands this position as its government has decided to strengthen sanctions against Russia for aggression against Ukraine. 'We are grateful to the United Kingdom for supporting our European integration aspirations,' Zelensky added.
The prime ministers of Poland, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom arrived in Ukraine on February 1.
An important topic of talks was strengthening Ukraine's defense capabilities. In this context, Zelensky assured that Ukraine is building a strong Army. Therefore, the nation, the president added, is grateful to Britain for the decision on financial support worth GBP 1.7 billion.
Zelensky noted he was glad to welcome Johnson and stressed that the visit was taking place at a difficult time for Ukraine.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss was initially set to accompany Johnson on his Ukraine trip before being diagnosed with COVID-19 and going on isolation.
'We also discussed a set of steps to deter Russian aggression. My opinion is well-known here. The word 'deterrence' testifies to its logic. Any measures are effective prior, not after. It's prevention, not something that comes after. Prevention is better than resuscitation,' said Zelensky.
President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky is scheduled to meet with the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Mark Rutte, on February 2.
'In addition, we agreed on joint actions to ensure peace and security in the Black Sea region, as well as to intensify cooperation in the field of cyber defense and cyber security,' the head of state added.
Prior to his visit to Kyiv on Tuesday, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Boris Johnson, announced more than $118 million in financial assistance to Ukraine.
