Ukraines Armed Forces Eliminate 47 Russian Soldiers Seven Enemy Equipment Units In South
20220804
https://menafn.com/1104647908/Ukraines-Armed-Forces-Eliminate-47-Russian-Soldiers-Seven-Enemy-Equipment-Units-In-South
According to the Operational Command 'South', 11 ships and boats of the Russian fleet continue to carry out maneuvers at a distance beyond missile reach in the Black Sea off the coast of Crimea in the direction of the city of Novorosiysk.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm In the south, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated 47 Russian soldiers and seven enemy vehicles. As the Operational Command 'South' posted on Facebook , the situation in the operational zone of Southern Buh direction is complicated and dynamic but the defense forces keep it under control.
On the night of August 4, the invaders continued to shell the Ukrainian positions and the populated localities within the artillery range and using coastal missile systems stationed in the temporarily occupied Crimea.
The invaders also struck Tsentralnyi district of Mykolaiv city, destroying non-residential premises, damaging about 10 private houses, and power grid. An unexploded rocket hit the middle of Tsentralnyi Avenue. No casualties were reported.
The enemy losses are specified.  Read also:  About 41,500 Russian  soldiers  eliminated in Ukraine The composition and position of the Russian troops remain unchanged, the enemy holds a fortified line of defense.
As the Operational Command 'South' posted on Facebook , the situation in the operational zone of Southern Buh direction is complicated and dynamic but the defense forces keep it under control.
In particular, Russian troops fired Oniks anti-ship missile from Crimean on Odesa region at night which exploded in the air on the approach to land.
The enemy has two 16 Kalibr missile carriers and three large landing ships on alert.
'The execution of fire missions resulted in the elimination of 47 ruscists and seven armored vehicles and cars,' the Operational Command 'South' reported.
Mykolaiv region came under Smerch MLRS fire. The rockets slammed into open areas of Bereznehuvate and Bashtanka districts. No casualties or damages were reported.
The invaders also struck Tsentralnyi district of Mykolaiv city, destroying non-residential premises, damaging about 10 private houses, and power grid. An unexploded rocket hit the middle of Tsentralnyi Avenue. No casualties were reported.  Read also:  Enemy strikes  Dnipropetrovsk  region with Grad, Uragan MLRS According to the Operational Command 'South', 11 ships and boats of the Russian fleet continue to carry out maneuvers at a distance beyond missile reach in the Black Sea off the coast of Crimea in the direction of the city of Novorosiysk.
The composition and position of the Russian troops remain unchanged, the enemy holds a fortified line of defense.
The missile and artillery units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine continue exercising fire control over transport arteries and logistical routes of Russian troops in the captured territories of Kherson region.
