Ukraine  Enemy tanks return from Sumy region to Russia with barrels raised
20220302
https://menafn.com/1103787251/Ukraine-Enemy-tanks-return-from-Sumy-region-to-Russia-with-barrels-raised&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm Enemy troops and equipment are constantly returning from Sumy region back to Russia. This was agreed during the long negotiations on the prisoner exchange. One of points of this agreement was that weapons, tanks, and other equipment will be returned to Russia. Negotiations were held with the leadership of this unit, this column, and their leader said that he was not going to fight and did not want to fight. He understands that he will be imprisoned in Russia but he decided to raise the barrels of his tanks and return to the aggressor country. We are constantly observing the return of Russian troops and equipment back to Russia. We are very happy,' Head of the Sumy Regional Military Administration Dmytro Zhyvytskyi posted on Facebook, summing up the situation on March 1.
On February 24, Russian president Vladimir Putin announced the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure facilities, conducting massive attacks on residential districts of Ukrainian cities and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers, and ballistic missiles.
Ukraine officially filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague. International Criminal Court Prosecutor Karim Khan initiated the start of investigation into the situation in Ukraine.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the support of all Ukrainian people, courageously resist the Russian aggression.
One of points of this agreement was that weapons, tanks, and other equipment will be returned to Russia. Negotiations were held with the leadership of this unit, this column, and their leader said that he was not going to fight and did not want to fight. He understands that he will be imprisoned in Russia but he decided to raise the barrels of his tanks and return to the aggressor country. We are constantly observing the return of Russian troops and equipment back to Russia. We are very happy,' Head of the Sumy Regional Military Administration Dmytro Zhyvytskyi posted on Facebook, summing up the situation on March 1.
According to him, there is still a lot of equipment in the region, moving further to the west of Ukraine.
