Ukraine Together With Moldova EU Will Try To Prevent Escalation In Transnistria  Kuleba
20220504
https://menafn.com/1104145616/Ukraine-Together-With-Moldova-EU-Will-Try-To-Prevent-Escalation-In-Transnistria-Kuleba&source=138
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine, together with Moldova and the whole of Europe, will deter the escalation of the situation in Transnistria in order to prevent Russia from creating another front line there. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said this at a joint briefing with his Danish counterpart Jeppe Kofod in Kyiv on Monday, answering a question from an Ukrinform correspondent.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to the British newspaper The Times , citing Ukrainian military sources, there are a 'number of indicators' pointing to an attack in the near future on Moldova.
A certain activity is already being observed in the airport of Tiraspol, the capital of the unrecognized republic of Transnistria. Russians may try to transfer its troops on Il-76 planes and helicopters taking off the occupied Crimea. At the same time, protests and riots are to be set up in Moldova's capital Chisinau.MENAFN02052022000193011044ID1104145616
He noted that Ukraine would continue to support Moldova's sovereignty and territorial integrity and cooperate with the country in this area, 'despite the fact that, frankly speaking, we expected a better response from Moldova to our requests for support at the beginning of the Russian invasion.'
A certain activity is already being observed in the airport of Tiraspol, the capital of the unrecognized republic of Transnistria. Russians may try to transfer its troops on Il-76 planes and helicopters taking off the occupied Crimea. At the same time, protests and riots are to be set up in Moldova's capital Chisinau.
'Moldova does not need another front line in Transnistria, Ukraine does not need this front line. I am convinced that Europe does not need it either. Therefore, we will jointly restrain the escalation and keep the situation under control,' Kuleba said.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said this at a joint briefing with his Danish counterpart Jeppe Kofod in Kyiv on Monday, answering a question from an Ukrinform correspondent.
