Ukraine  Russia sends sabotage sapper units to Donbas  intelligence
20211122
https://menafn.com/1103274007/Ukraine-Russia-sends-sabotage-sapper-units-to-Donbas-intelligence&source=25
At the same time, the Main Intelligence Directorate noted that the wider use of reconnaissance and sabotage groups and intensive mining of the area lead to losses among the personnel of Russian-backed forces. The Russian propaganda machine is trying to hide and use information about the deaths of personnel on their own minefields in order to discredit the Ukrainian Joint Forces, the intelligence service said.
'The command of the Russian Armed Forces continues to send Russian regular army officers and contract servicemen of certain military specialties to perform tasks as part of formations and units of the first and second army corps of the Russian occupation forces. Another group of Russian military personnel arrived in the temporarily occupied territory in Donetsk and Luhansk regions last week to strengthen reconnaissance, sabotage and sapper units,' the statement said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm A group of Russian servicemen has arrived in non-government-controlled areas in eastern Ukraine to 'strengthen' sabotage and sapper units, the press service of the Ukrainian Defense Ministry's Main Intelligence Directorate has said. 'The command of the Russian Armed Forces continues to send Russian regular army officers and contract servicemen of certain military specialties to perform tasks as part of formations and units of the first and second army corps of the Russian occupation forces. Another group of Russian military personnel arrived in the temporarily occupied territory in Donetsk and Luhansk regions last week to strengthen reconnaissance, sabotage and sapper units,' the statement said.  Read also:  Occupiers fire mortars, antitank guns in eastern Ukraine At the same time, the Main Intelligence Directorate noted that the wider use of reconnaissance and sabotage groups and intensive mining of the area lead to losses among the personnel of Russian-backed forces. The Russian propaganda machine is trying to hide and use information about the deaths of personnel on their own minefields in order to discredit the Ukrainian Joint Forces, the intelligence service said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
