Ukraine  Zelensky invites Biden to join trilateral meeting with Putin
20220116
https://menafn.com/1103544570/Ukraine-Zelensky-invites-Biden-to-join-trilateral-meeting-with-Putin&source=138
He noted that Kyiv was expecting Russia's reaction to the proposal, while the United States called the proposal interesting.
In this context, Yermak praised the readiness of the United States to take an active part in efforts to resolve the security situation around Ukraine. He called Washington's position 'very correct', stating that they were ready to join any existing negotiating format for the settlement in Ukraine but would continue their bilateral contacts with the Russians.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ukrainian side initiated a meeting of the presidents of Ukraine, the United States, and Russia on the security situation in the region through video conferencing. 'President Zelensky invited President Biden  and we think it may work out  to hold a trilateral meeting, possibly through video conferencing, between presidents Biden, Zelensky, and Putin,' Head of the President's Office Andriy Yermak said during an online conversation organized by the Atlantic Council on January 14, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.  Read also:  U.S. says  Russia  looking for pretext to invade Ukraine He noted that Kyiv was expecting Russia's reaction to the proposal, while the United States called the proposal interesting.  Read also:   Russia  does not confirm readiness to withdraw troops  U.S. State Dep't In this context, Yermak praised the readiness of the United States to take an active part in efforts to resolve the security situation around Ukraine. He called Washington's position 'very correct', stating that they were ready to join any existing negotiating format for the settlement in Ukraine but would continue their bilateral contacts with the Russians.
'President Zelensky invited President Biden  and we think it may work out  to hold a trilateral meeting, possibly through video conferencing, between presidents Biden, Zelensky, and Putin,' Head of the President's Office Andriy Yermak said during an online conversation organized by the Atlantic Council on January 14, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
