Ukraine  Thousands rally in Kherson standing against Russian invaders
20220313
https://menafn.com/1103839984/Ukraine-Thousands-rally-in-Kherson-standing-against-Russian-invaders&source=19
Khersonians are chanting traditional slogans, rooting for Ukraine, hoisting Ukrainian flags and anti-invasion posters.  Read also:  'You sign your sentence': Zelensky appeals to those who cooperate with invaders 'Kherson is Ukraine!' the crowd has been chanting.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Kherson deputies will never acknowledge attempts to create a 'people's republic' in the region, said Kherson Mayor Ihor Kolykhayev, commenting on reports on Russia's plans to stage a 'referendum' on March 13.
That's according to Ukrinform's local source, who is attending the event alongside his fellow city residents.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Thousands of Kherson residents gathered for a rally on Freedom Square on Sunday, protesting Russian aggression. That's according to Ukrinform's local source, who is attending the event alongside his fellow city residents.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, the Kherson Regional Prosecutor's Office has launched a pre-trial inquiry into a conspiracy to encroach on the territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine. The occupation forces intend to hold an illegitimatereferendum to create yet another quasi republic on the part of Ukraine's sovereign territory, just as they did in parts of Luhansk and Donetsk regions eight years ago.
Deputies of the regional council at an emergency meeting approved a defying appeal, stressing that Kherson remains part of Ukraine.
To this end, the invaders are trying to persuade and coerce to cooperation local deputies with the Kherson Regional Council.
