Ukraine Forces Destroy Two Russian Landing Boats In The DniproBuh Estuary
20220602
https://menafn.com/1104311786/Ukraine-Forces-Destroy-Two-Russian-Landing-Boats-In-The-Dnipro-Buh-Estuary
'The rucists tugged two Raptor boats, hit earlier, away from Snake Island to their base in Sevastopol with the remnants of hope to restore them,' the Command added.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Faced with the issue of replenishing manpower to create new strike groups in the south, the Russians are now trying to compensate for the drawback with air and artillery strikes.
'Meanwhile, in the Black Sea, the number of Russian warships threatening missile strikes across Ukraine has risen to three, while no landing vessels are being observed in the area.  Read also:  FM Kuleba on unblocking ports: Military guarantees needed to prevent Russia's attack from the sea 'The rucists tugged two Raptor boats, hit earlier, away from Snake Island to their base in Sevastopol with the remnants of hope to restore them,' the Command added.
The threat of missile strikes from the sea, air, and the temporarily occupied territories also remains relevant.MENAFN02062022000193011044ID1104311786
'Meanwhile, in the Black Sea, the number of Russian warships threatening missile strikes across Ukraine has risen to three, while no landing vessels are being observed in the area.
The Russian boats, intended for Russia's sabotage and recon operations, were sunk by Ukrainian missile and artillery units in their estuary hideout.
Faced with the issue of replenishing manpower to create new strike groups in the south, the Russians are now trying to compensate for the drawback with air and artillery strikes.  Read also:  Ukraine assures US it will not use provided weapons to strike Russia 'A couple of enemy Mi-8 helicopters attacked our positions. No losses. But the unmanned reconnaissance drones collecting aerial data over Mykolayiv region never succeeded in reporting it back as they were shot down by our anti-aircraft missile units, the statement said.Mykolaiv was again fired upon by Pion heavy artillery guns and an Uragan MLR system. 203-mm shells were chaotically fired at residential neighborhoods, while cluster munitions smashed industrial infrastructure. A person was killed and at least three were injured.'
'A couple of enemy Mi-8 helicopters attacked our positions. No losses. But the unmanned reconnaissance drones collecting aerial data over Mykolayiv region never succeeded in reporting it back as they were shot down by our anti-aircraft missile units, the statement said.Mykolaiv was again fired upon by Pion heavy artillery guns and an Uragan MLR system. 203-mm shells were chaotically fired at residential neighborhoods, while cluster munitions smashed industrial infrastructure. A person was killed and at least three were injured.'
The threat of missile strikes from the sea, air, and the temporarily occupied territories also remains relevant.
A total of 21 occupiers were eliminated on Wednesday in the southern direction of the front. Also, the Ukrainian forces destroyed an anti-aircraft system and a self-propelled artillery unit, four T-72 tanks, four armored vehicles, three trucks, three drones, and three field munition depots.
MENAFN- UkrinForm On June 1, two Russian high-speed landing craft were destroyed in the Dnipro-Buh estuary in the south of Ukraine. This is according to Operational Command South , Ukrinform reports.
