Ukraine  Kremlin holding covert mobilization sending military cargo to Belarus  General Staff
20220329
https://menafn.com/1103918484/Ukraine-Kremlin-holding-covert-mobilization-sending-military-cargo-to-Belarus-General-Staff&source=138
In the temporarily occupied territories, the enemy continues to build a system of checkpoints to prevent the movement of local people.
According to the statement, Russian invaders continue to actively use the transport network of Belarus. An increase in the amount of military cargo transported from Russia to Belarus by air was recorded. The enemy mostly uses An-124 aircraft to transport missiles of various types and ammunition. This method of delivery is used due to the blocking of railways in some directions.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Due to the urgent need to replenish losses, the occupiers are carrying out covert mobilization and removing equipment from long-term storage. In order to replenish individual units of the 4th tank division from the 1st tank army, T-72 tanks were removed from long-term storage. According to available information, the equipment is in extremely unsatisfactory technical condition and disassembled,' the statement reads.
In addition, in some settlements in the Chernihiv region, the occupiers are forcibly distributing 'humanitarian aid' to the local population in order to create propaganda reports in the Russian media.
The General Staff also said that in the settlements of the Kherson region the invaders are strengthening terror against the local population. The occupiers are searching homes to identify those who participated in the Anti-Terrorist Operation and Joint Forces Operation, servicemen, volunteers and members of their families. There are numerous cases of women being abducted and local residents being tortured.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in a statement published on Facebook , Ukrinform reports.
The General Staff also stressed that sabotage and reconnaissance groups of the enemy located in the Kyiv region are still attempting to penetrate the capital. The saboteurs dress into civilian clothes and use stolen cars.
At the same time, the enemy continues to suffer losses in all directions, and Ukrainian defense forces are methodically destroying Russian invaders, the statement said.MENAFN26032022000193011044ID1103918484
The people of Belarus do not support the involvement of their country's armed forces in the war waged by Russia against Ukraine. At the same time, a group of high-ranking officials and generals from the Belarusian Security Council is lobbying for providing military support for Russian aggression and sending Belarusian troops into Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The military leadership of the Russian occupying forces is conducting covert mobilization and has increased the air transportation of military cargo from Russia to Belarus. The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in a statement published on Facebook , Ukrinform reports.
At the same time, the enemy continues to suffer losses in all directions, and Ukrainian defense forces are methodically destroying Russian invaders, the statement said.
