Ukraine  More than 300 highranking officers of Russian army killed  Arestovych
20220301
https://menafn.com/1103778097/Ukraine-More-than-300-high-ranking-officers-of-Russian-army-killed-Arestovych&source=138
As reported, the total estimated losses of the enemy between February 24 and February 28 as of 06:00 are: aircraft - 29, helicopters - 29, tanks - 191, armored combat vehicles - 816, guns - 74, Buk air defense systems - 1, Grad multiple launch rocket systems - 21, vehicles - 291, tanks - 60, UAVs - 3, shipsboats - 2, air defense means - 5, personnel - about 5,300 to be specified.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
According to Arestovych, Russian troops are advancing in the area of Irpin along the Zhytomyr highway towards Kyiv. He said that he had received a photo showing more than a hundred burned vehicles of the Russian army targeted by the Ukrainian artillery.
'According to information available to me, more than 300 high-ranking officers of the Russian army majors, lieutenant colonels were killed as of today's morning. This was due to our artillery and aircraft that had repeatedly hit the headquarters of units and subdivisions advancing here,' he said.
Oleksiy Arestovych, a freelance adviser to the head of the Ukrainian President's Office, announced this on the Current Time TV channel, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
MENAFN- UkrinForm More than 300 high-ranking officers of the Russian army have been already killed in the war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Oleksiy Arestovych, a freelance adviser to the head of the Ukrainian President's Office, announced this on the Current Time TV channel, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
