Ukraines Forces Destroy Russian Enemy Equipment Pontoon Bridge Over Siverskyi Donets
20220523
https://menafn.com/1104253035/Ukraines-Forces-Destroy-Russian-Enemy-Equipment-Pontoon-Bridge-Over-Siverskyi-Donets
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ukrainian military destroyed enemy vehicles and a pontoon crossing over the Siverskyi Donets River near the village of Serebryanka, Donetsk region. That's according to the 30th Separate Mechanized Brigade , Ukrinform reports.
'The Russians planned to redeploy personnel and heavy armored vehicles across a pontoon crossing over the Siversky Donets River near Serebryanka. But the Russians forcing the river is 'mission impossible' due to 30 SMB soldiers and other security forces, the statement reads.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As Ukrinform reported, from February 24 to May 21, Ukrainian defenders eliminated about 28,850 Russian servicemen, including 150 in the past day.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine dealt a significant blow to Russian troops. As a result, the Russians lost at least one battalion tactical group. Their pontoon crossing equipment was disabled during the attempt and several vehicles were destroyed, with several dozen personnel eliminated.
As Ukrinform reported, from February 24 to May 21, Ukrainian defenders eliminated about 28,850 Russian servicemen, including 150 in the past day.MENAFN22052022000193011044ID1104253035
'The Russians planned to redeploy personnel and heavy armored vehicles across a pontoon crossing over the Siversky Donets River near Serebryanka. But the Russians forcing the river is 'mission impossible' due to 30 SMB soldiers and other security forces, the statement reads.  Read also:  Talks impossible as long as Russia believes they wage  war  against NATO  Podolyak The Armed Forces of Ukraine dealt a significant blow to Russian troops. As a result, the Russians lost at least one battalion tactical group. Their pontoon crossing equipment was disabled during the attempt and several vehicles were destroyed, with several dozen personnel eliminated.
