Ukraine  General Staff Enemy hasnt achieved any strategic goal of the offensive
20220318
https://menafn.com/1103864406/Ukraine-General-Staff-Enemy-hasnt-achieved-any-strategic-goal-of-the-offensive&source=138
In the South Buh area, the enemy continues to try to gain a foothold. After the attack on the Kherson airfield by units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which is temporarily under enemy control, the occupiers are trying to relocate the surviving equipment.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The enemy did not stop trying to advance south of the city of Izium, probably in order to continue the offensive in the direction of Slovyansk. It is not successful.
In Volyn direction, the russian occupation forces, with the full support of the military and political leadership of the Republic of Belarus, continue to actively use its territory to deploy missile systems, launch missile strikes on Ukraine and organize all types of troops. Also, the armed forces of the Russian Federation are actively using the airfield network and transport infrastructure of the Republic of Belarus.
According to the latest information as of 24:00 on March 16, the enemy continues the offensive operation against Ukraine. The enemy had not fully achieved any of the strategic goals of the offensive, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook .
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian armed forces continue the offensive operation against Ukraine but have not fully achieved any strategic goal. According to the latest information as of 24:00 on March 16, the enemy continues the offensive operation against Ukraine. The enemy had not fully achieved any of the strategic goals of the offensive, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook .
There are no active offensive actions by the enemy in the Siversky and Slobozhansky directions. The occupiers are trying to gain a foothold on the previously captured borders, regroup troops and replenish supplies.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine notes that the State Border Committee of the Republic of Belarus constantly monitors the situation in the areas bordering Ukraine. In order to obtain intelligence information, Belarusian intelligence agencies are interviewing citizens crossing the Ukrainian-Belarusian border.
The naval group of the Black Sea Fleet of the russian federation continues to block shipping in the northwestern part of the Black Sea.
In the Polissya direction, the enemy continues to focus its main efforts on conducting reconnaissance and trying to organize a counter-battery fight, having no significant success. During the fighting, units of the 36th All-Military Army of the Eastern Military District suffered significant losses in personnel and equipment and were forced to mobilize reserves prematurely.
