Ukraine  Night shelling in Chernihiv kindergarten apartment block shop on fire
20220228
https://menafn.com/1103773795/Ukraine-Night-shelling-in-Chernihiv-kindergarten-apartment-block-shop-on-fire&source=22
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm At night, in Chernihiv, northern Ukraine, Russian troops hit a kindergarten, an apartment block and a shop. No casualties were reported. As the State Emergency Service told the media, the attacks started at about 02:00 on February 28. In particular, a shell hit the foundation of a five-story apartment block, setting fire to apartments on the first and second floors. The fire was put out.
Ukraine officially filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague.
The enemy periodically opens fire at regular intervals at one point, possibly getting on to a radio and television center, the SES noted.  Read also:  Russian invasion update: Russian missile hits residential building in Cherhihiv Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24 and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure. Missiles hit residential buildings.
In addition, an enemy shell hit a shop in the central market, the fire was extinguished in an area of 70 square meters.
According to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the losses of the Russian army currently total about 4,500 people.
The enemy periodically opens fire at regular intervals at one point, possibly getting on to a radio and television center, the SES noted.
As the State Emergency Service told the media, the attacks started at about 02:00 on February 28. In particular, a shell hit the foundation of a five-story apartment block, setting fire to apartments on the first and second floors. The fire was put out.
Another shell hit a kindergarten, also causing a fire. As of 06:00, SES units still could not start to put out the fire due to ongoing shelling.
Putin declared war on Ukraine on February 24 and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying key infrastructure. Missiles hit residential buildings.
