Ukraine  Russian bots boost efforts to sow panic on social media  General Staff
20220308
https://menafn.com/1103802267/Ukraine-Russian-bots-boost-efforts-to-sow-panic-on-social-media-General-Staff&source=138
Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced. The Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the support of the entire nation, are courageously resisting aggression.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
MENAFN- UkrinForm A network of bots that sow panic has intensified on social networks, while malign messages are being sent from newly created accounts of seemingly 'patriotic' users. This was announced on Facebook by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion.
Russian troops have been killing civilians, shelling and destroying key infrastructure, and their missiles have been hitting Ukrainian households.
This was announced on Facebook by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports.
The General Staff recalled that all information must be verified, and called on the people to trust verified sources only.
Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced. The Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the support of the entire nation, are courageously resisting aggression.MENAFN06032022000193011044ID1103802267
WARNING! Across social networks, the enemy has activated a large network of bots, trying to sow panic and despair in the people of Ukraine! There are a lot of messages like 'Everything is lost!', 'Help Kyiv Kherson, Chernihiv, etc. depending on the operational situation', 'We have all been abandoned!' etc. Such messages are being spread from the newly-created 'patriotic' accounts decorated with Ukrainian symbols, with both Ukrainian and Russian languages being used,' the statement  reads.
The General Staff recalled that all information must be verified, and called on the people to trust verified sources only.  Read also:  Russia to bombard Ukraine with  fake  news - military intel As Ukrinform reported earlier, on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion.
