Ukraine  Reznikov meets with European Parliament representatives
20220202
https://menafn.com/1103629637/Ukraine-Reznikov-meets-with-European-Parliament-representatives&source=138
The parties discussed a number of issues, including the security situation in the region, as well as further prospects for the EU-Ukraine defense and military cooperation.
The minister noted that relations with the EU in the area of security and defense were of special importance for the Ministry of Defense and the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
The Ministry of Defense actively supports and expands the dialogue with the EU in all areas and at all levels, including the EU's Common Security and Defense Policy, and is ready to join cooperation with the EU in the format of the Defense Summit, he stressed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'I want to assure you that despite the challenges and threats, our values remain, our plans remain, they are enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, the European integration. This is our priority. We also adhere to it in the Ministry of Defense. I am very grateful for the significant support we receive from you, including the opposition to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. I understand well your mission, your opportunities, and I repeat once again that we have high hopes for your further support,' Reznikov said.
As the Ministry's press service informs, Reznikov met with the European Parliament delegation led by chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee David McAllister and chair of the Subcommittee on Security and Defense Nathalie Loiseau during their visit to Ukraine on Tuesday.
Reznikov thanked the European Union representatives for their continued support for Ukraine and assistance in deterring the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, for condemnation of the occupation of Ukraine parts of Donetsk and Luhansk regions, Crimea and Sevastopol and assistance in implementing defense reform.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Defense Minister of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov discussed the security situation in the region with a delegation of the European Parliament representatives. As the Ministry's press service informs, Reznikov met with the European Parliament delegation led by chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee David McAllister and chair of the Subcommittee on Security and Defense Nathalie Loiseau during their visit to Ukraine on Tuesday.
At the end of the meeting, McAllister and Loiseau expressed their solidarity with the Ukrainian people on behalf of all members of the European Parliament delegation and assured of their continued support for Ukraine.
