Ukraine Prepares For New Russian Donbas Push Says Gains Made In North
20220516
https://menafn.com/1104218887/Ukraine-Prepares-For-New-Russian-Donbas-Push-Says-Gains-Made-In-North&source=22
Ankara has accused both Sweden and Finland of harbouring Kurdish extremists, but Stoltenberg said it was not blocking their membership and was confident of finding common ground.
Ukraine was preparing Monday for a new Russian push in the eastern Donbas region, as Kyiv said its army's counterattack around Kharkiv had gained momentum.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In apparent retaliation, it has pulled the plug on electricity supplies to Finland, with which it shares a 1,300-kilometre border.
MENAFN- Gulf Times  Ukraine was preparing Monday for a new Russian push in the eastern Donbas region, as Kyiv said its army's counterattack around Kharkiv had gained momentum.
But Russia's attempt to cross a river to encircle it had been repelled with heavy losses of equipment, according to Lugansk governor Sergiy Gaiday.
In the southeastern city of Mariupol, about 600 Ukrainian troops remained holed up in underground tunnels and bunkers under a steelworks there, fighting a rear-guard battle.
Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to Mariupol's mayor, said on Telegram that a 'huge convoy' of 500 to 1,000 cars had arrived in the city of Zaporizhzhia.MENAFN16052022000067011011ID1104218887
Kyiv's troops have made so much progress in the northern region that they have almost reached the border with Russia, according to interior ministry adviser Vadim Denisenko, although air raid sirens still sounded in Kharkiv city early Monday.
Presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich told local television that Russian troops were being transferred in the direction of Donbas after withdrawing from Kharkiv following the Ukrainian counteroffensive.
'We are preparing for new attempts by Russia to attack in Donbas, to somehow intensify its movement in the south of Ukraine,' President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his nightly address.
In the south, the mayor of the southern city of Mykolaiv warned residents that explosions had been heard early Monday.
'The best thing for Sweden's security is that we apply for membership now and that we do it with Finland,' Social Democratic Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said.
In his address, Zelensky said 'very complicated and delicate negotiations to save our people' in the vast Azovstal plant continued daily.
No casualties were reported, and Ukrainian armed forces said they destroyed two cruise missiles over the region.
To further deter the attack, Russian-occupied railway bridges leading to Severodonetsk were blown up, the Ukrainian army said on its Facebook page late Sunday, posting a video of a huge explosion taken from above.
Just hours after Finland's announcement, Sweden's ruling party said it was also in favour of joining, in another remarkable turnaround of political and public opinion.
Severodonetsk is the easternmost city still held by Ukraine, and its fall would grant the Kremlin de facto control of Lugansk, one of two regions -- along with Donetsk -- that comprise Donbas.
On Sunday, NATO pledged open-ended military aid for Kyiv, with Germany's Annalena Baerbock promising it 'for as long as Ukraine needs'.
'Their task is to take Severodonetsk,' he said. 'Well, something is not working for them.'
Families of the soldiers have appealed to China to intervene to secure the release of the dead and wounded.
For its part, Russia's defence ministry claimed it had struck four artillery munitions depots in neighbouring Donetsk.
It added that Russia may have lost one-third of the ground combat forces it committed in February and was 'unlikely to dramatically accelerate' its advance in the next 30 days.
In Berlin, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he heard 'almost across-the-board, very strong support' for the bids, despite misgivings from Turkey.
The show of support came as Finland confirmed it would apply to join the alliance, jettisoning decades of military non-alignment.
Moscow has repeatedly warned both countries of consequences if they join the alliance, while insisting the Nordic nations have nothing to fear from Russia.
The United Nations and Red Cross helped to evacuate women, children and the elderly from the plant where they were sheltering earlier this month.
Air strikes had also destroyed two missile-launching systems and radar, while 15 Ukrainian drones were downed around Donetsk and Lugansk, it added.
Since failing to take the capital at the beginning of the invasion in late February, control of Donbas has become one of Moscow's primary objectives -- but Western intelligence has predicted its campaign will stall amid heavy losses and fierce resistance.
In Lviv on Sunday, regional governor Maksym Kozytsky said four Russian missiles hit military infrastructure near the border with Poland -- the first time the city has been struck since May 3.
Demoralised Russian troops had failed to make substantial gains and Moscow's battle plan was 'significantly behind schedule', UK Defence Intelligence said.
Stoltenberg said the alliance would look to provide both countries with interim security guarantees while their applications are processed, including possibly by increasing troops in the region.
Ukrainian commanders say they expect a turning point in their favour by August, but Western powers have cautioned the conflict will turn into a war of attrition stretching into next year.
'The occupiers still do not want to admit that they are in a dead-end and their so-called 'special operation' has already gone bankrupt,' he added.
Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to Mariupol's mayor, said on Telegram that a 'huge convoy' of 500 to 1,000 cars had arrived in the city of Zaporizhzhia.
