Ukraine Insists On Strengthening Energy Sanctions Against Russia In Seventh Package
20220705
https://menafn.com/1104477103/Ukraine-Insists-On-Strengthening-Energy-Sanctions-Against-Russia-In-Seventh-Package
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'Russia receives billions of euros from the energy exports to Europe. These funds are actually spent to kill Ukrainian civilians, children, destroy critical infrastructure, destroy our country. It is necessary to block this flow of money by strengthening energy sanctions against Russia. And to reinforce the energy security of the European continent, depriving the aggressor of the opportunity to blackmail the civilized world with its energy resources,' Galushchenko emphasized.
The press service  of the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine released a relevant statement following the meeting between Minister of Energy of Ukraine German Galushchenko and Vice-President of the European Commission Valdis Dombrovskis.
As reported, at the end of May, the European Union imposed the sixth package of sanctions on the Russian Federation, focusing on ban on Russian oil transported by sea. As noted by the EU governing bodies, this step will allow the European Union to ban 90 of Russian oil by year-end.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine and the European Commission discussed the issue of the seventh package of sanctions against Russia, in particular, the need to strengthen restrictive measures in the energy sector. The press service  of the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine released a relevant statement following the meeting between Minister of Energy of Ukraine German Galushchenko and Vice-President of the European Commission Valdis Dombrovskis.
He emphasized that the sale of energy resources to EU countries allowed Russia to finance the war machine and continue the war against Ukraine.
