Ukraine Receives 3B In Grant Aid From US
20220825
https://menafn.com/1104753408/Ukraine-Receives-3B-In-Grant-Aid-From-US
The specified grant funds will be allocated for pension payments and certain social assistance programs, including for covering utility bills, support of low-income families, children with disabilities, IDPs, etc.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In general, since Russia unleashed its aggression against Ukraine, the United States, with the assistance of the World Bank, has already provided Ukraine with $8.5 billion in grant aid.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine has received US$3 billion in grant assistance, which is the first tranche of grant funds worth a total of $4.5 billion, provided by the United States through the World Bank's Trust Fund as part of the Public Expenditures for Administrative Capacity Endurance PEACE in Ukraine project. This was reported by the press service of the Ministry of Finance , according to Ukrinform.
In general, since Russia unleashed its aggression against Ukraine, the United States, with the assistance of the World Bank, has already provided Ukraine with $8.5 billion in grant aid.  Read also:  EU working on EUR 8B macro-financial aid package for Ukraine - Borrell As reported, a joint project is being implemented in Ukraine, jointly with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association, entitledPublic Expenditures for Administrative Capacity Endurance PEACE in Ukraine, worth $2.79 billion.
This was reported by the press service of the Ministry of Finance , according to Ukrinform.
As reported, a joint project is being implemented in Ukraine, jointly with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association, entitledPublic Expenditures for Administrative Capacity Endurance PEACE in Ukraine, worth $2.79 billion.
'The funds raised will allow us to preserve effective and stable functioning of the Ukrainian public administration system, as well as continued provision of salaries, as well as social and pension payments in the conditions of the ongoing fight against the aggressor,' said the head of the Ministry of Finance, Serhiy Marchenko.
In order to further support the state budget, the Government of Ukraine and the World Bank reached an agreement on increasing the Project's financing and expanding the categories of eligible expenses. On August 9, 2022, an agreement was signed to provide Ukraine with another non-refundable budget support package in the form of a $4.5 billion grant.
The specified grant funds will be allocated for pension payments and certain social assistance programs, including for covering utility bills, support of low-income families, children with disabilities, IDPs, etc.MENAFN25082022000193011044ID1104753408
