Ukraine begins procedure of severing diplomatic relations with Russia  MFA
20220226
https://menafn.com/1103759646/Ukraine-begins-procedure-of-severing-diplomatic-relations-with-Russia-MFA&source=138
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine also recalled to Kyiv the Charg d'Affaires of Ukraine in the Russian Federation, Vasyl Pokotyl, for consultations and started the evacuation of the Ukrainian Embassy in Moscow.
'Ukraine declares the severance of diplomatic relations with Russia without the severance of consular relations, in accordance with Article 2 of the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. We will continue to protect the rights and interests of Ukrainians in Russia, including Ukrainian political prisoners, the said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs emphasizes that Russia's offensive operation is an attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, a gross violation of the UN Charter and fundamental norms and principles of international law.
The ministry stressed that Ukraine took such a step in response to the act of Russian armed aggression against Ukraine, the Russian troops' invasion to destroy the Ukrainian state, the seizure of Ukrainian territory and the establishment of occupation control.
The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine approved President Volodymyr Zelensky's decree on the imposition of martial law throughout Ukraine.
As reported, the head of the aggressor country, Vladimir Putin, announced the start of a special military operation in Donbas. At around 04:00, on February 24, Russia attacked Ukraine and launched a war.
Consular offices of Ukraine in the territory of the Russian Federation currently continue to operate as usual.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has begun a procedure of severing diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation in accordance with international law. According to Ukrinform, the relevant statement was posted on the ministry's website.
'President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky supported the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to sever diplomatic relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has launched a procedure to sever diplomatic relations in accordance with international law,' the ministry said.
