UKs support for Ukraine
20220224
https://menafn.com/1103754290/UKs-support-for-Ukraine
Yet, eight years on, tragically, here we are again. Confronted by Russian aggression against the sovereignty of Ukraine.
Yesterday, the UK announced new sanctions targeting billions of Russian assets. This is the largest sanctions package against Russia in British history, and it is part of our coordinated sanctions effort, alongside our allies.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Putin has ordered his troops into Ukrainian territory. This amounts to a further invasion of Ukraine. At every step, Russia has rebuffed offers of diplomacy and discarded its international commitments  commitments it has agreed and signed up to  rather it has decided to pursue a campaign to redraw Ukraine's internationally-recognised borders by force.
It is vital that we, the international community, respond. We must understand the grave nature of where we are today.
We must highlight the human cost and respond to the humanitarian consequences of any further Russian military action.
Together, we must call on Russia to uphold the very founding principles of the United Nations, established precisely, as you said yourself President, to end the scourge of war. Peace must prevail.
Let us pause for a moment to reflect that this very week marks 8 years since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol.
The United Kingdom is unwavering in its support for Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. We stand with the people of Ukraine. We stand with their right to determine their own future.
We know this would take a terrible toll on Ukrainians and Russians alike  both victims of an unnecessary war of the Kremlin's choosing.And it is therefore essential that we must meet Russia's aggressive acts with solidarity, with strength, including coordinated sanctions, to impose a severe cost on Russia's interests and their economy.
As secretary-general Antonio Guterres has made clear, Russia's unilateral measures conflict directly with the principles of the UN Charter. Their actions are a fundamental challenge to global peace and security, and a challenge to the international order on which we all rely  and equally important, it is for all of us to protect.
It also marks eight years since Russia forcibly seized 10,000 square miles of sovereign Ukrainian territory, in flagrant violation of international law and Russia's own international commitments.
President Putin's decision to recognise the so-called 'Donetsk People's Republic' and 'Luhansk People's Republic' as independent states, proves beyond doubt that Russia has chosen the path of confrontation over the path of diplomacy and dialogue.
We must hold Russia to its commitments under the UN Charter, and say to Russia pull back  choose peace, not war  whilst also sending a clear message to the people of Ukraine that in your hour of need, we the international community, we the United Nations, stand with you.
We are clear, acting together with our allies, that this is just the start. If Russia continues its campaign of aggression, we have a further package of sanctions ready to go. We urge the wider international community to join us in this effort. The Kremlin must understand the strength of the world's condemnation of president Putin's war of choice.
We must hold Russia to its commitments under the UN Charter, and say to Russia pull back  choose peace, not war  whilst also sending a clear message to the people of Ukraine that in your hour of need, we the international community, we the United Nations, stand with you.MENAFN23022022000232011072ID1103754290
And it's also eight years since we, the General Assembly, recalled through resolution 68262 the obligations of all States under Article 2 of the UN Charter, to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State of the United Nations.
