UN SecretaryGeneral Guterres Visits Borodianka
20220501
https://menafn.com/1104120844/UN-Secretary-General-Guterres-Visits-Borodianka&source=138
I imagine my family in one of those homes, now destroyed and black. I see my granddaughters running away in panic. There is no way the war can be acceptable in the 21st century, Guterres said on his visit to Borodianka.
A reminder that, on April 27, 2022, UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres arrived in Kyiv after his visit to Moscow, where he met with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The relevant statement was made by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs OCHA on Twitter , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
After PutinGuterres meeting, a spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General said that Putin had allegedly agreed to involve UN agencies and the International Committee of the Red Cross in the evacuation of civilians from the Azovstal plant in Mariupol. Guterres suggested setting up a humanitarian contact group consisting of representatives of Russia, Ukraine, and the United Nations to find ways to open safe corridors with local cessation of hostilities, as well as to ensure that they are truly effective.
On April 27, Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov denied UN information about an agreement with Russia on joint participation with the International Committee of the Red Cross in the evacuation of civilians from Mariupol's Azovstal.
According to UN General Assembly resolutions, Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a gross violation of the UN Charter and international law. The documents call on Russia to immediately cease hostilities and withdraw troops from Ukraine.
MENAFN- UkrinForm UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres has visited the urban-type settlement of Borodianka in Kyiv Region, which was liberated from Russian invaders. The relevant statement was made by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs OCHA on Twitter , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
