UN Secretary General Reacts To Russian Missile Attack On Vinnytsia
20220715
https://menafn.com/1104535648/UN-Secretary-General-Reacts-To-Russian-Missile-Attack-On-Vinnytsia
As reported, on July 14, the Russians hit the center of Vinnytsia with Kalibr cruise missiles. According to the latest data, 23 people were killed including three children.
Cruise missiles fired from a Russian submarine in the Black Sea hit civilian areas of Vinnytsia, including an office center and a number of residential buildings, the press service of the UN Secretary General reminds.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'The Secretary-General condemns any attacks against civilians or civilian infrastructure and reiterates his call for accountability for such violations,' the statement adds.  Read also:  President: By striking  Vinnytsia  , Russia shows its attitude towards civilized world Cruise missiles fired from a Russian submarine in the Black Sea hit civilian areas of Vinnytsia, including an office center and a number of residential buildings, the press service of the UN Secretary General reminds.
MENAFN- UkrinForm UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres has condemned the missile strike by Russian forces on the center of Vinnytsia, a peaceful city located far from the front lines of the Russian war in Ukraine. That's according to a statement  issued by the press service of the UN Secretary General, Ukrinform reports.
In particular, almost 800 settlements have been cut off from power supplies, while more than 230,000 households and enterprises have lost access to gas supplies. Donetsk region was affected the most, the UN official clarified.  Read also:  Missile attack on  Vinnytsia  : Number of hospitalized rises to 71 As reported, on July 14, the Russians hit the center of Vinnytsia with Kalibr cruise missiles. According to the latest data, 23 people were killed including three children.
Speaking to journalists, UN Deputy Press Secretary Farhan Haq recalled that the hostilities destroyed important infrastructure facilities in Ukraine, leaving millions without access to medical services, water, electricity and gas.
In particular, almost 800 settlements have been cut off from power supplies, while more than 230,000 households and enterprises have lost access to gas supplies. Donetsk region was affected the most, the UN official clarified.
That's according to a statement  issued by the press service of the UN Secretary General, Ukrinform reports.
'The Secretary-General condemns any attacks against civilians or civilian infrastructure and reiterates his call for accountability for such violations,' the statement adds.
