US at OSCE Kremlins plans for Ukraine include destabilization from within
20211210
https://menafn.com/1103340265/US-at-OSCE-Kremlins-plans-for-Ukraine-include-destabilization-from-within&source=19
MENAFN- UkrinForm The United States is concerned about Russia's plans for escalation against Ukraine, including efforts to destabilize the country from within. We remain deeply concerned by evidence Russia has made plans for significant escalation against Ukraine, including a large-scale military operation and efforts to destabilize Ukraine from within. We are, as always, monitoring the region very closely and we will continue to consult closely with Allies and partners on this issue,Chargd'Affairesof the U.S. Mission to OSCE Courtney Austrian said  at the OSCE Permanent Council meeting, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
By violating its neighbor's sovereignty and undermining its territorial integrity, Russia aims to prevent Ukraine from its freely chosen path of full Euro-Atlantic integration, the Chargd'Affairesof the U.S. Mission to OSCE said.
Earlier, Head of the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine Kyrylo Budanov stated that Moscow is conducting a large-scale special operation against Ukraine in the energy, economic, and military spheres.
We remain deeply concerned by evidence Russia has made plans for significant escalation against Ukraine, including a large-scale military operation and efforts to destabilize Ukraine from within. We are, as always, monitoring the region very closely and we will continue to consult closely with Allies and partners on this issue,Chargd'Affairesof the U.S. Mission to OSCE Courtney Austrian said  at the OSCE Permanent Council meeting, an Ukrinform correspondent reported.
She underscored that Russia's ongoing aggression against Ukraine, with its military build-up on Ukraine's border,is the greatest security threat facing Europe today.
The diplomat noted that the United States will impose severe costs and consequences on Russia if it takes further aggressive action.We likewise call on Russia to cease its attempted integration of Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian territory it controls through passportization, economic alignment, and changes to the education system, Austrian said.
