US Britain concerned over possible Russian cyber attacks on Ukraines power grids  media
20211221
https://menafn.com/1103410463/US-Britain-concerned-over-possible-Russian-cyber-attacks-on-Ukraines-power-grids-media&source=22
It is stressed that in addition to amassing 175,000 troops near Ukraine's borders, the Putin regime may also threaten the neighboring nation with cyber attacks that could shut down the power grid, the banking system, and major components of government and economy.  Read also:  Ukraine's defense chief says setting up  cyber  forces to become essential As the Ukrainian electric grid was built during the Soviet era and remains connected to Russia, culprits are familiar with the software used in Ukrainian systems.
According to U.S. intelligence, Russia's goal may be to portray Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky as incompetent and weak, and possibly to create a pretext for an invasion, as per the report.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, Ukraine is among the countries that suffer the most from Russian cyber attacks. The United States and Great Britain have also been targeted.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The United States and Britain have deployed cyberwarfare experts in Ukraine amid the latest concerns that Russia could attack Ukrainian power grids this winter. That's according to a report by The New York Times , Ukrinform reports.
It is stressed that in addition to amassing 175,000 troops near Ukraine's borders, the Putin regime may also threaten the neighboring nation with cyber attacks that could shut down the power grid, the banking system, and major components of government and economy.
The quiet move by the two countries apparently aims at better preparing the country for countering cyber attacks, the newspaper suggests.
Meanwhile, the newspaper writes, Russian cyber attacks against Ukraine are ongoing. However, they intensified over the past month, while public attention has been mostly focused on a buildup of troops.
As the Ukrainian electric grid was built during the Soviet era and remains connected to Russia, culprits are familiar with the software used in Ukrainian systems.
