US Might Be Sending Ukraine More Weapons Than Announced  Media
20220823
https://menafn.com/1104739746/US-Might-Be-Sending-Ukraine-More-Weapons-Than-Announced-Media
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The publication notes that on Friday, a senior Pentagon official said the U.S. had been quietly supplying the Ukrainians with High-speed Anti-Radiation missiles  used for targeting radar systems  for some time.
Also, it is known that the U.S. included Excalibur precision-guided munitions in the August 19 weapons package, even though the administration didn't publicly announce them.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The United States may have provided Ukraine with more weapons than the Joe Biden administration has announced publicly, according to U.S. experts Michael Weiss and James Rushton. The latest strikes that Ukraine delivered targeting Russian military facilities in occupied Crimea, far from the front lines, suggests such a possibility, Politico  reports, according to Ukrinform.
Furthermore, a document sent by the administration Friday to lawmakers, says what goes to Ukraine isn'tlimited to what's featured in the publicly released list of weapons supplied.
According to Weiss and Rushton, another possibility is that the U.S. has secretly sent the Army Tactical Missile System, or ATACMS, to Ukraine.  Read also:  Only two European countries not supplying  weapons  to Ukraine - Kuleba Also, it is known that the U.S. included Excalibur precision-guided munitions in the August 19 weapons package, even though the administration didn't publicly announce them.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, on Friday, U.S. President Joe Biden signed another presidential drawdown authorizing the State Secretary to allocate $775 million in the Pentagon funds for the next package of security aid to Ukraine.
According to Weiss and Rushton, another possibility is that the U.S. has secretly sent the Army Tactical Missile System, or ATACMS, to Ukraine.
The latest strikes that Ukraine delivered targeting Russian military facilities in occupied Crimea, far from the front lines, suggests such a possibility, Politico  reports, according to Ukrinform.
