US says Russia behind latest cyberattacks on Ukrainian govt agencies
20220221
https://menafn.com/1103728516/US-says-Russia-behind-latest-cyberattacks-on-Ukrainian-govt-agencies&source=138
She went on to clarify that large-scale cyber attacks on Ukrainian banks were also sponsored by the Russian government.  Read also:  Ukraine banks, defense sector's sites targeted in major  cyber  attack It's the GRU, Russia's military intelligence, that is believed to be responsible for the attacks, the official explained.
We have assessed that Russia was responsible for the distributed denial-of-service attacks that occurred earlier this week,' said Neuberger.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
It's the GRU, Russia's military intelligence, that is believed to be responsible for the attacks, the official explained.
She went on to clarify that large-scale cyber attacks on Ukrainian banks were also sponsored by the Russian government.
This was stated at a Friday briefing by White House deputy national security adviser for cyber and emerging technology, Anne Neuberger,Ukrinform's own correspondent reports.
MENAFN- UkrinForm The United States has said Russia is behind the recent cyberattacks targeting the electronic networks of Ukraine's government agencies, the Ministry of Defense, as well as financial and other critical infrastructure. This was stated at a Friday briefing by White House deputy national security adviser for cyber and emerging technology, Anne Neuberger,Ukrinform's own correspondent reports.
The White House spokeswoman did not rule out that Russia could use these cyber attacks, including in preparations for a possible incursion into Ukraine.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, a number of Ukrainian government websites and banking services have suffered unprecedented DDoS attacks. The attack targeted the Ministry of Defense, the Armed Forces, and a number of other government agencies, as well as National Bank, the Diia portal of e-government services, online banking services of the state-owned Sberbank and Privatbank, as well as commercial banks.
