Vast majority of Canadians back support for Ukraine in face of Russian invasion
20220126
https://menafn.com/1103597625/Vast-majority-of-Canadians-back-support-for-Ukraine-in-face-of-Russian-invasion&source=19
The poll has also proved that ordinary Canadians are generally familiar with the situation around Ukraine: 67 of respondents have recently heard, read, or watched news reports about it.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
When asked whether Canadian assistance should include weapons, the vast majority of interviewees 75 agreed.
Canada has been actively supporting Ukraine's integrity, condemning Russia's aggressive actions but at the same time stopping short of supplying lethal weapons.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Three-quarters of Canadians support Ukraine in the event of a Russian invasion. That's according to a study  run by Abacus Data, whose results were published by the Ukrainian Canadian Congress, Ukrinform reports.
When asked whether Canadian assistance should include weapons, the vast majority of interviewees 75 agreed.  Read also:   Canada  considers sending weapons to Ukraine - media The poll has also proved that ordinary Canadians are generally familiar with the situation around Ukraine: 67 of respondents have recently heard, read, or watched news reports about it.
Based on these sociological data, the Ukrainian Canadian Congress urged the government to 'hear the voice of the Canadian people and substantially increase military assistance to Ukraine, including the provision of weapons to Ukraine's Armed Forces.'
That's according to a study  run by Abacus Data, whose results were published by the Ukrainian Canadian Congress, Ukrinform reports.
The poll says more than 80 of respondents are open to the idea of providing support to Ukraine for the nation to protect its borders.
