War NPPs sanctions against Russia Shmyhal discusses energy challenges in United States
20220425
https://menafn.com/1104080208/War-NPPs-sanctions-against-Russia-Shmyhal-discusses-energy-challenges-in-United-States&source=138
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'I discussed energy challenges with U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary David Turk. I told our partners that we managed to synchronize Ukraine's energy system with the ENTSO-E European network despite the war. We already started exporting the first 200 MW and will continue to work with the European Union to further increase electricity exports,' Shmyhal posted on Telegram , Ukrinform reports.
Ukraine's PM also informed Turk about the threat that Russian troops pose to Ukraine's nuclear power plants, and therefore to the world. In this context, Ukrainian and U.S. officials discussed the possibility of increasing U.S. nuclear fuel supplies and imposing an embargo on Russian nuclear fuel, oil, and gas. Shmyhal thanked the United States for its decisive stance on this issue.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Prime Minister of Ukraine Denys Shmyhal and U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary David Turk discussed the energy challenges caused by the war. 'I discussed energy challenges with U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary David Turk. I told our partners that we managed to synchronize Ukraine's energy system with the ENTSO-E European network despite the war. We already started exporting the first 200 MW and will continue to work with the European Union to further increase electricity exports,' Shmyhal posted on Telegram , Ukrinform reports.
As reported, the Ukrainian government delegation led by PM Shmyhal makes a visit to Washington and holds meetings with the representatives of the IMF, the World Bank, other organizations, and U.S. government agencies.
In addition, the Prime Minister of Ukraine told the U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary about the plan to restore Ukraine, underpinned by the green economy principles. He called on the United States to participate in its drafting, in particular in the development of the energy sector based on modern technologies, and invited to join projects to explore and produce gas in Ukraine.
