West Seeks To Unblock Ukraines Grain Ports As Russia Digs In
20220709
https://menafn.com/1104504229/West-Seeks-To-Unblock-Ukraines-Grain-Ports-As-Russia-Digs-In
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Gorinov is accused of discrediting the Russian army under strict legislation that rights activists say is part of Moscow's increasing efforts to snuff out the last vestiges of dissent.
Ambassador Andrei Kelin told Reuters that Russian troops would capture the rest of the eastern Donbas region and were unlikely to withdraw from land across the southern coast.
Signalling that the Kremlin was in no mood for compromise, President Vladimir Putin said that continued use of sanctions against Russia risked causingcatastrophic energy price rises, and his top diplomat clashed with his Western counterparts at a G20 meeting.
As Ukraine called on allies to step up deliveries of high-precision weapons to slow Russia's advance, Moscow's envoy to London offered little prospect of a pull-back from parts of Ukraine under Russian control.
Alexei Gorinov, 60, is the first elected member of the opposition to be sentenced to jail for criticising Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine.
Kelin's remarks gave an insight into Russia's potential endgame  a forced partition that would leave its former Soviet neighbour shorn of more than a fifth of its post-Soviet territory.
High on their list of concerns was getting grain shipments from Ukraine out through ports blocked by Russia's presence in the Black Sea and naval mines.
President Volodymyr Zelensky's chief of staff also urged the West to send more heavy weapons to counter what he called Russia'sscorched earth tactics.
The biggest conflict in Europe since World War II has killed thousands, displaced millions and flattened Ukrainian cities.
He addressed Russia directly, saying: 'To our Russian colleagues: Ukraine is not your country. Its grain is not your grain. Why are you blocking the ports? You should let the grain out,' the official said.
Kyiv has attributed battlefield successes to last month's arrival of US-made High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS.
MENAFN- Gulf Times  Ukraine's allies urged Russia yesterday to allow Kyiv to ship blockaded grain out to an increasingly hungry world, as a belligerent Moscow warned Western nations against attempts to enact reprisals over an invasion now well into its fifth month.
On the Donbas frontlines, Ukrainian officials reported Russian shelling of towns and villages ahead of an anticipated push for more territory.
Standing handcuffed in the glass defendant's box, grey-haired Gorinov in a checked shirt unfolded a piece of paper that read:Do you still need this war?
With a sufficient number of howitzers, SPG and HIMARS, our soldiers are able to stop and drive the invaders from our land, Andriy Yermak wrote on Twitter.
They are not stopped even by the fact that civilians remain there, dying in houses and yards, Serhiy Gaidai he said.
He spoke up against Moscow's military intervention in Ukraine during a work meeting in March that was recorded on video and is available on YouTube.MENAFN08072022000067011011ID1104504229
We are going to liberate all of the Donbas, Kelin said.Of course it is difficult to predict the withdrawal of our forces from the southern part of Ukraine because we have already experience that after withdrawal, provocations start.
Moscow said on Sunday that it hadliberated Luhansk and now plans to capture parts of the Donetsk region it does not already control.
Russia calls it aspecial military operation intended to degrade Ukraine's military and root out people it sees as dangerous nationalists.
Russian forces have seized a big chunk of territory across Ukraine's southern flank and are waging a war of attrition in the Donbas, the eastern industrial heartland made up of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces.
On Thursday, Putin had indicated that current prospects of finding a solution to the conflict were dim, saying that Russia's campaign in Ukraine had barely got started.
Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, said that Ukraine still did not have enough Western weapons and soldiers needed time to adapt to using them.
Meanwhile, a Moscow court has sentenced a city councillor to seven years in prison for denouncing Putin's military intervention in Ukraine.
A US State Department official later said that Blinken had told the meeting participants that, if the G20 was to remain relevant, it must hold Russia accountable for its military's actions in Ukraine.
When they came in, the Russian war machine could instantly feel its effect, Danilov told Reuters.
At the meeting of G20 foreign ministers in Bali, Indonesia, some of the staunchest critics of the invasion that began on February 24 confronted their Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov.
Ukraine is a leading exporter and aid agencies have warned that many developing countries face devastating food shortages if supplies fail to reach them.
Ukraine's allies urged Russia yesterday to allow Kyiv to ship blockaded grain out to an increasingly hungry world, as a belligerent Moscow warned Western nations against attempts to enact reprisals over an invasion now well into its fifth month.
Ukraine would eventually have to strike a peace deal orcontinue slipping down this hill to ruin, he said.
Much of the courtroom stood in applause as he held the paper against the glass.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged Moscow to let Ukrainian grain out, a Western official said.
He spoke up against Moscow's military intervention in Ukraine during a work meeting in March that was recorded on video and is available on YouTube.
