West Waging War Against Russia Kremlin
20220518
https://menafn.com/1104232744/West-Waging-War-Against-Russia-Kremlin&source=28
He cited the decision to freeze Russian foreign reserves that the country kept in Western financial institutions and discussions about giving the money to Ukraine as an obvious attack on property rights, the cornerstone of Western civilization.
Russia's opponents are playing a more direct role in their attempts to hurt Russia in their 'hybrid war', the official said.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
He pointed out that economic sanctions, the arming of Ukrainian nationalists, and giving them intel to attack Russian troops all amounted to acts of war, RT reported.
Moscow, May 17 IANS Western powers opposing Russia in Ukraine could be considered enemies as they are waging a war against the state, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday.
MENAFN- IANS Moscow, May 17 IANS Western powers opposing Russia in Ukraine could be considered enemies as they are waging a war against the state, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday.He pointed out that economic sanctions, the arming of Ukrainian nationalists, and giving them intel to attack Russian troops all amounted to acts of war, RT reported.'Sure, we are still using the mild term 'unfriendly states' when referring to them,' Peskov told an educational forum.He cited the decision to freeze Russian foreign reserves that the country kept in Western financial institutions and discussions about giving the money to Ukraine as an obvious attack on property rights, the cornerstone of Western civilization. 'That was money that you and I own,' Peskov told the audience. 'It was stolen from us, it is being stolen from us.'Russia's opponents are playing a more direct role in their attempts to hurt Russia in their 'hybrid war', the official said.'Not only American but also British military advisers are telling armed Ukrainian nationalists what they should do and provide intelligence to them,' he said, RT reported.Foreigners are also helping Ukrainians smear Russia's reputation amid the hostilities, Peskov added. 'They stage provocations that are, on occasion, so bloodthirsty that a human conscience cannot imagine them,' he said.He said that he was referring to the town of Bucha and Kiev's claims that Russian troops had committed war crimes while they controlled it. Moscow has accused Kiev of fabricating the evidence. 'It's clear that Ukrainian 'specialists' would not be able to do it with such professionalism. An army of PR companies, TV crews, and information warfare advisers are working for them,' he said.--IANSsanMENAFN18052022000231011071ID1104232744
Foreigners are also helping Ukrainians smear Russia's reputation amid the hostilities, Peskov added. 'They stage provocations that are, on occasion, so bloodthirsty that a human conscience cannot imagine them,' he said.
'That was money that you and I own,' Peskov told the audience. 'It was stolen from us, it is being stolen from us.'
'Not only American but also British military advisers are telling armed Ukrainian nationalists what they should do and provide intelligence to them,' he said, RT reported.
He said that he was referring to the town of Bucha and Kiev's claims that Russian troops had committed war crimes while they controlled it. Moscow has accused Kiev of fabricating the evidence. 'It's clear that Ukrainian 'specialists' would not be able to do it with such professionalism. An army of PR companies, TV crews, and information warfare advisers are working for them,' he said.
'Sure, we are still using the mild term 'unfriendly states' when referring to them,' Peskov told an educational forum.
