What Russias Hold Over Belarus Means for Ukraine and for Syria
20220227
https://menafn.com/1103768522/What-Russias-Hold-Over-Belarus-Means-for-Ukraine-and-for-Syria
Nikola Mikovic is a political analyst in Serbia. His work focuses mostly on the foreign policies of Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine, with special attention on energy and pipeline politics.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
But Lukashenkos decision to host thousands of Russian troops on Belarusian territory makes Belarus a party to Putins actions. Previously, both sides had said the troops will return to Russia once military drills are over, but Belarusian Defense Minister Viktor Khrenin recently conceded that the Russian forces will remain in the country indefinitely. It is now clear why the earlier assurances were rolled back.
For Lukashenko, entering the fray in Syria has certain appeal. Belarus has already begun to develop close economic ties with Syria and is assisting in post-war reconstruction. In November 2021, Belaruss Deputy Foreign Minister Nikolai Borisevich met with Syrias ambassador to Belarus, Mohammad Al Umrani, to discuss political, economic, and humanitarian cooperation. Belarus is actively exporting medications to Syria, and leaders have expressed interest in expanding business in the region. Moreover, Minsk is supporting Syria in international forums, at least rhetorically, by expressing solidarity for President Bashar Al Assads war on terrorism. But Belarus, pressured by Russia, may soon have to move from words to deeds.
For now, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is trying to balance Moscows pressure with the interests of his own country. Belarus, Russias only ally in Europe, has not recognized Moscows incorporation of Crimea into the Russian Federation in 2014, and Minsk refuses to launch direct flights to the peninsula, aware that doing so would amount to de facto recognition of Crimea as part of Russia.
Finally, having a Belarusian military contingent in Syria could be a way for Russia to increase its influence not just in Belarus, but in other CSTO countries as well. If Minsk agrees to deploy its troops to the Middle East, Moscow will likely start looking for others to join in protecting its geopolitical interests in Syria.
With Russian forces pouring into Ukraine, Moscows use of Belarus to launch its campaign is as much a test for Minsks independence as it is for Kyivs. As the Kremlin begins what looks like a large-scale operation against Ukraine, the former Soviet republics role in facilitating Russias attack could have far reaching consequences.
To demonstrate his loyalty further to Moscow, Lukashenko may even have to deploy a symbolic number of Belarusian troops to Syria, where Russias military foothold is also growing. The Russian government recently instructed its ministries of defense and foreign affairs to hold talks with Belarus and to sign a joint declaration on providing humanitarian aid to Syria. Once a new constitution is adopted, and clauses about Belaruss neutrality are scrapped, Minsk may have no option but to start playing a more active role in Moscows engagement in Syria.
Despite the claim that there are no Belarusian troops currently assisting Russias special operation in eastern Ukraine, Lukashenko has not ruled out the possibility. He said previously that if Kyiv was to launch a military offensive against the Russian-backed Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic, the Belarusian armed forces would act in concert with the Russian army. Such a statement demonstrates Lukashenkos loyalty to the Kremlin.
Belarus is also, for now at least, trying to avoid its own forces being dragged into the conflict. On Thursday, as smoke rose from the Ukrainian capital, Belaruss Ministry of Foreign Affairs tweeted a quote attributed to Lukashenko: The Belarusian army is not taking part in the Russian special operation in the Donbass. Lukashenko has not officially recognized the self-proclaimed Donbas republics in eastern Ukraine, as Russian President Vladimir Putin did earlier this week. Instead, Lukashenko has only said that the issue of recognition would be mutually beneficial, while Belaruss foreign ministry has said it respects and understands Russias decision.
And yet, Lukashenko may have little choice but to play Putins game. Ever since the Kremlin helped Lukashenko stay in power after the controversial election and mass protests in 2020, Belaruss president has had to end his multi-vector foreign policy and increasingly cede to Russias wishes. In early January, following unrest in Almaty and other Kazakh cities, the Belarusian leader sent troops to Kazakhstan to help Russia and other Collective Security Treaty Organization CSTO members stabilize the situation in the Central Asian country. Allowing Russian troops to strike Ukraine from Belarus may have been another non-negotiable decision.
For now, the situation in Syria is subordinate to the Ukraine crisis, but the two are connected. Russias regional military presence, and its hold over its allies, will limit Western-led efforts to bring the Kremlin back to the negotiating table. The die has been cast, and Belaruss sovereignty, like Ukraines, hangs in the balance.
According to open-source intelligence reports, most Russian troops in Belarus were stationed in the south of the country, not far from the Ukrainian border  and just 260 kilometers from the Ukrainian capital. Putins decision to send them in poses a political challenge for Lukashenko. Belarus is expected to hold a constitutional referendum on February 27, and the draft document excludes military aggression from Belaruss territory against other states. While that could give Lukashenko reason to resist any future efforts to use his countrys territory to wage war against Ukraine, it would also give opposition leaders ammunition. Prior to Russias invasion, Belaruss exiled opposition leader, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, called the presence of Russian troops in her country a threat to Belarusian independence.
