Why Russians Open Fire On Donetsk Center For Countering Disinformation Names Reasons
20220614
https://menafn.com/1104374219/Why-Russians-Open-Fire-On-Donetsk-Center-For-Countering-Disinformation-Names-Reasons
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russian troops are opening fire on the city of Donetsk to attract military assistance and create an additional incentive for soldiers recruited from the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk Region and Luhansk Region. The relevant statement was made by the Center for Countering Disinformation CCD at the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council NSDC on Telegram , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Firstly, such provocations will help the collaborators to receive additional arms and Russia to attract military aid.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Secondly, soldiers recruited from the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk Region and Luhansk Region barely have any incentive to fight now. They do not understand whose interests they are fighting for. Hence, shelling in the east will create an additional incentive for them to agree thatthey are doing right when fighting against Ukraine.
The CCD named several reasons for Russian troops to open fire on Donetsk and other Donbas settlements.
The relevant statement was made by the Center for Countering Disinformation CCD at the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council NSDC on Telegram , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
A reminder that Russian troops are attempting to gain full control over Luhansk Region and Donetsk Region but have not achieved this goal so far.
According to the CCD, the Russian mass media outlets are spreading disinformation about the Armed Forces of Ukraine defiantly firing at settlements in eastern Ukraine.
