Why the war in Ukraine is pushing the Doomsday Clocks hands closer to midnight
20220422
https://menafn.com/1104073247/Why-the-war-in-Ukraine-is-pushing-the-Doomsday-Clocks-hands-closer-to-midnight
Read more: Russia is sparking new nuclear threats  understanding nonproliferation history helps place this in context
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Since Trump quit the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty in 2019, Putin has been free to rebuild and redeploy his nuclear land forces.
As has been the case since the Doomsday Clock was first set 75 years ago, our possible futures lie in the minds and hands of a very small group of decision makers in Moscow and Washington.
While the clock moved backwards and forwards as threats came and went, the US and Russia extended the bilateral arms control treaty capping the number of deployed warheads, and in January this year the five main nuclear powers agreed that a nuclear warcannot be won and must never be fought.   Read more: Russia is sparking new nuclear threats  understanding nonproliferation history helps place this in context   The very next month this small pause of reason was broken when Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine.
Perhaps following former US president Donald Trump's lead , Putin has broken with diplomatic norms around the reckless use of nuclear rhetoric, threatening the West it wouldface consequences that you have never faced in your history.
Read more: Ukraine crisis: how do small states like New Zealand respond in an increasingly lawless world?
Perhaps most ominously, Russia to be fair, not alone has been interested in developing low-yield tactical nuclear weapons typically smaller than the 15 kiloton bomb that destroyed Hiroshima to give battlefieldflexibility.
Although Ukraine is hardly comparable to Cuba in the 1960s  there were no missiles on Russia's doorstep and no blockade  Putin feared the country could potentially become a nuclear base for NATO. His aim has been to force all the former Eastern bloc countries now aligned with the West to agree to their 1997 pre-NATO positions .
While the clock moved backwards and forwards as threats came and went, the US and Russia extended the bilateral arms control treaty capping the number of deployed warheads, and in January this year the five main nuclear powers agreed that a nuclear warcannot be won and must never be fought.
The worst has so far been avoided because the US and its NATO allies are not belligerents in the Ukraine war, having carefully avoided direct involvement, declining appeals for a NATO-enforced no-fly zone .
Perhaps following former US president Donald Trump's lead , Putin has broken with diplomatic norms around the reckless use of nuclear rhetoric, threatening the West it wouldface consequences that you have never faced in your history. And following the failure of the international community to create a convention that nuclear weapons should be kept at a non-alert status meaning they can't be fired quickly, Putin has put his nuclear forces intospecial combat readiness.
While the use of nuclear weapons to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Russian state might sound reasonable, the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 shows how available such justifications might be.
To achieve this, Putin violated the United Nations Charter , sidelined the rule of global order set by the International Court of Justice , and possibly allowed his military to commit war crimes .
The so-called Doomsday Clock, created by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists to measure the imminent risk of nuclear conflagration, has been at 100 seconds to midnight since 2020. It's now looking increasingly out of time with current events.
MENAFN- The Conversation  The so-called Doomsday Clock, created by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists to measure the imminent risk of nuclear conflagration, has been at 100 seconds to midnight since 2020. It's now looking increasingly out of time with current events.
These weapons would breach international humanitarian laws and their use could quickly spiral out of control , but there is no international law prohibiting them.
And while the director of the CIA has moved to quieten concerns , saying there is nopractical evidence Russia might resort to using nuclear weapons, what happens from here is hard to predict.
Sabre-rattling or not, these are worrying developments in a world that has struggled to pull back from the precipice of nuclear disaster since the Doomsday Clock began in 1947.  Ramping up the rhetoric: Vladimir Putin speaks at a concert marking the anniversary of the 2014 annexation of Crimea. Getty Images  Putting back the clock
As has been the case since the Doomsday Clock was first set 75 years ago, our possible futures lie in the minds and hands of a very small group of decision makers in Moscow and Washington.   Vladimir Putin   Doomsday Clock   Nuclear war   New Zealand stories   Ukraine crisis   MENAFN22042022000199003603ID1104073247
In return, Russia continues to ramp up the rhetoric, warning the West ofunpredictable consequences should military assistance continue.
Read more: Beyond tougher trade sanctions: 3 more ways NZ can add to global pressure on Russia
And following the failure of the international community to create a convention that nuclear weapons should be kept at a non-alert status meaning they can't be fired quickly, Putin has put his nuclear forces intospecial combat readiness.
The very next month this small pause of reason was broken when Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine.
To bring events to this point, Russian president Vladimir Putin has exploited gaps in international law and policy that have failed to better regulate the arsenals of the world's nuclear powers.
News that Russia has tested a nuclear-capable missile this week, and warnings by Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy that Russia may resort to nuclear or chemical weapons, suggest the clock's hands should be moving.
But the West is hardly neutral. Providing weapons to assist one country's fight with another is an unfriendly act by any definition. While the amount and variety of that military aid has been carefully calibrated, it is growing and it has clearly made a significant difference on the battlefield.   Read more: Ukraine crisis: how do small states like New Zealand respond in an increasingly lawless world?   In return, Russia continues to ramp up the rhetoric, warning the West ofunpredictable consequences should military assistance continue.
Finally, Putin has exploited the world's failure to form a nuclearno first use agreement. Current Russian nuclear doctrine doesn't require an enemy state to use nuclear weapons against it as justification for its own strike .
These weapons would breach international humanitarian laws and their use could quickly spiral out of control , but there is no international law prohibiting them.   Read more: Beyond tougher trade sanctions: 3 more ways NZ can add to global pressure on Russia   Finally, Putin has exploited the world's failure to form a nuclearno first use agreement. Current Russian nuclear doctrine doesn't require an enemy state to use nuclear weapons against it as justification for its own strike .
Sabre-rattling or not, these are worrying developments in a world that has struggled to pull back from the precipice of nuclear disaster since the Doomsday Clock began in 1947.
But the West is hardly neutral. Providing weapons to assist one country's fight with another is an unfriendly act by any definition. While the amount and variety of that military aid has been carefully calibrated, it is growing and it has clearly made a significant difference on the battlefield.
Even when the United States and Russia were closest to a nuclear conflict during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, the clock only got to seven minutes to midnight.
A nuclear build-up by a potential adversary in neighbouring territories would be justification enough, along with a number of other potential non-nuclear triggers.
