Zelensky It will take time for talks with Russia to end in Ukraines interests
20220316
https://menafn.com/1103856926/Zelensky-It-will-take-time-for-talks-with-Russia-to-end-in-Ukraines-interests&source=22
According to Podoliak, the Ukrainian delegation did not achieve the results it expected in the talks with Russia. At the same time, both parties agreed to jointly provide humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians, as well as for the delivery of medicines and food to the sites of the fiercest fighting with the possibility of a temporary ceasefire for the period of evacuation.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
On March 3, the second round of talks between the Ukrainian and Russian delegations took place.
MENAFN- UkrinForm It will take time for talks with Russia to end in Ukraine's interests. According to Ukrinform, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said this in a video address .
The fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia began on March 14. After discussions, the talks were paused until March 15. Negotiations resumed on Tuesday.
'The meetings continue. As I am informed, the positions in the negotiations sound more realistic. However, time is still needed for the decisions to be in Ukraine's interests,' he said.
During the third round of talks with the Russian delegation, which took place on March 7, the Ukrainian delegation received positive results in the context of the logistics of humanitarian corridors.MENAFN16032022000193011044ID1103856926
Zelensky added that Ukraine's defenders give this time to the Ukrainian delegation, defending Ukraine everywhere. 'Wherever the enemy wants to break through,' the head of state said.
During the third round of talks with the Russian delegation, which took place on March 7, the Ukrainian delegation received positive results in the context of the logistics of humanitarian corridors.
On February 28, the Ukrainian and Russian delegations held the first round of talks in Belarus and traveled to their capitals for consultations on further decisions. Mykhailo Podoliak, an adviser to the head of the President's Office, noted that negotiations between the delegations were difficult, but without any mandatory ultimatums.
