Zelensky Warns Of Cruel Russian Action Around Independence Day
20220823
https://menafn.com/1104738098/Zelensky-Warns-Of-Cruel-Russian-Action-Around-Independence-Day
MENAFN- Jordan Times  KYIV  Russia could do something particularly 'cruel' during the upcoming week as Ukraine marks 31 years of independence, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned.'Russia could try to do something particularly disgusting, particularly cruel,' Zelensky said in his nightly address late Saturday.'One of the key objectives of the enemy is to humiliate us,' and 'to sow despondency, fear and conflict' but 'we have to be strong enough to resist all provocation' and 'make the occupiers pay for their terror,' he said.Ukraine's Independence Day on Wednesday, August 24, will also mark six months since Russia invaded the former Soviet republic.There has been speculation that Russia will put Ukrainian fighters captured during the siege of Mariupol on trial to coincide with the independence anniversary.In the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, the governor announced a curfew from the evening of August 23 to the morning of August 25.'We will not allow any provocation by the enemy. Be as vigilant as possible during our independence holiday,' Oleg Synegubov wrote on Telegram.Kharkiv has been under regular Russian bombardment for weeks and on Sunday emergency services said two more civilians were killed in overnight strikes.Four civilians were reported killed by Russian fire in Donetsk, said the region's pro-Kyiv governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.Meanwhile, a regional head of Ukraine's SBU intelligence services has been found dead at his home in central Ukraine, the prosecutor general's office said on Sunday.Oleksandr Nakonechny was found by his wife with gunshot wounds in a room of their apartment in the city of Kropyvnytsky late Saturday after she heard gunfire, the office wrote on Telegram.Police have opened an investigation into the death, but made no further comments.A local politician, Andrii Lavrus, wrote on Telegram that Nakonechny had shot himself. The information could not be immediately confirmed.Nakonechny has headed the SBU in the Kirovograd region since January 2021.In July Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky fired the head of the SBU, his childhood friend Ivan Bakanov, saying he did not do enough to rid the agency of spies and Russian collaborators.Zelensky said there would be a revision of SBU personnel and several senior officials at the agency have been fired over the past several months.MENAFN22082022000028011005ID1104738098
There has been speculation that Russia will put Ukrainian fighters captured during the siege of Mariupol on trial to coincide with the independence anniversary.
Ukraine's Independence Day on Wednesday, August 24, will also mark six months since Russia invaded the former Soviet republic.
'Russia could try to do something particularly disgusting, particularly cruel,' Zelensky said in his nightly address late Saturday.
'We will not allow any provocation by the enemy. Be as vigilant as possible during our independence holiday,' Oleg Synegubov wrote on Telegram.
Four civilians were reported killed by Russian fire in Donetsk, said the region's pro-Kyiv governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.
A local politician, Andrii Lavrus, wrote on Telegram that Nakonechny had shot himself. The information could not be immediately confirmed.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
'One of the key objectives of the enemy is to humiliate us,' and 'to sow despondency, fear and conflict' but 'we have to be strong enough to resist all provocation' and 'make the occupiers pay for their terror,' he said.
Meanwhile, a regional head of Ukraine's SBU intelligence services has been found dead at his home in central Ukraine, the prosecutor general's office said on Sunday.
KYIV  Russia could do something particularly 'cruel' during the upcoming week as Ukraine marks 31 years of independence, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned.
Oleksandr Nakonechny was found by his wife with gunshot wounds in a room of their apartment in the city of Kropyvnytsky late Saturday after she heard gunfire, the office wrote on Telegram.
In the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, the governor announced a curfew from the evening of August 23 to the morning of August 25.
In July Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky fired the head of the SBU, his childhood friend Ivan Bakanov, saying he did not do enough to rid the agency of spies and Russian collaborators.
Zelensky said there would be a revision of SBU personnel and several senior officials at the agency have been fired over the past several months.
Kharkiv has been under regular Russian bombardment for weeks and on Sunday emergency services said two more civilians were killed in overnight strikes.
