Zelensky Sanctions must be strong enough to prevent Russia from saying a word about WMD
20220412
https://menafn.com/1103995814/Zelensky-Sanctions-must-be-strong-enough-to-prevent-Russia-from-saying-a-word-about-WMD&source=19
A reminder that, according to the Azov Regiment, Russian troops have recently dropped an unknown poisonous substance in Mariupol, using an unmanned aerial vehicle.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
In his words, the possible use of chemical weapons by the Russian military has already been discussed. The President of Ukraine believes that even at that time it was necessary to react to the Russian aggression in a much harder and faster manner.
Today Russian occupiers have made a new statement confirming they are preparing for another stage of terror against Ukraine and our defenders. One of the occupiers' mouthpieces announced they could use chemical weapons against Mariupol defenders. We are taking this threat as seriously as possible, Zelensky told.
According to Zelensky, the European Union has started to consider the sixth package of sanctions against Russia.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Ukraine is taking Russia's threats to use chemical weapons against the Ukrainian people as seriously as possible. The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The relevant statement was made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in his video address , an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Earlier, Eduard Basurin, a Russian militant from the occupied city of Donetsk, announced it was necessary to block Mariupol defenders within the Azovstal plant and use chemical weapons against them.
It is time to make this package so that it would prevent Russia from saying a word about the weapons of mass destruction. The oil embargo against Russia is mandatory. Any new sanctions package against Russia that does not affect oil will be received in Moscow with a smile, the President of Ukraine stressed.
