Zelensky We know everyone trying to ease Russia sanctions but they will change their position
20220409
https://menafn.com/1103983517/Zelensky-We-know-everyone-trying-to-ease-Russia-sanctions-but-they-will-change-their-position&source=19
The Ukrainian leader stated this in a video address , assessing the new package of sanctions against Russia, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
On February 24, the Russian Federation launched a new phase of its war against Ukraine  a full-scale invasion: Russian occupiers have been shelling and bombarding peaceful towns and villages across Ukraine, torturing and killing civilians.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
The European Union on Friday approved a fifth package of sanctions targeting Russia. They include a ban on coal imports from Russia, financial transactions for four key Russian banks, including VTB, Russia's second-largest bank, and a ban on Russian and Russian-controlled vessels entering EU ports.
I believe the softness with which some in the West still treat the Russian state is wrong. We know who is constantly trying to soften sanctions proposals. And we will do our best to finally make Europe understand: in any case, you will have to impose really principled and really strong sanctions against Russia. And not some partial restriction of Russian energy exports. Not some partial restriction of Russian navigation. We know everyone who delays the decisions. But I am confident that both these politicians and these countries will change their position under the pressure of all that Russia is doing against Ukrainians and against freedom in Europe, Zelensky stressed.  Read also:   Zelensky  on Kramatorsk shelling: another Russian war crime to be heard at tribunal On February 24, the Russian Federation launched a new phase of its war against Ukraine  a full-scale invasion: Russian occupiers have been shelling and bombarding peaceful towns and villages across Ukraine, torturing and killing civilians.
I believe the softness with which some in the West still treat the Russian state is wrong. We know who is constantly trying to soften sanctions proposals. And we will do our best to finally make Europe understand: in any case, you will have to impose really principled and really strong sanctions against Russia. And not some partial restriction of Russian energy exports. Not some partial restriction of Russian navigation. We know everyone who delays the decisions. But I am confident that both these politicians and these countries will change their position under the pressure of all that Russia is doing against Ukrainians and against freedom in Europe, Zelensky stressed.
MENAFN- UkrinForm President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky has criticized governments that are trying to ease sanctions against Russia, but he stands confident that they will soon change their position. The Ukrainian leader stated this in a video address , assessing the new package of sanctions against Russia, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
The United States, the European Union, and other countries have imposed and continue to impose sanctions on Russia.
