Zelensky Russia fired most of its missiles at Ukraine must be recognized as state sponsor of terrorism
20220425
https://menafn.com/1104082134/Zelensky-Russia-fired-most-of-its-missiles-at-Ukraine-must-be-recognized-as-state-sponsor-of-terrorism&source=138
Zelensky promised to insist on this in his talks with international partners, adding that there is simply no alternative to such recognition.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
He stressed that what has already been done by the Russian invaders in Ukraine is a sufficient argument for the world to recognize Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism and the Russian army as a terrorist organization.
On February 24, Russian troops launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. They have been destroying infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers and ballistic missiles.
'Russia has already fired most of its missile arsenal across Ukraine. Of course, they still have missiles. Of course, they can still continue the missile terror against our people,' he said.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Russia has already fired most of its missiles against Ukraine, but it still has enough of them to continue the missile terror against Ukrainians. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said this in a video address , Ukrinform reports.
'The Russian state has become a terrorist and it is not ashamed of that. And if it is not ashamed, then it was done consciously, and therefore, there should be maximum responsibility,' Zelensky said.
On February 24, Russian troops launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. They have been destroying infrastructure and residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers and ballistic missiles.MENAFN23042022000193011044ID1104082134
