Zelensky Almost all Russian troops amassed for invasion have entered Ukraine
20220310
https://menafn.com/1103821896/Zelensky-Almost-all-Russian-troops-amassed-for-invasion-have-entered-Ukraine&source=138
'Brave Ukrainians of the unconquered country! Today is already the 14th day of our defense. 14th day of our unity, genuinely nationwide. There is the utmost scale of threat to the state. The occupation contingent has already sent in our territory almost everyone amassed to invade Ukraine,' President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said in his video address to the citizens, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information as is without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
Ukraine officially filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague.
MENAFN- UkrinForm Almost all the troops, which Russia had previously amassed on the border with Ukraine for the invasion, have already entered the country. 'Brave Ukrainians of the unconquered country! Today is already the 14th day of our defense. 14th day of our unity, genuinely nationwide. There is the utmost scale of threat to the state. The occupation contingent has already sent in our territory almost everyone amassed to invade Ukraine,' President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said in his video address to the citizens, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
As he noted, the scale of the Ukrainian response is also the utmost, while there are differences in meaning. According to Zelensky, the Russians have only the utmost scope of equipment, while the Ukrainians have both equipment and people. 'They have only orders: to attack, to kill, to mock. And we have a real desire of millions of Ukrainians to win, defend, cleanse our country,' Zelensky said.
On February 24, Russian president Putin launched a large-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops kill civilians, shell and destroy key infrastructure, and missiles hit Ukrainians' homes.
