Bristol expert warns of significant casualties in Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220225
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/bristol-news/political-expert-warns-significant-casualties-6716902
He said Russia had begun military activities in Ukraine, but that it did not plan to occupy the country. However, he promised an "instant" response from Moscow if anyone tried to stop the move.
"The NATO border is quite close, you have other countries in the region within central and eastern Europe that have joined NATO. Countries like Poland, Lithuania, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia are all NATO members but Ukraine isn't.
"There would be a huge cost and risk to using nuclear weapons. Every country knows that the risk of a nuclear war is that would be mutually assured destruction. It would be a big deterrent used in practice but I think it's quite deliberate that this possibility is being hinted at."
"It hasn't seemed particularly likely that Ukraine would be able to join NATO in the foreseeable future, but I think there is the concern in Russia that that might happen. I think one of the strategic goals here is to try and prevent that or make it as unlikely as possible."
"An intervention like this could backfire so I think they'll be cautious in the first instance about opening up more conflict in the immediate future but I don't think it can be ruled out that there could be other conflicts."
"It could escalate in all sorts of ways and develop in unforeseen ways. If I had to highlight one thing, it would be the uncertainty."
A political expert from Bristol has warned of "significant casualties" as part of the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine. It follows a statement broadcast on television overnight by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Want our best stories with fewer ads and alerts when the biggest news stories drop? Download our app on iPhone or Android
"We should be prepared for a very long and drawn-out conflict. It's hard to know what the ultimate endpoint of this would be. It's like we will see some escalation of fighting and that it will spread, perhaps with more troops moving into Ukraine and other parts of Ukraine.
"What is particularly dangerous about this conflict is that it is so unpredictable and the stakes are very high, especially with the risks of nuclear weapons and the global ramifications of it. It could spill over to other countries and regions, especially as Russia is already involved in the conflict in Syria.
"They're doing it now because they feel that it might be a good moment when the rest of the world is preoccupied with lots of other issues. They may have seen a window of opportunity here.
Dr Feldmann answered a series of questions to help break down the conflict and give readers the answers as to why this is happening and what happens next.
"I think it will simmer in one way, maybe high intensity to low intensity, probably for years, but I wouldn't expect to see any resolution within the coming months."
"I don't expect this to be resolved anytime soon. There could be quite significant casualties as well. It's hard to predict how long the most intense form of conflict and fighting will last, but I think at least months.
"It's probably unlikely it would lead to a world war. On the other hand, if you have a tense situation and conflict, it can sometimes be unpredictable and there could be some sort of escalation. However, based upon our current understanding I think it seems unlikely that it will escalate to a full-blown world war."
"There are several reasons for why Russia is invading Ukraine. I think the simplest reason would be some international reasons and domestic reasons. The domestic reasons are about mobilising support for the regime and creating a rally around the flag effect.
Devastating images shared from Ukraine have shown missile launches already killing civilians and soldiers. Ukrainians have been attempting to leave the country in a panicked rush creating mayhem and intense traffic jams.
"It's likely to lead to some sort of global tension. There will be economic conflict perhaps on a global scale and sanctions and counter-sanctions and various other kinds of global tensions. We may see it as a proxy conflict with some global involvement.
"I don't think we'd directly fight Russia in the sense of combat troops getting involved. I think there could be other types of involvement in the sense of providing weapons and economic support for Ukraine.
Stay in the know. Share your email to get all the latest politics news and headlines from Bristol Live
"In terms of international factors they are quite concerned about the possibility that Ukraine might be moving closer to the west, possibly moving closer to NATO and the EU and they would like to prevent that.
Now, Dr Magnus Feldmann, senior lecturer in politics at the University of Bristol has answered some of our questions on the conflict. His core expertise relating to the conflict involves Russian politics and foreign policy, but also the Ukrainian and global perspective.
On a local scale, a vigil was held in Bristol earlier this afternoon on College Green to show the city's solidarity with Ukraine. One heartbroken Ukrainian spoke of her "anger and frustration" towards the conflict.
"The one thing I would stress is that there's a lot of uncertainty here and a lot of what will happen will be quite contingent on what happens next, how successful particular operations are, how firm particular responses are and how effective they may be.
"There could be some sharing of resources ranging from intelligence to other kinds of military resources. It's unlikely there would be any direct military involvement from Britain."
"I think it's in Russia's interests at the moment to signal the possibility of nuclear involvement as a way of deterring other countries from getting too involved. That's quite a deliberate tactic.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has since unveiled a "massive" package of sanctions that will be imposed on Russia following the full-scale invasion that was launched on their neighbours. The sanctions include freezing Russian assets, introducing new legislation, banning certain aircraft and more.
"It's possible that Russia could attack other countries. Other interventions within the former Soviet Union could be possible. It might not be the same kind as this one, but I think it is possible. It comes down to how well does the Russian leadership estimate the strategic possibilities here and it's very likely that the Russian government is thinking hard about the risks, as there are obviously big risks for Russia as well.
