Bristols morning briefing Bus services axed  toilets now takeaway  write to Kill the Bill protester
20220316
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/bristol-news/bristols-morning-briefing-bus-services-6809927
Get the best stories about the things you love most curated by us and delivered to your inbox every day. Choose what you love   here
Thanks for tuning in this morning. Don't forget our next update is coming to you at lunchtime.
Russia-Ukraine war : Russian soldiers are reportedly holding 500 hostages - including patients and doctors - at a Mariupol hospital, claimed a Ukrainian governor. Parents have also been forced to leave premature babies in a hospital in the Ukrainian city with around 350,000 people trapped without food and water running out, according to reports. Stay in the loop by following our live blog here.
Old toilet turned takeaway: A teacher with a lifelong love of cooking has opened the first Asian street food takeaway in Clevedon. During the covid lockdowns, Mafe Tucker turned her talents into a takeaway business at home, cooking up her South East Asian street food for people looking for a special treat. She has now taken over a former public toilet site as her permeant base to serve up her dishes. Heather has more on this story.
Crash on key route: Drivers could face delays after a crash in Bristol this morning. We'll be keeping you up to date with traffic news through our live blog this morning. Click here to read.
Village spared: Residents of a neighbouring village in North Somerset have rejoiced after the news they will not be faced with hundreds of new homes. The news comes amid plans to build thousands of new homes elsewhere in the region. Read more on the verdict here.
'Write to Kill the Bill protester' : Supporters of a woman jailed yesterday for her part in the Kill The Bill riots in Bristol a year ago have urged people to write to her in prison to show their support. Campaigners said they were proud of Jasmine York, who they said tried to protect women around her and claim she was severely beaten by police during the clashes last March, Tristan reports.
Baby almost hit: Two people are wanted in connection with throwing items including a brick off the top floor of a Tesco supermarket car park. Police are looking for help identifying people after a baby narrowly avoided being struck. JJ has more details here.
Louisa Streeting here for your Wednesday morning briefing. Scroll down for the latest top stories around Bristol today.
