Bristol theatre stands with Ukraine and cancels Russian state ballet performances
20220227
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/whats-on/bristol-theatre-stands-ukraine-cancels-6725347
"Consequently, the decision has been taken to cancel the forthcoming visit of the Russian State Ballet Company of Siberia to our venues, Edinburgh Playhouse and Bristol Hippodrome, which were scheduled to take place between 3-5 March and 25-26 March respectively.
The Russian company were due to perform at the Bristol Hippodrome on March 25 and 26, but that has now been cancelled, along with a run of performances at another ATG venue, the Edinburgh Playhouse, earlier in March.
Other theatres in Britain - at Northampton and Wolverhampton - have also scrapped the shows, throwing the entire tour by the Russian State ballet company into doubt.
Want our best stories with fewer ads and alerts when the biggest news stories drop? Download our app on iPhone or Android
In a statement issued on behalf of the Bristol Hippodrome, the Ambassador Theatre Group said it would be in touch with people who had bought tickets.
The Russian State Ballet of Siberia last performed in Bristol in February 2019, and this was to be their first tour of Britain since the Covid pandemic.
"The Ambassador Theatre Group stands firmly behind the people and nation of Ukraine at this time," the statement said.
Read more: Russia Ukraine war: Putin's troops storm Kyiv in fierce battle to seize city - updates
The acclaimed national ballet company were returning to the city for the first time in three years
The Ambassador Theatre Group, which runs the Bristol Hippodrome, had been due to stage performances by the Russian State Ballet Company of Siberia next month.
"We hope for a swift return to peace and stability in the region. We will be in touch with customers who had tickets for these performances as soon as possible, and thank them for their patience and understanding," they added.
Bosses at Bristol's biggest theatre have cancelled a run of performances by a Russian ballet company, saying they 'stand firmly behind the people of Ukraine'.
Ukrainians and Bristolians turned out in their hundreds on College Green earlier today Saturday, February 26 in a show of support and solidarity with people in Ukraine, as Russia continued its invasion of the central European country.
