More than 150 Ukrainian refugees coming to South Gloucestershire
20220404
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/bristol-news/more-150-ukrainian-refugees-coming-6895241
This means that, so far, just over 300 Ukrainian refugees are expected to come to the Bristol region. North Somerset Council is yet to release details on the number of Ukrainian refugees it will welcome.
However, the Home Office has said it stands shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine and that the changes made to the visa process will make it quicker and simpler for Ukrainians with valid passports to come here. Nearly two weeks after Russia had launched its attack in Ukraine, local authorities in the Bristol region were still waiting for Government guidance on the welcoming of Ukrainian refugees in the area.
Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol.
"This has been an ongoing problem where the Home Office have put people in hotels without talking to the local authority. And we have one here again.
In recent weeks, the Government has faced criticism over the speed and scale of its efforts to bring fleeing Ukrainians from the Russian invasion to the UK. One of those people to criticise the UK government was a Ukrainian living in Bristol who said the government response was "too slow".
The city mayor said that some Ukrainian refugees have now started arriving in Bristol, including children with certain particular medical needs who have come to the city's hospitals. Mr Rees described supporting Ukrainian refugees as a priority and said that, for example, the council is looking at the support it can provide to host families and how to build networks of host families to build support groups.
The Homes for Ukraine scheme, rolled out earlier this month, will allow individuals, charities, community groups and businesses to bring people fleeing the war to safety - even if they have no ties to the UK and receive 350 per month as a "thank you" payment.
However, a week later, the city council was able to give some more details and South Gloucestershire Council has now said: "We are expecting 151 people and they will be arriving from today referring to Friday, April 1 and over the weekend."
Speaking during a press briefing earlier this week, Bristol mayor Marvin Rees said there are 150 Ukrainian refugees registered to come to Bristol. He said: "One of the challenges with this is that it it is a national scheme, that was thought up, designed and announced without any conversation with local government. And it is being administered nationally as well.
A total of 151 Ukrainian refugees are expected to come to South Gloucestershire, the council has said, having started arriving on Friday last week and over the weekend. That is a very similar amount to Bristol, where 150 Ukrainian refugees are due to come, according to the mayor, with some already here.
