PM warns Vladimir Putin not to invade Ukraine
20220208
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/vladimir-putin-warned-not-invade-6619423
Mr Johnson also said he was considering dispatching RAF Typhoon fighters and Royal Navy warships to protect south-eastern Europe after sending 350 British troops to Poland.
Mr Johnson, writing in The Times, said the UK will not flinch now and that Britain will remain unconditional and immovable in supporting the Nato defence alliance.
With Russia having amassed an estimated 130,000 troops near its border with Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss will head to Moscow for talks with counterpart Sergei Lavrov as diplomatic attempts to avert a war continue.
So I hope the Kremlin might yet realise how its objectives would not be served by inflicting still greater destruction and bloodshed on Ukraine.
Earlier in the day, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the 350 British troops being dispatched to Poland will send a strong signal that the two countries stand side by side.
The Prime Minister says that move would backfire and only serve only to strengthen Natos hand.
Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol.
Nor could there be a more compelling argument for the necessity of Nato than the sight of Russian tanks invading a European country once again.
Nato is a defensive alliance. It poses no threat to Russia. It is a self-defence mechanism amongst our allies. That is what it is there for. No one wants to divide and rule Russia, he said.
Mr Wallace said the extra troops will add to 100 Royal Engineers already in Poland.
Because of his build-up, America, France, Italy and other allies are deploying forces to Natos south-eastern flank, just as the UK reinforces the northeast.
Poland is also facing a crisis on its own border with Belarus, whose leader Alexander Lukashenko is an ally of Putin.
But Mr Johnson wrote: If he launches another invasion, he will force the West to bring about much of what he seeks to prevent. In fact this is already happening.
