Russia Ukraine crisis Bristol readers have say on how British troops should help
20220227
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/bristol-news/russia-ukraine-crisis-bristol-readers-6721192
One reader who disagreed with sending troops wrote: "When has war ever brought peace?" and another said: "It is a Russian EU problem." "Putin has warned any country who interferes will pay," wrote another.
To keep up to date with latest Bristol politics news, and discuss thoughts with other residents, join our Bristol politics news and discussion here. You can also sign up to our brand new politics newsletter here.
Around 50 people attended the vigil, with some people travelling from outside the city to attend.
A vigil to show solidarity with Ukraine was held in Bristol on Thursday afternoon February 24. The vigil took place at 4pm on College Green and was organised by the Ukrainian community in the city.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky delivered a national address on Friday morning February 25 during which he confirmed multiple Russian strikes have hit the capital as well as other parts of the country. He said: "We have information that enemy sabotage groups have entered Kyiv. Therefore, I urge Kyiv residents to be careful and follow the curfew rules."
Ukrainians living in Bristol have opened up about what the past few days have been like for them - not being able to get hold of relatives, constantly watching the news and social media and being up all night. Olena Naujokaitiene, who has lived in Bristol since 2011, was struggling to hold back her emotion during an interview with Bristol Live, bursting into tears at several points.
Stay in the know. Share your email to get all the latest politics news and headlines from Bristol Live
One of the city's MPs has also issued a statement already, saying "Bristol stands with Ukraine". This came after Russia launched a 'full-scale invasion' of the country overnight on Thursday and Boris Johnson made a televised address to the nation on Thursday morning.
Read more: Ukrainians in Bristol react to Russia's 'full-scale invasion' - 'I have not slept at all'
What do you think? Sign in and let us know in the comments below or take part in the survey at the bottom of this article
On Friday February 25 Defence Secretary Ben Wallace told the BBC that British troops will not be sent to Ukraine to fight Russia, but that the military would provide "every piece of equipment we can get to them" to support their efforts.
The PM said that Russian President Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction with his attack on Ukraine, adding the UK and its allies would respond decisively. More than 13,000 people have been killed in the war in eastern Ukraine since 2014. A quarter of these were civilians, according to the United Nations.
Russian troops are closing in and Ukraine says at least 137 civilians and soldiers were killed on Thursday - the first day of the invasion - as residents are being told to take shelter in bunkers. The BBC reports that more than 1,000 Ukrainians fleeing the invasion have arrived by train in the Polish city of Przemysl.
And, of the people who have taken part in our survey asking the question 'Should the UK send British troops to help Ukraine?', the majority of respondents said it shouldn't. Of 89 answers so far, 34 said that the UK should send troops in, with 50 saying it shouldn't. Five said they were unsure.
However, one reader said the UK should send troops "to help defend democracy", with another one reasoning: "We need to support this country when it needs us most. I'm sure they would do the same for us".
In the early hours of the morning on Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a major military attack on Ukraine, despite months of denying planning such a move. Explosions and missile strikes have been reported in several parts of Ukraine including cities Kyiv and Kharkiv.
Another reader who supported sending troops in said: "They clearly need assistance and shouldn't be left on their own to deal with the issue. We sent forces to LibyaAfghanistanIraq and many other places, with less reason."
The majority of BristolLive readers who responded to a survey do not think the UK should send British troops to help in Ukraine.
