Russian holidays from Bristol cancelled amid crisis in Ukraine
20220228
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/bristol-news/russian-holidays-bristol-cancelled-amid-6721310
The government advises against all travel to Ukraine currently, and the same applies for certain sections of Russia on its border. But flights from Bristol Airport are resuming as normal, according to spokesperson for the airport. Bristol Airport does not run direct flights to Russia or Ukraine.
Read more: Could British troops be sent to fight in Ukraine? Defence secretary says no to UK deployment
Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol.
One local travel agent said there is no need for people to change their plans
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has sent shockwaves through the world, and many will be wondering how it might affect their ability to travel through Europe.
Some customers who had holidays booked to these countries before May have been given a refund, while others have rebooked them to another destination or deferred until next year. And with the situation uncertain, anyone who has booked in with them to travel to one of the four countries after June 1 will need to wait and see what unfolds.
But holiday agents based in Bristol are keeping a close eye on the situation. Regent Holidays, based on Colston Street, normally send a huge number of their customers to Ukraine and Russia.
Andrea has lived in both countries and described them as "amazing", and said even now people are still hoping to travel to Russia. "We've had customers who actually really still want to go to Russia so we've had to explain it's not really feasible at the moment," she said.
She said: "At the moment it's really too early to see if it's going to have any impact on future bookings it's not something that we're overly concerned about at the minute. But it's something that we've got to keep an eye on." However, she said that she does not think people need to change their travel plans currently.
Regent have also been in touch with their business partners in the Ukraine to check in with them, and say that for now they are monitoring the situation closely. Andrea told Bristol Live that the sudden invasion has been "shocking", and said: "Nobody really knows what's happening. Ukrainians that I've spoken to certainly weren't expecting this."
Another Bristol travel agent said they are also keeping close tabs on the uncertain situation. Carolyn Park, director of C The World, said they had no bookings for Ukraine or Russia so have not had to cancel anything, but with the situation changing constantly she thinks it is too early to tell whether other European travel could be affected.
"I think in the short term everybody's just going to carry on as normal but we don't know how this is going to develop, so it's just a case of watch and wait. But there no reason for people to change their travel plans as it stands at the moment."
The company has now cancelled all of its holidays to the two countries until the end of May, and the same rules have applied to nearby Belarus and Moldova. Russia is normally their second most popular destination, while Ukraine is normally third or fourth, according to brand manager Andrea Godfrey.
"All flights to and from Bristol Airport are operating as normal and are not impacted by the situation in Ukraine. Airlines operating from Bristol Airport liaise closely with Government and any customers concerned about travel to the Region, are advised to visit the Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO website, for the latest travel advice," they said.
