RussiaUkraine crisis Fuel prices to hit new record high any time soon
20220224
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/bristol-news/russia-ukraine-crisis-fuel-prices-6711508
This would cause untold financial difficulties for many people who depend on their cars for getting to work and running their lives as it would skyrocket the cost of a full tank to 85.
AA president Edmund King said: Russias attack on Ukraine and resulting geopolitical uncertainty has pushed Brent crude above 100 US dollars per barrel for first time since 2014. This will result in hikes in prices at the pumps. New record fuel prices are likely any time soon.
Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol.
ALSO READ: Timeline of Covid-19 restrictions in England  two years of lockdowns, tiers and self-isolation
RAC fuel spokesman Simon Williams said the increase in the cost of oil will inevitably lead to wholesale fuel prices going up, which will in turn push record pump prices even higher. He continued: If the oil price were to increase to 110 US dollars per barrel theres a very real danger the average price of petrol would hit 1.55 a litre.
READ MORE: 'I am petrified': Ukrainians living in Bristol share their worries as crisis deepens
Average fuel prices at UK forecourts are already at record highs, and the situation is expected to worsen as retailers pass on further rises in wholesale costs. The AA and the RAC are both warning that prices at the pumps will increase for UK drivers and the global uncertainty pushes the price of crude oil up even further.
The price of Brent crude oil hit its highest level in eight years shortly after 11am
Drivers in Britain are being warned to expect fuel prices to reach new record highs "any time soon" after Russia invaded Ukraine in the early hours of this morning. The price of Brent crude oil hit its highest level in eight years after increasing by 5.6 per cent to 102.30 US dollars per barrel shortly after 7am.
Mr King advised drivers wanting to conserve fuel to consider cutting out short journeys, car-sharing, reducing speeds and driving more smoothly. Figures from data firm Experian Catalist show the average cost of a litre of petrol at UK forecourts on Tuesday was 149.30p, while diesel cost 152.68p.
For all the latest updates on the Russia-Ukraine crisis and the effect on the UK, click here
