Russia Ukraine war Putins troops storm Kyiv in fierce battle to seize city  updates
20220226
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russia-ukraine-war-putins-troops-6723533
The Ukraine military claims that 3,500 Russian troops have now died, with almost 200 taken prisoner.
"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.
"The people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.
Speaking in Russian, he said: "I do not believe this war is in your name.
As with almost all the thousands of videos coming out of Ukraine on social media, this is unverified, but purports to show a group of residents in Ukraine coming out to try to stop a Russian tank.
Boris Johnson has made a plea to the Russian people in their own language and Ukrainian.
The PM urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called 'a tragedy for Russia' as well as for Ukraine.
In a video filmed outside his office in the capital city, he added: "We will not put down weapons, we will defend our state."
The Russian State Ballet of Siberia tour the UK regularly - they last performed at the Bristol Hippodrome back in February 2019.
His words came after a key fuel depot in Ukraine was hit by Russian forces near the city of Kharkiv. The facility was targeted in an effort to cut off fuel supplies to Ukraine forces battling to stop Russian advancement as the battle for the capital Kyiv continues.
Also read: Ukrainians in Bristol speak out as Russian troops enter Kyiv - 'my friends are hiding underground'
The Russia-Ukraine conflict is a fast-moving situation. We will be bringing you the latest throughout the day.
He says while Russia is the stronger country on a military level with better equipment the lack of support from around the world means it cannot bring long-term success.
It comes as a total of 28 nations, including the UK, other European countries and the United States, have agreed to give more weapons, medical supplies and other military aid to Ukraine, as Sky News reports.
Since Vladimir Putin ordered Russia s invasion of Ukraine, cities around the country have been besieged by explosions with people hiding in underground metro systems or other shelters.
Buildings have been hit in heavy shell attacks sending large plumes of smoke and flames into the sky, as desperate Ukrainians try to flee the conflict with just the clothes on their back
Dan Baker told how despite the sounds of explosions coming from outside he and his family were watching Netflix to try and keep some normality.
It comes as the US is prepared to evacuate Mr Zelenskyy from Ukraine to avoid him being captured or killed by the invading Russian forces, according to reports, but the president has turned down the offer. He said in response: "the fight is here I need ammunition, not a ride."
It can be a tricky one - you don't want to frighten your child, but it might be something they are already worrying about.
"We salute the fierce bravery and patriotism of your government, your military and your people."
Hundreds of people gathered at College Green in Bristol today as a show of support for Ukraine.
They were due to return to Bristol's biggest theatre next month - but no more. The theatre says it 'stands firmly' with the people of Ukraine instead.
"The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.
According to the President of Ukraine, Germany is supplying weapons to his country's armed forces.
According to the Washington Post, US officials offered to give the Ukrainian President shelter but that he turned down the offer of evacuation . Mr Zelensky, who released a video from the streets of Kyiv this morning, said: "The fight is here. I need ammunition, not a ride".
Ukraine families have been desperately sheltering from shelling and in the midst of the bombs and destruction in Kyiv a new born girl has been pictured, the Mirror reports.
The England World Cup hero is now a TV presenter - and he points out the difference between the Russian people and their leader
Paul Knott says the invasion was not a war which could be won long-term by the Russian leader.
What's interesting - if true - is that the Russians weren't exactly opening fire on the residents of this town...
Horrific footage from overnight shows armed forces engaging in a fierce fight. Buildings have been hit in heavy shell attacks sending large plumes of smoke and flames into the sky, as desperate Ukrainians try to flee the conflict with just the clothes on their back.
And he even said he felt "lucky" as their home still had food, water, electricity, and WiFi, adding that many people sleeping in metro stations are finding things much tougher.
In the midst of the horrors a mum is reportedly happy after the birth of a baby girl in a shelter in Kyiv.
All major UK mobile phone providers have waived charges on calls, texts and data to and from Ukraine so checking on loved ones is free. Please RT and spread the word. Ukraine pic.twitter.comasvlJuOHUS
Volodymyr Zelensky has given a defiant message from the streets of Kyiv, saying that the war must be stopped. The President of Ukraine made the statement after a night of heavy fighting in the capital.
"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again.
President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky confirmed 137 civilians and military personnel were killed in the country on the first day of the Russian invasion.
A British diplomat who has worked in both Russia and Ukraine says he believes Vladimir Putin has 'lost his mind'
The Kyiv government says fighting has broken out on the streets of Ukraine's capital as Putin's troops battle to seize the city.
Last night, Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky said: "The enemy will use all the forces at his disposal to break our resistance. Vile, harsh and not human. This night they will storm Kyiv."
A British dad has vowed not to be "kicked out" of his Kyiv home after the Russian left him sheltering with his young family in the basement.
