RussiaUkraine LIVE Russia bombs childrens hospital as Kyiv braces for attack
20220310
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russia-ukraine-live-russia-bombs-6780074
The UK Government is set to ease its entry requirements for Ukrainian refugees following days of mounting criticism on the delays facing asylum seekers with ties to Britain. Those with passports can apply for entry to the UK online and only have to provide biometric details when they have arrived.
Scenes of devastation were left following the strike at the hospital in the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy condemned the strike as an atrocity and has called once again on Western states to impose a no-fly zone and to agree to Poland handing over large jet planes.
Chelsea FC owner Roman Abramovich has been sanctioned by the UK for his links to Vladimir Putin as the Government continued to punish Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
Russian and Ukrainian diplomats will hold face-to-face talks on Thursday in the first high-level contact between the two countries since the invasion began two weeks ago.
Three people, one of them a child, have been killed following Russia's recent airstrike wounding 17 more people in Mariupol. There are reports of two more hospitals being bombed in the west of Ukraine and fears the Russian military could deploy chemical weapons in further attacks.
Meanwhile, Russian tanks are reportedly closing in on Kyiv with images showing a 40-mile convoy, just 13 miles away from the centre earlier this morning. The Russian military has been trying to encircle Kyiv and cut the city off since the war began two weeks ago while forcing it into submission through continual airstrikes.
In the House of Lords, a clause has been rejected to criminalise refugees who arrive in the UK by an irregular journey rather than those who arrive through official resettlement schemes.
Described as a pro-Kremlin oligarch, Mr Abramovich was hit with an asset freeze and a travel ban in an updated sanctions list published on Thursday after ministers came under sustained pressure to target him. The Government document says he has had a close relationship for decades with the Russian President.
The thermobaric weapon, also known as an aerosol bomb or fuel air explosive, are not illegal but its effects can be horrific. They have the effect of creating a vacuum and sucking the air out of the lungs of people in the area close to the explosion.
These weapons are not illegal but their use is strictly regulated, which pull in oxygen from the air in their surroundings to create a high-temperature explosion, the department said.
The world has reacted in horror after Russia has bombed a maternity and children's hospital on Thursday evening after the country confirmed it has been using vacuum bombs.
The Russian MoD has confirmed the use of the TOS-1A weapon system in Ukraine. The TOS-1A uses thermobaric rockets, creating incendiary and blast effects.Watch the video below for more information about this weapon and its devastating impact. StandWithUkrainepic.twitter.comd8PLQ0PhQD
Russia has dismissed reports it bombed a childrens hospital in Mariupol as fake news, claiming it had been taken over by troops. They have also accused the US of having biological weapons labs in Ukraine, a claim which the White House has labelled "preposterous" and "false".
The Ministry of Defence, however, has said Putin's troops have been hit by "continued losses" and that there is a "noticeable" decrease in air activity, in a statement released on Twitter.
On Twitter, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the UK was considering more support for Ukraine to defend itself against airstrikes and saying the nation would hold President Vladimir Putin to account for his terrible crimes. There are reports of more hospitals being bombed on the western side of the country with at least 18 hospitals since the invasion began two weeks ago, says the World Health Organisation.
Many refugees fled Ukraine to Calais only to find they could not apply for a visa there. From Tuesday, no visa appointments will be required for Ukrainian nationals with passports, Pritti Patel told the Commons.
The Ministry of Defence MoD says Russia has confirmed the use of thermobaric rockets  often called vacuum bombs  in Ukraine and is also likely deploying private mercenaries. The MoD said its Russian counterpart had confirmed the use of thermobaric rockets creating incendiary and blast effects in the invasion.
Bristol City Council is expected to call on the Government to increase support for Ukrainian refugees and scrap a law that will criminalise asylum seekers based on how they travel to the UK. The Labour Group calls on city council party leaders to write to the Government to ask for the Nationality and Borders Bill, which is going through Parliament, to be thrown out.
This association has included obtaining a financial benefit or other material benefit from Putin and the Government of Russia, it said.
The current legislation means anyone travelling by an unsanctioned route, such as a small boat across the English Channel, could have their application ruled as inadmissible, be jailed for up to four years and have family prevented from joining them.
The situation in Ukraine is a fast-moving situation. We'll bring you updates as we have them throughout the day.
