Zelensky calls on G7 to do more to support Ukraines fight against Russia
20220627
https://www.bristolpost.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/zelensky-calls-g7-more-support-7258653
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky will urge leaders of some of the worlds richest countries to do more to support his nations fight against Russia. Mr Zelensky will address Boris Johnson, Joe Biden and other G7 leaders by video link from Kyiv as his country continues to come under attack from Vladimir Putins missiles.
We talk about this every day with our partners. There are already some agreements. And partners need to move faster if they are really partners, not observers. Delays in the transfer of weapons to our state, any restrictions are actually an invitation for Russia to strike again and again.
Mr Johnson also wants G7 leaders to look at the use of grain for biofuel, claiming the use of it to power vehicles may be reducing availability and pushing up food costs. The UK will also put 1.5 million in to developing a testing process to identify whether grain sold by Russia has been illegally smuggled from Ukraine.
But global leaders need to come together and apply their combined economic and political heft to help Ukraine and make life easier for households across the world. Nothing should be off the table.
Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol.
Mr Johnson will use Mondays session at the G7 summit in Germany to call for urgent action to help get vital grain supplies out of Ukraines blockaded ports to support the countrys economy and alleviate shortages around the world. Time is running out to prevent stores of grain rotting in silos, with Julys harvest set to exacerbate the problem.
As Russian missile strikes continued to hit Ukrainian towns and cities, Boris Johnson warned the country is on a 'knife edge'
As Russian missile strikes continued to hit Ukrainian towns and cities, Mr Johnson warned the country is on a knife edge, with Russian troops grinding forward in the east. The blockade of major Ukrainian ports such as Odesa, attacks on farms and warehouses and the wider impact of the Russian invasion have all added to the problems facing food from the country reaching the global market.
The Prime Minister will tell G7 leaders on Monday: Putins actions in Ukraine are creating terrible aftershocks across the world, driving up energy and food prices as millions of people are on the brink of famine. Only Putin can end this needless and futile war.
The Prime Minister has played down the prospect of the Royal Navy being sent in to help merchant vessels beat the Russian blockade. But he has said British expertise in remote de-mining and insurance of shipping in contested waters could help vessels get the grain out by sea.
Ukraine previously supplied 10 of the worlds wheat, up to 17 of the worlds maize and half of the worlds sunflower oil. Some 25 million tonnes of corn and wheat is currently at risk of rotting in Ukrainian silos.
Russias actions have driven up food prices globally, including in the UK, while 47 million people around the world in countries dependent on Ukrainian grain are at risk of humanitarian disaster.
Mr Zelensky will address both the G7 and Nato summits over the coming days. Ahead of his speech to the G7 leaders gathered in the luxury Schloss Elmau hotel in the Bavarian Alps, Mr Zelensky said he would demand extra defence systems to combat the missile bombardment.
The occupiers  these terrorists  must be beaten with all our might so that they do not think they can put pressure and outplay someone.
We need a powerful air defence  modern, fully effective  which can ensure complete protection against these missiles, he said.
Mr Johnson will call for an international solution to the crisis, including finding overland routes for grain supplies to beat the Russian blockade, with 10 million in materials and equipment to repair damaged rail infrastructure. The UK has also been urging Turkey, which controls access to the Black Sea, to do more to get grain supplies out by ship.
In his nightly address on Sunday, he urged the allies to be partners, not observers and give his country the ability to defend itself, warning that any delay would be an invitation to Russia to strike again.
