Putin warns West Moscow has red line about Ukraine NATO
20211130
https://www.somerset-kentucky.com/news/putin-warns-west-moscow-has-red-line-about-ukraine-nato/article_d2590c66-520d-11ec-bc8a-63be31643811.html
Commenting on Western concerns about Russias alleged intention to invade Ukraine, he said that Moscow is equally worried about NATO drills near its borders.
Asked about Bidens bid to seek a second term, Putin said he thought it would help the U.S. political stability. The Russian leader drew a parallel with his own reelection plans.
He added that Russia has been forced to counter the growing threats by developing new hypersonic weapons.
The Zircon hypersonic cruise missile, capable of flying at nine times the speed of sound to a range of 1,000 kilometers 620 miles, has undergone a series of tests, most recently Monday.
The Russian leader noted that Russia has worried about NATO drills near its borders, pointing at a recent exercise that involved U.S. strategic bombers.
He said a new hypersonic missile that is set to enter service with the Russian navy early next year would be capable of reaching targets in comparable time.
It would also need just five minutes to reach those who issue orders, Putin said.
In line with the constitution, I have the right to get elected to seek a new term, but I havent yet made up my mind whether to do it or not, Putin said. But the very existence of that right already stabilizes the domestic political situation.
The Kremlin has insisted it has no such intention and has accused Ukraine and its Western backers of making the claims to cover up their own allegedly aggressive designs.
Earlier this year, a spike in cease-fire violations in the east and a Russian troop concentration near Ukraine fueled war fears, but tensions abated when Moscow pulled back the bulk of its forces after maneuvers in April.
Putin argued that to avoid tensions, Russia and the West should negotiate agreements that would safeguard each partys security interests.
Strategic bombers, which carry precision weapons and are capable of carrying nuclear weapons, were flying as close as 20 kilometers 12 miles to our border, Putin said. That represents a threat for us.
The 69-year-old president has been in power for more than two decades  longer than any other Kremlin leader since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin. Constitutional amendments approved in 2020 reset Putins previous term limits, allowing him to run for president two more times and hold onto power until 2036.
The matter is not whether to send troops or not, go to war or not, but to establish a more fair and stable development and taking into account security interests of all international players, he replied when asked if Russia was going to invade Ukraine. If we sincerely strive for that, no one will fear any threats.
Speaking to participants of an online investment forum. Putin said that NATOs eastward expansion has threatened Russias core security interests. He expressed concern that NATO could eventually use the Ukrainian territory to deploy missiles capable of reaching Moscow in just five minutes.
Asked about Chinas nuclear buildup, Putin said that Russia isnt worried about it, adding that close ties between Moscow and Beijing are a major factor of global stability.
The emergence of such threats represents a red line for us, Putin said. I hope that it will not get to that and common sense and responsibility for their own countries and the global community will eventually prevail.
Ukrainian and Western officials have expressed worries this month that a Russian military buildup near Ukraine could signal plans by Moscow to invade its ex-Soviet neighbor. NATO foreign ministers warned Russia on Tuesday that any attempt to further destabilize Ukraine would be a costly mistake.
After the buildup of Russian troops near Ukraine early this year, Putin and U.S. President Joe Biden held a June summit in Geneva, where they agreed to launch a dialogue on strategic stability and cybersecurity. Putin on Tuesday hailed the cybersecurity discussions between Russian and U.S. experts, saying just as with the pandemic, its necessary to pool efforts to work efficiently.
What should we do? Putin said. We would need to develop something similar to target those who threaten us. And we can do that even now.
MOSCOW AP  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday sternly warned NATO against deploying its troops and weapons to Ukraine, saying it represents a red line for Russia and would trigger a strong response.
Russia annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula in 2014 after the countrys Kremlin-friendly president was driven from power by mass protests and also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency that broke out in Ukraines east.
Even though Putin hasnt decided yet whether to seek another term before his current one ends in 2024, he said the possibility of him staying on has helped Russias stability.
