Asda removes Russian products and announces 1 million Ukrainian support package
20220306
https://www.hillingdontimes.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19972635.asda-removes-russian-products-announces-1-million-ukrainian-support-package/
John Cookman, deputy chair at the Asda Foundation said: We have a long history of supporting grassroots community groups across the UK, and that includes when communities respond in times of global crisis.
The community spirit that is at the heart of Asda extends beyond our own borders and were proud to have worked with a range of partners in the UK to provide practical and meaningful support for Ukrainians at home and for those who continue to seek safety in neighbouring countries.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Asda and its charity, the Asda Foundation, have announced a 1m support package for displaced Ukrainian families in Europe and the UK.
Many have been forced to leave their homes following the Russian invasion and conflict. The supermarket hopes to provide immediate support for families as well as long-term support for refugees that arrive in the UK.
As well as providing this support, Asda will allow customers to make cash donations in stores and via grocery home shopping. These donations will go to international charities working on the ground in Ukraine and neighbouring countries.
As we look ahead to the coming months we see an ongoing need to support refugees arriving in the UK and are pleased to be able to play our part in helping groups to provide essential support services on the ground.
The supermarket has also announced it will be removing all products that originate from Russia from both stores and online.
We are shocked and saddened by the events in Ukraine. That's why we're donating a 1 million package to support those affected and removing Russian products from our stores and https:t.coFIe4AD59oJ. We stand with Ukraine. https:t.coDKW0LaBZDj pic.twitter.com5an5sszGIs
Mohsin Issa, Asdas co-owner, said: We stand with our customers and colleagues who are shocked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine - and our thoughts are with those people whose lives are affected by this crisis.
