Ukrainian mother daughter reunited in Wyo
20220413
https://www.wyomingnews.com/rawlinstimes/rawlinstimes/news/ukrainian-mother-daughter-reunited-in-wyo/article_616f6817-c7b4-5104-9868-2647fe1638ad.html
Another thing they both said they never expected to feel coming from the war was unity. It shines through one of the most difficult moments not only of their lives, but for all of the citizens of their nation. Wiggam said eastern and western Ukraine now realize they have more in common, which is the determination to be free from Russia. Whatever divisions or doubts were felt before have disappeared.
It wasnt until Wiggam arranged travel for her mother with family friends that she felt prepared to leave. If she didnt take the opportunity to be with companions on the 13-hour shuttle to Poland, and then catch another daylong ride to Germany, she would have to do it alone in the future.
The ability to come to the U.S. was also made possible by the fact that Kochubei holds a tourist visa, which allows her to spend up to six months at a time here. Without it, she would not have been permitted to stay.
Tamara Kochubeis first week back in America since the COVID-19 pandemic started has been filled with mixed emotions. She braved the weeklong trek across Europe before departing from the airport in Frankfurt, Germany, last Friday, and accepted she might not have a home to return to.
Both agreed it was the best decision to come to Cheyenne, even with the feeling of grief following Kochubeis departure. Now, they said, they have a sense of security.
With things having been safer, she said this was one of the factors that impacted her decision to stay. Buses and trains were full of Ukrainians trying to leave the fighting zones, and Kochubei did not want to take the spot of someone in need.
The best thing has probably been how quiet it is. Sirens are not going off, and you can actually sleep through the night without getting woken up by the siren that tells you that you have to get up and go to the shelter, Kochubei said. And just spending time with a kid with the grandkids and enjoying family has been the most favorite part.
She didnt want to leave her home, Wiggam translated for her mother. She didnt want to leave her job because she has lots of friends at work and colleagues, and even just people in her apartment complex. And she didnt want to lock up her apartment and leave it, because who knows what happens later, and if she even has a home to go back to.
Wiggam said she was grateful this opportunity was available to them. She was always worried about her mother living alone after her fathers death, but the war exacerbated the feeling. There was no way to get to her if something went wrong.
In Ukraine, the new thing they say is glory to Ukraine, glory to the heroes, she said.
CHEYENNE  More than a month after Russian troops invaded Ukraine, a mother fleeing the country has been reunited with her daughter in Cheyenne.
She said coming to see her daughter, local paralegal Iryna Wiggam, was a rush of relief, but her heart is still with the people of Ukraine she left behind.
Im not getting shot everyday, but people who are, they need to be able to leave, she said.
I cant jump on the plane anymore because the airports in Ukraine are shut down, she said.
Before she made the decision to leave, the Ukrainian citizen spent the entire first month of the invasion in her hometown of Cherkasy, a city in the central part of the former Soviet republic. She continued to work at the clinic as a family physician, interrupted by air raid sirens three to four times a shift. Although the city was at risk of bombing because its less than 130 miles south of Kyiv, it wasnt actively under siege.
