Walker Vladimir Putin Ask not for whom the bell tolls
20220402
https://www.wyomingnews.com/laramieboomerang/opinion/guest_column/walker-vladimir-putin-ask-not-for-whom-the-bell-tolls/article_5ccc6811-ecbd-54c9-9476-8181c11b5150.html
About a minute later, I began to unload my shopping cart onto the small conveyer belt. When I grabbed the big box of waffle mix, I heard the boy shout to his father, Waffles! Hes getting waffles! A large smile appeared upon his fathers face.
A few years ago, I was waiting in the checkout line at one of our local box stores. A young boy, who appeared to be approximately 3 years old, and his father were in front of me. The boy stared at me while sitting in a shopping cart. I smiled and said, Hello. The boy quickly turned his head and began looking toward the cashier. I surmised that he was a bit shy toward strangers.
A few seconds later, I picked up a large and clear plastic container which was filled with fresh strawberries. The boy then said, And strawberries! Waffles and strawberries! The boys father again smiled as he placed his bagged groceries into his shopping cart. As I watched them depart, I suspected that they would, in the very near future, together enjoy a breakfast of waffles and strawberries.
Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh! Matthew 18:4-7 KJV
But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.
A few days later, I read a news story about the many Ukrainian children who have recently been killed by the Russian military. Within this story was a photograph of 109 empty strollers, with flowers lovingly placed where little ones are supposed to be seated.
No one can dispute the fact that Vladimir Putin has offended millions of Gods precious little ones. Mortal minds cannot comprehend the full nature and magnitude of the horrific and everlasting consequences that the baby killer named Putin will inevitably experience. Yes, Putin is one of Satans many servants, but I am compelled to wonder if the Devil himself now hangs his head in shame over Putins many egregious atrocities?
A few weeks ago, I was watching the morning news when I saw a video of some very sad Ukrainian childrens faces. The little Ukrainian children were overflowing with sorrow because they were forced to say goodbye to their fathers. Tears welled up in my eyes. As I have written before, family isnt everything, family is the only thing.
Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God, also taught us, in no uncertain terms, about the consequences for those who harm children:
I know that the vast majority of the informed inhabitants of our world, which includes millions of Russian citizens, do not condone Putins ideology or his despicable conduct. How then, are the likes of Putin allowed to gain leadership and power in our mortal world?
It is my fervent hope and prayer that, in the not too distant future, the wicked will fail and the righteous will prevail, and Ukrainian families will be permitted to safely reunite. Wouldnt it be wonderful if all of Gods choice little ones were allowed to regularly enjoy, with their family, a breakfast of waffles with strawberries?
As I now reflect upon this experience, I am reminded of the words that Jesus Christ spoke so many years ago about the importance of children: For of such is the kingdom of heaven. Our little ones are precious and pure. Children are, indeed, our greatest treasure. We must love, cherish and nurture them.
