Wyoming couple flees Ukraine amid Russian bombing
20220312
https://www.wyomingnews.com/rawlinstimes/news/wyoming-couple-flees-ukraine-amid-russian-bombing/article_c43fe856-4177-5a5c-b245-76a4d8423abd.html
Douglas is a really special place to live. The school went out of their way to make sure our kids were being seen and loved on. They checked on us when they heard about the Russian invasion. They say it takes a village  Douglas is a really good village.
She said rows and rows of people with suitcases were just walking along the roads.
After nearly a year, Caius and Juniper officially joined the Witbrod family and were to head back to Douglas the next day. That night, Russia invaded Ukraine.
Everything was moving really fast, but time was standing still. I dont think you can fully comprehend whats happening. We were driving in a convoy of military vehicles for a bit  so unreal. We kept thinking, This is our next step, just take the next step.
We just did the next step to get us to safety. To Moldova. To Romania. Putting that distance between us and what was happening, she said once they arrived back in Douglas this week. They got to the Romanian border at 10 p.m. that night.
After we crossed into Romania, Alex said, Now you can buy tickets to get out of Romania and go to Poland. I called and booked our tickets. There were four seats left on the plane we got three, Sarahs voice was quiet, then trailed off.
Both children have medical conditions, which is one of the reasons the Witbrods chose to adopt them  to give them a chance at growing up and having happy, full lives.
Feb. 26 the Witbrods landed in Warsaw, Poland, where they waited on the childrens medical clearances from the U.S. Embassy to be approved.
Next, they stopped at a place that was being remodeled into a wedding complex, but they were allowed to stay there.
We didnt sleep. We had a moment. We changed the kids diapers and clothes, fed them a decent meal. They slept for a little bit.
The Romanian people were lovely, they helped us boil water for the bottles. We slept for . . . I dont know, maybe an hour, then we got back into the car and started driving to Bucharest. We got a hotel room at 10 p.m., but we had to leave for the airport at 2 a.m.
In fact, Tony and Sarah chose to give Juniper and Caius Alexs and Yulias names as the kids middle names, to honor the couple who had done so much to help them.
Its been good to be home. The other kids are really, really excited to have their new brother and sister home. Its been so cool for our other kids to see how much goes into the process of adoption. How much you want them, how much you fight for them. Family came and saw them Sunday night. My mom watched three of our kids and Tonys mom watched the other three while we were gone. Were so glad to be home. Tonys gone back to work and suddenly Im here with eight kids. We need to get a schedule in place, Sarah said Monday.
We check on him every day, to see if hes logged on, anything. Just to make sure he is still there.
And Alex  who had been allowed to leave the Ukraine to drive the Witbrods out  could have stayed out. However, he returned to Ukraine to fight for his country, Sarah said.
It was such a sinking feeling. We knew it could be a possibility, but we also knew the children would not make it out if we didnt go. Our son has severe special needs. He has arthrogryposis a condition which affects his joints. He wouldnt have had any hope in that country. Our daughter has VACTERL vertebral defects, anal atresia, cardiac defects, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal anomalies, and limb abnormalities.
As the couples journey out of Ukraine began, they were flooded with messages of love from friends and family, including those in Douglas. Sarah said she went live on Facebook a few times, as she literally had her hands full and it was easier than trying to text everyone.
The couple was wakened at 3:30 a.m. by a bomb exploding nearby. Several more rang out.
DOUGLAS  Even as the bombs began falling outside their hotel room at 3:30 in the morning, Tony and Sarah Witbrod knew they had done the right thing going to Ukraine.
A Ukrainian couple, Alex and Yulia, had facilitated the adoption. That day, their role changed. They had to help the Witbrods get out of Ukraine. A lifelong bond had developed.
By the time we got to Poland, wed been up for over 70 hours. Yulia got us an apartment for later. We didnt have anywhere to go for the entire day we stayed at the airport. We were super, super tired. Our 2.5-year old daughter was ready to move. We didnt speak her language. It wasnt the transition we would have liked for the babies . . . it was hard for her. Our whole focus was to get them out. We had everything we needed in our backpacks, but we would have left it all behind. We were prepared to leave everything. Suddenly, you dont care about your favorite shirt at all. It shows you whats really important.
Women were crying and hugging loved ones. The men werent allowed to leave. Our driver was granted permission to leave the country because he was taking us out, she said. We were given passage into and drove through Moldova. It just felt . . . so . . . surreal. Like we were in a dream. We were driving really, really fast through the Moldovian countryside on rocky unpaved roads. Refugee camps were just starting to go up. The invasion had just started when we left.
Sarah, Tony and the kids went out into the streets, areas which just the night before had been busy, filled with people and nightlife.
Following the explosions, Alex and Yulia called the couple: Pack your bags, we have to get out.
We really upset the U.S. State Department. They knew we were going we had filed our paperwork. They called us and advised us not to go to Ukraine. We said, Those are our babies. We have to go. We have to get them out of there. We knew about the unrest. We had exit strategies in place if something went wrong, but Russia had been talking like that for a long time. Everyone in Ukraine was like, Its Putin, he does that. Its not really anything to be too concerned about, because hed been doing it for so long. Hed been massing troops on the border of Russia and Ukraine for years.
This wasnt the first adoption for the couple, who have six of her children, Lillian, 15 , Micah, 12, Rita, 11, Olive, 8, Thomas, 5, and Ivy, 3, at home. Lillian, Micah and Rita are adopted.
Our son would have been put into a mental institution with no hope of getting out. He cant sit, cant hold his head up, but hes so very joyful and sweet. Mentally, he is there. He interacts, coos, he loves everybody. Because he was born with deformed limbs, he didnt have value in his country. At 35 years old, he would be put into an old folks home. He would have been institutionalized for his entire life with zero hope of ever getting out, she explained.
After landing in Odessa, Sarah and Tony drove to the orphanage in Izmail to see their newest bundles of joy: Caius Oleksandr, 15 months, and Juniper Yulia, 2.5 years.
Alex said, Well just drive along the border until we find a checkpoint without a lot of people waiting and that is going to let us in. People were leaving, evacuating. It was hard to find one crossing that wasnt a 10- hour wait, Sarah said.
We chose to take the risk and go, she said. Im really glad we did. They were the last two orphans who made it out of Ukraine.
They had to get the babies passports, which up until then hadnt been ready. They were rushed and picked up as the new family tried to flee.
Sarah and Tony left Douglas Feb. 19 and arrived in Odessa, Ukraine late Feb. 20.
Because theyre my kids. Once you decide to adopt and are matched with a child or children  those are my kids. If your kids are in a scary, bad place, you get them out. I think what we did is what any parent would do. Go get your kids and get them out, Sarah said matter-of-factly.
