CBS News poll  War in Ukraine What should the US do now
20220410
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-war-what-should-us-do-opinion-poll-2022-04-09/
There are a third who call Mr. Biden's approach about right in terms of leadership, and they profile as seeking nonmilitary resolutions, much in line with recent steps.
Anthony Salvanto, Ph.D., is CBS News' director of elections and surveys. He oversees all polling across the nation, states and congressional races, and heads the CBS News Decision Desk that estimates outcomes on election nights. He is the author of "Where Did You Get This Number: A Pollster's Guide to Making Sense of the World," from Simon  Schuster a division of ViacomCBS, and appears regularly across all CBS News platforms. His scholarly research and writings cover topics on polling methodology, voting behavior, and sampling techniques.
There's strong support for sending Ukraine more weapons to help in their fight, and increased sanctions against Russia find favor, too, as Americans watch continued horrors of the war unfold.
Along with that sentiment toward Mr. Biden, they're much less likely than others to support supplying weapons, or to having U.S. troops bolster NATO. This smaller group contains more Republicans than Democrats. They're also far less likely to think Ukraine matters a lot to U.S. national interests in the first place.
Most Americans say Ukraine does matter to U.S. national interests, for reasons including stopping Russian aggression, protecting the lives of the Ukrainian people and as a reflection on the U.S. role in the world.
Some 41 want Mr. Biden to take an even greater leadership role among world leaders trying to solve the conflict, and they profile as people who want more action overall:
And while few back direct U.S. military action in Ukraine right now, Americans do have a "red line" that could change that: Russian use of chemical or nuclear weapons or an attack into NATO territory would spur a big majority backing for U.S. military action in response.
This CBS NewsYouGov survey was conducted with a nationally representative sample of 2,062 U.S. adult residents interviewed between April 5-8, 2022. The sample was weighted according to gender, age, race, and education based on the U.S. Census American Community Survey and Current Population Survey, as well as to 2020 presidential vote. The margin of error is  2.8 points.
President Biden continues to get mixed reviews for his handling of the situation, in part because people are mixed on how much more  or less  they want him to do from here.
They're even more supportive of sending Ukrainians weapons than Americans overall and even relatively more supportive of sending U.S. troops. They comprise a mix of Republicans and Democrats and are especially likely to see this conflict, which they think matters to U.S. interests, as a reflection of America's leadership in the world.
They're very supportive of sanctions, overwhelmingly saying the events in Ukraine matter as we try to stop Russian aggression, but are, like most Americans, leery about involving U.S. troops. This group is also composed of more Democrats.
This is a smaller group, 25, who want Mr. Biden to take less of a leadership role, and they profile as wanting to be less involved overall.
Support for sanctions on Russia not only remains strong but of those backing them, big majorities favor increasing them now.
