Biden issues new warning to Russia over invading Ukraine
20220121
https://www.borehamwoodtimes.co.uk/news/national/19864414.biden-issues-new-warning-russia-invading-ukraine/
His comments came as US secretary of state Antony Blinken prepared to meet Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov in Geneva in a high-stakes bid to ease tensions that appears likely to fail.
The US and its European partners say they are willing to consider certain less-dramatic gestures but that the Russian demands are out of the question, and that Mr Putin knows they are non-starters.
Mr Bidens warning is the latest White House effort to clear up comments the American leader made a day earlier when he suggested that a minor incursion by Russia into Ukrainian territory could result in a more measured response by the United States and allies.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
It seems at times that President Putin wants to return to that era. We hope not.
Russia wants binding security guarantees, including a permanent prohibition on Ukrainian membership in Nato, to which Kyiv aspires, and the removal of most of the US and allied military presence in eastern Europe.
Amid concerns that Putin may not be moved by threats of sanctions, Mr Blinken made a direct appeal to the Russian people to oppose any intervention.
Separately, Spains defence minister said the country was sending two warships to the Black Sea with Nato approval.
Mr Biden added that an invasion would be met with a severe and coordinated economic response.
These are difficult issues we are facing, and resolving them wont happen quickly, Mr Blinken said. I certainly dont expect well solve them in Geneva tomorrow.
He later told an audience at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences that Russias actions toward Ukraine are an attempt to subvert international norms and just the latest in a series of violations of numerous treaties, agreements and other commitments Moscow has made to respect the sovereignty and territory of other countries.
US president Joe Biden said that any Russian troop movements across Ukraines border would constitute an invasion and that Moscow would pay a heavy price for such an action.
On Wednesday, Mr Biden said he thinks Moscow will invade and warned Mr Putin that Russia would pay a dear price in lives lost and a possible cut-off from the global banking system if it does.
Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova alleged Ukrainian and Western talk of an imminent Russian attack was a cover for staging large-scale provocations of their own, including those of military character.
But Mr Biden also prompted consternation among allies by saying the response to a Russian invasion depends on what it does.
Antonov: Within a few hours StateDept published 3documents designed to incriminate Russian authorities and state media. We didn't see anything new. Washington keeps replicating unfounded allegations and continues to call current developments in  "myths of  propaganda." pic.twitter.comCWbiVUlwnO
We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones, he tweeted.
On Thursday, Russia announced sweeping naval manoeuvres until February, some apparently in the Black Sea, involving over 140 warships and more than 60 aircraft.
Later, Mr Blinken accused Russia of threatening the foundations of world order with its buildup of an estimated 100,000 troops near Ukraine.
Mr Biden said the US is preparing for Russia to take action that falls outside the parameters of conventional warfare.
You deserve to live with security and dignity, like all people everywhere, and no-one  not Ukraine, not the United States, not the countries of Nato  is seeking to jeopardise that.
If any Russian military forces move across the Ukrainian border and commit new acts of aggression against Ukraine, that will be met with a swift, severe, united response from the United States and our allies and partners, Mr Blinken told a news conference with his German counterpart, Annalena Baerbock.
Russia denies it is planning an invasion and, in turn, accused the West of plotting provocations in Ukraine, citing the delivery of weapons to the country by British military transports in recent days.
But what really risks your security is a pointless war with your neighbours in Ukraine, with all the costs that come with it  most of all, for the young people who will risk or even give their lives to it, he said.
Its one thing if its a minor incursion and then we end up having a fight about what to do and not do, et cetera, he said.
FACT: It was Russia that invaded Ukraine in 2014, occupies Crimea, controls armed forces in the Donbas region of Ukraine, and has now amassed more than 100,000 troops on the border with Ukraine. pic.twitter.comdKdPr9j4HC
He has no misunderstanding: Any, any assembled Russian units move across the Ukrainian border, that is an invasion.
Perhaps no place in the world experienced the divisions of the Cold War more than this city, Blinken said. Here, President Kennedy declared all free people citizens of Berlin. Here, President Reagan urged Mr Gorbachev to tear down that wall.
Facing an avalanche of criticism from Republicans and Ukrainian officials that Mr Bidens comments had invited limited military action by Russian president Vladimir Putin, the US leader sought to clarify his remarks at the start of a meeting at the White House focused on domestic policy.
Before traveling to Geneva, Mr Blinken warned in Berlin that there would be a swift, severe response from the United States and its allies if Russia sent any military forces into Ukraine.
Mr Biden has said he is not planning to send combat troops in the case of a further Russian invasion.
But he could pursue less dramatic yet still risky military options, including supporting a post-invasion Ukrainian resistance.
Russia has a long history of using measures other than overt military action to carry out aggression  paramilitary tactics, so-called grey zone attacks and actions by Russian soldiers not wearing Russian uniforms, he said.
