Biden seeks 33 billion for Ukraine a huge jump in funding
20220428
https://www.1470wmbd.com/2022/04/28/biden-seeks-33-billion-for-ukraine-a-huge-jump-in-funding/
WASHINGTON Reuters -President JoeBidenasked Congress for $33 billion to supportUkraine a dramatic escalation of U.S. funding for the war with Russia  and for new tools to siphon assets from Russian oligarchs.
Bidenalso wants the ability to seize more money from Russian oligarchs to pay for the war effort.
U.S. military aid toUkrainealone has topped $3 billion since Russia launched what it calls a special military operation to demilitarize and remove fascists inUkraine. Kyiv and its Western allies reject that as a false pretext.
His proposal would let U.S. officials seize more oligarchs assets, give the cash from those seizures toUkraineand further criminalize sanctions dodging, the White House said.
While lawmakers are broadly supportive of spending onUkraine, Republican congressional aides said on Thursday that efforts to combine the war funding with the pandemic response could make it difficult to pass.
Bidenhas already asked for record peacetime sums to fund Pentagon research and development, and efforts to counter perceived threats from countries including Russia.
The proposed steps include letting the Justice Department use the strict U.S. racketeering law once deployed against the mafia, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations RICO Act, to build cases against people who evade sanctions.
The vast funding request includes over $20 billion for weapons, ammunition and other military assistance, as well as $8.5 billion in direct economic assistance to the government and $3 billion in humanitarian aid.
The new request represents the full amount U.S. officials expect to need through September, the end of the fiscal year.
The full package represents a fifth of pre-war Ukrainian annual economic output, and the $20 billion U.S. military assistance alone is about a third of what the Russian military spent overall last year, before the war began.
I dont care how they do it,Bidensaid. They can do it separately or together, but we need them both.
Bidenalso wants to give prosecutors more time to build such cases by extending the statute of limitations on money laundering prosecutions to 10 years, instead of five. He would also make it a criminal act to hold money knowingly taken from corrupt dealings with Russia, according to a summary of the legislative proposals.
But the funding measure may face issues on Capitol Hill.Bidenasked for $22.5 billion in money for the COVID-19 response in March and Democrats with narrow control of the Senate and House of Representatives may push to have that passed at the same time as theUkrainemeasure.
The United States and its European allies have frozen $30 billion of assets held by wealthy individuals with ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, including yachts, helicopters, real estate and art, theBidenadministration has said.
The measures are part of U.S. efforts to isolate and punish Russia for its Feb. 24 invasion ofUkraine, as well as to help Kyiv recover from a war that has reduced cities to rubble and forced more than 5 million people to flee abroad.
The United States has ruled out sending its own or NATO forces toUkrainebut Washington and its European allies have supplied weapons to Kyiv such as drones, Howitzer heavy artillery, anti-aircraft Stinger and anti-tank Javelin missiles.
We need this bill to supportUkrainein its fight for freedom,Bidensaid at the White House after signing the request on Thursday. The cost of this fight  its not cheap  but caving to aggression is going to be more costly.
A package would include food security assistance, economic stimulus forUkraineand funding to use the Cold War-era Defense Production Act to expand domestic production of key minerals in short supply due to the war.
