Daughter of ultranationalist Russian ideologue killed in suspected car bomb attack
20220822
https://www.1470wmbd.com/2022/08/22/daughter-of-ultra-nationalist-russian-ideologue-killed-in-suspected-car-bomb-attack/
In a statement in March, the U.S. Treasury said Dugina, the chief editor of the United World International website, which has suggested Ukraine would perish if admitted to the NATO military alliance, had been put on a U.S. sanctions list.
He appeared to blame internal power struggles between various political factions in Russia for the killing, and suggested the incident was the Karmic payback for supporters of Russias actions in Ukraine like Dugina and her father.
He wants that empire to include Ukraine whereRussianforces are currentlycarrying out what Moscow calls a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine.
Darya Dugina,daughterof prominentideologueAlexander Dugin, waskilledon Saturday evening after asuspectedexplosive device blew up the Toyota Land Cruiser she was driving,investigatorssaid.
The investigation believes that the crime was planned in advance and was of a contractual nature, it added.
Alexander Dugin, Daryas father, has long advocated the unification ofRussian-speaking and other territories in a vast newRussianempire.
Darya Dugina, who also went by the surname Platonova and was reported byRussianstate media to be 30 years old, broadly supported her fathers ideas and appeared on state TV in her own right to offer support for Russias actions in Ukraine.
Russias TASS state news agency quoted Andrei Krasnov, someone who knew Dugina, as saying the vehicle belonged to her father and that he was probably the intended target.
An explosive device was placed on the underside of thecaron the drivers side, the committee said in a statement. Darya Dugina, who was behind the wheel, died at the scene.
The statement, which described Darya Dugina as a journalist and political expert, saidinvestigatorshad opened a murder case and would becarrying out forensic examinations.
Maria Zakharova, Russias Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said that if the investigations trail led to Ukraine, then it would point to a policy of state terrorism being pursued by Kyiv.
TV footage accompanying a statement by Moscow regioninvestigatorsshowed officers collecting debris and fragments from the spot where the explosion happened.
I confirm that Ukraine, of course, had nothing to do with this because we are not a criminal state, like theRussianFederation, and moreover we are not a terrorist state, said Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak, speaking on Ukrainian television.
Investigatorswere considering all versions when it came to working out who was responsible, it said.
The head of Russias Investigative Committee ordered the institutions central branch to take over the investigation.
Father anddaughterhad been attending a festival outside Moscow and Dugin had decided to switchcars at the last minute,Russiangovernment newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta reported.
The influence of Dugin, who is on a U.S. sanctions list, overRussianPresident Vladimir Putin has been a subject for speculation, with some Russia watchers asserting that his sway is significant and others calling it minimal.
