US to announce 3 billion in new military aid for Ukraine official
20220823
https://www.1470wmbd.com/2022/08/23/u-s-to-announce-3-billion-in-new-military-aid-for-ukraine-official-2/
Speaking on condition of anonymity, the official said the new weapons did not appear to include types of arms that had not been provided previously to the Ukrainian military. The official said the amount and mix of weapons could change before the formal announcement.
Washington has provided $10.6 billion in military assistance to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys government since Feb. 24.
Since Russian troops invaded on Feb. 24 in what Russian President Vladimir Putin termed a special military operation to demilitarize Ukraine, the conflict has settled into a war of attrition fought primarily in eastern and southern Ukraine.
Reporting by Idrees Ali additional reporting by Patricia Zengerle, Mike Stone and Steve Holland editing by Grant McCool and Leslie Adler
WASHINGTON Reuters -The United States will announce a new security assistance package for Ukraine of about $3 billion as early as Wednesday, a U.S. official said on Tuesday, in what would be the single largest tranche to Kyiv since Russias invasion six months ago.
Ukraine accuses Moscow of an imperial-style war to retake a pro-Western neighbor that shook off Russian domination when the Soviet Union broke up in 1991.
Moscow is trying to gain control of the largely Russian-speaking Donbas region, comprised of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces, where pro-Moscow separatists seized territory after the Kremlin annexed Crimea to the south in 2014.
The package uses funds from the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative appropriated by Congress to allow theBidenadministration to procure weapons from industry rather than taking weapons from existing U.S. weapons stocks.
In Ukraine, a sense of an eerie calm before the storm grew on Tuesday as the U.S Embassy told its citizens to leave Ukraine because of fears of possible Russian missile strikes as the country celebrates its 31 years of independence on Wednesday.
