Russian troops shooting themselves in legs to escape Ukraine war
20220818
https://americanmilitarynews.com/2022/08/russian-troops-shooting-themselves-in-legs-to-escape-ukraine-war/
Pavel Filatyev, 33, wrote in a 141-page memoir titled ZOV that Russian troops are suffering from hunger amid the chaos and destruction, The Guardian first reported Wednesday. As a result, soldiers are looking to escape the conflict by any means necessary  even if they have to deliberately shoot themselves to get out.
Someone began to shoot himself in the limbs  to get 3 million rubles and get out of this hell, Filatyev wrote.
Like savages, we ate everything there: Oats, porridge, jam, honey, coffee  We didnt give a damn about anything, wed already been pushed to the limit, he wrote. What a wild state you can drive people to by not giving any thought to the fact that they need to sleep, eat and wash.
Filatyev told The Guardian that it took him weeks to understand there was no war on Russian territory at all, and that we had just attacked Ukraine.
Filatyev wrote in his memoir that Russian troops behaved like savages in Ukraine, stealing valuables from homes because they were worth more than their salaries.
I dont see justice in this war. I dont see truth here, he told a journalist in Moscow before leaving Russia. I am not afraid to fight in war. But I need to feel justice, to understand that what Im doing is right. And I believe that this is all failing not only because the government has stolen everything, but because we, Russians, dont feel that what we are doing is right.
Knowing that he would be considered a traitor, and following the advice of his fearful mother, Filatyev eventually fled Russia. He is the first known Russian soldier to flee the country in opposition to the war with Ukraine. He told The Guardian that he had to write the memoir because he couldnt stay quiet any longer.
Russian troops are shooting themselves in the leg to get out of the nations war with Ukraine, according to a report this week by a Russian defector who fought in the conflict.
As a member of the 56th Guards air assault regiment based in Crimea, Filatyev was part of an elite group of paratroopers in the Russian army. He was deployed to Ukraine on Feb. 24, the day the invasion began. Roughly five months later, Filatyev was wounded and evacuated.
Its very important that someone became the first to speak out, he said And its opening a Pandoras box.
