All critical systems destroyed within key Donbas city  Zelensky
20220529
https://www.rte.ie/news/2022/0529/1301810-ukraine/
In a televised speech, Mr Zelensky described the taking of the city as Russia's "principal aim" right now.
The battle for Sievierodonetsk, which lies on the eastern bank of the Siverskyi Donets River, is in the spotlight as Russia ekes out slow but solid gains in the Donbas, comprising of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions.
Ukrainian forces have endured further heavy artillery barrages as they hold-off Russian attempts to capture Sievierodonetsk.
Mykolaiv's regional administration said residential areas of Mykolaiv city had been shelled this morning, killing one civilian and wounding at least six.
Mr Zelensky said in a television interview yesterday he believed Russia would agree to talks if Ukraine could recapture all the territory it has lost since the invasion.
"I do not believe that we can restore all of our territory by military means. If we decide to go that way, we will lose hundreds of thousands of people," he said.
Ukraine has started receiving Harpoon anti-ship missiles from Denmark and US self-propelled howitzers, his defence minister said yesterday.
Thousands of people, including many civilians, have been killed and several million have fled their homes, either to safer parts of Ukraine or abroad.
Elsewhere, Ukraine's military command said its forces were counter-attacking in the southern Kherson region, most of which is occupied by Russia.
It has concentrated huge firepower on a small area  a contrast to earlier phases of the conflict when its forces were often spread thinly - bludgeoning towns and cities with artillery and air strikes.
The Ukrainians were taking serious losses themselves, civilians as well as combatants, they said in a briefing paper.
He spoke after visiting the country's war-ridden east for the first time since Russia's invasion.
Earlier, Mr Zelensky voiced hopes Ukraine's allies would provide much-needed weapons and said he expected "good news" in the coming days.
Having failed to take the capital Kyiv in the early phase of the war, Russia is seeking to consolidate its grip on the Donbas, large parts of which are already controlled by Moscow-backed separatists.
A Reuters journalist in the area said a ceramics factory was almost completely destroyed on the outskirts of the Donetsk town of Bakhmut, which straddles the last main road into Sievierodonetsk and is just 10km from the frontline.
But he ruled out the idea of using force to win back all the land Ukraine has lost to Russia since 2014, which includes the southern peninsula of Crimea, annexed by Moscow that year.
Mr Gaidai said that Russian forces had dug in at the Myr hotel on Sievierodonetsk's northern edge.
The shelling was so intense it was not possible to assess casualties and damage, Luhansk governor Serhiy Gaidai said. Dozens of buildings have been destroyed in the past few days.
Russia says it is waging a "special military operation" to demilitarize Ukraine and rid it of nationalists threatening Russian-speakers there. Ukraine and Western countries say Russia's claims are a false pretext for a war of aggression.
"As a result of Russian strikes on Sievierodonetsk, all the city's critical infrastructure is destroyed... More than two-thirds of the city's housing stock is destroyed," he said, adding "taking Sievierodonetsk is the principal aim of the occupying contingents".
"I came, figured out and fired the head of the Security Service of Ukraine of the Kharkiv region for the fact that he did not work on the defence of the city from the first days of the full-scale war, but thought only about himself," he said.
Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War in Washington said the Russians had still not managed to encircle the city and the Ukrainian defenders have inflicted "fearful casualties" on them.
Mr Zelensky also said he had fired Kharkiv's security services chief for "not working on the defence of the city" since the start of Russia's invasion.
Russian shelling has destroyed all of the critical infrastructure in the Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk, the largest city Kyiv still controls in the Luhansk region of the Donbas, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said.
The Ukrainian government meanwhile has urged the West to provide it with more longer-range weapons in order to turn the tide in the war, now in its fourth month.
The journalist heard what appeared to be outgoing artillery fire and Russian aircraft dropping a bomb close to the town. The city itself was not badly damaged and while the town was relatively empty, some residents were walking with pets and children.
Presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak repeated a call for US-made long-range multiple-rocket launchers. US officials have said such systems are actively being considered, with a decision possible in the coming days.
Russia's focus on Sievierodonetsk had drawn resources from other battlefronts and as a result they had made little progress elsewhere, the analysts said.
"You risk your lives for us all and for our country," the president's office quoted him as telling soldiers as he handed out commendations and gifts.
"They cannot advance further into the city and are taking casualties, but we are not able right now to push them out of the hotel," he said on Telegram.
A large plume of smoke could be seen rising northeast of the centre of the city, which has been the target of Russian shelling in recent days after several weeks of relative quiet.
It said in its daily briefing they had pushed back Russian troops and forced them to take defensive positions near the Pivdennyi Buh River after a similar counter-attack the previous day in three villages on the border with the neighbouring Mykolaiv region.
