Biden says Putin considering using chemical weapons
20220322
https://www.rte.ie/news/ukraine/2022/0322/1287702-ukraine-russia/
However, he underlined that most critical infrastructure in the country is owned and operated by private entities, which cannot be compelled to take specific cyber security measures.
"Simply not true. I guarantee you," he told a gathering of US business leaders in Washington.
"They are also suggesting that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons in Ukraine. That's a clear sign he's considering using both of those," he said.
"We had a long conversation about if he uses it, what will be the consequence," said Mr Biden, referring to a summit with the Russian leader last year in Geneva.
"If you have not already done so, I urge our private sector partners to harden your cyber defenses immediately," he said.
"His back is against the wall," said Mr Biden of Russian President Vladimir Putin, noting that Russia has recently accused the United States of holding chemical and biological weapons in Europe.
Mr Putin "knows there'll be severe consequences because of the united NATO front", he said, without specifying what actions the alliance would take.
At the same event, Mr Biden noted that he had warned Mr Putin of a US response if Russia launched cyber attacks against US critical infrastructure.
He cited "evolving intelligence that the Russian government is exploring options for potential cyber attacks" including in response to Western sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.
"Now that Russia has made these false claims ... we should all be on the lookout for Russia to possibly use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, or to create a false flag operation using them," tweeted White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki.
His warning echoed statements made by his administration earlier this month, as well as other Western nations, after Russian officials accused Ukraine of seeking to hide an alleged US-backed chemical weapons programme.
Earlier in the day, Mr Biden issued a statement warning the US business community of intelligence pointing to a growing Russian cyber threat and urging companies to "immediately" prepare defences.
US President Joe Biden has said that it is "clear" Russia is considering the use of chemical and biological weapons in Ukraine and warned of a "severe" Western response if it chose to do so.
Mr Biden also reiterated that such an action would prompt a "severe", but so far undefined response from Western allies.
His statement added that the US government would "continue to use every tool to deter, disrupt, and if necessary, respond to cyber attacks against critical infrastructure".
