EU plans further package of sanctions on Russia
20220311
https://www.rte.ie/news/europe/2022/0311/1285774-eu-summit-verseilles/
Without it, he warned, "several African countries will be affected by famines within 12 to 18 months precisely because of the war."
He said it was potentially looking at a decoupling of gas from renewables as an instrument in defining the gas price.
Leaders also pledged to strengthen the bonds and deepen the partnership with the besieged country.
Speaking after the summit in Versailles, Mr Martin also said the Commission would come back with a broader analysis in May on the structure of the energy market in terms of a market mechanism.
The French leader added that still more economic punishment would be piled on Russia if it continues its invasion of its neighbour.
Taoiseach Michel Martin has said that the European Commission will respond at the end of March on Ireland's appeal for flexibility on the VAT regime for fuels.
It is understood that the Government supported the fast-tracking of Ukraines application to join the European Union during the talks in France.
There will be another package of sanctions on Russia which would further isolate the country, according to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
However, it stopped far short of agreeing to the Ukrainian request to urgently begin the accession procedure.
EU leaders meeting in Versailles today issued a declaration on Ukraine which once again condemned Russian aggression.
However, the application for a swift accession procedure was blocked by several larger states, including France, Germany and the Netherlands.
The 27 heads of state were also being briefed by ECB President Christine Lagarde and the President of the Eurogroup and Minister for Finance Paschal Donohoe.
"All options are on the table," he added, after EU nations have held off in the first weeks of the conflict from cutting off crucial oil and gas imports from major supplier Russia.
French President Emmanuel Macron warned that Russia's attacks on Ukraine will "deeply destabilise" food supplies in Europe and Africa as some of the world's most fertile agricultural land goes unplanted.
EU leaders meeting at an informal summit in Versailles also agreed to move to phase out dependence on Russian gas, oil and coal, although no dates have yet been agreed.
On the question of reducing European dependence on Russian energy, he said some countries have a difficulty because of the degree to which they are dependent on certain energy products, especially gas, but there may be more flexibility in respect of oil.
He said other countries had also supported the issues raised by Ireland on the VAT and excise directives.
"If things continue in the military way... we will take further sanctions, including massive sanctions," he said, trailing a G7 statement on potential further measures "in a few hours".
"We will have to prepare for that and re-evaluate our production strategies to defend our food sovereignty... but also to be able to define a strategy concerning Africa," he added.
"Europe and also Africa will be very deeply destabilised as regards food because of what can't be planted right now in Ukraine.
