Russia to give 12 billion to help domestic airlines
20220401
https://www.rte.ie/news/business/2022/0401/1289713-russia-to-give-1-2-billion-to-help-domestic-airlines/
Russia has said 78 of these planes were seized while abroad, meaning that well over 400 remain.
The sanctions also prevent Russian airlines buying aircraft parts or maintenance services from Europe or the US.
"The entire fleet, meaning foreign aircraft, will remain in Russia," Borisov said on Russian television. "Some were impounded abroad as sanctions were being introduced, bu the vast majority of Boeing and Airbus planes remain in Russia."
Russian airlines have thus been hesitant to use the law, fearing that they might jeopardise ties with foreign partners. But Borisov said all the leased foreign aircraft had been entered into the Russian register.
All foreign leased aircraft still in Russia after the termination of Western leasing contracts will remain in Russia, Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov has said.
Ireland and Bermuda, where most of the planes are registered, have suspended airworthiness certificates, which usually means they should be grounded.
"As for leasing payments, let me remind you that a significant part of them were supposed to be paid to companies from so-called unfriendly countries, and they violated their contractual obligations," Putin said in televised remarks after a meeting with representatives of airlines and airplane manufacturers.
He said Moscow would provide domestic airlines with 100 billion roubles $1.25 billion in support to help them deal with the consequences of the sanctions, and that domestic flights would receive government subsidies in 2022.
Moscow has passed a law allowing the aircraft, worth almost $10 billion, to be entered on its own register, in contravention of international rules.
This adds to the pressure on the world's 11th largest aviation market from a ban on using North American and European airspace.
Sanctions imposed by Western powers in response to Russia's military campaign in Ukraine forced Western firms to terminate leasing contracts with Russian airlines for over 500 aircraft.
President Vladimir Putin said he had instructed the government to work out measures to ease the burden of leasing payments on Russia's airlines.
