Russia strikes Kyiv for first time in weeks as battle rages in east
20220605
https://www.rte.ie/news/ukraine/2022/0605/1303101-ukraine-russia/
"And the fact that there is still no such order is obviously a humiliation for the whole world."
After retreating steadily in the city in recent days, Ukraine mounted a counter-attack there, which it says took the Russians by surprise, but the claims could not be independently verified.
The attack targeted railway infrastructure, according to Serhiy Leshchenko, an aide to President Volodomyr Zelensky's chief of staff.
The mayor of the historic town of Brovary, around 2km from Kyiv's centre, urged people to remain inside their homes as there had been reports of the smell of soot coming from the smoke.
President Zelensky offered a stark message: "The terrible consequences of this war can be stopped at any moment ... if one person in Moscow simply gives the order," he said, in an apparent reference to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Russia's Defence Ministry said it had fired rockets at Kyiv from long distance and destroyed T-72 tanks and armoured vehicles that had been supplied to Ukraine by eastern European countries and were held in a railway carriage repair building.
"We will need constant support. The West must understand that its help cannot be a one-time thing, but something that continues until our victory," Ukraine's deputy defence minister Ganna Malyar told local media.
Ukraine says it aims to push Russian forces back as far as possible on the battlefield, counting on advanced missile systems pledged in recent days by the US and Britain to swing the war in its favour.
"Our armed forces have cleaned half" of the industrial hub of Russian troops, Mr Gaiday said in an interview posted on his official social media channels.
The missiles were the first to hit the capital since late April when a Radio Liberty producer was killed in a Russian missile strike that hit the building she lived in.
Britain's defence ministry said that Ukrainian counterattacks in Sievierodonetsk over the past 24 hours were likely to blunt any operational momentum Russia had gained.
Russian Tu-95 strategic bombers launched missiles at Kyiv from the Caspian Sea early today and two of the Ukrainian capital's eastern districts were rocked by explosions, Ukraine's air force and the city's mayor said.
Both sides claim to have inflicted huge casualties in the fighting, a battle that military experts say could determine which side has the momentum for a prolonged war of attrition incoming months.
Mr Putin will discuss the war in an interview due to be broadcast on national television today, and in excerpts of his interview quoted by Russian news agencies ahead of broadcast, he said that if the West supplies longer-range missiles, "we will strike at those targets which we have not yet been hitting", without specifying the targets.
Serhiy Gaidai, governor of Ukraine's Luhansk province, which includes Sievierodonetsk, said Ukrainian forces previously in control of just 30 of the city had mounted a counter-attack, recapturing another 20 of it.
"The Kremlin resorts to new insidious attacks. Todays missile strikes at Kyiv have only one goal: kill as many as possible," he wrote in a tweet.
Dark smoke could be seen from many miles away after the attack on two outlying districts of Kyiv.
Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk said street fighting continued during the day yesterday, with both sides exchanging artillery fire.
Russia's defence ministry said its troops were forcing the Ukrainians to withdraw across the Siverskiy Donets River to Lysychansk on the opposite bank.
Moscow was deploying poorly equipped separatist fighters in the city to limit the risk to its regular forces, it said.
The appeal comes after Russia struck Ukraine's capital Kyiv with missiles for the first time in more than a month, andUkrainian officials said a counter-attack on the main battlefield in the east had retaken half of the city of Sievierodonetsk.
Tens of thousands are believed to have died, millions have been uprooted from their homes, and the global economy has been disrupted in a war that marked its 100th day on Friday.
Ukraine said the strike hit a rail car repair works, while Moscow said it had destroyed tanks sent by Eastern European countries to Ukraine.
He said that at least one person was hospitalised though no deaths were immediately reported.
"Several explosions in Darnytskyi and Dniprovskyi districts of the capital," Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko wrote on the Telegram messaging app.
Russia has concentrated its forces on Sievierodonetsk in recent weeks for one of the biggest ground battles of the war, with Moscow appearing to bet its campaign on capturing one of two eastern provinces it claims on behalf of separatist proxies.
Russia has said the Western weapons will pour "fuel on the fire", but will not change the course of what it calls a "special military operation" to disarm Ukraine and rid it of nationalists.
"Our military is doing everything it can to drive the enemy out of the city."
Presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak called on the West to impose more sanctions on Russia to punish it for the strikes and to supply more weapons to Ukraine.
Ukraine has said that its war with Russia had entered into "a protracted phrase" and that it needed continued military support from countries in the West to defeat Moscow's forces.
In another sign Ukraine has held off the Russian advance, was that evacuations resumed from the Ukrainian-held part of Luhansk province, with Ukraine reporting that 98 people had escaped.
Despite continuing Russian offensives in Ukraine and the widespread destruction, life in Kyiv has been relatively attack-free in recent weeks.
Ukrainian air defences destroyed one cruise missile at around 6am local time after identifying incoming missiles, Ukraine's air force said.
Yesterday marked the first time Kyiv claimed to have launched a big counter-attack in the small industrial city of Sievierodonetsk after days of yielding ground.
One Russian missile flew "critically low" over the country's second largest nuclear power plant, located in the southern Mykolaiv region and was probably headed for Kyiv, state-run nuclear power operator Energoatom said on Telegram.
In an address to 35,000 people in Rome, Pope Francis spoke about 100 days of war, calling it "the negation of God's dream".
Russian forces had been hitting Ukrainian weapons systems and "cracking them like nuts" he said, dismissing the new US rockets as "meant to make up for the losses of this military equipment".
Ukrainian officials added that at least eight people were killed and 11 injured in Russian shelling in the province overnight.
"The situation is tense, complicated," he told national television, saying there was a shortage of food, fuel and medicine.
