Shattered evacuees emerge from Ukraines Mariupol
20220421
https://www.rte.ie/news/2022/0421/1293601-ukraine-mariupol-evacuees/
"Nothing has worked. Only 79 people could come. There were no green corridors," Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister said.
As she headed to the meeting point, she heard a Russian tank blasting away and saw "many snipers" posted on rooftops along her route.
The passengers, mostly women, recounted their escape and the hell they had left behind after almost two months trapped under siege by Moscow's forces.
Natalia Koval, 46, said she was trapped sheltering with a family who had a young boy - a "blond, curly angel" - who learnt to say his first words, hello and goodbye.
It was only a small convoy of those who managed to get out of the shattered port city of Mariupol that has been devastated by Russia's onslaught.
In the end, only three buses were allowed through out of dozens that Ukraine had hoped to get out of the city.
"I don't want to hear any more bombing," said Tatiana Dorash, 34, who was with her six-year-old son Maxim.
"We knew the way, but we didn't recognise any place. We didn't know if we would make it," Anastasia said.
"This evacuation was a show," said a 19-year-old who asked to use the pseudonym Anastasia.
Anastasia said that despite this a fourth bus that had collected people left in the direction of Russia. She did not know how many were on board.
She recounted almost nothing about her past few weeks of horror when the population were at the mercy of the Russian forces.
She felt "so sorry" when he woke up at night terrified as the shells rained down.
She said all they wanted now was a quiet night and "a bed to sleep in".
"Many people living in the Russian-occupied territories want to leave, but they are prevented from doing so," said Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk, who was present to meet the arrival in Zaporizhzhia.
The 225km journey to Zaporizhzhia - which used to take three hours in peacetime - took more than 24 hours.
She has not seen her husband, a soldier, since 14 March and has not been able to contact him.
Valentina Grinchuk, a small woman of 73 who was still wearing her slippers along with a ragged black coat, hugged and kissed everyone she saw.
She told AFP that Russian camera crews had massed to film their departure as part of Moscow's state-backed propaganda campaign.
After almost two months sheltering in cellars under near-constant bombardments the group that made it to Zaporizhzhia were the few who dared to come forward.
"From day one we were in a basement. It was cold. We were praying to God. I was asking him to protect us," she told AFP.
"We were asked in front of the Russian journalists who wanted to go to Russia," another of the evacuees, an old lady wearing a beige cap, said.
Seventy-nine evacuees emerged exhausted from three yellow school buses into a supermarket carpark in the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia.
Rumours of a potential escape route out of Mariupol had spread yesterday after Ukrainian authorities for days unsuccessfully negotiated a safe passage with the Russian forces.
Babushka Vale, as she called herself, said her flat and her son's house had been destroyed.
