UK warns Russia will face severe sanctions if it puts puppet regime in Ukraine
20220123
https://www.rte.ie/news/world/2022/0123/1275323-ukraine-russia/
"There'll be very serious consequences if Russia takes this move to try and invade but also install a puppet regime," British Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab told Sky News.
According to a poll by the Razumkov's Centre think tank conducted in December 2021, Mr Murayev was ranked seventh among candidates for the 2024 presidential election, with 6.3support.
The British accusations, first made in a statement by the foreign ministry, come at a time of high tensions with the Westover Russia's massing of troops near the border with Ukraine.
"This morning I already read in all the news publications this conspiracy theory: absolutely unproven, absolutely unfounded," Mr Murayev told Reuters in a video call, adding he was considering legal action.
US National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said in a statement: "This kind of plotting is deeply concerning.
The Ukrainian people have the sovereign right to determine their own future, and we stand with our democratically-elected partners in Ukraine."
The Russian Foreign Ministry dismissed the comments as "disinformation", accusing Britain and NATO of "escalating tensions" over Ukraine.
Yanukovich fled to Russia in 2014 after three months of protests against his rule and was sentenced in absentia to 13 years in jail on treason charges in 2019.
Britain made the accusation yesterday, also saying Russian intelligence officers had been in contact with a number of former Ukrainian politicians as part of plans for an invasion.
But he added that Russia had propped up previously minor figures in leadership positions in annexed Crimea and separatist-held Donbass.
Although he said he wants Ukraine to be independent from Russia as well as the West, Mr Murayev has promoted some views that align with the Kremlin's narratives on Ukraine.
Britain, which this week supplied 2,000 missiles and a team of military trainers to Ukraine, also said it had information that Russian intelligence services were maintaining links with numerous former Ukrainian politicians, including senior figures with links to ex-President Viktor Yanukovich.
In a message to Reuters, Ukrainian adviser Podolyak acknowledged there was doubt among Ukrainians as to whether Mr Murayev was "too ridiculous a figure" to be the Kremlin's pick to lead Ukraine.
He denied having any contact with Russian intelligence officers and dismissed the idea that he could be in league with the Kremlin as "stupid", given he was placed under Russian sanctions in 2018.
Mykhailo Podolyak, a Ukrainian adviser to the presidential office, said the allegations should be taken seriously.
The UK foreign ministry said it had information the Russian government was considering former Ukrainian lawmaker Yevhen Murayev as a potential candidate to head a pro-Russian leadership.
Russia has made security demands on the United States including a halt to NATO's eastward expansion and a pledge that Ukraine will never be allowed to join the Western military alliance.
A ministry source said it was not usual practice to share intelligence, and the details had only been declassified after careful consideration to deter Russian aggression.
Also noting he was under sanctions, the Russian Embassy in London mocked the "obvious deterioration" of British expertise on the region.
Mr Murayev himself poured cold water on the notion that Russia wants to install him as Ukraine's leader, in comments to British newspapers and in an interview with Reuters.
Russia will face severe economic sanctions if it installs a puppet regime in Ukraine, a senior UK minister said today after Britain accused the Kremlin of seeking to install a pro-Russian leader there.
The British claims came after the top US and Russian diplomats failed on Friday to make a major breakthrough in talks to resolve the crisis over Ukraine, although they agreed to keep talking.
We need your consent to load this rte-player contentWe use rte-player to manage extra content that can set cookies on your device and collect data about your activity. Please review their details and accept them to load the content.Manage Preferences
