Ukraine promised no missiles inside Russia  US
20220601
https://www.rte.ie/news/ukraine/2022/0601/1302369-russia-ukraine/
They entered this on 27 May and it is the main focus of their ground offensive in the eastern Donbas region.
"We believe that the United States is purposefully and diligently adding fuel to the fire," he said.
"There is a strong trust bond between Ukraine and the United States, as well as with our allies and partners," he said.
According to provincial governor Serhiy Gaidai, a Russian air strike hit the Azot chemical factory in Sievierodonetsk yesterday, blowing up a tank of toxic nitric acid and releasing a plume of pink smoke.
"The 20 is being fiercely defended by our armed forces...Attempts are being made to drive out the Russian troops... We have hope that despite everything we will free the city...," Mr Stryuk said.
The EU will ban imports of Russian oil by sea. Officials said that would halt two-thirds of Russia's oil exports to Europe at first, and 90 by the end of this year.
Ukraine said that Russian forces, now 98 days into their invasion, had pounded infrastructure in eastern and southern regions, including the city of Sievierodonetsk.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said such supplies would not encourage Ukraine's leadership to resume stalled peace talks.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that Ukraine had promised not to use new long-range missiles to strike inside of Russia as he warned of "many months" of conflict ahead.
The United States said yesterday that it will supply Ukraine with advanced missile systems, including the Himars multiple-launch rocket system that can simultaneously launch multiple precision-guided missiles.
"And simply put, the best way to avoid escalation is for Russia to stop the aggression and the war that it started. It's fully within its power to do so."
Russian forces today pressed closer to the centre of an industrial city in a drive to grab a swathe of eastern Ukraine.
The leader of the pro-Moscow Luhansk People's Republic, Leonid Pasechnik, told TASS news agency Russian proxies had advanced slower than expected to safeguard city infrastructure and "exercise caution around its chemical factories".
Mr Blinken said the United States was arming Ukraine in anticipation of a long conflict ahead.
President Joe Biden said that the United States would not support attacks inside of Russia, which quickly warned of greater risks of conflict between Washington and Moscow.
Governor Gaidai said Lysychansk was easier to defend as it is located on a hill but Russian forces would target it with artillery and mortars once in full control of Sievierodonetsk.
"As long as this goes on, we want to make sure that Ukraine has in hand what it needs to defend itself and that Russia is feeling strong pressure from as many countries as possible to end the aggression," he said.
Responding to the EU oil embargo, Russia widened its gas cuts to Europe, driving prices higher and ratcheting up its economic battle with Brussels.
"The Ukrainians have given us assurances that they will not use these systems against targets on Russian territory," he told a joint news conference with NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called for more weapons while lambasting the European Union - which agreed on Monday to cut imports of Russian oil - for not sanctioning energy from Russia sooner.
"As best we can assess right now, we are still looking at many months of conflict," he said.
Vladimir Putin launched what he calls a special military operation on 24 February to disarm and "denazify" Ukraine. Ukraine and its Western allies call this a baseless pretext for a war of aggression.
Mr Blinken dismissed suggestions that the United States was risking escalation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who invaded Ukraine in February despite repeated Western warnings.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, speaking in Saudi Arabia, said the supply of the rocket launchers raised the risks of a "third country" being dragged into the conflict.
Ukrainian forces now control just 20 of Sievierodonetsk, Russian forces 60 and the rest has become a "no-man's land", Oleksandr Stryuk, the Ukrainian head of the city administration, told Reuters.
We need your consent to load this rte-player contentWe use rte-player to manage extra content that can set cookies on your device and collect data about your activity. Please review their details and accept them to load the content.Manage Preferences
"That could be over tomorrow if Russia chose to end the aggression. We don't see any signs of that right now," he said.
