Ukraine steps up counteroffensive to retake south with air strikes
20220728
https://www.rte.ie/news/world/2022/0728/1312640-ukraine-russia/
British military intelligence, which helps Ukraine, said it was likely that Ukrainian forces had also established a bridgehead south of a river which runs along the wider Kherson region's northern border.
Russia reduced gas flows to Europe yesterday in an energy stand-off with the European Union.
Fierce fighting is also under way in eastern Ukraine where Russia is trying to take control of the entirety of the industrialised Donbas region.
Mr Zelensky said Ukraine would rebuild the Antonivskyi bridge over the Dnipro and other crossings in the region.
Before the invasion and subsequent sanctions, Russia and Ukraine accounted for nearly a third of global wheat exports.
Ukraine has used Western-supplied long-range missile systems to badly damage three bridges across the River Dnipro in recent weeks, making it harder for Russia to supply its forces on the western bank.
Kirill Stremousov, the deputy head of the Russian-appointed military-civilian administration running the Kherson region, has also dismissed Western and Ukrainian assessments of the battlefield situation.
A Ukrainian strike yesterday on the Antonivskyi bridge, the sole span serving Kherson city, prompted its closure to traffic.
Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council, tweeted that Russia was concentrating "the maximum number of troops" in the direction of the Kherson region but gave no details.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to President Zelenskiy, said Russia was conducting a "massive redeployment" of forces from the east to the south in what amounted to a strategic shift from attack to defence.
British intelligence said the strategy was starting to isolate Russian forces in the Kherson region.
Ukraine's southern Kherson region, which borders Russian-annexed Crimea, fell to Russian forces soon after they began what Moscow calls "a special military operation" on 24 February.
15 Ukraine's counter-offensive in Kherson is gathering momentum. Their forces have highly likely established a bridgehead south of the Ingulets River, which forms the northern boundary of Russian-occupied Kherson.
"Its loss would severely undermine Russia's attempts to paint the occupation as a success," it said.
RIA reported that Russian security services had uncovered a group of Ukrainian agents in Kherson who had been paid to pass on the map coordinates of Russian forces there to Ukraine for targeting with artillery.
Russian and Russian-backed forces have been struggling to make meaningful progress on the ground since their capture in early July of the eastern Ukrainian city of Lysychansk.
"We are doing everything to ensure that the occupying forces do not have any logistical opportunities in our country," he said in a Wednesday evening address on the eve of what is Ukraine's annual Statehood Day.
Ukraine confirmed late on Wednesday that Russian forces had captured the Soviet-era coal-fired Vuhlehirsk power plant, Ukraine's second-largest, in what was Moscow's first significant gain in Donbas in more than three weeks.
Ukraine, which describes Russia's actions as an imperial-style war of conquest, said its planes had struck five Russian strongholds around the city of Kherson and another city in the area.
Five people were killed and 25 wounded in a Russian missile strike on a flight school in the central Ukrainian city of Kropyvnytskyi today, the regional governor said.
"We have repeatedly struck the Antonivskyi bridge... There is significant damage to the bridge's structures," Mr Gromov said.
That forced Russia to open a ferry service, the route of which it said would constantly change for security reasons.
Ukraine has stepped up its drive to retake the Russian-controlled south of the country by trying to bomb and isolate Russian troops in hard-to-resupply areas, but said it saw evidence that Moscow was redeploying its forces to defend the territory.
The deal was almost immediately thrown into doubt when Russia fired cruise missiles at Odesa, Ukraine's largest port, on Saturday, just 12 hours after the deal was signed.
"Russia's 49th Army, stationed on the west bank of the Dnipro River, now looks highly vulnerable," it said in an intelligence bulletin.
Russia said it was unfazed, with the defence ministry said its planes had attacked a Ukrainian infantry brigade in the far north of the Kherson region and killed more than 130 soldiers in the last 24 hours.
Ukraine says it has retaken some small settlements on the region's northern edege in recent weeks as it tries to push Russian forces back, a potential prelude to what Kyiv has billed as a major counter-offensive to retake the south.
"Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's statement that Kherson region will be liberated in three to six weeks is...a lie. All these counter-offensives that result in a large number of Ukrainian casualties are coming to nothing," Mr Stremousov told Russia's RIA news agency.
It has blocked grain exports from Ukraine since invading, but on Friday agreed to allow deliveries through the Black Sea to Turkey's Bosphorus Strait and on to global markets.
Oleksiy Gromov, senior member of the Ukraine military's General Staff, told a news briefing that the bridge was of great importance for the Russian defence and for Ukraine's attempted offensive.
