Ukraine hit by cyber attack US questions Russian troop pullback
20220215
https://www.rte.ie/news/2022/0215/1280865-ukraine-russie/
Mr Putin said during today's press conference that Russia was ready to continue gas supplies via Ukraine "even after 2024", when the current contract expires.
"As for war in Europe... about whether we want it or not? Of course not. That is why we put forward proposals for a negotiation process, the result of which should be an agreement on ensuring equal security for everyone, including our country," he said.
Russia's show of force near Ukraine's borders has prompted months of frantic Western diplomacy and drawn threats of severe sanctions if it invades, culminating in a crescendo of warnings in recent days that this could happen at any time.
The Kremlin sought to portray its moves as proof that Western talk of war had been both false and hysterical.
Russian shares, government bonds and the rouble rose sharply on hopes the situation was easing, and Ukrainian government bonds rallied.
Russia's defence ministry published footage showing tanks and other armoured vehicles being loaded onto railway flatcars. Western military analysts said they needed more information to judge the significance of the latest troop movements.
"February 15, 2022 will go down in history as the day Western war propaganda failed. Humiliated and destroyed without a single shot fired," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said.
Russia's Federal Security Service did not immediately reply to a request for comment from Reuters.
Western countries have warned Moscow they could impose sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 - a pipeline set to double supplies of Russian gas to Europe - if Russia attacks Ukraine.
The pipeline also diverts supplies from an existing route through Ukraine and is expected to deprive the EU's partner of crucial transit fees from Russia.
NATO's chief welcomed signals from Russia in the past two days that it may be looking for a diplomatic solution but urged Moscow to demonstrate its will to act.
"It could mean a physical attack is imminent, or it could mean Russia is continuing to mess with Ukraine," the diplomat said, on condition of anonymity.
Diplomatic efforts continued today. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov during a call that there needed to be "verifiable, credible, meaningful de-escalation" by Moscow.
He said Russia often left military equipment behind after exercises, creating the potential for forces to regroup.
Mr Biden said the United States had not verified the move. "Our analysts indicate that they remain very much in a threatening position," he said
"It is not ruled out that the aggressor used tactics of dirty little tricks because its aggressive plans are not working out on a large scale," said the Ukrainian Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security, which is part of the culture ministry.
"There are signs from Moscow that diplomacy should continue," NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters.
Commercial satellite images taken on Sunday and yesterday showed a flurry of Russian military activity at several locations near Ukraine.
US President Joe Biden warned he would move with allies to respond to the cyber hacks and said a Russian attack remained a possibility.
Today, Russia published footage to demonstrate it was returning some troops to base after exercises.
The pipeline has been criticised by some Western countries as a geopolitical weapon, warnings it will increase European dependence on Russian gas.
Ukraine said it had been hit by a cyber attack today, appearing to blame Russia, as Moscow's statements about a partial troop pullback were met with Western scepticism.
At a joint news conference with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Russian President Vladimir Putin referred only briefly to the troop moves and did not go into details.
Ukrainian bank Privatbank users reported problems with payments and a banking app, while Oshadbank said its systems had slowed down.
US intelligence had reportedly warned that tomorrow 15 February could mark the start of a Russian invasion.
One European diplomat said the hacking was concerning because a full military attack on Ukraine would likely be preceded by a cyber attack.
"If Russia attacks the United States or our allies through asymmetric means like disruptive cyber attacks against our companies or critical infrastructure, we're prepared to respond," Mr Biden said in televised remarks from the White House.
The cyber attack was marked by distributed denial-of-service attacks, when hackers flood a network with unusually high volumes of data traffic to paralyse it. Such incidents are difficult to attribute but the European diplomat said there was no doubt that Russia was behind it.
Russia has always denied planning to invade Ukraine, saying it can exercise troops on its own territory as it sees fit. It has been pressing for a set of security guarantees from the West and wants to stop Ukraine ever joining NATO.
Europe and the United States want Moscow to reverse the build-up of more than 150,000 soldiers near the Ukrainian border, according to US estimates. They have suggested arms control and confidence-building steps to defuse the standoff.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said that in order to believe the Russians when they say they have no plans to invade Ukraine, she will have to see a "full-scale removal" of troops.
Mr Putin told reporters Russia would not be satisfied with talk that Ukraine was not ready to join the western military alliance any time soon and was demanding that the issue be resolved now.
We need your consent to load this rte-player contentWe use rte-player to manage extra content that can set cookies on your device and collect data about your activity. Please review their details and accept them to load the content.Manage Preferences
East-West relations are facing one of their deepest crises in decades over Ukraine, post-Cold War influence on the continent, and energy supplies.
Ukraine did not say who it believed was responsible for the cyber attack, but a statement suggested it was pointing the finger at Russia.
