US and Russia to hold talks on European security and Ukraine in January
20211228
https://www.rte.ie/news/world/2021/1228/1269000-us-russia-ukraine-talks/
The Kremlin has grown increasingly insistent that the West and NATO are encroaching dangerously close to Russia's borders.
Ukraine has been seeking to break from Moscow's sphere of influence and eventually join the NATO alliance.
The National Security Council spokesperson said Ukraine's interests would not be ignored in cutting any deal with Russia.
Moscow and NATO representatives are also expected to meet on 12 January, while the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE, which includes Russia and the United States, will address the tensions the following day.
"It's a constructive proposal, but it's the proposal that works for everybody and that is in the interest of everybody," he said.
Russia already occupies a swath of its neighbour in the Crimean peninsula and is accused of fomenting a separatist pro-Moscow rebellion in the industrial east of the country.
The meeting is part of the Strategic Security Dialogue initiative launched by Biden and Putin, which initially has focused on resuscitating post-Cold War nuclear arms control treaties.
At the United Nations, Russia's deputy envoy, Dmitry Polyanskiy, said the talks should be "serious" but also that Russia's draft agreements were not an "ultimatum" to the United States.
"I don't think that our colleagues will get away with some blah blah blah thing," he told reporters.
"President Biden's approach on Ukraine has been clear and consistent: unite the alliance behind two tracks - deterrence and diplomacy. We are unified as an alliance on the consequences Russia would face if it moves on Ukraine."
Deployment by Russia of tens of thousands of troops to the border sparked fears in Kiev and among its Western allies of a wider war, possibly including further seizures of Ukrainian territory.
"The United States looks forward to engaging with Russia," the National Security Council spokesperson said.
"When we sit down to talk, Russia can put its concerns on the table and we will put our concerns on the table with Russia's activities as well."
The purpose of the order was "to reassure our allies and partners of our commitment to collective defence," the official said.
Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau of Poland, which takes the helm of the OSCE in the new year, will address the meeting, said a spokesperson for the organisation founded during the Cold War as a forum involving Moscow and the West.
The talks come after weeks of heightening tensions, with Washington accusing Russia of massing tens of thousands of troops around ex-Soviet Ukraine and plotting a winter invasion.
The United States and its European partners have threatened to impose harsh economic sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine, while also offering to hold negotiations.
A US official said on Tuesday that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin ordered the USS Harry Truman carrier strike group to stay in the Mediterranean and hold off on sailing on to the Middle East.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Moscow in the talks would take a "hard line" aimed at defending its interests and avoiding "concessions".
There was no immediate word on who would represent the two sides on 10 January.
A spokesperson for the US National Security Council told AFP late on Monday that the talks with Russia will take place on 10 January.
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov on Tuesday confirmed the date and said that the talks will take place in Geneva, where US President Joe Biden and Russian leader Vladimir Putin met for their first summit in June.
The United States and Russia will hold much-anticipated talks in early January on European security and the Ukraine conflict after Moscow demanded NATO halt its eastward expansion.
Negotiations will include "nothing about our allies and partners without our allies and partners, including Ukraine," the spokesperson said.
Putin denies planning to attack the neighbouring country, saying the troop movements are to defend Russia against an encroaching Western military.
Moscow earlier this month presented the West with sweeping security demands, saying NATO must not admit new members and seeking to bar the United States from establishing new bases in former Soviet republics.
