What are the main obstacles to ending war in Ukraine
20220330
https://www.rte.ie/news/ukraine/2022/0330/1289396-peace-talks-explainer/
Ukraine has proposed in writing that it become a neutral country in return for security guarantees from the United States, United Kingdom, Turkey, France and Germany.
Russian presidential adviser Vladimir Medinsky said Ukraine had expressed a willingness to agree to Moscow's key demands.
Some talks have been in person at the Belarusian border or in Belarus and Turkey, while others have taken place via video conference.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said his country would not join NATO soon because members would not accept Ukraine.
A meeting between Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelensky would indicate a real chance of peace as Russia has repeatedly said there will be no meeting until the details of a deal have been largely agreed.
The Russian team is led by presidential adviser Medinsky, a Russian who was born in Soviet Ukraine.
Here is a look at the main issues to be settled before a peace deal can be agreed.
One option is to effectively park the question of Crimea by agreeing to a 15-year consultation period on the status of annexed Crimea. Ukrainian nationalists, though, might see that as a partition in all but name.
The status of Russian language and Russian-speaking people in Ukraine is an issue for Moscow.
"If these obligations are met, then the threat of creating a NATO bridgehead on Ukrainian territory will be eliminated," he said.
A law passed by Ukraine in 2019 granted special status to the Ukrainian language and made it mandatory for public sector workers.
The territory along the southern flank of Ukraine is of particular interest to Russia as it was added to Russia in 1783 by Russian Empress Catherine the Great after the defeat of the Ottoman Empire.
Ukraine says it is fighting against an imperial-style land grab and that President Putin's claims of genocide are nonsense.
Kyiv has repeatedly demanded the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukrainian territory - including Crimea.
Russia and Ukraine are talking about a peace deal while their soldiers kill each other - but there has been no breakthrough and they remain far apart on the question of territory.
In the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, the United States, Russia and the United Kingdom gave Ukraine security assurances in exchange for Kyiv's adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Such a decision would require a referendum and Kyiv has said that security guarantees could only be given once Russia withdraws troops.
Since their invasion, Russian forces have taken control of a swathe of territory across Ukraine's southern flank north of Crimea, territory around the rebel regions and territory to the east and west of Kyiv.
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the "special military operation" in Ukraine is necessary because the United States was using Ukraine to threaten Russia and Moscow had to defend against the persecution of Russian-speaking people by Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said in February that he wanted written guarantees that Ukraine would never join the NATO military bloc.
He casts modern Ukraine as a "historical phantom" because "the so-called history of Ukraine is not simply inextricably linked to the thousand year history of RusRussiaUSSR but it is Russian history itself".
Ukrainian recognition of Russian control of Crimea, the rebel regions and probably the swathe of land north of Crimea which gives it a land bridge to Crimea and control over drinking water supplies for the peninsula, would be essential for Moscow.
Formed in 2014 from volunteers who fought against Russian-backed rebel regions, its founders have expressed extreme right-wing white supremacist and anti-Semitic views.
Ukraine has said it will never recognise Russia's control over Crimea, the independence of the Russian-backed rebel regions or the vast additional territory taken by Russia.
Ukrainian officials say they will not accept annexation of territory or recognise the Russian-backed rebel regions of Luhansk and Donetsk.
This is the toughest part of the talks. Neither side has compromised or shown any sign of an intention to do so. One option being discussed is to simply to try to park the issue - in other words, agreed ambiguity for years to come.
Russia would then not oppose Ukraine - the parts still under Kyiv's control - from joining the European Union, according to the Ukrainian proposal.
As the Soviet Union crumbled, Ukraine's parliament in its 1990 Declaration of State Sovereignty proclaimed its intention to be a permanently neutral state.
Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and on 21 February, recognised two Russian-backed rebel regions of east Ukraine as independent states.
The Azov Battalion, part of Ukraine's national guard, has been accused by Moscow of being a Nazi organisation which has terrorised Russian civilians and carried out war crimes.
Discussions on trying to find an end to the conflict began on 28 February, four days after President Putin ordered troops into Ukraine.
Ukrainian presidential aides have repeatedly mentioned the role of Azov in the defence of the port city of Mariupol where it is based.
Recognition of what amounts to effective Russian sovereignty over up to a third of its territory would be difficult for any Ukrainian leader.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Crimea was part of Russia so there would be no discussions about its fate.
These are to give up its NATO alliance ambitions, adopt "non-bloc" status, renounce any attempt to acquire nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction and commit not to host foreign troops or military bases.
"Moscow will not agree anything with Kyiv unless it is a full capitulation and that is not what is being talked about," said Tatiana Stanovaya, a non-resident scholar at the Carnegie Moscow Centre.
Ukraine dismisses such claims of genocide against Russianspeakers. Zelenskiy says it is Russia that is behaving like theNazis by visiting destruction on Ukrainian cities.
