Zelensky waiting for positive signal on EU membership for Ukraine
20220301
https://www.rte.ie/news/world/2022/0301/1283655-volodymyr-zelensky-european-parliament/
The applause could be heard in the chamber where Mr Lavrov's speech continued, with only a handful of ambassadors from countries including Yemen, Syria, Venezuela and Tunisia there to hear it.
The European Union, however, has imposed broad and painful sanctions on Russia, targeting President Vladimir Putin, top officials, oligarchs supporting him and the central bank.
Meanwhile, numerous diplomats walked out when Russia's foreign minister addressed the UN Human Rights Council, after a similar boycott of his speech at the nearby Conference on Disarmament.
European Council President Charles Michel said Russia is guilty of "geopolitical terrorism" by violating international law in its invasion of Ukraine.
"The council of EU governments will have to seriously look at the symbolic, political and legitimate request that has been made and make the appropriate choice in a determined and clear-headed manner," Mr Michel said.
Meanwhile, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Russia must immediately withdraw its troops and end the "bloodshed" in Ukraine and warned of further sanctions to punish Moscow's aggression.
"Do prove that you are with us. Do prove that you will not let us go. Do prove that you are indeed Europeans and then life will win over death and light will win over darkness. Glory be to Ukraine," he continued.
But the decision to put Kyiv on the path to join remains one for the 27 member states. Officials caution it would take years of reforms for Ukraine to be able to become part of the EU.
The fresh walkout came less than an hour after diplomats all but emptied a nearby room at the UN's European headquarters in Geneva when Mr Lavrov's video speech aired to the Conference on Disarmament, a body created in 1979 to try to stem the Cold War arms race.
MEPs look set to back a non-binding resolution calling for Ukraine to be granted candidate status.
The address by Mr Zelensky comes as Kyiv pushes for fast-track membership of the bloc.
Satellite images show a huge build-up of Russian armoured vehicles and artillery 29km north of Kyiv as the capital, population three million, braces for an all-out assault.
'Prove that you will not let us go,' Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says as he ends his address to MEPs in the European Parliament with the refrain 'Glory be to Ukraine'  Follow live updates: https:t.coqafFJN2BNw pic.twitter.comrGLk9qck2K
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that after talking on the phone with European Council President Charles Michel he was waiting for news on Kyiv's bid to join the European Union.
Contrasting receptions: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky received a standing ovation after addressing the EU, while there was a mass walkout when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov addressed the UN Human Rights Council  Live blog: https:t.coIDi40gHyDq pic.twitter.comxTmi5zHoDQ
The diplomats filed out of the room when Sergei Lavrov's pre-recorded video message began to play, in protest against Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
The address by Mr Zelensky comes as evidence from the ground shows that Moscow's forces are bombing civilian areas in major cities as they seek to push deeper into Ukraine.
"We discussed the current situation on the battlefield and diplomatic efforts. Waiting for the positive signals about Ukraine's membership in the EU," Mr Zelensky said, calling Mr Michel, who chairs the EU national leaders, Ukraine's "trusted friend".
Yesterday, Mr Zelensky urged the European Union to prove that it sided with Ukraine in its war with Russia a day after signing an official request to join the bloc.
Further sanctions cutting some Russian banks from the global SWIFT messaging network and banning broadcasts of Russian media outlets deemed propaganda organs spreading disinformation are poised to come into effect.
"It is going to be difficult, we know there are different views in Europe," he said.
Russia should "immediately stop all hostilities, withdraw Russian troops to Russia and return to dialogue," Mr Scholz told reporters in Berlin. "The bloodshed must end."
Outside that chamber, diplomats also gathered in front of a Ukrainian flag and applauded loudly.
Mr Michel noted however that while Ukraine's application was "symbolic", there was no unity on the issue of enlargement in the 27-nation bloc.
'Nobody is going to break us' - The translator for the Ukrainian President becomes emotional as Volodymyr Zelensky addresses MEPs in the European Parliament on the ongoing invasion by Russia  Follow live updates: https:t.coqafFJN2BNw pic.twitter.comrxNA5dUG38
"The rules-based international order, democracy, human dignity are also under attack. This is geopolitical terrorism, pure and simple," he told MEPs.
"We will certainly add more to the packages of sanctions that we have decided so far," he said, adding that "Ukraine is literally fighting for survival".
We need your consent to load this rte-player contentWe use rte-player to manage extra content that can set cookies on your device and collect data about your activity. Please review their details and accept them to load the content.Manage Preferences
"Thank you very much for this wonderful show of support to Ukrainians who are fighting for their independence," Ukrainian Ambassador Yevheniia Filipenko, who led the walkout, told the crowd gathered around a large Ukrainian flag outside the chamber.
"The European Union is going to be much stronger with us, that's for sure. Without you, Ukraine is going to be alone," Mr Zelensky told the European Parliament by video link.
