Irish Government doing everything it can to find accommodation for Ukrainians
20220316
https://www.eveshamjournal.co.uk/news/19998626.irish-government-doing-everything-can-find-accommodation-ukrainians/
I would hope that the current talks, tentative though they are, could yield some results in terms of the ceasefire and cessation of the violence in the first instance, then demilitarisation, he said.
Turning to the dramatic increase in energy prices, Mr Martin said he will not move unilaterally on the EUs VAT directive.
Mr Martin said the sanctions against Russia by the EU and United States are having an impact on the countrys economy.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Speaking in Washington DC on the second day of his trip to the US as part of the St Patricks Day celebrations, Mr Martin said there is currently no estimate for how much the war in Ukraine will cost the Irish Government.
So into the future we keep this under review, I think the more targeted measures will probably yield the best results.
Micheal Martin said that housing and accommodation will need to be refurbished for the thousands of refugees fleeing the war-torn country.
But when in a war situation like this on the continent of Europe, where the sanctions that have been imposed by Europe and US are the severest kind that we create shocks to the system, it will create a degree of instability in the economy. It will create price pressures, particularly on energy, food and other commodities.
The Irish premier has said the Government is doing everything it can to procure accommodation for the thousands of Ukrainian refugees arriving in Ireland.
Those are the realities of the fact that Russia has waged war on Ukraine and all of the consequences going from that.
Mr Martin said that some housing will need to be refurbished while the Government will look to procure hotels, BBs and other facilities.
He added: The Government will not be able to shield the entire population from the full impact of this war, on fuel prices and our energy prices.
We are at a very dangerous moment in terms of where we are globally as a result of this war.
There are limits to what any government can do in a situation like this, and that is why this war should end.
In the first instance because of the appalling death and destruction on the people of Ukraine and their cities and their towns, and also the broader danger it poses to the world in terms of an extension of that conflict.
While many are being accommodated in hotels, the Government is attempting to source other properties.
No government is going to be in a position to protect in its entirety their societies from those consequences.
He also said that he hopes peace talks between Ukraine and Russia will lead to some results.
In particular we believe its imperative that humanitarian corridors, genuine humanitarian corridors are created, maintained and sustained as quickly as possible.
More than 7,000 refugees have arrived in Ireland, with the number expected to increase significantly in the coming days and weeks.
Those other facilities will have to be refitted and reconfigured to make them suitable for residential, Mr Martin said.
Good ideas on how we can boost innovation and future-proof Ireland as a global home of research. pic.twitter.comWAiv1Scrpv
There will be significant costs on the accommodation front. We have over 7,000 refugees that have come into Ireland. It is significant and it is growing but we, through the whole of government approach, we are doing everything we possibly can to procure as much as they possibly can.
He defended the Irish Governments reaction to tackling the rise in energy and living costs, saying Ireland moved faster than many other EU member states.
