Russias military buildup near Ukraine is growing not shrinking warns West
20220216
https://www.rappler.com/world/europe/united-stated-nato-say-russia-building-up-troops-near-ukraine-not-withdrawing/
Estonian intelligence is aware of around 10 battle groups of troops moving toward the Ukrainian border, where it estimates about 170,000 soldiers are already deployed, said Mikk Marran, director general of the Estonian Foreign Intelligence Service.
There is a growing Russian military presence at Ukraines borders, Western countries warned on Wednesday, February 16, as Estonia said battle groups were moving ahead of a likely attack to occupy key terrain, contradicting Moscows insistence of a pullback.
The government said a cyberattack that hit the defense ministry was the worst of its kind the country had seen, pointing the finger at Russia, which denied involvement.
More armored vehicles, helicopters and a field hospital have been spotted, Britains defense intelligence chief said in rare public comments.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, who is criss-crossing the country to help bolster Ukrainians morale, observed drills by his armed forces that included Javelin anti-tank missiles.
Russias defense ministry said its forces were pulling back after exercises in southern and western military districts near Ukraine, and Moscows ambassador to Ireland insisted forces in western Russia would be back to their normal positions within three to four weeks.
But NATO military commanders are drawing up plans for new combat units that diplomats said could be deployed in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia.
World powers are engaged in one of the deepest crises in East-West relations for decades, jostling over post-Cold War influence and energy supplies as Russia wants to stop Ukraine ever joining the NATO military alliance.
Wednesday was designated a patriotic holiday in response to reports Russia could invade on that day. No one can love our home as we can. And only we, together, can protect our home, he said.
If Russia is successful in Ukraine, it would encourage it to increase pressure on the Baltics in the coming years, he said. The threat of war has become the main policy tool for Putin.
Western nations have suggested arms control and confidence-building steps to defuse the standoff, which has prompted them to urge their citizens to leave Ukraine because an attack could come at any time. Russia denies it has any plans to invade.
Ukraine also increased the number of border guards on its frontier with Belarus, Russias ally, where some 9,000 Russian troops are estimated to be involved in military exercises.
It published video that it said showed tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, and self-propelled artillery units leaving the Crimean peninsula, which Moscow seized from Ukraine in 2014.
The risk of Russian aggression against Ukraine would remain high for the rest of February and Russia could still attack Ukraine with essentially no, or little-to-no, warning, according to a senior Western intelligence official.
We continue to see critical units moving toward the border, not away from the border.
People raised flags and played the national anthem to show unity against fears of an invasion.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said sanctions against Russian banks would be unpleasant but the state would ensure all bank deposits and transactions were secured.
Ukraine has asked the UN Security Council to discuss on Thursday a bid by Russias parliament to recognize self-proclaimed separatists.
Up to 7,000 more troops have moved to the border in recent days, including some arriving on Wednesday, a senior official in US President Joe Bidens administration said, without providing evidence.
US officials were as yet unable to say who was responsible, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said.
TENSIONS. A Ukrainian service member stands guard at Hoptivka Goptovka crossing on the Ukrainian-Russian border in the Kharkiv region, Ukraine, February 16, 2022.
Russia sees Ukraine joining NATO as a threat to its security and has said it is ready to reroute energy exports to other markets if it is hit by sanctions, which Washington and its allies have threatened if it invades.
NATO said it could prove Russias failure to pull back its soldiers with satellite imagery. More troops are on their way, said Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
Moscow has accused the West of hysterical war propaganda after repeated warnings of a possible attack.
Biden and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz underscored the importance of continued transatlantic coordination on a call on Wednesday, the White House said.
Such units  designed to buy time for additional soldiers to reach the front line if needed  already exist in Poland and the Baltic states.
Britain will double the size of its force in Estonia and send tanks and armored fighting vehicles to the small Baltic republic bordering Russia as part of the NATO deployment.
Theres what Russia says. And then theres what Russia does. And we havent seen any pullback of its forces, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in an interview on MSNBC.
British foreign minister Liz Truss is due to visit Kyiv this week and Blinken will travel to Germany for the Munich Security Conference, which starts on Friday, to coordinate with allies.
