God Nukes and Ukraine We are underestimating the danger of Putin
20220301
https://thedailyblog.co.nz/2022/03/01/god-nukes-and-ukraine-we-are-underestimating-the-danger-of-putin/
What isnt widely known is that Putin himself is a very staunch Russian Orthodox Christianand that he has used the Russian Orthodox Church as an enormous control mechanism over the Russian people.
Putin sees himself as part of a long line of Christian Defenders of the true faith.
I think the Ukraine is just the beginning and any sense that the Ukraine is winning is optimistic in the extreme.
If Putin is doing this for God and the soul of Mother Russia, the dead are evidence of faith, not failure!
Putin has clearly been planning this for some time and I think the trigger was the attempted coup last month in Kazakhstan.
It seems odd that he is threatening nuclear strikes and using his Doomsday Bunker the moment it became available.
Recently the Ukrainian branch of the Orthodox Church severed ties with the Russian branchbecause they felt Putin was having too much influence over it.
A new angry white Christianity is erupting here with intense violence, and misreading the drivers of Putin means we will fail at stopping him.
In 2017 he saw Dr Strangelove for the first time ever with Director Oliver Stone.
Putin has spent billions rebuilding the Churches smashed down by Communism and uses his relationship with the Church for political advantage. It was the Orthodox Church who first praised Putin for annexing Crimea, a region with much religious importance for the Church.
If you cant contribute but want to help, please always feel free to share our blogs on social media
Because we have the attention span of 1 season of Married At First Sight, we dont appreciate the power and importance and motivator Russian Orthodox Christianity plays out in all of this.
In 988AD, Vladimir the Great, whom Putin takes his name from, mass baptised 1000 Russians at the River Nee-Proh in what has become the founding spiritual moment in Orthodox Russian Christianity as the moment Russia became Christian and led to a cultural narrative structure that Moscow is the third Rome and was a homeland for Christianity.
Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever, soif you value having an independent voice  please donate here.
