GUEST BLOG Ben Morgan Ukraine  What is going on and will Putin go nuclear
20220228
https://thedailyblog.co.nz/2022/03/01/guest-blog-ben-morgan-ukraine-what-is-going-on-and-will-putin-go-nuclear/
Combined with this context, Belarus offering to host Russian nuclear weapons is a very dangerous development. Belarus expands the staging area for a tactical nuclear attack either into Ukraine or into NATO countries.
The world is dangerously close to nuclear war. Yesterday, there was a pause in conventional operations, one that was predicted. The Russians are over-extended and currently unable to develop offensive operations. The invasion force is tired, their advance is being held and they need time to regroup, rearm and rest.
A nuclear escalation is most likely to involve use of a small number of tactical nuclear weapons probably in a less populated part of Ukraine targeting a military unit. An airbase would make a good target and if it happens it will be a surprise, perhaps during ceasefire negotiations. Putin has demonstrated time and again that we cannot trust his word, and the aim of a nuclear escalation is to scare the West using shock and surprise so that the West does anything to de-escalate.
Further, Putin is politically relying on his tough image to retain power at home. A defeat in Ukraine is unacceptable, he needs to win for his own political survival. If it cant be achieved conventionally then perhaps, he is willing risk nuclear escalation to make sure he gets his win. Hopefully, not and there is evidence that he is open to parley, he has spoken to French President Macron and a number of other countries in that last twenty-four hours.
Recent, Russian discussions of nuclear strategies broached the idea of escalation to de-escalate, or using tactical nuclear weapons early in a conflict to shock an enemy into rapid capitulation. This theory is based on the assumption that the weak, Western democracy would not have the stomach for a nuclear war and that this action would immediately stop their intervention.
In the West we are not used to the Cold Warrior mentality that Putin is demonstrating, our world is peaceful, reasonable and interconnected. Putins is a world of danger and sacrifice. He was brought up hearing stories of millions of glorious Russian deaths defending the Motherland at places like Stalingrad and Leningrad during World War Two. He served as a KGB agent during the height of the Cold War, watched Regan fill Europe with nuclear weapons and bluff the Soviet regime with the Star Wars anti-nuclear missile defence system, actions that crippled the Soviet Union economically as they tried to compete. The United States won that Cold War and the old Soviet Union was split into pieces creating the new weaker Russia.
In the West, we see use of nuclear weapons as not only abhorrent but inconceivable. We argue on economic grounds that the cost of a nuclear war is too high. Putin may not think that way, he is an idealist he doesnt care about economic concerns. He cares about demonstrating the strength and power of his country.
In the coming days NATO leaders may need to make some very tough decisions. It could be argued that Putin is product of years of weak United States Presidents reinforcing his perception that the West is weak and unwilling to sacrifice, in his mind allowing a hard, tough Russia to operate with impunity. Remember Obamas red line in Syria? Or the Trump presidency? President Bidens tenure will be defined by this conflict and unfortunately, he may soon be in the position of considering a nuclear escalation.
In the 1980s and 90s nuclear strategists started developing theories for tactical use of nuclear weapons including escalation. At this time a theory developed called Broken Back War, that argued nuclear war was survivable and that nations should prepare government and military infra-structure to keep fighting a low intensity broken back war after a catastrophic nuclear exchange. This idea has not gone away and in fact with the diminishing size of nuclear arsenals has become more reasonable.
Escalation of nuclear force was always an option for Cold War military planners, a tactical nuclear exchange demonstrated a partys resolve to escalate to a full nuclear exchange. Traditionally, theorists thought that this escalation was most likely at sea where events can be controlled more easily and there is less civilian damage. Something like using nuclear depth charges or attacking a naval task group with nuclear weapons. It was seen as a way to demonstrate resolve by showing your enemy that you were willing to use nuclear weapons but doing so in a controlled and damage limiting way.
The unfortunate problem is that if Putin does use this tactic the West is faced with only one option. Matching the escalation and demonstrating its resolve to go all the way.  If NATO doesnt then Poland, Finland or the Baltic States are next on Putins list.
In summary, NATO needs to prepare for the worst. We hope the nuclear rhetoric is bluff, but there is a good chance that it isnt. Looking at history, we can see the romantic image that Putin has of Russia. That romantic image includes a distinctly Russian trait, sacrifice. In the 19th century they thwarted Napoleons invasion by driving the Russian peasantry off their land and burning their crops. Napoleons Grande Armee could not find the supplies they needed and when winter came were forced to withdraw. In the 20th century the Soviets used the same tactics against the German invaders. The Soviet Union lost millions of people defending cities like Stalingrad and Leningrad rather than surrender them to the Germans. Putin is willing to accept sacrifice and probably sees himself as one of long line of Russian statesmen willing to sacrifice millions of his people to protect the Motherland.
Ben Morgan is a tired Gen X interested in international politics. He is TDBs Military analyst.
The peace talks are a likely a ruse, buying time for Russian forces to reconstitute and prepare for their next operation. This may be a deliberate attack on Kiev, however yesterdays nuclear rhetoric opens up other possibilities. Three pieces of information stand out, Putins move to a fortified bunker in the Urals, Russian nuclear forces moving to higher alert and Belarus allowing nuclear weapons on their territory.
The Soviet Union, planned extensively to fight in a post-nuclear environment and probably had the world largest and best equipped Chemical, Biological, Radiation and Nuclear CBRN military capability. A capability inherited by Russia, who are not scared to fight in that environment having trained for that contingency for about 70 years.
Forged in history like that he is may be a man prepared to go to extreme lengths to achieve his goals against Russias long-standing enemies. If he really is in a bunker in the Urals, it is likely that he is considering nuclear options.
