ExMSNBC analyst trolled for his reaction to missile strike in Ukraine
20220421
https://www.dailydot.com/debug/twitter-malcolm-nance-ukraine-russian-airstrike/
Wait, therell be three! Wait for one more, Nance says while pointing at the sky. They fire them in 30 second intervals.
Supporters of Nance were quick to praise the video, arguing that it clearly showcased the veterans expertise.
Unsurprisingly, support of mockery of Nance was divided largely down partisan lines. Even conspiracy theorists got in on the fray, arguing that Nance was actually in the U.S. and that the entire video was staged.
The former media pundit goes on to repeatedly use the phrase standby while further outlining details on the strike.
Top-notch reporting from NBC's aliarouzi and Malcolm Nance. Kalibr has a 1000lb warhead, not 500lb. It's the subsonic land-attack variant, not the hypersonic anti-ship variant. Wouldn't hear anti-ship variant on terminal approach. Fired at 5-second intervals, not 30. https:t.coNwbPoJ4B65 pic.twitter.comFegFWZQW50
Reporter: was that an airstrike?Nance: yescame from a ship 500 lb bomb          smells air came from the southeast fired from 173 degree azimuth           tastes dirt by a guy named Greg           squintswife just left him pic.twitter.coml4i5A3b1Yv
It's a 500-lb bomb -STAND BY- it's a caliber anti-ship missile -STAND BY- it's a cruise missile -STAND BY- there'll be three -STAND BY- here comes the fourth!-STAND BY- https:t.coIt3ePu7xg1
Malcolm Nance, a Navy veteran who recently left the network and reportedly joined Ukraines fight against the Russian invasion, was speaking with NBC News in Lviv on Monday when the incident unfolded.
But not everybody was impressed. And many argued that some of Nances remarks werent correct.
First its a bomb, then its a cruise missile then says something about caliber, another YouTuber added. What a joke.
Many were quick to note that despite Nances intense response, Ukrainian pedestrians appeared to be walking nonchalantly in the background.
Are we in an air raid? Nance asks, cutting off the interview as the sound of missiles roar overhead.
The drama. The danger, one Twitter user wrote. Yet the people in the background are walking  acting normally  are on their phones.
A longer version of the video posted to TikTok went viral as well and quickly made its way to Twitter, where the trolling only intensified.
Nance proceeds to narrate a questionable play-by-play of the strike, using his watch to determine the direction of the attack while announcing the alleged size of the missiles warheads.
Twitter has spent much of this week trolling a former MSNBC analyst in Ukraine over his reaction to a reported Russian missile strike.
Still, many users took issue with the content of Nances remarks, mockingly referring to the segment as top-notch reporting.
Right-wing commentator Jack Posobiec also helped keep the mockery of Nance alive and well by repeatedly referencing the video throughout the week.
The drama. The danger. Yet the people in the background are walking  acting normally  are on their phones. https:t.cobCoP3EK9TD
The incident comes on the same day that Nance announced on Twitter that he was DONE talking and intended to join the foreign legion in Ukraine.
If it was fired from a ship, shit, were getting hit, he adds. Thats a 500-pound bomb.
