No you cant use Patreon to buy missiles for Ukraine updated
20220224
https://www.dailydot.com/debug/patreon-missiles-ukraine/
Specifically, supporters will be shown the rehabilitation of Ukrainian veterans and their return to a peaceful life.
Analysis on the Internet Archive shows that the account on Jan. 26 of this year had around 936 patrons in total, bringing in a little over $19,000 per month. By Feb. 15, the membership list had jumped up to more than 2,800 while generating over $55,000 per month.
Wait the patreon to help Ukraine is actually linked on a Ukranian government website! Is Patreon still taking a cut?! Is Patreon war profiteering?? pic.twitter.comrOSAVmUjya
In deleting the page, Patreon said that the website of the organization says they use contributions to finance and train military personnel and thus cited its harmful activities policy in banning the organization.
The claim that the account is run by the Ukrainian government in an effort to procure funds for weaponry is also inaccurate.
people seem to be subtly misinterpreting this "Ukrainian government patreon" it's being run by an NGO which is promoted by the government, but it is separate to gov's donation funds. The tiers's names appear to be just marketing  you're not buying bombs https:t.coqvWoLUrVtj pic.twitter.comTodwDtT4AF
Yet despite the belief among some that the account had been created after Russias invasion on Wednesday evening, it has been active since at least May 2020.
Patreon deleted the fund page. Without a warning. In a very difficult time for Ukraine, Come Back Alive said on Facebook, according to VICE.
A screenshot from one current patron urged users to support the account in order to help them buy tanks and missiles, leading many to believe not only that the account was government-run but that Patreon was profiting off of the military crisis.
A Patreon account out of Ukraine is raising eyebrows online after racking up more than 14,000 supporters in the wake of Russias invasion.
The account, known simply as savelife.in.ua, gained widespread attention on Thursday after it was seen listed on a Ukrainian government website.
But the accounts massive surge in support has undoubtedly been influenced by the ongoing military conflict.
So while some may believe they are directly funding Ukraines defense efforts, the fact of the matter is that you cant help the Ukrainian military buy bombs through Patreon.
After Russias invasion this week, however, the account is now bringing in a staggering $436,966 per month thanks to its 14,590 supporters.
Update 3:14pm CT, Feb. 25: Patreon has banned the account for Come Back Alive, citing the organizations training of military personnel.
The money raised here will fund the operations of our media and veteran divisions, visible to 2,500,000 of our Facebook followers, the account states. Our patrons will receive the stories, audio, and video that had only became possible due to their support.
As noted in the accounts bio, savelife.in.ua is run by one of the largest charitable foundations in Ukraine, known as the Come Back Alive Foundation.
While the Patreon account itself claims not to fund military efforts, the Come Back Alive foundation has previously helped Ukrainian soldiers in the war in Donbas by purchasing them everything from thermographic cameras and night vision devices to bulletproof vests
The allegation that supporters would be helping the Ukrainian military obtain munitions stems from the accounts membership tier list. Although everything from rifle ammunition to bombs are shown, the imagery is used only for marketing.
