Stop this massacre Russian oligarch comes out against Ukraine invasion in Instagram post
20220420
https://www.dailydot.com/debug/russian-entrepreneur-oleg-tinkov-opposes-ukraine-war-instagram/
Tinkov, an entrepreneur whose businesses have ranged from banks to beer, was once worth an estimated $8 billion and one of Russias wealthiest citizens. Last month, sanctions by the United Kingdom over the war abruptly reduced Tinkovs status to that of mere multimillionaire. Hes currently worth an estimated $800 million, per Forbes.
At the end of his post, Tinkov switched to English to beg the collective West to please give Mr. Putin a clear exit to save his face and stop this massacre.
Hours after his post, journalist Farida Rustamova, formerly of BBC Russia, tweeted, Deputy Sultan Khamzaev will apply to the Investigative Committee of Russia with a statement on bringing Tinkov to justice for insulting citizens of Russia and the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation.
Ukraines allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO, including the United States, implemented massive sanctions against Russia to attempt to force it to end the invasion. NATO member nations also seized Russians assets overseas and provided significant aid to Ukraine.
The generals, waking up with a hangover, realized that they had a shitty army. And how will the army be good, if everything else in the country is shit and mired in nepotism, servility and servility? he wrote.
He wrote of morons who draw the Z that has become a symbol of Russian nationalism but said they comprise only 10 of the population. 90 of Russians are AGAINST this war! he claimed. Numerous polls have shown that a majority of Russians support the war.
He said that Kremlin officials are reeling because neither they nor their families can enjoy their customary Mediterranean vacations this summer and that businesses are scrambling to save their property, the latter likely an allusion to the British sanctions that personally cost him a purported $5 billion.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, whos widely viewed to be solely driving the war, refuses to back down even as his military is being forced to retreat in some areas. Russian attacks shifted eastward in recent days as it declared a new phase of the war.
Russia invaded Ukraine in late February. The war has been characterized by devastating destruction, civilian casualties, and accusations of war crimes by Russian forces, which collectively inspired widespread support for Ukraine in Western nations.
A wealthy entrepreneur has become one of the most prominent Russians to publicly oppose its invasion of Ukraine.
Most Russians still support the war, the Washington Post reports, and believe Putins claim that their goal is to de-Nazify and demilitarize Ukraine. Ukraine and its allies resoundingly reject this argument.
To stifle dissent from the minority, Moscow has made it illegal to criticize the war. Some Russians have nevertheless spoken out. Thousands have been arrested at anti-war protests in the last two months.
On Tuesday, Oleg Tinkov bucked the trend of famous Russians toeing the party line. In an Instagram post on his verified account, Tinkov came out unequivocally in opposition to the war.
Max Seddon, the Moscow bureau chief at the Financial Times, described it as the most stridently anti-war comment Ive seen from a Russian billionaire. According to Forbes, Tinkov is currently residing in Russia.
