YouTube takes action against RT after Twitter access restricted in Russia
20220226
https://www.dunfermlinepress.com/news/19955327.youtube-takes-action-rt-twitter-access-restricted-russia/
If they are afraid of speaking the truth, so we should stop this flow of poisonous lies.
It comes after Ukraines Digital Minister Mykhailo Fedorov tweeted earlier on Saturday: Ive contacted YouTube to block the propagandist Russian channels  such as Russia 24, TASS, RIA Novosti.
We will be significantly limiting recommendations to these channels. And in response to a government request, weve restricted access to RT and a number of other channels in Ukraine.
Citing extraordinary circumstances, the YouTube spokesperson said: Were pausing a number of channels ability to monetise on YouTube, including several Russian channels affiliated with recent sanctions.
Ordinary Russians are using Meta's apps to express themselves and organize for action. We want them to continue to make their voices heard, share whats happening, and organize through Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. pic.twitter.comFjTovgslCe
In a statement on Saturday, a YouTube spokesperson said it was taking action against a number of accounts, including Russian channels affiliated with recent sanctions.
Were aware that Twitter is being restricted for some people in Russia and are working to keep our service safe and accessible.
We intend to help Russians and the world to know the truth. Ive contacted YouTube to block the propagandist Russian channels  such as Russia 24, TASS, RIA Novosti. If they are afraid of speaking the truth, so we should stop this flow of poisonous lies.
He tweeted: Yesterday Russian authorities ordered us to stop the independent fact-checking and labelling of content on Facebook by four Russian state-owned media organisations.
The platform said it will continue to monitor new developments and may take further actions.
NetBlocks, a London-based company that monitors web outages and internet access throughout the world, reported access to Twitter and its backend servers is being restricted on leading networks in Russia.
Russian authorities announced the partial restriction after the social media network limited the accounts of several Kremlin-backed outlets over the invasion of Ukraine.
Earlier on Saturday, Twitter said it was aware that access to the platform had been restricted for some people in Russia, adding it is working to keep our service safe and accessible.
We want them to continue to make their voices heard, share whats happening, and organise through Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.
It also said access to these channels will be restricted in Ukraine after a government request and their videos will come up less often in recommendations.
The platform said it has limited the ability for RT and other Russian channels to make money from advertisements, following a similar move by Facebook.
Sir Nick, vice president of global affairs at Facebooks parent company Meta, said that ordinary Russians are using our apps to express themselves and organise for action and the company wants them to continue to make their voices heard.
Russian state communications watchdog Roskomnadzor said it had demanded that Facebook lifts the restrictions it placed on Thursday on state news agency RIA Novosti, state TV channel Zvezda, and pro-Kremlin news sites Lenta.Ru and Gazeta.Ru.
We refused. As a result, they have announced they will be restricting the use of our services.
Confirmed: Live metrics show that Twitter has been restricted on multiple providers in Russia as of 9:00 a.m. UTC the incident comes as the government clashes with social media platforms over policy in relation to the Ukraine conflict
It added: Circumvention is currently possible using VPN services, which can help users work around the online censorship.
On Friday, Russia also limited access to Facebook after the social media provider refused to stop fact-checking and labelling content from state-owned organisations, former deputy prime minister Sir Nick Clegg said.
