Ukraine blames Russia for gas transit interruption By IANS Published on  Thu May 12 2022 557 IST   0 Views
20220512
https://www.prokerala.com/news/articles/a1277193.html
Sergiy Makogon, head of the GSTOU, said on Wednesday that Gazprom has stopped transportation of gas from Russia to the gas measuring station Sokhranivka, thus suspending supplies to Ukraine's eastern Donetsk and Lugansk regions, Xinhua news agency reported.
Kiev, May 12 : The gas transmission system operator of Ukraine GSTOU has accused Russia of interrupting Russian gas transit through Ukraine to the consumers in Ukraine and Europe.
The GSTOU said it is ready to reroute the gas flows from Sokhranivka to the Sudzha physical interconnection point located in the territory controlled by Ukraine.
On April 12, local media reported that Russia's gas transit through Ukraine fell to about 68 percent of the contracted maximum.
Novopskov is the gas compressor station in the conflict-affected Lugansk region, which pumps up to 32.6 million cubic meters of gas per day via Sokhranivka or a third of Russia's gas transit to Europe.
The GSTOU said that it was forced to suspend the Russian gas transit to Europe via the territories in eastern Ukraine controlled by Russian forces due to "force majeure".
A similar transfer of capacity from Sokhranivka to Sudzha took place from Oct. 12 to 25, 2020 due to scheduled repairs, the GSTOU said.
The gas transit via the Sokhranivka and the border compressor station Novopskov were halted over unauthorized interference in technical processes and withdrawals of gas, the GSTOU said.
On March 10, Makogon said that the daily transit of Russian gas via Ukraine almost doubled since the start of the conflict to a contracted maximum of 109 million cubic meters per day.
-- The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text
On March 31, the GSTOU said that 44 gas-distributing stations in Ukraine suspended their operations due to the damage caused by shelling in the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
In 2021, Ukraine transited some 41.6 billion cubic meters of Russian gas to consumers in Europe, down 25 percent from 2020.
According to it, Sudzha has a capacity of pumping 72 million cubic meters of gas per day.
