Russian invasion escalates as massive convoy nears Kyiv and Kharkiv assaulted
20220222
https://www.unionleader.com/news/military/russian-invasion-escalates-as-massive-convoy-nears-kyiv-and-kharkiv-assaulted/article_233b14fa-cda9-5f28-a47d-9e26993fdda8.html
In other developments, U.K. deputy prime minister, Dominic Raab, said Tuesday that Britain will not seek to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine because that could involve "shooting down Russian planes."
Video and images shared on social media showed the building still standing, but with its windows and those of several adjacent structures completely blown out by the large explosion. Over the weekend, Kharkiv residents visited the blue-and-yellow tent across from the city hall to sign up to volunteer - weaving camouflage netting and driving food to people who haven't been able to leave their homes because of shelling.
A massive convoy of Russian ground forces is wending its way closer to Kyiv, drawing within 20 miles of the center of the Ukrainian capital Monday, satellite images showed.
Tuesday's strike was on the city center, appearing to target an area that civilian volunteers and Territorial Defense forces had used as their headquarters.
Russian forces, frustrated by the tenacious defense of major cities by Ukrainian soldiers and ad hoc civilian militias, gathered menacing strength Tuesday, as a projectile appeared to strike near Kharkiv's administration building and a convoy of troops and artillery more than 40 miles long approached Kyiv.
British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said last week that enforcing a no-fly zone would mean putting British pilots in the line of fire and could amount to a declaration of war. "I would have to put British fighter jets directly against Russian fighter jets," Wallace told the BBC.
Air attacks on Kharkiv continued Tuesday, with a projectile appearing to strike the Regional State Administration building of Ukraine's second-largest city, according to a government official and social media videos.
Zelensky has called for a no-fly zone for Russian missiles, planes and helicopters, amid air raids and shelling in the country's second-largest city, Kharkiv. While many of Ukraine's allies have banned Russian flights from their skies and introduced a slew of sanctions on Moscow, U.S. and British officials have indicated little appetite in recent days for imposing a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
KHARKIV, Ukraine - As we were about to pull out of our Kharkiv hotel, an eruption sounded so close that we all sprinted back inside the lobby.
In its latest intelligence update, the ministry noted that Russian forces had shifted to night operations in an effort to "reduce their losses." It said the change was prompted after Russia failed to gain control of Ukraine's airspace.
The Russian force, under the command of a President Vladimir Putin who has seen his country become an international political and economic pariah with astonishing speed, is apparently girding itself to encircle Kyiv, according to a senior U.S. defense official, fueling concerns that the Kremlin will adopt the same siege tactics beginning to strangle Kharkiv.
It added that Russian forces had increased their use of artillery north of the capital and in the areas of Kharkiv and Chernihiv, raising the risk of civilian casualties.
His comment echoed White House press secretary Jen Psaki's response to whether Washington was considering a no-fly zone. "It would require deploying U.S. military to enforce, which would be a direct conflict - potentially a direct conflict and potentially war with Russia, which is something we are not planning to be a part of."
On Sunday, Maxar released images that showed the same group of Russian forces roughly 40 miles from the capital. The company's analysts estimated then that the convoy was about three miles long but revised their assessment dramatically upward one day later, noting that cloud cover interfered with initial projections.
Five hours of talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations near Belarus's border on Monday failed to yield a breakthrough, with the two sides agreeing only to continue discussions in coming days. Russia's defense minister said Monday the invasion would continue until Russia met its goals.
The convoy cuts a menacing figure through the countryside near Kyiv amid questions over whether Russian forces will use siege tactics against the capital, encircling the city, cutting off supplies and escape routes, and then moving in.
The tent, located on "Freedom Square," was a main hub for local activists. Those who wanted to join the Territorial Defense - a volunteer reserve force - were then directed to go across the street to the administration building.
The Washington Post's Karla Adam, Ellen Francis, Reis Thebault and Isabelle Khurshudyan contributed to this report.
Just 25 miles from the Russian border, Kharkiv has been the site of some of the heaviest artillery shelling since Russia's attack on Ukraine started last week. Local officials have said at least 11 are dead from a bombardment that included suspected cluster munitions in civilian suburban areas.
There, thousands are without power and heat in subfreezing temperatures, local officials said, and residents were bracing for more shelling on Tuesday. Suspected cluster munitions struck residential parts of Kharkiv on Monday, raising fears that as Russia escalates attacks in urban areas, it could use tactics similar to those it used in Chechnya and Syria, where it has been accused of widespread wartime abuses. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the attack on civilian areas in Kharkiv amounted to a "war crime."
Russia's advance on Kyiv has made little progress over the past 24 hours, probably because of logistical difficulties, according to Britain's Defense Ministry.
The Defense Ministry's official Twitter account started sharing regular "intelligence updates" on the crisis in Ukraine last month.
The regional governor said there was "chaotic shelling in all directions" overnight in the city, with firefighters battling 24 blazes. The morning attack struck the city's opera house and a residential area as well as the government headquarters, according to emergency service officials in a statement relayed by a parliamentary Telegram account. Officials beseeched residents to stay inside.
The line of Russian military vehicles stretched along the road for roughly 40 miles, far longer than initial estimates, according to the U.S. firm Maxar Technologies, which captured the photos Monday morning local time. The convoy includes armored vehicles, tanks and towed artillery, Maxar said, and it appears to be making steady progress along the war-scarred roads leading to Kyiv.
"The enemy continues to attack Kharkiv," Gov. Oleh Synehubov wrote on Telegram shortly after the explosion at the administration building. "Russian occupier continues to use heavy weapons and destroy the civilian population."
