Stefania Express Ukraine cheers wartime Eurovision victory
20220515
https://www.unionleader.com/news/back_page/stefania-express-ukraine-cheers-war-time-eurovision-victory/article_23ce85f2-dc39-5aaa-9ed5-7bd4de7b4827.html
I didnt connect it to myself, that the song was written for me. I thought someone had made a mistake and meant his girlfriend Sasha and got the names mixed up, she said.
She was really worried. We wept. We sat up until half past six, watching the press conference.... Emotions were off the scale, we didnt believe that our little town of Kalush would bring Ukraine victory this year in the Eurovision, she said.
Russia has almost fully captured the devastated port city, but a pocket of Ukrainian resistance is holding out in Azovstal. I was overwhelmed with emotions when Iceland came out with Ukrainian flags, and also when Kalush spoke for Azovstal, Savinkova said.
The band published a new music video for the track on Sunday showing Ukrainian servicewomen rescuing children from shelled and ruined towns.
Train stations in Kyiv, Kalush and Ivano-Frankivsk will play the song when the train pulls in, he said.
The most important thing is that the guys went and performed. They supported us, and we supported them. It is important, he said.
The frontmans mother Stefania, in televised comments, described going to the local market in her hometown and, bewildered, being asked by passersby to pose for photographs.
We were very happy with Ukraines victory, and we hope that we will win not only at Eurovision, Liubov Savinkova, a Kyiv resident, said in an obvious reference to the war.
Mykola Latsiuk, a bartender in Kyiv, said that the bands participation was more important than their victory.
Psiuks sister Iryna described watching the televised contest with her mother in the town of Kalush, the bands hometown in the foothills of the Carpathian Mountains in Ukraines western Ivano-Frankivsk region.
Ukraines Kalush Orchestra triumphed in Italy on Saturday with their entry Stefania, a song fusing rap with traditional folk music that was a tribute to band frontman Oleh Psiuks mother.
KYIV  Proud Ukrainians reveled in their Eurovision Song Contest victory on Sunday, renaming a train route in its honor as they hoped for victory in their grinding war with Russia.
The head of the railway service announced that the number 43 train from Kyiv to Ivano-Frankivsk will be renamed the Stefania Express to honor the victory.
Russias Feb. 24 invasion has killed thousands, forced millions from their homes and devastated the port city of Mariupol. She said she was deeply moved by the huge show of European support for Ukraine and by the bands plea at the end of their performance for help in Mariupol and the Azovstal steelworks.
