Ukraine gets more US German rocket launcher systems
20220802
https://www.unionleader.com/news/politics/ukraine-gets-more-u-s-german-rocket-launcher-systems/article_8a92c6e8-046c-5129-9b60-972b1441dfa8.html
The Ukrainian military has also received three MARS II MLRS, the German version of the U.S.-made M270 Multiple Launch Rocket System. The delivery was announced by Christina Lambrecht, the German defense minister on July 26.
Other countries that have supplied Ukraine with artillery systems include the United States, Britain, France, Norway and Poland.
It is designed to destroy troops and equipment, air defenses, command posts and communications and to lay minefields.
According to specifications by its manufacturer Kraus-Maffei Wegmann, MLRS MARS II can hit targets at a range of up to 43 miles, depending on the type of ammunition it is using.
Kyiv has previously said it needs 1,000 howitzers, 500 tanks and 1,000 drones among other heavy weapons to repel Russian troops.
Ukraine has received four U.S.-made high mobility artillery rocket systems HIMARS, Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said.
"Im grateful to POTUS and SecDef Lloyd Austin III and the U.S. people for strengthening of UAarmy," Reznikov wrote on Twitter.
Ukraine has so far received German Panzerhaubitze 2000 self-propelled howitzers. Lambrecht on July 26 also announced the delivery of five Gepard anti-aircraft systems.
HIMARS have a longer range and are more precise than Ukraine's Soviet-era rocket artillery, allowing Ukrainian forces to hit Russian targets that were previously unreachable.
Russia has described its actions in Ukraine as a "special operation" to demilitarize its neighbor. Ukraine and the West have dismissed this as a baseless pretext for war.
The government in Kyiv has repeatedly pleaded with the West to send more long-range artillery as it tries to turn the tide on Russia's Feb. 24 invasion and attack Russian supply lines and ammo dumps.
"The third brother in the Long Hand family -- MLRS MARS II from Germany -- has arrived in Ukraine," Reznikov wrote on Twitter.
Moscow has accused the West of dragging out the conflict by giving Ukraine more arms, and said the supply of longer-range weapons justifies Russia's attempts to expand control over more Ukrainian territory for its own protection.
Ukrainian servicemen fire a M777 howitzer at a position on a front line, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in Kharkiv region, Ukraine August 1, 2022. REUTERSSofiia Gatilova
Ukraine has received more German and U.S.-made multiple rocket launcher systems, part of a series of deliveries of the high-precision heavy weapons promised by its allies, its defense minister said on Monday.
