White House said to plan Russian oil ban Moscow opens corridor from Sumy
20220308
https://www.unionleader.com/news/military/white-house-said-to-plan-russian-oil-ban-moscow-opens-corridor-from-sumy/article_f500a3fa-1494-5fa7-a608-de1907f2ff1c.html
"Ceasefire violated! Russian forces are now shelling the humanitarian corridor from Zaporizhzhia to Mariupol," Ukraine's foreign ministry spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko wrote on Twitter.
"8 trucks  30 buses ready to deliver humanitarian aid to Mariupol and to evac civilians to Zaporizhzhia. Pressure on Russia MUST step up to make it uphold its commitments."
U.S. gasoline pump prices hit a record high, London trade in industrial metal nickel had to be suspended after prices more than doubled in a matter of hours, and Britain's Shell said it was halting all purchases of Russian oil, apologizing for buying a shipment last week.
WASHINGTONLVIV, Ukraine - The White House is expected to impose a ban on U.S. imports of oil from Russia as punishment for the invasion of Ukraine, Democratic U.S. Senator Chris Coons said on Tuesday.
Russia opened a humanitarian corridor on Tuesday letting Ukrainians flee the eastern city of Sumy, but Kyiv accused Moscow of shelling a similar route intended to allow residents to escape the besieged southern port of Mariupol.
The economic impact of a conflict involving the world's top oil and gas exporter and two of its biggest grain and metals producers was also intensifying on Tuesday, fueling concerns it could derail global recovery from the coronavirus pandemic.
Reporting by Reuters bureaus Writing by Costas Pitas, Stephen Coates and Peter Graff Editing by Michael Perry, Raju Gopalakrishnan and Tomasz Janowski
In an interview with CNN, Coons said the announcement of the ban could come on Tuesday or Wednesday. A source familiar with the plans told Reuters the announcement could come as soon as Tuesday.
Russia is the world Russia is the world's biggest exporter of oil and natural gas. It has been subjected to global financial sanctions over the war in Ukraine, but until now its energy exports were exempted.
The United Nations said the number of refugees who have fled Ukraine had surged past 2 million, describing the flight as one of the fastest exoduses in modern times.
Firefighters extinguish fire in an oil depot that Ukraines State Emergency Services say was caused by Russian strikes in the Zhytomyr region, Ukraine, Monday in this still image obtained from a handout video.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of the Russian state oil company Rosneft is pictured behind a pipe at the Samotlor oil field outside the West Siberian city of Nizhnevartovsk, Russia, January 26, 2016.
