BC announces onetime 110 payment to drivers for gas price relief
20220325
https://vancouversun.com/news/b-c-government-announces-one-time-110-payment-to-drivers-for-gas-price-relief
She added that a better way to deal with the crisis would be to look at using the $2 billion generated by the carbon-tax to provide more generous and consistent rebates to encourage a shift away from oil and gas.
McCandless said gas prices are being driven up by more factors than just the invasion of Ukraine, but a resolution to the war would start to ease prices and take the pressure off governments to do something right by the taxpayer.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion delivered straight to your inbox at 7 a.m., Monday to Friday.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Theyre linking it to trying to help out at the gas pump, and thats fine, but the main purpose is to give back excess money to ICBC policy holders, McCandless said.
The next issue of Sunrise presented by Vancouver Sun will soon be in your inbox.
McCandless estimated ICBC has as much as $450 million in capital that is excess to its legislated need for reserve funds, which could have been paid out in rebates of $125 to $150.
The fact that a single parent working two jobs and driving a Honda Civic is getting the same one-time rebate as a Tesla owner is ridiculous, Milobar said in a statement.
In the meantime, because of the risks of a potential recession, the government has to take some measure to provide relief, he said.
B.C. Green party leader Sonia Furstenau said it was shortsighted to target rebates only for drivers when the affordability crisis, made worse by rising gas prices, affects all British Columbians.
This is simply them trying to get out of what theyre obviously getting bad polling numbers on, and trying to figure out a way to change the dial, said Kamloops-North Thompson MLA Peter Milobar during an appearance on pundit Mike Smyths show on CKNW.
The rebate will cost ICBC $395 million and will be paid out as $110 rebates to individual policy holders and $165 for commercial-vehicle policy holders. It will go to customers who held basic insurance policies with the Crown corporation in the month of February.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
I know its a gesture, but it doesnt really help, said Croutch, who would simply prefer lower prices.
Premier John Horgans offer of $110 rebates to ICBC policy holders as a one-time relief payment to help consumers with high gasoline prices isnt going to go very far, according to drivers who were filling up in Vancouver on Friday.
That is based on an analysis of the corporations publicly available financial information McCandless published after the province released its latest budget.
Its a stop-gap. It doesnt address high gas prices long-term, said Michael Santos, a Vancouver sales and business-development representative who was at an Esso station at Burrard and Davie where regular gas was 195.9 cents per litre.
With Vancouver gas prices hovering around $2 per litre, the $110 rebate will pay for about three weeks worth of driving for Santos, who now thinks twice about making sales visits.
Milobar, however, who is also the B.C. Liberal finance critic, said rebates dont target the people who need the help most and gives it to those who need it the least.
B.C.'s premier says the ICBC rebate is meant to ease the financial burden of increased gas prices caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces.
Whenever there is an opportunity for transformative change, the B.C. NDP doubles down on the status quo, she said in a series of Tweets published Friday.
Horgan, however, said the one-time payment is a significant contribution at a very difficult time for drivers as they look at the price at the pump and know that theres relief on the way, in announcing the payment along with Public Safety Minister Mike Farnworth.
Furstenau said the government would be better off if it took the $395 million and leaned into permanent solutions to transportation problems in this province.
Soaring gas prices are in part the result of Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine, Horgan said, and the volatility is hurting consumers worldwide, not just in B.C. ICBCs robust financial results allow the corporation to offer this measure of relief.
Government critics, however, called the rebate a political move that doesnt deliver the relief consumers need or get at the root problem of unaffordability.
A rebate, however, is something ICBC could have offered regardless of the crisis and could have been more generous, said policy analyst and retired civil servant Rick McCandless.
