Bryansk Explosion rocks oil depot in Russia that supplies troops in Donbas
20220425
https://vancouversun.com:443/news/world/bryansk-explosion-rocks-oil-depot-in-russia-that-supplies-troops-in-donbas/wcm/59f2dbb9-5b93-4685-84c7-e40c43ead6e2
Bryansk is a supply point for Russian forces in the Donbas region and there was unconfirmed speculation on social media that the fire or fires were the result of a Ukrainian missile strike.
Other unverified footage showed what looked like another fire burning at a second location in Bryansk.
But there was no immediate comment from Ukraine, which has denied or not responded to previous suggestions that it has struck targets inside Russia.
Russia said on Monday it would investigate the cause of a large fire that erupted in the early hours of the morning at an oil storage facility in the city of Bryansk, 154 km northeast of the border with Ukraine.
Russias Ministry of Emergency Situations said in a statement that the fire had broken out at a facility owned by oil pipeline company Transneft at 0200 Moscow time 2300 GMT, and that nobody had been hurt and there was no need to evacuate any parts of Bryansk, a city of 400,000 people.
Russian officials said last week that Ukrainian helicopters had hit residential buildings and injured seven people in the Bryansk region. Ukraines defense ministry did not respond to a request for comment on that allegation at the time.
The Russian Energy Ministry said there was no threat to diesel and gasoline supplies in the Bryansk region after the incident and there were enough fuel stockpiles.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion delivered straight to your inbox at 7 a.m., Monday to Friday.
Unverified social media footage showed what sounded like two explosions followed by a tower of flames, with one unverified video showing a fire raging around a giant fuel reservoir.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Unverified social media footage showed what sounded like two explosions and a fire raging around a giant fuel reservoir
Russia said it would investigate the cause of a large fire that erupted in the early hours of the morning at an oil storage facility in the city of Bryansk, 96 miles northeast of the border with Ukraine https:t.coN3oWjmmnlG pic.twitter.comB01D4t9yeZ
Without sufficient logistical and combat support enablers in place, Russia has yet to achieve a significant breakthrough, it said.
In a regular bulletin on Monday, the UKs Ministry of Defence said Russia has been limited to minor advances in some areas since shifting its focus to fully occupying the Donbas.
The next issue of Sunrise presented by Vancouver Sun will soon be in your inbox.
