Roman Abramovich and Ukrainian peace negotiators hit by suspected poisoning WSJ reports
20220328
https://vancouversun.com/news/russian-billionaire-abramovich-ukrainian-peace-negotiators-hit-by-suspected-poisoning-wsj/wcm/ea1a6657-25ce-41ac-aeaa-bc869d2fd173
Abramovich and the Ukrainian negotiators, including Crimean Tatar lawmaker Rustem Umerov, have since improved and their lives are not in danger, WSJ reported.
Their symptoms included red eyes, constant and painful tearing, and peeling skin on their faces and hands, the WSJ report added.
A U.S. official said on Monday that intelligence suggests the sickening of Abramovich and the Ukrainian negotiators was due to an environmental factor, not poisoning.
The U.S. official told Reuters: The intelligence highly suggests this was environmental, adding: E.g., not poisoning. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, declined to elaborate.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Abramovich, who accepted a Ukrainian request to help negotiate an end to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and at least two senior members of the Ukrainian team, were affected, the WSJ report said.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion delivered straight to your inbox at 7 a.m., Monday to Friday.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
A source with direct knowledge has just confirmed to me the WSJBellingcat reports that Abramovich suffered symptoms of poisoning. "Roman lost his sight for several hours" and was treated in Turkey, the source said.
The next issue of Sunrise presented by Vancouver Sun will soon be in your inbox.
Their symptoms included red eyes, constant and painful tearing, and peeling skin on their faces and hands, the WSJ report added
Russian forces invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what President Vladimir Putin calls a special military operation to demilitarize and denazify Ukraine. Ukraine and the West say Putin launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
Sanctioned Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich and Ukrainian peace negotiators suffered symptoms of suspected poisoning earlier this month after a meeting in Kyiv, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing people familiar with the matter.
The Kremlin has said Abramovich played an early role in peace talks between Russia and Ukraine but the process was now in the hands of the two sides negotiating teams. He has already been sanctioned by Canada, the EU and U.K.
Bellingcat can confirm that three members of the delegation attending the peace talks between Ukraine and Russia on the night of 3 to 4 March 2022 experienced symptoms consistent with poisoning with chemical weapons. One of victims was Russian entrepreneur Roman Abramovich. https:t.coDJaZ4CoL8J
A person familiar with the matter confirmed the incident to Reuters but said Abramovich had not allowed it to stop him working.
