50 of Ukrainians who oppose NATO are smart knowing theyd be used by US as cannon fodder against Russia  Putin
20210610
https://www.sott.net/article/453981-50-of-Ukrainians-who-oppose-NATO-are-smart-knowing-they-d-be-used-by-US-as-cannon-fodder-against-Russia-Putin
Sputnik  Sergei IlyinRussian President Vladimir Putin meets with Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation Director Dmitry Shugaev at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia. Russian President Vladimir Putin has lavished praise on Ukrainians who are opposed to Kiev signing up for the US-led NATO military bloc, suggesting the move would be a red line for Russia if it were threatened by Western rockets.
Earlier this year, Ulrike Demmer, the German government's deputy spokesperson, said that although "NATO generally follows an open-door policy," when it comes to Ukraine "no further steps toward its membership are currently envisaged."
"At least 50 of Ukrainians do not want the country to join NATO," Putin said in an interview with the Russia 1 news channel on Wednesday, "and these are smart people."
Putin went on to say that those in Ukrainian society who are skeptical of closer military ties with the West "feel they have a part in a shared civilization, and they do not want one part of this civilization to oppose another part of it, while at the same time dancing to someone else's tune."
Zelensky had expressed frustration earlier that day with the hurdles faced in its application to join the bloc. In an interview with Virginia-based Axios, he said that "very wrong things are happening" but that he still holds faith Kiev will be admitted to NATO. "I have to point out that many Ukrainians increasingly don't believe this as strongly as they used to," he added, given the delays.
"I am speaking without irony, and not because the others are stupid," the president added, "but because those people who support joining the bloc do not understand that they are better off not being in the line of fire. They don't want to be a bargaining chip or cannon fodder."
"I think that if we are welcome in NATO, if they really want to see us as a member, then it's no use looking into the binoculars, into some distant future, and discussing this future. The issue should be resolved immediately. We are in danger right now, our independence is at stake right now, and it is now that we need help," he insisted.
He also claimed that Kiev's accession as a NATO member would mean rockets stationed close to Russia's borders. "The flight time from Kharkov or, for example, Dnepropetrovsk... to Moscow would decrease to 7-10 minutes. Would this be a red line for us or not?" the leader asked.
Earlier this week, officials in Kiev were forced to backtrack after the White House objected to their formal writeup of a call between President Joe Biden and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky. The document had claimed that the American politician had "highlighted... the importance of providing the Ukrainian state with a NATO Membership Action Plan." Washington, however, accused Zelensky's aides of having "mischaracterized the statement." It was later amended to show that it was actually the Ukrainian president who had made the remark.
