China willing to support Russia on matters of sovereignty security and intensify coordination  Xi Jinping
20220615
https://www.sott.net/article/468785-China-willing-to-support-Russia-on-matters-of-sovereignty-security-and-intensify-coordination-Xi-Jinping
In the eyes of Chinese officials, the Europeans have allowed themselves to be sucked into backing Ukraine, at Washington's initiative, in a move contrary to their interests as Russian gas consumers.
China has refused to condemn Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and has been accused of providing diplomatic cover for Russia by blasting Western sanctions and arms sales to Kyiv.
Once bitter Cold War enemies, Beijing and Moscow have stepped up cooperation in recent years as a counterbalance to what they see as US global dominance.
The two countries have drawn closer in the political, trade and military spheres as part of what they call a "no limits" relationship.
Xi, who has described Putin as an "old friend", also invited his Russian counterpart to the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics in early February.
According to CCTV, Xi praised the "good momentum of development" in bilateral relations since the start of the year "in the face of global turmoil and changes".
The two sides last week unveiled the first road bridge linking the two countries, connecting the far eastern Russian city of Blagoveshchensk with the northern Chinese city of Heihe.
It was the second reported call between the two leaders since Putin launched his invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
China is "willing to continue to offer mutual support to Russia on issues concerning core interests and major concerns such as sovereignty and security," Chinese state broadcaster CCTV reported Xi as saying.
Alexei Druzhinin SputnikAFPFileFILE PHOTO: Xi Jinping R,  Vladimir Putin at the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics in early FebruaryBeijing AFP - Chinese President Xi Jinping told his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in a call Wednesday that Beijing would keep backing Moscow on "sovereignty and security", according to state media.
Wednesday's call between the two leaders fell on Xi's 69th birthday and was their first reported communication since the day after Russia launched its invasion of its European neighbour.
China as well as India are two major economies that have not taken part in retaliatory measures against Moscow over its invasion.
Beijing is Moscow's largest trading partner, with trade volumes last year hitting $147 billion, according to Chinese customs data, up more than 30 percent on 2019.
The European Union and the United States have warned that any backing from Beijing for Russia's war in Ukraine, or help for Moscow to dodge Western sanctions, would damage ties with China.
China was ready to "strengthen communication and coordination" with Russia in international organisations and "push the international order and global governance towards more just and reasonable development," he added.
