Russia takes out 45000 tons of NATO ammo  MoD
20220809
https://www.sott.net/article/470825-Russia-takes-out-45000-tons-of-NATO-ammo-MoD
Moscow has repeatedly warned the West against sending weapons to Kiev, saying it only prolongs the conflict, increases the number of casualties, and will result in long-term consequences.
"In the Voznesensk area of the Nikolaev region an arsenal that stored 45,000 tons of ammunition recently supplied to the Ukrainian Armed Forces by NATO countries has been destroyed."
Meanwhile, the Russian army conducted strikes on the deployment point of units of Ukraine's 72nd mechanized brigade at an agricultural facility in the Donetsk People's Republic city of Artemovsk, wiping out up to 130 soldiers and eight transport and armored vehicles, the ministry's statement read.
The Russian Defense Ministry noted that faced with high losses, "the regime of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky is taking measures to make up for the shortage of military personnel" in Donbass. Kiev, the statement said, has decided to send to the frontline mobilized Ukrainian citizens from a training center, as well as wounded service members who did not have enough time to fully recover.
On Tuesday, Zelensky said that the fighting in Donbass was "hell," claiming that Kiev's military remained heavily outgunned and even outnumbered by Russia. He appealed to the US and its allies for even more weapons, in particular the HIMARS rocket launchers.
Moscow's forces, the ministry continued, also used high-precision air-based missiles to attack a howitzer battery of Ukraine's 95th Air Assault Brigade in the village of Dzerzhinsk in the DPR. According to the statement, the strike killed up to 70 service members, destroyed three 2S1 Gvozdika self-propelled guns and four vehicles.
Sergei SUPINSKY  AFPUS made FIM-92 Stinger missiles, a man-portable air-defence system MANPADS The Russian military has taken out a depot in southern Ukraine that stored NATO-supplied ammunition, the Defense Ministry claimed on Sunday.
