Terrorist bombing of govt building in breakaway Transnistria region Russia says situation is concerning
20220427
https://www.sott.net/article/467190-Terrorist-bombing-of-govt-building-in-breakaway-Transnistria-region-Russia-says-situation-is-concerning
Images show at least two spent shoulder-fired rocket launchers can be seen lying in the middle of a street near the building.
A recent wave of attacks in Transnistria, a self-declared state which borders Ukraine, is "concerning," the Kremlin outlined on Tuesday. Targets have included a military site and a broadcasting facility.
"According to preliminary data, the shots were fired from RPGs. There are no casualties," the ministry said, adding that the area around the building has been cordoned off.
Peskov said that Putin does not plan on meeting with his Moldovan counterpart Maia Sandu at the moment. Chisinau has convened an urgent government meeting on Transnistria on Tuesday afternoon.
The attack on the government building elicited a massive response from local emergency services, with multiple law enforcement vehicles and ambulances seen at the scene. However, the incident caused only damage to property, the local interior ministry said in a statement.
Unrecognised Transnistria, officially known as the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic PMR, was placed on a terror alert on Tuesday.
The largely Russian-speaking Transnistria declared independence from Moldova during the breakup of the Soviet Union but no major state has recognized it, up to now.
On Tuesday morning, two explosions occurred at a radio center in Mayak, another small settlement.
The damaged Ministry of State Security building in Tiraspol on April 25, 2022The Ministry of State Security building in Transnistria's capital city of Tiraspol was rocked by multiple explosions on Monday. Transnistria, officially known as the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic PMR, is a self-proclaimed state located along a narrow strip of land between the Dniester River and Ukrainian border in the eastern part of Moldova.
A Russian peacekeeping force has been stationed there since an armed conflict in the early 1990s.
