Check out Satellite pics showing beforeafter of Russian airbase post suspected Ukrainian attack
20220812
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/check-out-satellite-pics-showing-before-after-of-russian-airbase-post-suspected-ukrainian-attack
Amid escalating war between Moscow and Kyiv, new satellite pictures of explosions at a Russian air base in Crimea are released, comparing the condition of the facility as it was on May 16, and how it looks now.
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
The exact cause of the explosions, whether it is special forces sabotage or missile strike, is still unknown. Eliot Higgins, founder of the investigate journalism group named Bellingcat, has stated that the images show three craters and evidence of "a massive fire across the base."
Moscow has said that the air base was not targeted by an attack, however, the new satellite images contradict the claim. The images show the base was "hit with something" and at least nine airplanes were destroyed, as per analyst Oliver Alexander of AFP.
Alexander said, "If it was an accident, it would have required 4-5 people through cigarettes on the same spot or hitting bombs with a hammer, incredibly unlikely."
Taking to Twitter, he also wrote, "One way to interpret those craters is precise strikes from a long-range munition."
Meanwhile, Moscow annexed Crimea in the year 2014 in the wake of nationwide street demonstrations that led to the ouster of a Kremlin-friendly President. Such protests precipitated fighting between the army and separatists in eastern Ukraine. Russia, later, launched a full-scale military operation at the former Soviet country.
The recent explosions at the air base in Russia-annexed Crimea have been explained by Vladimir Putin-led country as an accident, however, experts have said that satellite imagery points to a likely attack by Ukrainian forces.
Satelliteimagery from August 10, 2022 of Saki airbase in Novofedorivka, Crimea, Ukraine showing the aftermath of the reported attack on the Russian airbase where you can see the extent of the damage caused by explosions and fires. pic.twitter.comB67lfdO1jd
