In Photos Ukraine nationals rush to metro stations amid Russian invasion
20220224
https://www.freepressjournal.in/photo-gallery/in-photos-ukraine-nationals-rush-to-metro-stations-amid-russian-invasion
A young couple with a suitcase and bags waits at a metro station in Kyiv early on February 24, 2022.   Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
"We're introducing martial law in the whole territory of our country," Zelensky said in a statement. He also informed that he spoke with US President Biden and Washington has already started mobilizing international support.
In a brief video address, Zelensky said Russia has announced a special military operation in the Donbas region and is conducting strikes on its military infrastructure and border guards.
Two young women with a suitcase use a smartphone at a metro station in Kyiv early on February 24, 2022.  Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
Svitlodarsk: A Ukrainian serviceman stands at his position at the line of separation between Ukraine-held territory and rebel-held territory near Svitlodarsk, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, Feb. 23, 2022.   Evgeniy Maloletka
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday morning introduced martial law, urging citizens to remain calm amid Russia's military operations.
People board a bus at the Vydubytchi bus station in Kyiv in the morning of February 24, 2022.
People, some carrying bags and suitcases, walk at a metro station in Kyiv early on February 24, 2022.  Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
Amid war tensions, Ukraine nationals have been asked to stay at home. Some nationals were seen seeking shelters inside underground metro station.
Alexander R, reassures his son as the family takes refuge in a metro station in Kyiv in the morning of February 24, 2022.    Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
Girls hold their mobile phone as they take refuge in a metro station in Kyiv in the morning of February 24, 2022.    Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
People, some carrying bags and suitcases, walk in a metro station in Kyiv early on February 24, 2022.    Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
People, some carrying bags and suitcases, walk in a metro station in Kyiv early on February 24, 2022.   Photo by Daniel LEAL  AFP
