Just stop the bombing Ukraine Prez Zelenskiy says Russia must stop bombing cities before talks
20220302
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/just-stop-the-bombing-ukraine-prez-zelenskiy-says-russia-must-stop-bombing-cities-before-talks
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
On Tuesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that Russia must stop bombing Ukrainian cities before meaningful talks on a ceasefire could start, as a first round of negotiations this week had yielded scant progress.
It was the first time the Russian military hit the center of the city of 1.5 million people, though shells have been hitting residential neighborhoods for days.
Russian shelling struck central Kharkivs Freedom Square just after sunrise Tuesday, badly damaging a regional administration building and other structures, and killing at least six people and wounding dozens of others, Ukrainian officials said.
Although Ukrainian forces have slowed Russias advance and still control Kharkiv and the coastal cities of Kherson and Mariupol, all three are encircled.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy blamed a Russian missile and called the attack a war crime: Its frank, undisguised terror. ... Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget.
Russia shelled several key sites in Kyiv and in the countrys second-largest city, Kharkiv, killing at least 11 people and wounding dozens of others, Ukrainian officials said. Among the sites hit were Kyivs main TV tower and Holocaust memorial.
"Our partners, if they are not ready to take Ukraine into NATO... because Russia does not want Ukraine to be in NATO, should work out common security guarantees for Ukraine," Zelenskyy was quoted as saying by Reuters.
Russias invasion of Ukraine entered its sixth day on Tuesday, with a huge convoy of Russian tanks and armored vehicles on a road to the capital, Kyiv, and fighting intensifying there and in other big cities.
During an interview at a heavily guarded government compound, Zelenskiy also implored NATO members to impose a no fly zone to stop the Russian air force, saying this would be a preventative measure and not meant to drag the alliance into war with Russia. NATO leaders have rejected this request, fearing escalation.
As Russia continues to wage war against Ukraine, the second round of peace negotiations between the two countries are scheduled to take place on Wednesday.
