RussiaUkraine War President Zelensky urges Russians to pressure Putin into halting war
20220226
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/russia-ukraine-war-president-zelensky-urges-russians-to-pressure-putin-into-halting-war
Zelensky during a press briefing on Saturday had also said that his country will triumph over Russian forces. He said Ukrainian forces controlled Kyiv and key areas, adding: We are defending our land and the future of our children.
As the Russian forces advances to the cities of Ukraine, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in a video message had asked the people of Russia to put pressure on President Vladimir Putin to stop the invasion because of which more and more civilians are losing their lives every day.
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
Zelensky also thanked the Russians who have spoken out against the war. Further urging the civilians to come forward to protect the capital, he said, "we are controlling Kyiv and key points around the city. Who wants to come and help us do, we will arm you. We need to stop this war, we can live in peace.
The President further in his message added that the Ukrainian forces had halted the Kremlin's push to capture Kyiv.
Zelensky said that Ukrainians had been fighting against Russian troops in a number of cities including the southern city of Odessa, the northeastern city of Kharkiv and the capital Kyiv.
"We've derailed their plan," he said, stressing that the Ukrainian army was in control of the capital Kyiv and main cities around it.
Meanwhile, the death toll so far in the Russian invasion of Ukraine is at least 198, according to the Ukrainian health ministry. Three children are among those dead. The ministrys head was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying 1,115 people had been injured, including 33 children.
Notably, Russian troops on Saturday captured the southeastern Ukrainian city of Melitopol, Russias Interfax news agency said.
