RussiaUkraine war We have survived two world wars three famines says Volodymyr Zelenskyy vows to rebuild Ukraine
20220303
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/russia-ukraine-war-we-have-survived-two-world-wars-three-famines-says-volodymyr-zelenskyy-vows-to-rebuild-ukraine
Also on Thursday capital city Kyiv woke up to an air raid alert with its residents being advised to take shelter in safe houses.
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
"Russian forces seize the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson after taking control of the local council building, Kherson's mayor, Igor Kolykhaiev, said in a Facebook post on March 2," tweeted The Kyiv Independent.
Amid the escalating Ukraine-Russia crisis, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Thursday hit out at Russia saying his country has survived world wars, famines, holocaust, and more. He also vowed to rebuild the country after the war. He further warned Russia that it will have to pay for all the damages the European nation has suffered.
Meanwhile, Russian forces have seized control of the key southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, its mayor said on Thursday.
Indicating that the city is now under Russia's control, Kolykhaiev, in a social media post, said that the Ukrainian military is no longer in the city and that its inhabitants must now carry out instructions of "armed people who came to the city's administration", CNN reported.
Russian forces had surrounded Kherson, a strategically important city on an inlet from the Black Sea with a population of nearly 300,000, for several days, according to the media outlet.
Besides, the UN General Assembly overwhelmingly voted to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine on Wednesday with 141 nations voting in favour of the move and five nations against it, with 35 countries, including India, abstaining.
Air raid alerts in Kyiv and Kyiv Oblast, Mykolaiv, Lviv, Zhytomyr, Ivano-Frankivsk, Chernihiv and Chernihiv Oblast, Volyn Oblast, Cherkasy Oblast, Kirovohrad Oblast, Poltava Oblast, Khmelnytskyi Oblast, Zaporizhzhia and Odesa, The Kyiv Independent tweeted.
"We have survived two world wars, three famines, the Holocaust, Babyn Yar, the Great Purge, the Chornobyl explosion, the occupation of Crimea, and the war in the east of our state," said Zelenskyy. He also vowed to rebuild Ukraine after the war and said they will restore every house, every street, and every city.
