Ukraine Prez Zelensky calls for peace talks with Russia without delay
20220319
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/ukraine-prez-zelensky-calls-for-peace-talks-with-russia-without-delay
Meanwhile, Zelensky has said that Russian forces are blockading Ukraines largest cities to create a humanitarian catastrophe with the aim of persuading Ukrainians to cooperate with them.
"This is the only chance for Russia to reduce the damage from its own mistakes," Zelensky said in his nightly video address.
Zelenskyy then asked his audience to picture the stadium filled with the thousands of Russians who have been killed, wounded or maimed in the fighting.
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
He noted that the 200,000 people Putin gathered in and around a Moscow stadium on Friday for a flag-waving rally was about the same number of Russian troops sent into Ukraine three weeks ago.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday called for meaningful peace and security talks "without delay" with Moscow.
"It's time to meet, it's time to talk, it's time to restore territorial integrity and justice for Ukraine.
He added that the Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in the center and southeast of the country.
He said more than 9,000 people were able to leave besieged Mariupol in the past day, and in all more than 180,000 people have been able to flee to safety through humanitarian corridors.
This is a totally deliberate tactic, Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation, filmed outside in Kyiv, with the presidential office in the lamplight behind him.
He again appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to hold talks with him directly. Its time to meet, time to speak, he said. I want to be heard by everyone, especially in Moscow.
His speech came as Russian president Putin had earlier spoken to tens of thousands of Russians at an event celebrating eight years since the annexation of Crimea.
He said it was Russia's only chance to limit the damage from its "mistakes" in the wake of its invasion.
