UN calls for immediate stop in Mariupol fighting to allow civilian evacuation
20220424
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/un-calls-for-immediate-stop-in-mariupol-fighting-to-allow-civilian-evacuation
The nationalist Azov regiment, at the forefront of the battles with Russian forces, has said civilians are also trapped in the plant.
The United Nations Ukraine crisis coordinator, Amin Awad, on Sunday called for an "immediate stop" to fighting in Mariupol to allow the evacuation of trapped civilians in the battered city "today", AFP reported.
"The lives of tens of thousands, including women, children and older people, are at stake in Mariupol," Awad said in a statement. "We need a pause in fighting right now to save lives. The longer we wait the more lives will be at risk. They must be allowed to safely evacuate now, today. Tomorrow could be too late," he added.
Awad said Orthodox Easter, which is celebrated in both Russia and Ukraine, provided an opportunity to halt hostilities. "At a time of a rare calendar alignment of the religious holidays of Orthodox Easter, Passover and Ramadan, it is the time to focus on our common humanity, setting divisions aside," Awad said.
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
"The evacuation was thwarted," Mariupol city official Petro Andryushchenko said on Telegram, adding that around 200 residents had gathered at the evacuation meeting point announced by Kyiv, but Russian forces "dispersed" them.
This month UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had urged a pause in fighting for Orthodox Easter. Hopes for an Easter ceasefire were dashed this weekend as fighting raged in eastern and southern Ukraine.
His call came after an attempted evacuation from Mariupol by Ukraine had failed Saturday, with Kyiv saying it was "thwarted" by Russian forces.
Ukraine said Sunday that Russia was "continuously attacking" the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, where Ukrainian servicemen defending the city are holed up.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his forces not to assault the plant this week, but to keep it under siege instead.
The UN statement said there was an estimated 100,000 civilians trapped in the city, which has been heavily destroyed after being besieged by Russian forces for weeks.
