War looms closer as Russia recognizes Ukrainian separatists deploys troops to breakaway region
20220222
https://www.freepressjournal.in/world/war-looms-closer-as-russia-recognizes-ukrainian-separatists-deploys-troops-to-breakaway-region
Recognizing the separatist regions independence is likely to be popular in Russia, where many share Putins worldview. Russian state media released images of people in Donetsk launching fireworks, waving large Russian flags and playing Russias national anthem.
If Russia moves in, the meeting will be off, but the prospect of a face-to-face summit resuscitated hopes in diplomacy to prevent a conflict that could cause massive casualties and huge economic damage across Europe, which is heavily dependent on Russian energy.
Over 14,000 people have been killed since conflict erupted in the eastern industrial heartland of in 2014, shortly after Moscow annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula.
At an earlier meeting of Putins Security Council, a stream of top officials argued for recognizing the regions independence. At one point, one slipped up and said he favored including them as part of Russian territory  but Putin quickly corrected him.
A vaguely worded decree signed by Putin did not say if troops were on the move, and it cast the order as an effort to maintain peace. But it appeared to dash the slim remaining hopes of averting a major conflict in Europe that could cause massive casualties, energy shortages on the continent and economic chaos around the globe.
U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan, meanwhile, said the administration has always been ready to talk to avert a war  but was also prepared to respond to any attack.
Russia says it wants Western guarantees that NATO wont allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members  and Putin said Monday that a simple moratorium on Ukraines accession wouldnt be enough. Moscow has also demanded the alliance halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
Ukraine and the separatist rebels have traded blame for massive cease-fire violations with hundreds of explosions recorded daily.
We are on the edge of nervous breakdowns, she said, her voice trembling. And there is nowhere to run.
I consider it necessary to take a long-overdue decision: To immediately recognize the independence and sovereignty of Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic, Putin said.
Some residents of the main rebel-held city of Donetsk described sporadic shelling by Ukrainian forces, but they added that it wasnt on the same scale as earlier in the conflict.
To receive our E-paper on WhatsApp daily, please click here.To receive it on Telegram, please click here. We permit sharing of the paper's PDF on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.
Moscow Russia: A long-feared Russian invasion of Ukraine appeared to be imminent Monday, if not already underway, with Russian President Vladimir Putin ordering forces into separatist regions of eastern Ukraine.
The developments came amid a spike in skirmishes in the eastern regions that Western powers believe Russia could use as a pretext for an attack on the western-looking democracy that has defied Moscows attempts to pull it back into its orbit.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the claim was a lie and no such list exists.
Underscoring the urgency, the U.N. Security Council set a rare nighttime emergency meeting on Monday at the request of Ukraine, the U.S. and other countries. Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, sought to project calm, telling the country: We are not afraid of anyone or anything. We dont owe anyone anything. And we wont give anything to anyone.
The separatist authorities said Monday that at least four civilians were killed by Ukrainian shelling over the past 24 hours, and several others were wounded. Ukraines military said two Ukrainian soldiers were killed over the weekend, and another serviceman was wounded Monday.
Amid the heightened invasion fears, the U.S. administration sent a letter to the United Nations human rights chief claiming that Moscow has compiled a list of Ukrainians to be killed or sent to detention camps after the invasion. The letter, first reported by the New York Times, was obtained by the AP.
Putins announcement shattered a 2015 peace deal signed in Minsk requiring Ukrainian authorities to offer broad self-rule to the rebel regions, a major diplomatic coup for Moscow.
Putin justified his decision in a far-reaching, pre-recorded speech blaming NATO for the current crisis and calling the U.S.-led alliance an existential threat to Russia. Sweeping through more than a century of history, he painted todays Ukraine as a modern construct that is inextricably linked to Russia. He charged that Ukraine had inherited Russias historic lands and after the Soviet collapse was used by the West to contain Russia.
The White House issued an executive order to prohibit U.S. investment and trade in the separatist regions, and additional measures  likely sanctions  were to be announced Tuesday. Those sanctions are independent of what Washington has prepared in the event of a Russian invasion, according to a senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.
In another worrying sign, the Russian military said it killed five suspected saboteurs who crossed from Ukraine into Russias Rostov region and also destroyed two armored vehicles and took a Ukrainian serviceman prisoner. Ukrainian Border Guard spokesman Andriy Demchenko dismissed the claim as disinformation.
While separatists have charged that Ukrainian forces were firing on residential areas, Associated Press journalists reporting from several towns and villages in Ukrainian-held territory along the line of contact have not witnessed any notable escalation from the Ukrainian side and have documented signs of intensified shelling by the separatists that destroyed homes and ripped up roads.
Putins directive came hours after he recognized the separatist areas in a rambling, fact-bending discourse on European history. The move paved the way to provide them military support, antagonizing Western leaders who regard such a move as a breach of world order, and set off a frenzied scramble by the U.S. and others to respond.
That deal was resented by many in Ukraine who saw it as a capitulation, a blow to the countrys integrity and a betrayal of national interests. Putin and other officials argued Monday that Ukrainian authorities have shown no appetite for implementing it.
In the village of Novognativka on the Ukraine government-controlled side, 60-year-old Ekaterina Evseeva, said the shelling was worse than at the height of fighting early in the conflict.
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, the U.S. has warned that Moscow has already decided to invade. Still, Biden and Putin tentatively agreed to a meeting brokered by French President Emmanuel Macron in a last-ditch effort to avoid war.
Why should Russia recognize the rebel-held regions? If neighbors come to you and say, This room will be ours, would you care about their opinion or not? Its your flat, and it will be always your flat, said Maria Levchyshchyna, a 48-year-old painter in the Ukrainian capital. Let them recognize whatever they want. But in my view, it can also provoke a war, because normal people will fight for their country.
Afterward he signed decrees recognizing the Donetsk and Luhansk regions independence, eight years after fighting erupted between Russia-backed separatists and Ukrainian forces, and called on lawmakers to approve measures paving the way for military support.
Macrons office said both leaders had accepted the principle of such a summit, to be followed by a broader meeting that would include other relevant stakeholders to discuss security and strategic stability in Europe.
Potential flashpoints multiplied. Sustained shelling continued Monday along the tense line of contact separating the opposing forces. Unusually, Russia said it had fended off an incursion from Ukraine  which Ukrainian officials denied. And Russia decided to prolong military drills in Belarus, which could offer a staging ground for an attack on the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.
Until now, Ukraine and the West have accused Russia of supporting the separatists, but Moscow has denied that, saying that Russians who fought there were volunteers.
