NY governor orders Russia sanctions invites Ukrainian refugees
20220228
https://www.oleantimesherald.com/news/ny-governor-orders-russia-sanctions-invites-ukrainian-refugees/article_a63d4a7f-b235-5b2d-8591-8de4d2925a68.html
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
The governor also said New York will welcome Ukrainian refugees in response to Russias invasion, noting at a press conference in Albany that her state is home to the largest Ukrainian population in the U.S.
Would you like to receive our lifestyle headlines about food and wine, Olean living, local history and more? Sign Up Today!
Ukraine filed a case at the United Nations highest court accusing Russia of planning genocide.
Hochul didnt immediately get into specifics regarding her states economic sanctions against Moscow, but pointed out that New Yorks economy is larger than that of Russia.
Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather.
If you need a place to stay, you want to come over here, we will help you become integrated into our community, she said, as we have been open so to so many other refugees in the past, including those from Afghanistan most recently.
NEW YORK  Gov. Kathy Hochul signed an executive order Sunday forbidding her state from doing business with Russia, including cancelling its investments there.
We strongly condemn the action of Putin and Russia for this unprovoked attack which is now leading to atrocities against innocent human beings, and that is not tolerable, Hochul said.
New Yorks sanctions follow those issued by President Joe Biden last weektargeting Russias financial system. Biden said the U.S. will block assets of large Russian banks, impose export controls aimed at the nations high-tech needs and sanction its business oligarchs.
$1,000 is being awarded. Everyone completing the survey will be able to enter a contest to Win as our way of saying, "Thank You" for your time.
Please help local businesses by taking an online survey to help us navigate through these unprecedented times. None of the responses will be shared or used for any other purpose except to better serve our community.
The governors executive order means the state will not permit its own investment activity, whether directly or indirectly, to aid Russia as it commits these human rights violations and atrocities.
We have said well open up our hearts, our homes, our resources to the people of the Ukraine, to say, We stand with you, Hochul said. Federal estimates show that around 140,000 of the more than 1 million people in the U.S. who report Ukrainian ancestry live in New York.
