Extra US Allied Troops Bolster NATOs Eastern Flank
20220201
https://www.bloombergquint.com/politics/promise-of-u-s-allied-troops-bolsters-nato-s-eastern-flank
NATO members already have about 5,000 troops deployed to multinational battle groups in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland after allies agreed at its 2016 Warsaw summit to bolster the alliances footprint in the region.
The unity of NATO allies has become a negative surprise for Russia -- that NATOs allies have kept the line very strongly, she said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Monday from the capital, Tallinn.
Bloomberg -- Thousands of additional U.S. and allied soldiers on the ground in Eastern Europe may not alter Russias military calculus on Ukraine. But the commitment is a boon to NATO member states near Russias border.
U.S. President Joe Biden pushed forward with the plan by approving the shift of thousands of additional U.S. soldiers to eastern Europe on Wednesday. About 2,000 will transfer from the U.S. in the coming days, while 1,000 more that are currently stationed in Germany will deploy to Romania, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said. The forces are in addition to 8,500 soldiers that are on high alert in the U.S.
The moves arent permanent but designed to respond to current conditions, Kirby said. Even with no direct threat against NATO states, Russias military buildup on its territory and in Belarus has increased fears in the alliances east, given the regions historical ties with the Soviet Union and the way Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014.
That seems to be working for former Soviet-dominated nations that have joined NATO since the end of the Cold War. A case in point is Estonia, a nation of 1.3 million that directly borders Russia, where fears over Russias military activities have prompted leaders to call for action and sanctions to prevent a full-scale conflict.
Clearly 1,000 or 4,000 troops do not stand a chance against 100,000 Russian troops, said Iulia-Sabina Joja, an adjunct professor of European security at Georgetown University. But if you have western troops of western citizenship on the ground in the case of an attack, the consequences of attacking a Baltic country would be more ample in the West.
Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, who has been outspoken about the need for reaction, welcomed the outreach.
The added ships and planes in the Baltic and the Black Seas aim partly to conduct surveillance, to monitor, to have the best possible picture of the developments in and around Ukraine, but also to provide reassurance to allies, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said last week.
Western officials say Russia has massed more than 100,000 troops near the Ukrainian border, with the figures rising steadily since November. The U.K. and U.S. put the current number close to 130,000. Russia continues to deny that it has plans to invade Ukraine.
From Washington to Paris, governments have vowed to boost readiness and dispatch troops and hardware to deter Russia from attacking Ukraine -- and show solidarity with eastern countries in the 30-member military alliance who see an urgent danger in Russias aggression. At the same time, theyve made it clear troops wont be deployed to Ukraine, which is not a NATO member, if it is invaded.
Now additional numbers will be coming to reinforce current forces to the east, including from Britain and France. Denmark already dispatched a navy frigate to the Baltic Sea and is deploying four F-16 fighter jets to Lithuania to back the alliances air-policing in the region.
