How Russias Lost Trade Rights Leads to Import Bans on Diamonds Platinum Vodka
20220315
https://www.bloombergquint.com/quicktakes/the-unprecedented-end-of-russia-s-basic-trade-rights-quicktake
Yes, though theres never been a collective action like this before and Russia is the worlds 11th-biggest economy. In recent years theres been a rise in WTO members individually setting up national security-related trade restrictions. Former President Donald Trump famously imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum goods because he said the tariffs were necessary to protect Americas defensive capabilities. Saudia Arabia also cited national security concerns in an intellectual property dispute with its neighbor Qatar.
By mid-March 2022 a quarter of the WTOs 164 members -- collectively representing 58 of the global gross domestic product -- were poised to stop treating Russia as a most-favored-nation under WTO rules. The list includes major economies such as the U.S., the European Unions 27 members, Japan, the U.K., Canada, South Korea and Australia. While more nations were expected to join the alliance, certain major emerging economies -- like China, India, Brazil, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey -- continued to offer Russia MFN status.
Bloomberg -- Some of the worlds largest economies are taking the unprecedented step of revoking Russias basic trading rights at the World Trade Organization, putting it in the company of other pariah states such as Cuba and North Korea. Theyre canceling Russias most-favored-nation status at the global trade body, clearing the way for more bans on Russian imports or higher tariffs on Russian goods such as diamonds and platinum. The goal is to further isolate Russia and ratchet up pressure on President Vladimir Putin to end the war in Ukraine.
Revoking MFN status is largely symbolic for the U.S. because Russia accounts for only 0.7 of its total imports. Still, it plans to ban imports of non-industrial diamonds, along with alcohol and seafood, targeting iconic goods such as vodka and caviar, though most Russian-branded vodkas are produced in other nations. Previous U.S. sanction packages and a ban on Russian energy imports have made it too onerous for most U.S. companies to maintain ties. Its a much bigger deal in the EU, which backed the plan March 4, because Russia accounts for 5.8 of the blocs total trade in goods. Its the EUs fifth-largest trade partner and a key supplier of fuel, wood, iron, steel and fertilizer. The EU still allows European businesses to import critical Russian products such as oil, natural gas, titanium, aluminum, copper, nickel, palladium and iron ore. The EU is Russias biggest trading partner, accounting for 37 of its total trade in goods with the world in 2020.
Yes. Governments who revoked Russias MFN status argue that their decision is justified under the WTOs national security exceptions, which allow a country to breach its WTO obligations and take any action which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests. WTO dispute panels have already confirmed that nations can take such measures if imposed in time of war or other emergency in international relations. Notably, in 2019 a WTO dispute settlement panel supported Russias argument that its trade restrictions on Ukraine were justified following Russias annexation of Crimea.
The Geneva-based WTO oversees a set of baseline tariffs for global trade in goods and services. All 164 members agree to deal with each other equally under most-favored nation treatment, known as MFN. Its a cornerstone principle of the WTO and a key reason for nations to participate in the body because it allows all members -- no matter how large or small -- to be treated on roughly equal terms.
