RussiaUkraine War  The Week That Was
20220304
https://www.bloombergquint.com/politics/the-russia-ukraine-war-the-week-that-was
The envoys will ask the European Commission, the blocs executive arm, to look into the possibility, reported Bloomberg citing officials who declined to be identified speaking on a confidential issue. EU leaders are expected to discuss Ukraines prospects at a summit in Paris on March 10-11, Bloomberg reported.
Its not that I want to talk to Putin, the Ukrainian president told journalists at his heavily fortified office in Kyiv. I need to talk to Putin. The world needs to talk to Putin. There is no other way to stop this war.
The Russian president has insisted his military advance in Ukraine is going to plan, according to Al Jazeera. He appeared in no mood to heed a global clamour for hostilities to end as the war entered its second week.
The Ukrainians, though, have been defiant. Led by President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, they have thwarted Russias progress into Kyiv. The Russian Defence Ministry said 498 of its servicemen have been killed and 1,597 wounded in Ukraine, according to an Interfax report. The United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights reported 227 Ukrainian civilians have died and 525 have been wounded since the invasion began on Feb. 24.
The biggest hit dealt to Russias financial ecosystem came after the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications SWIFTa global messaging system for banks was disabled for some of Moscows biggest lenders.
On March 2, Russia captured the Black Sea port city of Khersontheir first major conquest since their invasion began.
In northern Ukraine, satellite imagery showed a Russian military convoy as long as 40 miles still making its way toward Kyiv but seemed stalled possibly due to food and fuel shortages, according to a Pentagon official.
The move follows Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky formally putting in a bid on March 1. Membership requires an arduous set of steps that can last more than a decade.
On Feb. 28, Russia and Ukraine agreed to meet for a second round of peace talks, even as the fighting intensified. The heaviest assaults were on Kharkiv, the countrys second largest city after the capital.
Putin again said Russia was rooting out neo-Nazis, adding during the televised opening of a national security council meeting that he will never give up on his conviction that Russians and Ukrainians are one people.
On March 2, European Union ambassadors agreed to call for an initial assessment of Ukraines chances of joining the 27-nation bloc.
That, in a way, underscored the invasion which has so far displaced at least one million Ukrainians from the country, led to the capture of the Black Sea port city of Kherson, and threatened the fall of capital Kyiv itself. The port city of Odessa, with a population of over one million, is thought to be the next target.
On March 2, The UN General Assembly voted to condemn Russia's  invasion of Ukraine and demand that Moscow stop fighting and withdraw its military forces.
To understand the decadal events that led up to this flashpoint, watch this discussion with Professor John Mearsheimer - the R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago.
Russian energy supplies remain untouched by sanctions, given Europe's heavy dependence on them. Yet, Brent crude prices have scaled peaks last seen in 2008 - JP Morgan  Co said Brent could skyrocket to as high as $185 by the end of this year if current conditions continue.
Resolutions and sanctions have not stopped Vladimir Putin yet, as Russian forces have continued their onward march into Ukraineoften frustrated by the pushback from citizen militia. Several Ukraine cities have been overrun in part of whole, according to Russian information but confirmations are hard to come by.
Zelenskiy, meanwhile, sought a sit-down meeting with his Russian counterpart to end the invasion, while also calling on the West to increase military aid to Kyiv, reported Al Jazeera from the March 3 briefing.
On Feb. 26, 11 members of the 15-member United Nations Security Council voted in favour of a resolution condemning Russias attack on Ukraine. India, China and the United Arab Emirates abstained from the vote and Russia vetoed.
I need ammunition, not a ride, President Zelenskiy said, when NATO nations urged him to leave Kyiv, in the days before the invasion, offering transport to the relative safety of Lviv in the far west of Ukraine. Since then, the former comedians videos and physical presence in the capital has galvanised Ukrainians, so much so that Kyiv still stands.
He said he was willing to compromise with Russia for the sake of peace but not on the sovereignty of Ukraine. NYT reported him as saying - Well, we cannot just say, here it is, its your country now, Ukraine is part of Russia. This is just impossible. So why suggest it?
Separately, Moldova and Georgia have asked the European Union to begin membership talks, moves could antagonise Vladimir Putin as the eastern nations push to align themselves more with Europe and the western alliance.
The General Assembly voted 141-5 for the draft resolution, Aggression against Ukraine, which was co-sponsored by 94 countries. Only five nationsRussia, Belarus, Syria, North Korea and Eritreavoted against the measure. India and its neighbours - Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, as well as China were among the 35 countries that abstained.
The Ukraine war entered its second week Friday with the fall of Europe's largest nuclear power plant into the hands of Russian forces.
On the same day, Mariupola city of more than 400,000 along the Sea of Azov was encircled by Russian and pro-Russian separatist troops.
The tanks rolled in, and so did the sanctions. The United States and its allies in Europe have so far chosen to fight back using economic arms, crippling the Russian central bank-held reserves, its currency and commodities, and now its oligarchs. The Russian stock market has been shut for nearly a week and will remain so till March 8. A raft of global companies including Shell, Harley-Davidson, Apple, Nike, Volvo and others have either curtailed or ceased operations in Russia, affecting online to offline consumption.
A look at the key events defining the Ukraine war in the week gone by:
Then, addressing Putin, he said: What do you want from us? Leave our land. Sit down with me, just not 30 metres away, he added, making a reference to Putin receiving world leaders at an enormously long table.
On March 3, Zelenskiy held his first press conference since the war began, reported the New York Times. Expressing pride at the resistance put up by citizens, he said We have a special people, an extraordinary people.
