Spotters Remind Us How Far Aviation Has Come in 120 Years
20220306
https://www.bloombergquint.com/gadfly/spotters-remind-us-how-far-aviation-has-come-in-120-years
Bloomberg Opinion -- If you stand on a small lane at the west end of Taipeis Songshan airport at just the right moment, you canfeel the hot air of a jet engine as it begins itstakeoff run. On any given weekend, before the pandemic, dozens of people could be found milling about waiting for the next brief thrill as landing aircraft roared just above their heads and departures rustled the wind in their hair.
Tim Culpan is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering technology. He previously covered technology for Bloomberg News.
Among the Wright Brothers early backers was the British War Office the U.S. government initially rebuffed them  so when the Great War broke out in 1914, the use of aircraft irrevocably reshaped combat. As the fighting ended in 1918, Orville Wright was quoted as telling a friend, The Aeroplane has made war so terrible that I do not believe any country will again care to start a war.
Flying is much safer than sea travel, too. More souls were lost on the Titanic than in aviation accidents over the past five years, and the maritime industry records more than 1,500 accidents per yearcompared to around 85 annually among commercial aircraft operators. Although ships shuttle far fewer people around the world annually, over 1,000 people died or were lost in maritime incidents in the five years through 2019, compared to 1,459 for aviation.
If you comparea modern Boeing or Airbus to the very machine flown for just 12 seconds by Orville Wright at Kitty Hawk on Dec. 17 1903, you can see that the fundamentals of aviation have barely changed.The main areas of advancement have been in propulsion, structural engineeringand navigation systems, rather than the underlying physics of flight.The world, however, is vastly different because of it.
A decade later, system malfunctions ended in greater tragedy. Having decided to recycle the design of an existing aircraft, rather than start from scratch, Boeing Co. came out with the 737 Max. The placement of larger, more fuel-efficient enginesmeant the company had to tinker with some of the fundamental physics that govern balance and lift in an aircraft, and opted to adjust for these changes with software that runs the flight controls. Pilots were unaware, resulting in two separatecrashes and the loss of more than 340 lives.
In mid-February,as storm Eunice battered Europe, a livestream of the worlds biggest aircraft bounce and wobble their way to Londons Heathrow airport attracted almost 8million views. Big Jet TV, a Youtube channel founded by spotter Jerry Dyer, kept enthusiasts and casual viewers enthralled for hours as plane after plane descended sidewaysthrough the overcast and blustery skies in an attempt to bring their cargo safely to the ground. Strong winds spurred some to take a second, or third, attempt. Some diverted to other airports. But they all made it.
For most people, the only timewe think about the wonders of aviation is when were strapped into our seats. But spotters, the uber-enthusiasts who camp out at airfields to watch and document aircraft at work, have continued to maintain humankinds sense of awe at a magical ability we discovered only 120 years ago.
Despite all the death and destruction enable by aircraft, it can be arguedthat more good than harm has come of their invention. Aviation opened up the movement of people and goods, while advancing cooperation among nations. Instead of sailing past the Statue of Liberty, todays immigrants fly in to New Yorks JFK airport. Rather than a weeklong voyage on the high seas, travelers can now have breakfast in London then dinner in New York.
Boeing has since been chastened, and the world has learnedfrom those disasters, putting us back on a path to even safer flying just as the global pandemic recedes. In coming years, even more aircraft with their sophisticated control systems will be taking to the skies and reconnecting the world. Aviation enthusiasts, affectionally called AvGeeks, will be documenting their journeys andreminding us of all thats been accomplished.
Advancements in that technology may be reaching their limit, with modern electronics starting to become too much for even an experiencedpilot to handle when they malfunction. Captain Kevin Sullivan barely managed to wrest back control of Qantas Airways Ltd. flight 72 when his Airbus SE A330 suddenly pitched toward the earth, twice, on its way from Singapore to Perth in October 2008. In No Mans Land: The Untold Story of Automation on QF72, the former U.S. Navy pilot later wrotehe felt like hes in a knife fight with this aeroplane, and it has cut me twice.
But you dont have to be able to distinguish a Boeing from an Airbus, or a wingtip from a winglet, to appreciate aviation. You need only marvel that we can fly.More From This Writer and Othersat Bloomberg Opinion:
This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
If you can drive a car, you can fly a plane, is the common mantra for flight schools around the world. And theyre right. Flying an aircraft is easy. Landing one is hard. The missed approaches on that wintry day in London are evidence that even the best pilots can struggle. Theyre also proof of the limits of technology. Todays two-person flight deck is seen as confirmation that more sophisticated systems are justified in current aircraft. The net benefits including efficiency and flight safety make it hard to put forwardthe opposing argument.
Those aircraft still operate under principles that German pioneer Otto Lilienthaland his contemporaries experimented with in the late 19th century.Rather than lighter-than-air ships, such as blimps and hot-air balloons, those early engineers found that by shaping a flat surface in just the right way, you can form differential air pressure below and above, which creates lift.
Yet its worth noting that in the early daysaircraft had just one pilot. The Wright Brothers flew together only once, and many early pioneers including Amelia Earhart , the first female to cross the Atlantic Ocean alone, flew solo. Even modern small and medium planes often have just a single person at the controls. More people were added to the cockpit of airliners in the mid 20th century because increasingly complicated electronics kept finding their way on board from navigation aids to radio communications equipment. A minimum of two are need these days simply to handle the computers and checklists.
Little progress has been made since Earhart paved the way, with women comprising just 5.8 of the world's airline pilots.
He was tragically wrong, with aviation becoming a key component of military conflict over the past century. The worlds most deadly weapon was ferried to its target over Hiroshima by a U.S. aircraft in 1945, while aerial assaults have evolved to be conducted by uncrewed drones in all corners of the world. Russias invasion of Ukraine this month has seen battles between forces play out at sea, ground and air to devastating effect. In addition to thousands of lives lost, the only model of the worlds largest aircraft Ukraines Antonov AN-225  was wrecked by bombing.
