How dare you Ukrainian woman in Brevard responds to Putins war
20220318
https://www.floridatoday.com/story/news/local/2022/03/18/ukrainian-woman-brevard-county-makes-journey-kyiv-family/7047313001/
Suddenly, Yergina had the sinking feeling that her family had runout of time to prepare. They had discussed her family's plans if war started. Things like: Was their German Shephard, Miko, microchipped? Did they have enough water? Food? International passports? Money? The goal was to make sure the entire family  Yergina's85-year-old grandma, mom, dad, her older brother, his wife and 9-year-old daughter, the dog and cats could quickly becomemobile if they needed to escape.
Her parents live in a home nearSikorsky International Airport in the Ukrainian capital. It's not the main Kyiv airport and it's not an airport used by the militarybut airports often become military targets during war. That hasn't happened yet, but the fear persists.
None of Yergina'sfamily believed Putin's muscle flexing along the Ukrainian border would erupt into this: Russia essentially declaring war on its smaller, western neighbor. "We are family," Yergina said. The familial, cultural, linguistic ties run deep between the Slavic nations. As in Yergina's family, it's common for Ukrainians and Russians to have family living in both countries.
That wasn't the only change for the Wells Fargo financial advisor who now calls the United States and Indialantichome. She pauses long before answering how she relatesto aunts and uncles, cousinsand friends livingin Russia and Belarus, many struggling under the barrage of Kremlinpropagandato acknowledge the destruction and deaths being inflicted on her Ukrainian homeland by the Russian military. "They want to believe, but theyare doubting it," Yergina said.
Now, she hopes the West gives Zelenskyy what's he's asking for.He's been asking for increased military supplies and for NATO to protect Ukraine's skies from the Russian military. The latter has been rejected repeatedly by NATO amid concerns it would trigger an escalation between the nuclear-armed United States and Russia.
After waiting for six hours for a train to Kyiv that never arrived, Yergina felt a tap on her shoulder. The stranger said simply: "Platform 4. Run." She did, finding herselfone of only three women on a humanitarian train heading into the war zone. The two other women were mothers who had been vacationing in Georgia when war started. Both women were heading back into to Kyiv torescue their children.
At the border to cross into Poland, they wait. And wait. Six hours. No food. No bathrooms. The cold. "Youre feeling everybodys backpack on you," Yergina said, describing the crush of refugees fleeing the fighting. "Ofcourse, you cant say anything. I just have a backpack and my mom. Next to us, there's awoman with three children and one is on her shoulders. There are some heroes. So many heroes, doing all this on their own."
"I fell in love with my countryagain. I became very patriotic," Yergina said. "Watching Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy'sofficial videos, it makes you feel very strongly about democracy, independence and you know  freedom of speech."
"When I heard the news, I started calling my parents. It was themiddle of the night, 2 or 3 a.m. I called twice or three times," Yergina said. "They picked up. They said we woke up from bombing."
Warsaw, Poland became hertarget destination. She contemplated buying a car in Poland to drive into Kyiv, knowing, she said, "No one was going to rent me a car to go into Ukraine." But on arrival, she learned a train was an option.
Yergina readily admits none of them really knew what they were doing. How do you prepare for something like this? And now with the bombing started, itfelt too late.
"We are walking fast, everyone was walking fast," Yergina said. She recalled thinking: "What are we doing? People are running. Where are we running to?"
Inside Poland, there is relief: warmth, food, help. But it's temporary. Many refugees don't know where they will go. Some don't even have international passports. Getting visas to the United States, for example, is not so easy.
"And while she was telling that story, the child was sleeping and when she woke up her child because somebody came to pick them up, I saw that child was  you could tell the kid went through trauma. She did not speak. She was so disorientated. She was not functioning," Yergina said. "She was about 4years old."
Mara Bellaby is executive editor of FLORIDA TODAY. She can be reached at mbellabyfloridatoday.com. Please support local journalism with a subscription to FLORIDA TODAY. For the latest deals go to floridatoday.comsubscribe.
Yergina said she knewshe was one of the lucky ones: She's anAmerican citizenand her mom already had a U.S.tourism visa. She had ahome in Brevard and a job.
On the train, the women were warned not to use their phones, get low if they heard a noise, keep the window curtains closed. But train officials also gave them extra blankets and provided heat at times, which felt like a luxury.
She decided to take drastic action. Yerginawould headto Kyiv but whether to stay and help or evacuate her family, shedidn't know. She just knew she needed to not be so far away from everyone she loved, so on Feb. 27 she departed.
As her father drove her home through the streets of Kyiv, Yergina saw a changed city  not by bombing. Not yet. But still different. Her dad had to navigate new checkpoints manned by armed civilians, and detour around tank traps. Air raid sirens sound periodically. Food is still available but little sweet and tasty indulgences aren't so easy to come by anymore.
When Yergina finally arrived in Kyiv, thousands of desperate Ukrainians mostly women and children  flooded the train platform, jostling for a space onboard. Some even pushed their children into the arms of strangers in a desperate attempt to save them. Yergina said she'll never forget that experience, and the faces of the children still haunt her. She worries what will become of them. Will the childrenmake it to safety? Will any of them become victims of traffickers?
Katya Yergina grew up in Kyiv, Ukraine. At home, to her parents,she spokeRussian. She attended an Ukrainian language schoolbut Russian was the language of family conversation.
Yergina immediately thought of her own niece. Thankfully, her brother had gotten his wife and daughter out of the country. He could not leave Ukrainian men are barred from leaving.
Warsaw was also whereYerginafirst saw the desperation on the faces of the fleeing Ukrainians. Eavesdropping on a conversation at the train station, she overhead a mother with a young childtelling her relatives that she'd stood for 12 hours on a train to escape.
Soon, the time came in Kyiv to make a decision: stay or leave. Yergina's mother, Lyudmyla, agreed to leave with her. Her father, Roman Yergin,stayed. His age puts him outside the requirement to fightbut he can help in other ways the family owns an electric car which is useful amid the gas shortage for transporting what's needed around the city. At 85, Yergina's grandmother, who takes care of homeless cats, also chose to stay.
And she made a harrowingeight-day journey back into Ukraine amid the warthatstill leaves her breathless as she recounts what happened. But Yergina wants to recount her story wants people to knowwhat she saw: the heroism of Ukrainian women desperate to get their children to safety, the uncertainty facing fleeing refugees, the country's fragiledemocratic dreamsthat riskbeing crushed byRussian President Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war.
The journey out was no less frightening than the one in. This time, Yergina and her momtook a train to Lviv in western Ukraine and then abus. The bus deposited passengers three miles from the border. Those last three miles must be madeon foot. Moms and children and grandparents lugging backpacks, carrying babies. Clunky IKEA bags jammed to bursting. Children stumbling under the weight of their backpacks, constantly readjusting straps. Dogs and cats, sometimes sharing the same carrier.
Yergina feels a new sense of responsibility as the only one in her immediate family currently employed. She also feels renewedpatriotism and defiance. When she watched the bombing start in her homeland, her reaction: "I felt defensive, like 'How dare you?'"
"I think it's most important for the world to be united  Im not saying against Russia, just in general. Things like this should not be happening. We should be citizens of the world," she said. "We should protect each other."
Ukrainians in Brevard:Ukraine in Brevard: 'My family went to sleep in a peaceful country and woke up in a warzone
"When this war started, I wanted Ukrainian," said Yergina, 31. "Everyone switched. Everyone spoke Ukrainian. I just felt that way. I told my mom, "Can we speak Ukrainian?'She was like 'Of course.'"
There's something else though, something larger that Yergina noticed, too: a sense of shared purpose. Of hope, even.
