Russian invasion of Ukraine complicates ISS but partnership still stable
20220224
https://www.floridatoday.com/story/tech/science/space/2022/02/24/russian-invasion-ukraine-complicates-iss-but-partnership-stable/6923747001/
In a statement to FLORIDA TODAY, NASA's Jackie McGuinness on Thursday said the agency "continues working with Roscosmos and our other international partners in Canada, Europe, and Japan to maintain safe and continuous International Space Station operations."
Space is important to usand thats why we'reworking to bring you top coverage of theindustry and Florida launches. Journalism like this takes time and resources. Please support it with a subscription here.
In his first speech since the invasion, meanwhile, President Biden on Thursday said new sanctions levied against Russia will target"the aerospace industry, including their space program."
Just three months ago, the Russian military fired an anti-satellite weapon that destroyed an old spacecraft, sending a massive debris field too close to the ISS for comfort. The crew had to take shelter in capsules as the field passed by. In 2014, astronauts and cosmonauts were put in a similar situationwhen Russian invaded and subsequentlyannexed Crimea from Ukraine.
The chief of Roscosmos, the state corporation responsible for spaceflight, issued a statement Wednesdayand said he values the NASA relationship but feels conflicted about other areas of U.S.policy.
Before the invasion, the twocountries were discussing flying cosmonauts on Crew Dragon in the future, but the status of those talksisunclear.
Stationed aboard the ISS right now are NASA astronauts Kayla Barron, Raja Chari Thomas Marshburn, and Mark Vande Hei European Space Agency astronaut Matthias Maurer and Russian cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov.
Going backto the height of the Cold War, bothpartnered on Apollo-Soyuz, the first international space mission that saw two capsulesfrom different countriesdock in 1975. Millions watched the orbital meeting that potentially signified a more peaceful relationship in space for the two superpowers.
Contact Emre Kelly at aekellyfloridatoday.com or 321-242-3715. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at EmreKelly.
FourNASA astronauts, two Russian cosmonauts, and one European Space Agency astronaut are stationed aboard the International Space Station, their home away from home whizzing by at 17,500 mph as Russianforces continue moving into Ukraine. The U.S. and Russia's decades-long partnership in space has historically been one of the more stable elementsof the two superpowers' relations,regardless of what happens on the ground.
Officials for decades have been prepared for political turmoil to rattle operations in space, where the cost of entry has led to partnerships like the ISS. Russia's invasion of Ukraine isn't the first time tensions have led to questions.
The ISS has been continually occupied since 2000. Hundreds of people from several countries have conducted scientific research onboard, and the station's hardware is just as diverse  neither the Russian nor American segments are self-sufficient and relyon each other for everything from power to communications.
For the time being, the U.S. side has an advantage compared to just a few years ago: SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule. It stands as NASA's only access to the ISS without reliance on the Russians, giving the agency some leverage.
"We greatly value our professional relationship with NASA, but as a Russian and a citizen of Russia, I am completely unhappy with the sometimes openly hostile U.S. policy towards my country,"Dmitry Rogozin said just before the invasion.
Russia'sinvasion of Ukraine late Wednesday has yet again raised concerns about the country's relationship withthe United States in space, where it has historically remainedstable.
For nearly 10years after the end of the shuttle program in 2011, NASA paid Russia to ferry U.S. astronauts to the space station. For some missions, it still does.
Looking ahead, however, the ISS partnership could see a changing dynamic.NASA ultimately hopes to transfer the aging outpostinto the hands of private industry sometime in the next decade while it focuses resources towardmissions beyond Earth orbit.
