Space startup Astrolab shows off moon rover with actual prototype
20220313
https://www.floridatoday.com/story/tech/science/space/2022/03/13/astrolab-space-startup-shows-off-moon-rover-actual-prototype/6991153001/
Much of the company, headquartered near SpaceX in Hawthorne, is made up of NASA veterans and former SpaceX employees. Teams were recently able to test a prototype version of the rover near California's Death Valley. Among the testers wasCanadian Astronaut Chris Hadfield, who serves an advisory role in the company.
Space is important to usand thats why we'reworking to bring you top coverage of theindustry and Florida launches. Journalism like this takes time and resources. Please support it with a subscription here.
Contact Emre Kelly at aekellyfloridatoday.com or 321-242-3715. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at EmreKelly.
Historically, moon rovers or prototypes developed for ground exploration have been bespoke, boutique products for specific purposes  or were developed and abandoned. Astrolab says its product is more flexible thanks to being designed for several purposes rather than just transporting one specific type of payload. It's also designed to fly on several types of upcoming vehicleslike SpaceX's Starship, making it "rocket agnostic."
Venturi Astrolab, also known as Astrolab, on Thursday showed off itsFlexible Logistics and Exploration, or FLEX, rover designed to transport astronauts and payloads around future destinations. Astrolab wants to enter the booming space industry with a fleet of its FLEX rovers, giving agencies like NASA and other organizations the ability to choose off-the-shelf systems instead of designing and building their own.
How much training do you need to visit space?Private astronaut training facility may come to Brevard
"Weve designed a mobility platform that is payload agnostic so it can work within an ecosystem of transportation systems, vehicles and tools,"Matthews said. "FLEX achieves a wide range of utility by being able to collect, transport, and deposit any payload that conforms to what will be a standard and open interface."
"For humanity to truly live and operate in a sustained way off Earth, there needs to exist an efficient and economical transportation network all the way from the launch pad to the ultimate outpost," Jaret Matthews, founder and CEO of Astrolab, said in a release. "There is a gap in the last mile and Astrolab exists to fill it."
A California-based startup this weekunveiled its entry into the commercial space arena with a product different from the usual slate of rockets, satellites, and capsules: a moon and Mars rover.
Astrolab says its transport abilities include astronauts unpressurized, so in their own spacesuits and modular payloads that can be used for science, exploration, surveying, construction, and more.
"As we transition from the Apollo era, which was focused on pure exploration, to now, where people will be living for longer periods on the moon, the equipment needs to change,"Hadfield said. "When we settle somewhere, we dont just need to get people from one place to another, but we need to move hardware, cargo, life support equipment and more."
The commercial spaceindustry, according to a 2021 Bank of America analysis, could become a $1.4 trillion market by 2030.
