A light of hope first of three flights bringing Ukrainians lands in Winnipeg
20220523
https://www.thompsoncitizen.net/national-news/first-of-three-flights-bringing-about-90000-ukrainians-to-canada-to-land-in-winnipeg-5397540
Canada's government has already welcomed thousands of Ukrainians since Russian forces first attacked in late February.
Freeland gave her greetings in Ukrainian over the plane's intercom system, while Stefanson thanked those on board for choosing Manitoba and Canada as their "home away from home."
"They're here to take shelter but what they're really waiting for is for Ukraine to win the war."
Onlookers and relatives cheered and applauded the newcomers as they made their way into the airport.
"We believed that it would happen so we just hoped that things would work for us and it happened," said Seleznova.
"We want to go back but we don't know when war will stop. Now we stay here ... and live. What will be in the future we don't know."
"We want you to know we welcome you with open arms and open hearts ... we'll do everything to make your stay a welcome stay," she said.
The 30-year-old is one of more than 300 Ukrainian nationals who were on a federally chartered flight to bring people fleeing Russia's invasion of Ukraine to Canada.
At one point Freeland hugged one emotional woman before she posed for a photo with the woman's family.
Dogs, cats and even a hamster joined their owners in the more than 7,000-kilometre flight.
Immigration Minister Sean Fraser has said the flights will bring approximately 900 Ukrainians approved for emergency travel into Canada.
The second charter flight will leave for Montreal from Poland on May 29 and the third, bound for Halifax, will take off on June 2.
Freeland and Stefanson boarded the plane after it landed and were met with cheers and applause from the people on board.
About three hours after arriving, Zinenko boarded a bus that took her and her family to the provincial reception centre.
WINNIPEG  Kseniia Zinenko stepped outside of the Winnipeg airport Monday evening after a nine-hour flight from Poland to Manitoba's capital city.
"Very tired," Zinenko replied when asked how she was feeling after arriving in Winnipeg. "But the Canadian people are very good to meet us."
Anastasiia Seleznova was waiting patiently with a bouquet of flowers for her cousin, who she helped register to come to Canada. She says her cousin was put on a waitlist and they were only notified three days prior she would be on the flight.
Manitoba has said new arrivals will be taken to the province's Ukrainian Refugee Reception Centre to receive help with settlement after they arrive.
The family wanted to get as far away from Russia as possible and didn't want to stay in Europe so they chose to move to Canada, said Zinenko.
"In these difficult times and when it's dark around you, you're just trying to keep at least a light of hope."
This wasn't the first time Seleznova helped a family member escape. She met her nine-year-old sister in Poland in the middle of March to bring her to Winnipeg to stay with her.
Newcomers had another chance to speak with the two leaders as they departed the plane and picked up their luggage.
The flight from Warsaw to Winnipeg, which touched down at the Winnipeg James Armstrong Richardson International Airport around 3:45 p.m., was the first of three charter flights to Canadian cities.
Note to readers: This is a corrected story. A previous version stated Immigration Minister Sean Fraser has said the three flights are to help bring approximately 90,000 Ukrainians approved for emergency travel into Canada. In fact, it is approximately 900.
Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland joined Manitoba Premier Heather Stefanson in welcoming the Ukrainian nationals on Monday. Manitoba members of parliament Dan Vandal, Jim Carr and Kevin Lamoureux were also hand to greet them.
Zinenko travelled with eight other relatives including her mother, sister and son. She says her father and brother had to stay behind in Mykolaiv, a city in southern Ukraine, to fight in the army.
