French 32yearold journalist is killed in Ukraine
20220530
https://www.thompsoncitizen.net/world-news/french-32-year-old-journalist-is-killed-in-ukraine-5421112
BFM TV said Frdric Leclerc-Imhoff was killed as he was covering a humanitarian operation in an armored vehicle near Sievierodonetsk, a key city in the Donbas region that is being hotly contested by Russian and Ukrainian forces. He had worked for six years for the French television channel.
The head of Reporters Without Borders, Christophe Deloire, said that from the beginning of the war we have noticed that the journalists, and other citizens of course, civilians, are targeted by Russian forces.
Macron expressed condolences to his family, relatives and colleagues and spoke of Frances unconditional support to those who carry out the difficult mission of informing in theaters of operations.
BFM TV said Leclerc-Imhoff was accompanied by a male colleague who was lightly injured. A Ukrainian woman who was working with them was not hit.
"Aboard a humanitarian bus, alongside civilians forced to flee to escape Russian bombs, he was fatally shot, Macron tweeted.
Haidai said Leclerc-Imhoffs body was evacuated to the nearby Ukrainian-held city of Bakhmut and will be taken to the central city of Dnipro for an autopsy.
Zakrzewski, who also had Irish citizenship, and 24-year-old Ukrainian journalist Oleksandra Sasha Kuvshynova, both working for Fox News, were killed when their vehicle came under fire outside of Kyiv on March 14.
According to Deloire, Leclerc-Imhoff was heading to the Donbas region on a humanitarian bus which was going to pick up people and evacuate them.
AP Journalists Angela Charlton, Nicolas Garriga and Catherine Gaschka in Paris, and Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Ukraine, contributed to the story.
The head of Ukraines National Journalist Union, Serhiy Tomilenko, speaking to AP, said officials are discussing how to repatriate his body to France, which in the conditions of military activity and constant shelling is not so easy to do.
He said the patrol officer accompanying the vehicle was hit by shrapnel in the head and taken to a military hospital.
France demands that a transparent inquiry be launched as soon as possible to shed full light on the circumstances of this tragedy, she said in a written statement.
Colonna, who was on a planned visit to the Ukrainians capital Kyiv on Monday, later called the tragedy a crime to reporters.
He posted an image of Leclerc-Imhoffs Ukrainian press accreditation, and images of what he said was the aftermath of the attack.
French Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna said the journalists death was deeply shocking. She tweeted that he was killed by Russian bombing.
PARIS AP  A 32-year-old French journalist was killed Monday in eastern Ukraine, fatally hit by shell shrapnel while covering a Ukrainian evacuation operation, according to the French news broadcaster he worked for.
Journalists are paying with their lives for the right to know the truth about what is happening in the war in Ukraine, he said.
Earlier Monday, the governor of the Luhansk region, Serhiy Haidai, announced Leclerc-Imhoffs death in a Telegram post, saying that Russian forces fired on an armored vehicle that was traveling to pick up people for evacuation.
She said she talked to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and asked him to do everything to allow the journalists body to be returned to France as soon as possible. She said the investigation on the circumstances of the death in the war zone will be led by Ukrainian authorities.
French President Emmanuel Macron paid tribute to Leclerc-Imhoff on Twitter, saying he was in Ukraine to show the reality of the war."
Shrapnel from the shells pierced the vehicles armor, fatally wounding an accredited French journalist in the neck who was reporting on the evacuation. The patrol officer was saved by his helmet, he wrote.
Several Ukrainian and foreign journalists have been killed since February, including another French national, veteran videographer Pierre Zakrzewski, 55.
