Liberals move to bar sanctioned Russians from Canada through immigration amendments
20220518
https://www.thompsoncitizen.net/national-news/liberals-move-to-bar-sanctioned-russians-from-canada-through-immigration-amendments-5378525
The bill introduced Tuesday by Sen. Marc Gold, the government representative in the upper chamber, would amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act to include these grounds and all others listed under the special economic measures law.
Canada's recent sanctions against Russians have been based on the grounds of a "grave breach of international peace and security" in the Special Economic Measures Act.
The government tabled proposed amendments to federal immigration law in the Senate on Tuesday to ensure foreign nationals subject to sanctions under the Special Economic Measures Act are inadmissible to Canada.
The changes would allow the Canada Border Services Agency to deny entry to, and remove, people who have been sanctioned, and would enable Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada officials to deny visas.
Once in force, the amendments would apply to all foreign nationals subject to sanctions by Canada, as well as any accompanying family members.
"We will continue to exhaust all options to uphold freedom and democracy, punish Russia, and support Ukraine," he said in a statement.
In addition, New Democrats will continue to push the government to allow for sanctioned assets to be used to support Ukrainians, she said.
NDP foreign affairs critic Heather McPherson said while it was encouraging to see the Liberals take action to bar sanctioned individuals, the government should work to get Ukrainians to safety quickly by dropping visa requirements for them.
In April, Moscow announced it was barring 61 additional Canadians, including politicians, journalists and military members, from entering Russia due to Canada's actions against the country.
Foreign nationals who are inadmissible to Canada may have their applications for temporary resident visas refused or cancelled by immigration officials.
OTTAWA  The Liberal government is moving to ban Russians sanctioned over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine from entering Canada.
Those barred from Canada due to sanctions will still be eligible to have a refugee claim considered by the refugee protection division of the Immigration and Refugee Board, and will have access to a full pre-removal risk assessment, the government says.
Since the start of Russia's attack on Ukraine in late February, Canada has sanctioned more than 1,000 people from Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
Banning close associates and key supporters of Russian President Vladimir Putins regime is one of the many ways in which Canada is holding Moscow accountable for its unprovoked aggression, said Public Safety Minister Marco Mendicino.
