Live updates Moscow says outlook unclear for Ukraine talks
20220225
https://www.thompsoncitizen.net/world-news/live-updates-moscow-says-outlook-unclear-for-ukraine-talks-5101480
Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russias Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.
However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had failed to deliver on its day one objectives.
We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, thats also what weve been preparing for in recent weeks, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.
GENEVA  The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russias military invasion.
The Kremlin said in its readout of Fridays call that Xi underlined that he views the Russian leaderships action in the crisis situation with respect.
KYIV, Ukraine  As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the countrys east.
VILNIUS, Lithuania  Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.
The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.
The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing, Johnsons office said in a statement. He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russias campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.
LONDON  An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the nuclear option of sanctions.
A fire broke out onboard the ship the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed, the agency said in a statement. The ships crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.
Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.
LONDON  Latvias defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.
Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros dollars in sales.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.
The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.
Thats why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now, Baerbock said. We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.
MOSCOW  The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.
MOSCOW  The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.
Johnsons Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.
A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russias position as a world power helping to keep global relations in balance.
Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.
The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.
Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.
Asked about Zelenskyys offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as a move in a positive direction.
BERLIN  Germanys president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to stop the madness of this war now.
WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATOs nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the regions security, following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didnt provide details of the increase.
Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros $1.68 billion.
In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders dont want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.
In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed its inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.
He said in a conference call with reporters that we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.
Shamdasani also said the rights office was disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.
BUDAPEST, Hungary  Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.
He said its good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.
MOSCOW  Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.
Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy missed the opportunity to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.
Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.
BRUSSELS  Germanys foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.
World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.
Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmars Rohingya minority.
Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces, Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.
Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is a lie. He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.
The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putins government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.
The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers 80 miles north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.
It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyys offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.
Putin said Moscow is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side, China Central Television reported on its website.
Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.
Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.
BERLIN  The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.
The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.
Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.
Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.
The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.
PRAGUE -- The Czech Republics transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.
But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.
LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the countrys leader.
But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy is simply lying when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.
MOSCOW  The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping hes ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.
The French president also called the Belorussian government an accomplice in Russias military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.
International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.
German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.
The president, who served twice as Germanys foreign minister, said that Putin should not underestimate the strength of democracies and Germans shouldnt either.
The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.
The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians  for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine  to receive protection in the European Union.
What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union, Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.
MOSCOW  Russias civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British governments ban on Aeroflot flights.
Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.
MOSCOW  The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.
BEIJING  Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.
Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.
NEW DELHI  Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.
Myanmars National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscows action.
Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide lethal aid to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.
FORT STEWART, Ga.  The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
WARSAW, Poland  Polands Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the countrys land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russias invasion of Ukraine began.
The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlins next target.
Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.
If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then passage must be allowed, Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.
That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his countrys bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.
The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.
That means my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.
At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russias legitimate concerns on security issues, he added.
The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.
Germanys dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.
President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that we dont want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.
Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.
Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agencys planning figures anticipated that up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.
BRUSSELS  A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.
Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.
Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.
BERLIN  Germanys Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATOs eastern flank.
Speaking during Fridays meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.
Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscows demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.
It said the measure was taken in response to the unfriendly decisions by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros $1.67 billion were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros $4.2 million.
Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv, Zhivitsky said. Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.
Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.
Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.
Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.
Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.
Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.
BERLIN  Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russias attack on Ukraine, calling it a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.
Russias invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014 and from Belarus to the north.
Michel said Kyiv is under continued attack by Russian forces and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.
Artis Pabriks comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russias access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.
The International Criminal Court is the worlds permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.
The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies, Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigades commander, said in prepared statement.
He said that any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.
BANGKOK  Myanmars ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russias attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscows action.
Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.
PARIS  French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to inflict very severe blows on Moscow, further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.
Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.
Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscows legitimate security concerns by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russias borders.
VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscows decision to invade Ukraine.
MOSCOW  The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian presidents offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.
Khan said he alerted all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine that Ukraine has accepted the courts jurisdiction.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.
We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker, one of the callers in Ukraine said.
At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.
Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.
If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now, he said. Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change.  There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.
Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to demilitarize it.
He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.
That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.
We tried everything so this day wouldnt come, she said. And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.
Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.
MOSCOW  The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.
Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.
Polands President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that demons of a great war, unseen since 1945 have returned to Europe.
Fort Stewart is home to the Armys 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the divisions 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.
KYIV, Ukraine  Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.
DAMASCUS, Syria  Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russias military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western hysteria surrounding it.
That means my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.
We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested, she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.
It attributed the rise to a disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.
Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.
Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.
EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.
Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible provocations. He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.
Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.
Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.
Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyivs outskirts.
Its a nuclear option that its going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy, he said.
The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports arent paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.
THE HAGUE, Netherlands  The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.
ANKARA, Turkey  Turkeys foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.
Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted clearly to express his concern about the war. Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.
Myanmars military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russias leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.
Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.
Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.
Karim Khan warned all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine that Ukraine has accepted the courts jurisdiction.
VATICAN CITY  Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.
A statement by the spokesman for Myanmars military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its sovereignty.
BUCHAREST, Romania  Moldovas national naval agency says a ship in neutral waters of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.
Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.
The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained, Chinas Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.
But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungarys government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.
Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
Russia is a main backer of Assads government and its military intervention in 2015 in the countrys civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.
