Western Fashion Brands Sell the Last of Their Inventory in Russia
20220810
https://www.manufacturing.net/supply-chain/news/22379583/western-fashion-brands-sell-the-last-of-their-inventory-in-russia
I  will start looking at Russian brands, one HM shopper, who gave  only her first name Anya, said after emerging from the store. Another  shopper, who only gave his name as Leonid, said he was very hurt that  HM is closing down: A good store is leaving.
IKEA  said in June that many workers will lose their jobs and it has  guaranteed six months of pay for them, as well as core benefits. It said  this week that it has 15,000 workers in Russia and Belarus, but it did  not immediately confirm how many would be laid off.
We are deeply  saddened about the impact this will have on our colleagues and very  grateful for all their hard work and dedication," HM Group CEO  Helena Helmersson said last month.
Many Western companies promised  to leave Russia after it sent troops into Ukraine, taking months to  wind down operations and often selling holdings to Russian firms.  McDonalds sold its 850 restaurants to a Russian franchisee owner, who  is moving to reopen them  under the name Vkusno-i Tochka. British energy giants Shell and BP are  taking billions of dollars in charges to exit investments and holdings  in Russia.
HM said it expects costs from leaving  Russia to reach about 2 billion Swedish kronor $197 million, which  will be included as one-time costs in its third-quarter earnings this  year.
MOSCOW AP  Russians are snapping up Western fashion and furniture this week  as HM and IKEA sell off the last of their inventory in Russia,  moving forward with their exit from the country after it sent troops  into Ukraine.
Russian  President Vladimir Putin has pushed for years to develop and deploy  Russian substitute goods and services to make up for the loss of Western  imports, which has taken on new urgency as companies like HM and  IKEA wind down operations.
Both companies  are laying off staffers as they scale down business in Russia. HM  said Tuesday that 6,000 workers will be affected and that it was working  on details of offering continued support in the coming months.
Meanwhile, some Western companies have remained in  Russia or are partially operating. French-owned home improvement  retailer Leroy Merlin has kept open its 112 stores in Russia, for  example, while PepsiCo, Nestle and drugmaker Johnson  Johnson are  supplying essentials like medications and baby formula while halting  nonessential sales.
The racks  and shelves were well stocked in the clothing retailer. Nearby shops  were closed, including Zara, Oysho, Bershka, PullBear and Uniqlo,  while New Yorker, Finn Flare, Marks  Spencer and Mango were open.
Its can be difficult to tell when  stores in Russia are closed. At the famous GUM department store lined  with shops in Red Square, most of the closed storefronts still have the  lights on and a clerk or guard inside.
Sweden-based HM and Netherlands-based IKEA had  paused sales in Russia after the military operation began and are now  looking to unload their stocks of clothing and furnishings as they wind  down operations there, saying the future is unpredictable. IKEAs sales  are online only, while the HM store at the Moscow shopping mall  Aviapark saw a steady stream of young shoppers Tuesday.
IKEA said in June that it will start looking for new owners  for its four factories in Russia and will close its purchase and  logistics offices in Moscow and Minsk, Belarus, a key Russian ally.
