Col Douglas Macgregor Gives His Updated Opinion on Current Status of UkraineRussia Conflict
20220330
https://theconservativetreehouse.com/blog/2022/03/29/col-douglas-macgregor-gives-his-updated-opinion-on-current-status-of-ukraine-russia-conflict/
Additionally, Macgregor overlays the economic battle both domestically and geopolitically with the currency war and talks about economic repercussions for the U.S., NATO countries, Ukraine and Russia. As noted by Macgregor when the Biden administration turned favorably toward Iran the Saudis immediately realized it was in their best interest to withdraw strategic support for the U.S.
Europeans dont like nazis any less than Russians. What happens when European members of NATO figure out that the USA and CIA dont want the war in Ukraine to end any time soon? Would they offer Putin help to de nazify Ukraine, paving the way for peace and a non aligned Ukraine? This seems like the best possible rational way forward, assuming cooler heads prevail and the notion of Regime change in Russia is set aside.
Then, once the Japanese mobilized for war and attempted to deliver a declaration of War to the US Government which had been intercepted before hand the US Government ignored the Japanese ambassador and did not warn the military in Hawaii about the coming attack.
Okay, as a CTH reader, youre more aware than most how much duplicitous actions are taken in the name of stopping terror and protecting our national interests. I should point out, my opinions are directed at the US government and not really the people. IMO, the US govt is morally bankrupt and downright evil. Only the Lord can correct this wicked world. The best we can do is limit the scope and scale of their actions through elections.
On the world stage, US Intel and military have been the bad guys for far too long.
The Russians have dumb planes like the US A-10, which can do ground attack at higher altitudes.
It would be awesome if you could somehow post the transcripts as I usually read a lot faster than listen.
As for the commies, they were successfully imported and allowed to infiltrate the government, intelligence community, academia, media, and even military. Marxists are running America right now, in case you did not notice. As well as the Western Europe.
Tony, are you aware that you can speed up playback? Go to the gear shaped icon near the bottom right. I regularly listen at 1.25 or 1.5x speed, up to 2x with some speakers. Obviously this is not possible for live streams.
The US Federal Government is nowhere as lily white as you seem to believe it is. It is has been way too interventionist in the affairs of other nations.
So, the idea that America saved the world from commies is patently false, in my opinion.
I dont think he was doing too much posturing, but I am probably still living in the 80s and 90s, too. We used to think we were defending what was left of free Europe. I think we should have known better. But I think calling that the actions of a neighborhood bully is more likely the opinion of a moral supremacist with 2020 hindsight.
That makes me wonder why we are supporting the Nazi Banderas and the Azovs in Ukraine. This war has been engineered by the globalists to help destroy the US dollar and usher in the Great Reset. Its all about gaining total control over everyones lives. They wouldnt even mind if it escalates to a Nuclear conflict. More death is OK with the globalists.
If the rest of the damn world would stop fighting and starting wars, like WWI , WWII we could have stayed out of it, but they affect us. If the rest of the world couldnt get into our treasury they would be belly up. We pay for NATO. No, I am not living in the 80s, I was in the first grade when Pearl Harbor was attacked, We didnt invade or start that one. I have lived long enough to know how the other countries have ripped us off. We pay for NATO so the euros can have long paid vacations and lots of welfare. Try looking at the facts , not the pie in the sky crap.
Ukraine is poised to introduce a new ground-based air defense system to its war against Russias invasion forces, with the announcement that the British-supplied Starstreak main-portable air defense system, or MANPADS, is ready to be used imminently. Once fielded in combat, the Starstreak will be the latest addition to a growing armory of similar systems used by the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which we examined in detail in this past feature. However, Starstreak  also known as the High-Velocity Missile HVM  incorporates several unique features for a weapon of its class and merits further examination.
MacGregor is still pushing the fantasy that the vaunted Russian military is secretly winning their war against Ukraine  despite all we have seen in over a month of combat  the results of which tell an entirely different story.
This was done in cold blood for political reasons to swing the voting populace into intervening into WWII.
Col Douglas Macgregor appears for an interview with Dave Smith on his Part Of The Problem podcast. Col Macgregor gives his status update on the Ukraine and Russian military along with some excellent background information on the U.S. cultural issues which are driving the U.S. position.
Was this an interview or a platform for Smith to express his views. The USA is the leader. If you dont buy that, then add up all the foreign aid and lives we have given to the rest of the world and are still doing. We have had to sacrifice lives to save the rest of the world from the Nazis and commies. The rest of the world steals our engineering and manufacturing secrets and then tells us how much they hate us. They may hate us but their hand is always out to us to protect them, like NATO. Without the USA, the rest of the world would be a total mess.
Hate to say it bit it was the Soviet Union that saved the world from Nazis. Lets be honest, America got in at the last moment just to make sure Stalin would not also save France etc. Not to diminish the heroism and sacrifices of the American troops but the overall contribution of the US in the war in Europe was negligible compared to what the Russians did, and the enormous losses they suffered.
Youre still living in the 80s and 90s. The BRICS nations are proving that they dont need the USA and the USA is saddled with so much debt that we have little weight to throw around these days. Time to quit sticking our chests out and being the bully and become humble and end our geopolitical hegemony. How arrogant to think you can invade anywhere you like, kill as many foreign civilians as you like, and then tell other world powers what to do with their natural resources and finances.
Can you please specify where the war will end? Will it spread to other European countries? I live in the Czech Republic, which is about 1 500 km from Ukraine. Our government acts as if we are Ukraine. We have UA flags flying. Our politicians in cities have even renamed some streets and squares in honour of Ukraine. Our news is also in Ukrainian language. Our National Theatre has banned the performance of P.I. Tchaikovskys opera because it spreads Putins propaganda. Our government sends a lot of money and weapons to Ukraine. Our parliament approved sending 650 soldiers to the borders of Ukraine. And I personally have the increasingly strong impression that our government, which is just a puppet government of the US administration and the EU, wants to drag us into a war. Thank you very much for any reply.
In the late 30s, the US Government manipulated the Japanese Government, fully knowing their nature, and drove them to war.
Russia isnt Iraq. Bingo! Someone tell the neocons, the warmongers and those morons in Congress calling for no fly zones!!!!
Also, during WWII, the US, fully knowing about the nazi internment camps, did nothing for them, even as they could have attacked the surrounding facilities.
Its a good interview that goes into much more depth than the average media appearance, and permits discussion of multiple facets of the conflict inaround Ukraine. The video is prompted to begin at 17:34 when the Ukraine discussion begins. WATCH:
And? Do you want this to be a protracted proxy war with US and UK money funding the slaughter for years?
