Joint Chiefs Chairman General Mark Milley Sees Ukraine as a LongTerm Protracted Battle
20220406
https://theconservativetreehouse.com/blog/2022/04/05/joint-chiefs-chairman-general-mark-milley-sees-ukraine-as-a-long-term-protracted-battle/comment-page-1/
How has that man, Milley, not been fired? Sure its going to last years  he has to make sure his Chinese masters find out all they can about how the NATO nations ply their war craft so China can adjust their approaches.
The whole point of the Dark Net is to go back to the beginning of the Internet when a guru was someone who knew the IP addresses of at least 20 useful sites.
Just like everyone else that theyre afraid of, if they cant control the narrative then they suppress the information.
Slightly controversially I suppose, NATOs been defeated, NATOs bluff was called, Parker said on Thursday morning.
Butbutbut. Walls dont work. Just ask the WEF Uniparty sellouts in the District of Corruption.
According to Milley, I think its at least measured in years this is a very extended conflict that Russia has initiated. I think NATO, the U.S., Ukraine and all of the allies and partners supporting Ukraine are going to be involved in this for quite some time, he said. The nature of Milleys remarks outlines what will likely become an insurgencyproxy war funded by the United States for years against Russia.
A visibly weak and demented commander in Chief who takes a knee and names naval vessels after pederasts is an open invitation.
Uh, wasnt this Milley guy an adviser on the Afghan withdrawal? So, why is he still advising?
I know its confusing. You have a toxic false misleading media operating 247 to deny what is actually happening in Ukraine. I get it.
$100k per month plus expenses, company car, medical, dental and a lifetime supply of olive-drab t-shirts.
America will now crumble into third world chaos, and will never return until it begins to producemanufacture for itself.
Russia is saying they again shot down two Ukraine helicopters today trying to sneak into Mariupol to rescue the leaders of Azov. Rumors have it that some nato officers are trapped there, including some big shot American 2 star general.
Whether you personally like Trump or not has nothing to do with the commonsense of what is best for you. Libtards unable to grasp this basic are truly dumb and stupid as a pile of rocks. Libtards are dangerous people to normal peoples liberties.
Trillions from the pockets of Americans or from printing money left and right. More inflation, more wasted money, no solutions to any of the problems facing Americans like millions of immigrants invading our country. And maybe it can help usher in the green new deal and digital money, the WEF take-over of the US, and destruction of the Constitution while our society becomes more woke and more broke.
As a consequence of that previous investment, the current U.S response to the Russian special military operation has been spearheaded by the same DoS officials, intelligence agencies and politicians. The Ukraine engagement is a political operation using NATO and western allies. As we saw in the Afghanistan withdrawal, the Pentagon is a tool for the politics.
what you might have also not noticed is that russia has in fact accomplished every single element of a successful campaign that will enivatably lead to Ukraine negotiating terms of surrender.
Why were we pushing Ukraine into NATO if it wasnt for this exact scenario to play out just as it is now playing out.
In the lead-in to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, all of the U.S. involvement in the country was operated by bureaucrats and politicians from the U.S. State Dept, CIA, Intelligence Community and Senate. The Pentagon played a far lesser supportive role.
I read a number of sites that are pro Russian. One calls the U.S.  the empire of lies
As much as JC Milley is a political figure, Milley is operating his role under the assumption and direction of what the State Dept is creating. As a consequence of that long-term conflict prediction, the Pentagon is recommending several new rotating military bases for U.S. troops in eastern Europe.
Mariupol is the centre for the Azov Brigade, and the Russian head fake around Kiev was just that.
The protracted war is required to keep the foreign aid embezzlement funnel open. As always, follow the $$.
THAT will probably be the most difficult terms of negotiation to score for the west.
This context is also why the propaganda around Ukraine in the United States has been so critical and important. We will see this level of propaganda continue so long as it is the DoSCIA running the western response to the war.
Rep. Matt Gaetz Goes Off on Bidens Woke Sec Of Defense In Fiery Exchange: The Biden administration is trying to destroy our military by force-feeding it wokeism!
number 6  EU states and many global energy market buyers cannot tolerate the current energy scarcity and costs. It paralyses their economies. The answer of course is to negotiate settlement terms and get that russian oil back flowing again. Which they will do. There are no other options.
Come on man. My local conservative radio talk show host tells me every morning how badly Russia is being beaten.
Im beginning to think the State Dept is the root of all evil. Get ready for the fleecing of your tax dollars ,,,protracted-long term.
its not about energy.Its about the loss of money, paralyzing economic effects, and of course a refusal to concede control over energy markets.
War in Ukraine open boards on the south , Where do we draw the line.
Websites like CTH, who talk honestly about the background of what is happening in Ukraine, may eventually need to start using coded language in order to share information. There are trillions at stake, and the people who control the events are not going to permit too much exposure.
number 4  given nato is not interested in extending membership to ukraine nor getting directly involved, other than some symbolic gestures of weapons and intel, Ukraine is very isolated. They know it. We know it. Russia KNOWS IT. They dont have options other than continue to fight with an outcome that is already cast, or negotiate terms of settlement.
number 10  many states have aligned already with russia and are buying cheap oil and gas well below market prices. Trust me when I say this: this is having an enormous transfer of power and wealth effect in the west. Unless some terms of negotiated settlement happens soon, there may never be an opportunity for the west to recover economically from this massive shift in energy market making.
This Bucha Hoax is just another Democrat Fake Hate Crime, a Jussie Smollett-Fraud writ large for an international audience. And like Smollett hoped to incite hatred against Trump supporters, Zelensky and Biden are trying to incite hatred on a Global Scale. A faked Hate Crime is itself a Hate Crime, you see. And in this case, a War Crime as well.
When we review western media statements about Putin not willing to enter peace talks with Zelenskyy, keep the testimony from Milley and Austin at the forefront of your mind.
And not just the Democrats. There are a huge lot of Republicans supporting this war also. Theyve got their hand in the till as long as the war will last.
My prediction is that Ukraine finds itself negotiating terms by mid June 2022 at the latest, with EU and the USG shepherding the details such that Russia not only gets the strategic energy infrastructure and corridors sea, river and land it means to capture, but will also introduce recovery aid that will accelerate the assembly of the very MEANS pipelines, communications, personnel, tech, ships, trains, trucks, etc to get that russian oil and gas flowing as quickly as possible.
Ukraine will be divided! Russia on one side Nato on the other, with border line battles, till a Berlin style border wall chain link barbwire dogs and so on, can be established!
I cant help but think that the lives of all these victims have been stolen from them by their governments, ours, theirs, the Russians.
Gov staff and leaders have become  the empire of lies I am disgusted with this representation and definitely absolutely about the media. Makes it look like Shakespere had it wrong about the lawyers being first.
Why has Sundance not covered this speech and press conference? I dont get it. Its pretty important when Russias UN delegate makes a speech. Decades ago during the Cold War it would have been live on every TV, complete with the shoe-banging on the podium.
Unless the US is going to put NATOUS troops in the Ukraine, it will eventually be a Russian mopping up operation once all the Ukrainian Forces are destroyed or surrender. War is logistics and Russia hasis destroying all the supply lines.
Ukraine cannot fight without the United States sending money and weapons. Combine that with Austin and Milleys statements about Ukraine, and what you quickly see, albeit undiscussed in media, is that a long-term war is baked into this cake. The United States will not allow Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to enter negotiations with Vladimir Putin.
In the long term how can the EU depend on the US, when the US cannotwont protect its own homeland from chaos??
More likely they will end Russia, force out Biden, and while the new administration is confused will be the excuse China needs to take Taiwan.
This war emanated from the bowels of politics via U.S. political influence in Ukraine to the extreme. This level of U.S. involvement in Ukraine ultimately triggered Putin to say enough, and he started the special military operation. In many ways the operation is not so much against Ukraine  but more against the U.S. involvement in supporting Ukraine against Russia.
One scoop if by land, two scoops if by sea.  Trump Wins Third Landslide Victory.
I believe this is one of their goals: Destroy the U.S. Military via erosion of morale, lack of task and purpose, and deliberate insult to anyone of principle.
On April 2ndthe National Guard of Ukraine posted on official resources a video from Bucha. Let me show you the footage. The video capturesmembers of Ukrainian armed forces entering Bucha. The footage shows no dead bodies in the streets. The Ukrainian military interviewed several people in different locations across the town. None of them said a word about any massacre or mass killings. Camera also captures background behind these people, with no dead bodies in sight.
I understand why none of our TV networks covered it  everything Russia says is a lie so we wont cover it  but I really expected to see it here, with the full transcript. I mean no offense to SD or CTH, of course. Just curious.
Many will be watching this unfold, and eagerly anticipate the opportunity to stick one to  Uncle Sam
Websites like CTH who talk honestly about the background of what is happening in Ukraine, may eventually need to start using coded language in order to share information.
Heres LeeSmithDC restating something Ive said for yearsDemocrats dont have foreign enemies they have foreigners who remind them of domestic enemies. pic.twitter.comfkKdAbCkII
Russia will end the operation in Ukraine, because there will be no Ukrainian forces left.
If it was always going to come down to nuclear posturing, why not start with that?
I worked in that arena for years. Its all about the primes getting contracts. Milley should be in jail instead of in uniform. At some point someone has to translate the data into action and do something ab0ut this betrayal of the American people.
Generals fighting the last war. Heck, even saying GENERALS fighting the last war is  fighting the last war.
There is also video of the dead bodies in the rear view mirrors getting up as the cars go by plus arm movements caught on video of the fake Hollywood production.
The general is simply stating the US preference for  yet another never ending war!
He assumed that Ukraine would follow his inspirational, heroic lead in Afghanistan and immediately surrender, flee,  leave behind innocent civilians along with billions of dollars in equipment.
Of course these days the UN along with NATO are just the public storefront for money laundering operations.
The infamous video depicting bodies on the city roads only appeared on April 3rd. It is full of discrepancies and blatant lies. According to its authors, the bodies were lying on the streets for at least 4 days by the time the video was filmed. However, the bodies are not stiffened. How is that possible? It is against the law of biology. The bodies do not have signs of decomposition known to forensic experts, including cadaver stains. The wounds contain no blood..
The indisputable fact of their recent conversion to brute hawkishness reveals the truth of something David Reaboinoted, riffing on Lee Smith: The Democratic Party doesnt have foreign enemies. They have foreigners who remind them of domestic enemies.
There HAS to be a war! Dimocrats dont feel right unless theres a bunch of people dying somewhere in the world because of them. Babies, geezers, blacks, whites, kids doesnt much matter to them.
Hurts me to say this because I thought these feelings would never be in my patriotic heart, but if I had a son or daughter who wanted to join today Id do everything I could to stop them.
Russia started this and could just as easily end it by just packing their bags and leave claiming victory even without Ukraine ceding territory.
Put the candle back.  Texas, Florida,  16 Other States Secede from the Union.
I have noticed that erstwhile conservative sites taking the hook and sink from the DoS.
number 9  The USG is very worried or should be that during this crisis, do to inaction, CCP is definitely tempted to take taiwan. Thus brokering a negotiated settlement sooner than later has to be on the mind of every rational military and state department thinker. if there any left. sanctions have not worked, will not work, and it emboldens china to act with aggression now that a BRICS system and other methods of sanction avoidance are operating quite well.
Those who have so far died as a result of this RussiaUkraine US war would be alive today if Trump was in the Oval Office.
I think the description is accurate, and describes the antics of all the anti PDJT forces perfectly.
Why are the State Dept. and CIA allowed to engage in such actions, exactly? Whats the legal mechanism here? And why would the Pentagon go along with it?
number 2 is that they have air superiority and have taken out all strategically important element of defense that Ukraine can present. With one exception: manpads and javelin type weapons. Speaking of which: I can assure you that while it might appear effective and it is to some extent, it will have zero impact on the long term march and finality of this campaign.
The BidenZelensky Junta is therefore also protecting their real killers, like Stalin did at the Katyn Forest Massacre.
Trump does not want any Country economically broke. Trump wants Fair Trade with every Country. All this can be done without War. Trump proved it for four years.
To sum it up, there are no reports of atrocities which are accredited to the Russian military in Bucha, which happened before the Ukrainian army took control of the town. Four days after the Russian military left the city of Bucha there was not a single sign of any atrocities. I repeat  not a single reference to it, anywhere.
Sound crazythat the EU and the USG will back down away from the new green deal and embrace dinosaur fuel again!???
Earlier today, Army Gen. Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the House Armed Services Committee Ukraine is a very protracted conflict. Milley anticipates many months, if not years, of combat fighting inside Ukraine as Putin carves out the eastern side of the country permanently.
They still were there earlier today when a Indie reporter showed the Russian controlled area and a few hundred feet away the Ukraine controlled area. Lancaster is reporting from Mariupol. He pointed out a factory area where they are still fighting.
I was wondering about the timing. The dems accuse others of what theyve already done. Do they have inside info indicating that Putin is going to release evidence of Ukraine  Biden war crimes against the Ukrainian people? Have the Ukranian nazis been at it again and this time it cant be covered up?
Our Son is getting out. A top guy too. These people are driving the good and great ones out
And what it has to do is to defend that line, its in what in military terms we would call a defensive position, he went on.
To peek behind the curtain is to see the evil plots of corrupt multi-national corporations, the State Department, and the intelligence services.
What makes this conflict a little more interesting, is the need for the U.S. to control the information. We have seen the initial first phases of their control with Big Tech saying they will not permit anything that does not follow the official U.S. government narrative on social media.
Let me show you thevideo posted by Mr. Fedoruk. As you will see, he looks happy and smiling. It is hard to imagine that he is acting like this against the backdrop of massacre in the streets. Thats in Ukrainian, but as I said, he is very happy that Russian troops withdrew, which he regards as a great victory of the Ukrainian army. He makes no mentioning of any atrocities in the city.
This video was posted on Ukraine 24 channel on the 1stof April. I would like to stress  nothing about atrocities was revealed on April 1st.
Why do we allow them to continue to do this to us? Fool me once, fool me twice, fool me a gazillion times.
Since NATO first got involved in the Korean War, it has been one disaster after another for the countries that NATOUSA had to save.
And I dont think it has the capacity to move on to the offensive with its 30 nations all with slightly different views.
This is so sad. Bucha  January 6  Rigged Election  Invasion of U.S.Mexico border  withdrawal from Afghanistan  Benghazi  Iraq War  Libya  Kosovo  so many damn crimes by our State Department, three-letter agencies, DoD and corrupt contractorscorporations in the past 30 years, the innocent cry out and our forefathers who gave their all know too well that only God can save our Republic from this Evil.
What would happen if China decided it was no longer going to produce the goods it does for the west? Will the AHs in power allow the level of pollution China puts up with? Clothing, shoes, medication, canned food etc etc
Additionally, the State Department launching their own cyber-control division is an extension of this same intent. They are planning for the long-term usefulness of Ukraine as a proxy battle against Russia.
I still believe in prayer, but somehow vultures occupy our White House and our military upper echelon.
The US debt is at 120 percent of GDP. Russian debt is below 30 percent of GDP. The US is deliberately choking its energy sector to death. Russia is making a fortune selling oil and gas at the elevated market prices. The US cant get military recruits because no one wants to go die for oligarchs, especially not with vaccine mandates. Russia has held back its best equipped and most experienced troops in anticipation of the main event.
Yes and they have Jussie grade operatives working on these hoaxs. Come on man! Up your game
If I knew how Id make a dozen of these with the Generals and Raytheon tramp-stamps.
Do you remember when the DoS Benghazi mission was attacked, and the Pentagon had no idea there was even a U.S. operational mission taking place in eastern Libya? That same Operation Zero Footprint disconnect is what I am describing above. Its likely the Pentagon has very little idea what the State Department and CIA are doing in Ukraine right now.
It is also critical to recognize what is not being said by those same DoS and U.S. intelligence officials. The absence is deafening. What is not being advanced is any discussion of a diplomatic resolution or negotiated settlement. Milleys defense request is predicated on a position that no diplomatic solution will be advanced. This is a key part of both General Milley and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austins testimony.
This suggests that the comments that Ret Gen Douglas Macgregor made, stating that his war is over and that Russia has won, is grossly incorrect. That Russia genuinely has its hands full and that this will be a 79-Afghanistan-89 redux where now the DoS supplies the Stingers and munitions instead of the CIA to keep the fight alive.
We were unable to stop the Russians trampling all over Ukraine and now NATO is holding the line of the 2004 expansion, along the line of theBaltic statesand Poland andHungaryand Romania, the retired general said.
Isnt this the same guy that predicted a Russian victory in less than a week?
As previously mentioned Its not a coincidence that the clinton foundation was restarted once the billions started flowing to Ukraine
Yeah, he and his other Dept of Defense counterparts knuckled under to Tony Blinken and let Dept of State run the show instead of evacuating from militarily defensible positions such as Bagram Air Base
Why would Putin enter any negotiations with Zelenskyy, knowing the U.S. position is to carry out a long-term insurgency war in Ukraine against Russian military forces? What would be the purpose of Putin talking with Zelenskyy when the U.S. is openly saying the Ukraine military will be used by the State Dept. to maintain a conflict against Russian forces?
Just look at the sustainability of inter-BRICS trade: India has a thriving pharmaceutical and information technology sector. China manufactures almost all cell phones and tech, Russia produces oil, gas, fertilizer, nickel, and other industrial metals. Brazil produces soybeans, etc. The BRICS dont need the yellow map countries. The only thing really missing is computer chip production. And lo and behold, Taiwan Semiconductor produces 80 percent of the worlds computer chips . . . There it is, just sitting there like a duck . . . Right over the strait from China.
Another alternative is that the domestic US audience of this shit show needs yet another emotional boost to keep them in line while they pay over $5  gal of gas.
Because it started from political origins, the Ukraine conflict will continue to be run from the nerve center of U.S. politics, the U.S. State Dept, the U.S. Senate, and CIA operations. The actual Pentagon involvement will be transport and logistics for State Dept military operations.
Let me also showa photo of Zhan Belenyuk, a deputy of the Ukrainian parliament, who, according to his reports in social media, visited Bucha after regaining control by the Ukrainian government. As you can see, he is also smiling. He is joyful. In his reports he mentions no dead bodies. Not a single reference to atrocities.
Exactly how will they have a protracted war? Biden already let it slip that Russia had until the 24th of April to wrap things up. Biden is the fall guy for the disaster which is Ukraine. They are after Biden now with the laptop story, so they are forcing him out.
The United States will not allow Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to enter negotiations with Vladimir Putin.
number 8  the USG energy policy under this administration could have provided a solution to the energy crisis but refuses to even discuss it. EU states noticed. Now their back is against TWO walls. A scarcity of russia oil that delivers about 50 percent overall energy needs, and a USG that stands to provide the gap but refuses to do so.
Brought to you by The Masters of War. The world wide military industrial complex will make billions $$$$.
All those wanting to live in Nato may leave. Its a cold war people remember. Russia is saying this is as far as you go!
I dont see the possibility of a protracted war when they are likely to lose the port of Odessa, have no sea access and have to transport insurgency the equivalent of across the state of Texas.
Top post, yes theyve already won the economic war, Putin knew what was coming, after the first cold war the US pushed Russia and Chia together, Putin must have liberys full of ex KGB information on all Intel agencys and their modus operandi .
The cries of the American people are being drowned out AGAIN for the deep states blood lust. They did a poor job of selling this war. People care about the economy and domestic issues. This disconnect, which feels intentional, is destined for backfiring, as long as Republicans get their heads on straight sooner than later.
We truly are in a world of hurt as long as anyone in our government listens to these people and heeds their words.
The fools cant seem to grasp that the Globalist-Left is not only on the brink of starting a war in which Red State sons would disproportionately be paying Americas butchers bill, but the tools developed in GWOT and refined in theplot against President Trump,the Canadian Trucker Protest, and now Russia will be directed against people like us who object to living under the diktats of GloboHomo. They will run headlong to secure the borders of Ukraine or Taiwan or rather, send others to do so, yet when it comes to doing something about those who have declared war on us here at home, suddenly their martial vigor fails them and they sit like good little school boys awaiting instruction from their teacher. They let their enemies tell them who they should fight, then wonder why they always seem to lose. Charlie Brown had more self-awareness. In a way, I suspect it must be a bit of a relief for some. Having a faraway spectacle elsewhere offers a distraction from just how corrupt the ruling class is here and dulls the messy responsibility of having to do something about it..
I am in no way a fan of the Iranian Mullahs, but maybe they saw something in our Gubmint long ago that We The People didnt.
Looks like its going to be a cold war in Europe when people dont get Russian gas, if Putin doesnt get paid. No gas for free after the great forex reserves heist.
The arm movement wasnt. It was a raindrop on the windshield. Not sure about the mirror guy. Regardless, anyone dead in Bucha was killed four days after the Mayor happily announced that the Russians were gone, and curiously made zero mention of any killings. Any dead were either Pallywood extras, or noncombatant civilians killed by Ukraine. Still, the arm movement was definitely a raindrop.
So it will be YEARS of untraceable gifts to Ukraine. The embezzlement funnel must continue! How many more $$ hundreds of millions will to go Ukraine? Wait  they just need another video feed from Zelensky and there will be approval. Anybody falling for this scam should just buy land southeast of Miami.
The Russians will just destroy new US arms shipments or commandeer them. Ca-ching for the arms industry!
Russian President Putin knows the only group he could negotiate with are in the United States. However, that truth would expose the puppet strings, so the United States government must play the pretend game.
Milley wants to set the US Militarys new record for longest war that is currently held by the US Militarys Disaster in Afcraper. It will be called Pain in Ukraine.
number 5  Poland cannot continue to support refugees of this magnitude. Its only a matter of time when the money dries up and poland decided to get very vocal to the EU about introducting forcibly a negotiated settlements such that these refugees are returned back to their state origin.
But the reality is that in spite of relatively high costs of this war, Russia has about a 500:1 weapons and personnel advantage. Thats 1.
I would not trust anything that Miley is saying. He is a part of the corrupt swamp that was involved in the pay for play globalist schemes in Ukraine, the surrender of Afghanistan and the arming of the Taliban, Al Qaeda. While it is painful to watch a thug take parts of Ukraine and see so many innocents harmed and killed, the same thug has punched the immoral globalists right in the nose who are now fleecing America and seeking to take away our constitutional rights like freedom of speech, press,  religion.
In short, the federal reserve system is hanging by a thread. The debt bomb could explode at any time into a full blown depression. We wont have the labor or the capital to run a supply chain to Ukraine. Not while our civilian populace starves in bread lines.
The US is facing stagflation. Add in a major death wave of working age adults due to the vaccines. Russia has stabilized its currency by tying it to gold and energy, making the ruble a better long term bet right now than a federal reserve note.
The division between the two interests Pentagon vs State Dept surfaces most quickly and easily when things SNAFU, and the blame casting begins. Thats when the division becomes noticeable to the public. The important point to remember is this despite the involvement of NATO in the current Ukraine response, it is not the Pentagon calling the shots, its the state dept.
That fact was confirmed the next day by the mayor of Bucha. In his video of March 31 Anatoly Fedoruk presented the withdrawal of Russian forces as a victory of Ukrainian Army. Interestingly, he had not mentioned any mass atrocities, dead bodies, killings, graves or anything like that. It is hard to imagine that a city mayor can forget to address such a devastating scenario.
The Western Europeans can enjoy their Glowbull Warming. Remember when they laughed at President Trump when he warned them about their dependence on Russian gas and pipelines?
Of course it will be protracted, the industrial military complex and the politicians demand it . . . The CIA has been a problem since their inception, remember Benghazi was buried a month before Barracks second term election. They repeated history with hunters laptop to get rid of Trump and the American people were to stupid to read the tea leaves. Sure do miss those mean tweets . . .
Every time I see this picture, I envision my beloved veteran daddy spinning in his grave.
JK  Ill be on the radio tomorrow talking about the corruption of our leaders, and the madness of government mobs.
This will not help Sloppy Joe in the upcoming election regardless. Whatever the motive another Industrial Complex revenue stream, or, a strategic realignment of European influence via new military bases, all will be swept away with a new R President in 2024
5- better get Trump back yesterday  meaning  who else can fix this shit !
Why would we want a protracted war with a million or so Ukrainians killed? I guess an answer out of the way back machine would be, why did we want a years long incredibly deadly war between Iraq and Iran over the Shat-al-abab waterway? Undoubtedly we could have influenced a quicker settlement and spared maybe a half million of the million dead by not keeping Saddam in weapons! But our military suppliers made out great! Why worry about casualties when theres money to be made. Milley today is just maneuvering for a high paying job, or several slots on defense company boards. Why try to effect a quick peace or solution when so many dollars are sloshing around. For Milley and Austin its like green rage!
Russia can tell the west to go pack sand and continue this war if they dont get what they want.
Are these the same military people that advised FJB to pull all the troops out of Afghanistan deserting the US citizens and handing over new tools of war for the Taliban  and this Congress is taking this mans word for how things are going to go?
Id say thats about right. Theres a bloodlust running like a current through those identifying with the party that was clearly stoked in them by the Managerial Class. I swear, you cant swing a dead cat without hitting three freshly activated Manchurian Candidates ready to put their war-boner on the world. I am convinced it is demonic. Yesterday at my Normie-Job I heard an 80-something year old woman read aloud an article about how a cruise line would no longer offer stops in St. Petersberg, and would cost the Russian people there millions of dollars in lost revenue. She was almost gloating about the prospect of the impoverishment of those affected. A week ago she was deathly afraid of Covid and lamenting a friends refusal to take the vaccine. From what I understand, she was a former school teacher.
As bad as that is, it troubles me even more to see it from officials ostensibly on our side of the aisle. A schizophrenic coalition representing the Grift-Industrial Complex with a crooked-ass elderly dementia patient for a spokesman has been rolling into a midterm election season with low approval ratings due to their sheer incompetence and corruption, and no sooner than they call for blood against foreigners, RINOs fall in line with them, ready to snatch a defeat from the jaws of victory like the Jobronis they are.
The position of Volodymyr Zelenskyy as a puppet to the U.S. State Dept and Intelligence Community interests, is inherent in the Pentagon position. If Zelenskyy was free to make decisions, Austin and Milley could not be so assured as to put a timeline on the Ukraine conflict.
Russia in return will likely offer into this settlement guarantees that it will not dump cheap oil and gas. again. in the future
number 7  the US foreign policy and militarism is viewed toxicly by all member states in the EU up to and including NATO. There will be no article 5 invoked. There is only the toxic memory of the USG attempting to manipulate poland and other states to get involved directly in an attempt to trigger article 5. That was a failure and EU states have noticed the corrupt underhanded way that the USG has behaved during this crisis.
not everything on the ground, with arms, weapons, and casualties provide the reality of the outcome and state of this crisis. This one is quite complex and very far reaching.
number 3 is that ukraine finds itself in an impossible situation, where more massive losses of life will eventually catch up in the minds of the troops, volunteers, mercenaries, and then to military leadership. This will happen quite soon. It will become apparent that they can no longer lead troops to defend against an overwhelming force.
The evil just wont give in, no country can war for long without a strong economy.
Just another proxy war in the spirit of Viet Nam  how many decades will this one play out before the whole thing collapses?
On March 30, following another round of talks in Ankara, Russian Ministry of Defense announced the withdrawal of forces from a number of regions, including Bucha.
Interesting this comes from a British ex-General when we consider that the UK, US, and Russia are all permanent members of the UN Security Counsel, along with France and China. If that counsel was worth anything this whole mess would never have started.
Not only is our Occupation Government now staging transparently Fake War Crimes with Zelensky, but the dead were likely people deemed to be Russian collaborators and executed by the Ukrainian National Police.
I dont mind downsizing the military. Now if only we could downsize the entire us government
This context becomes increasingly important as we look at how the media are positioning all resources to support a protracted war. Anyone who is not 100 pro war in Ukraine, for whatever length of time the DoSIC determine is needed, is immediately cast as a Putin apologist.
Alex1689, I think you have summarized things perfectly. The west is in real trouble and will not be able to continue their support of the Ukrops for the time period Malley suggests. Far from it.
Trust me, you dont need social media, html, not even DNS to communicate over the Internet, just a little bit of encryption and you are set.
