March 5th  2022 Presidential Politics  Resistance Day 410
20220305
https://theconservativetreehouse.com/blog/2022/03/05/march-5th-2022-presidential-politics-resistance-day-410/comment-page-3/
The rich , fat , stupid propaganda ladies of The View , will now tell soccer moms how this is a good thing , and their  patriotic DUTY  to pay more for everything .. the backlash of common sense will be epic !
Everything Clinton is fraud and terrorism and treason. From the un-audited Clinton Fraudation to the treason of giving her a security clearance.
Russian star soprano wont repudiate support for Vladimir Putin. Now shes gone from NY Metropolitan Opera  and Ukrainian singer is replacing her.
Not defending the Ukraine or the burning of Atlanta but when a nation is in revolt this is what is generally done.
Western air forces are trained for lots of aircraft in the air, precise on time coordinated targeting, and integrated sensor data. They also have had lots of live practical experience in recent decades.
elected.hope they find no one is betting on them. Maybe then they would get the hint that they are so last decade!
It says Russian pilots for top performance aircraft craft average about half the annual flight hours of American and other Western nation pilots. Ie., they lack training experience.
Putin will not give back what he conquered . He wants control over all of the Ukraine with a puppet government like Belorus.
Maybe that is because all we hear is lying anti-Russian propaganda. Kind of like listening to Baghdad Bob tell you where Sadams troops are beating the Americans. The victories just keep getting closer and closer to Baghdad. It just doesnt make sense.
Today, police hand protesters a piece of paper that says the flag that theyre carrying is offensive and must leave.
A city in Ontario already tried to make a home owner take it down or be fined.. home owner fought in court and won!
Nulands husband is Robert Kagan who was one of the architects of the Iraq war and was also involved in the Project for a New American Century, a neocon think tank calling for a new pearl harbor so the US has a reason to take down countries.
That does not surprise me at all about Fox. I knew something was up. Every host except Tucker and every guest would constantly praise the vaccines, even at times where it didnt fit the story. It came across as phony and contrived.
Real interest rate on savings is now -7.5 due to inflation and a near zero interest rate.
and I read that the ones in Ukraine are using DNA to target Slavs, and are using Slav test subjects
Not a bad list but water for Crimea isnt in there. It is an issue and should be on the list.
President Putin isnt waiting for Tony Fauci and Beijing Biden to explain themselves this time.His boys are saddled up and riding south like his predecessors did against the Khazarians in 1200 A.D.
IF KAZAKHSTAN IS THE NEW WORLD ORDERS HQ  AS ALLEGED  WHY IS THE US FUNDING THIS?
Names, objectives, and methods are all spelled out without any attempt at hiding because it is all done under the mandate of SCIENCE. This is the ultimate Alinsky word shift. Leftist ideology is just science. Opposition to leftist politics is opposition to science. Just remember none other than Fauci himself saying exactly this.
Got my first car in 1962, an old Chevy Bel Air that me and my buddies fine tuned for street racing. This was in LA, and gas was 12 cents a gallon, but there were frequent gas wars. Football on Friday nights in the fall, and cruising on Hawthorne or Van Nuys Blvd. on Saturday nights. The Beachboys I Get Around and Be True to Your School were our national anthem. Got my first full-time job that summer  75 cents an hour less withholding and social security. So, it cost me about 20 minutes on the loading dock to earn enough to cruise for hours. As you say, great times!
But I tell you this: We will not go gently into that bloody collectivist good night. Indeed, we will make with our defiance such a sound as ALL history from that day forward will be forced to note, even if they despise us in the writing of it.
As my husband was filling up, I took out my phone and started filming. Then started narrating with the phrase welcome to Joe Bidens America.
Keep a close eye on diesel prices. Every increase here is going to show up at the stores. This is where the suburban soccer mom is going to get hammered.
So, Russia has hundreds of decent advanced aircraft and advanced munitions probably not in quantity but not the pilots or operational doctrine or experience to effectively employ their expensive machines.
VanguardN.W.O.-controlled U.S. media is mum, but Russian media highlighted claims that the US-funded facility near Almaty was compromised, resulting in a possible leak of dangerous pathogens.
I can not imagine what a paycheck to paycheck family is going to do in these circumstances. I do not recall it ever being this costly for the basics.
So sad that none of todays or recent yesterdays kids will ever experience what was my favorite Friday night when 4 of us would get together, each chip in 50 cents gas was 25 cents a gallon then. Wed pile in one care and cruise forever. Great times!
In the first few days of the war I saw little mention of Russian air activity, particularly by their 300 or so most advanced combat aircraft. This was odd, if you wanted to quickly control the air to support shock and awe rapid ground advances, which did not happen either.
Russia has its security demands met and the cabal keeps their  grifting feedbag, ..looks like a win-win.
"On the very first day the protesters rolled into town, anyone without blinkers on would have realized that the political establishment was so disconnected from reality that they completely missed the magnitude and scope of what was to unfold." https:t.coRYvA9aJHfC
Shes been reporting on the Donbas region and attacks by the Ukrainian government for years. Did a documentary on it several years ago.
Check out the streamer I posted above your post, Stan, later today hell be covering, among other things, the rally tonight and, since hes driving a big rig in the convoy, hell have the latest on tomorrows plans for any move to the D.C. area. That may not occur until the drivers meeting tomorrow morning but could happen tonight.
4 Number of minutes worked daily to pay for self-drive commute, expressed in dollar increments from $3 to $12gallon.
This is important. Don't let JustinTrudeau, fordnation  Public Health stumble out of restrictions, claiming they "saved lives". Don't let them justify the methods used. Censorship, manipulation, segregation etc. must never be used against Canadians. onpoli cdnpoli pic.twitter.com3JOJRQVXOq
Dr Hoffes Video Rumble is linked below. Dr Hoffe is a doctor in Lytton BC and was one of the first doctors to talk about blood clots caused by the COVID vaccines.
But you are a conspiracy nut to just repeat what they have been saying for decades.
Bryce is telling it like it is re: UkraineRussia and that he will not fight a war started by our politicians.
If Putin gets southeastern Ukraine, Crimea will be safe. Didnt he take the canal and the dam used to block it? He wont give them up easily.
I weep over the destruction of some of the most beautiful cities. Kiev is a jewel with vast park lands and Odessa is incredibly beautiful especially the opera house.
Bill Clinton just announced the Clinton Global Initiative is coming back online and that is all the confirmation we need that Hillary is running
I dont know about anyone else, but I am already tired of my government releasing viruses on the population to steal elections and remove personal freedoms.
Covid is present nearly everywhere on earth. The only remaining justification for international travel restrictions departure  arrival testing, vax requirements, etc. is public health's xenophobia. https:t.co2nlCwyAj3V
The subversives and perverts who stole our National government want every one paralyzed with fear.
IMF requires their payments be made by member countrys in gold. 25 of annual dues
WOW! One of his finest! I would be crying tears of laughter if the subject matter were not so frighteningly evil and true! Im sending this to all I know so that they can finally learn about DavosWEFGreat Reset in this very easy to understand, clear explanation.
Also, the Russian Air Force does not run exercises with many high performance aircraft. In Syria, and now Ukraine, there are few air sorties  usually limited to only one or two aircraft, or perhaps two fighters and two ground attack planes. They have nothing like the USAF Red Flag large, realistic combat exercises.
I can imagine a scenario where the military budget has been flushed into peoples pockets and then their lies to Putin have to be backed up. That might explain why armies are parked on highways for days as sitting ducks. Or why there are so few flights.
You dont think they would nuke us back? Why would you ever think thats going to solve the problems. Well, I guess it would, because humans everywhere would be dead. Nuking anything is definitely a very bad solution.
The world ends either in a nuclear war holocaust or from bio weapons no one can control. In either case, The Bible foretold so this. Essentially mankind seeks the same power as God, goes too far, God restores order. It is glorious for believers, hideous for all who go through it.
When things arent making sense, then it is likely that we are lacking the point of view that is driving those things.
Compared to 76 of the population who supported the Ukrainians, only 10 expressed support for the Russian side. Politically, 90 of people who identified as left-wing supported Ukraine compared to 68 of right-wing voters.
Nothing to see here , just a train full of tanks rolling over Hwy. 401 Toronto
Cant have people questioning authority and doing things that are not sanctioned like breakaway republics and trucker convoys.
Q- what fools would put 11 bioweapons labs in such an unstable region? A- Obama, biden, Soros, Gates and Schwab https:www.veteranstoday.com20220224us-bioweapons-labs-in-ukraine-what-will-russia-find-in-the-labs
I wonder how JoeBama is taking this? It is supposed to be their secondfourth term after all.
Just stick Joe on an oversized mouse exercise wheel and tell him he is in the loop.
But they dont talk about it on the MSM, so it must be conspiracy theory.
Paris now, just across the channel. No MSM coverage. Why? Well, we know why.  pic.twitter.comLWgchxbWTq
Yup. The second thing will be to collect all the campaign experts on her payroll at the Foundation. Cant have a throng of competitors if she wants to win.
Hes assembled some key documents, depositions, FOIA docs, Indictments, 302s, at Link Tree. Very clean.
Whites, males, conservatives, gun owners become second class criminals. No bail for us. Straight to jail.
This is no small thing, to restore a republic after it has fallen into corruption. I have studied history for years and I cannot recall it ever happening. It may be that our task is impossible. Yet, if we do not try then how will we know it cant be done? And if we do not try, it most certainly wont be done. The Founders Republic, and the larger war for western civilization, will be lost.
I chalked this up to the Ukrainians having many Stingers and other ground launched anti-aircraft missiles, an apparently effective deterrence.
CLEARLY IN ON THE PLOT, BILL GATES SAYS YET ANOTHER PANDEMIC IS COMING. IT WILL BE A DIFFERENT PATHOGEN NEXT TIME.
Paid $5 Thursday in Honolulu, probably higher today. Bread up to 8 a loaf in some places
So.. The issue is the things that must be done, NO ONE has had to them in our lifetime.
That is why the patriots pause, that is why the evil ones feel emboldened, because we have pause.
Hell likely take a shot at some other territory before our nations woefully craven thieves who stole our national government are out of power.
STILL UNCERTAIN IF REVOLT IS BY OR AGAINST GLOBALISTS N.W.O.  BUT LOOK AT THIS!
I think Fox has been dirty for quite a while. My first big clue is when YouTube included Fox as a trusted new source when they were removing Q channels and demoting other alternative news sourcesand when you searched for something you would only get pages and pages of MSMincluding Fox.
The Russians have released the surveillance video of Brittney Griner being arrested at the airport. Apparently the WNBA and US Government has known Griner has been detained for 3 weeks by the Russians and chose to kept that to themselves https:t.coPz0kMl1HSS pic.twitter.com1vK5sRkA8h
Hes respected by some other key Sleuths  Mccabes Porsche on Blocks, FOOL NELSON, attorney Margo Cleveland and others.
OMG  OMG  Journalist and war correspondent Anne  Laure Bonnell , who is in Ukraine  shocks the followers I am not a party and i do not defend Putin , but the truth is, i am close to civilians ,what i say is that the Ukrainian army is bombing its own people in Dumbas region
Dont consider this legal advice. Its worth doing a proper legal analysis on this, but Id be willing to bet that s. 2b of the Charter DOES indeed protect the right to waive an FCK TRUDEAU flag on Parliament Hill. Ill invite corrections if Im wrong.
Ukraine and the US Have One Thing In Common  ObamaBiden Ran a Coup in Both Nations
Its people like Ive seen on the overpasses, driving the trucks, riding in the cars and first responders and LEOs working to support these groups and keep everyone safe that keeps my finger off the trigger. They are the life raft. Our diplomats in a sea of corruption, narcissism, greed and avarice. They may not be able to save us but they can inspire us to save our selves. God look after them and their families and this great Republic.
Financial repression is most successful in liquidating debt when accompanied by inflation. For the advanced economies, real interest rates were negative  of the time during 19451980. Average annual interest expense savings for a 12-country sample range from about 1 to 5 percent of GDP for the full 19451980 period. We suggest that, once again, financial repression may be part of the toolkit deployed to cope with the most recent surge in public debt in advanced economies.
Ill provide a sample video of IMO the most popular live streamer there, Stan, an old-time trucker who brought his rig out of winter mothballs in Texas to join the group. As I post this link hes been streaming for a couple hours and has nearly 8,000 people watching.
Russians simply lack the operational experience and Pilot capability to conduct large scale air operations. I suspect their computer integration and processing of data from multiple sources is also pretty woeful.
Are we there yet? No one knows the day or time. But whats happening now is far closer to the end than any other moment in global history.
For young people working their first jobs, or anyone working for minimum wage, this number can balloon fast. During the Carter years, a lot of us had to make sacrifices to offset this level of inflation. Going out to eat, or going to the movies, became a luxury either given up completely or downsized.
Our regular readers will remember that it was actually President George H.W. Bush who first went all-in with the Globalist Mafia and their New World Order on September 11, 1991  about a decade before another 9-11  which I for one, wholly attribute to the same bastards and Bushs son.
Fox News  Newsmax Took Biden Money To Push Deadly COVID Vaccines To Its Viewers.
UKRAINE FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS IF NATO DOES NOT ESTABLISH NO FLY ZONE, IT IS BECAUSE IT IS NOT STRONG ENOUGH
This morning we have a largely unrepresented group of truckers and citizens trekking from Washington state to Washington D.C., currently in or around Madison WI. Ill share a brief video posted to Facebook from this morning. That same couple, unclear if theyre part of the organizers but I believe they are, has a Youtube channel as well so Ill get that message out
An article on RUSI.org about the the Russian air forces limited activity in Ukraine air space may explain another, excellent reason. RUSI is apparently a British outfit, the R stands for Royal.
So, a no fly zone probably would have little effect on Russian ground operations that are already getting precious little air support.
The elites will find out what its like to get between a mama bear and her hungry cubs.
The Lugar Center is the Pentagon bio laboratory in Georgia. It is located just 17 km away from the US Vaziani military airbase in the capital Tbilisi. Tasked with the military program are biologists from the US Army Medical Research Unit-Georgia USAMRU-G along with private contractors. The Bio-safety Level 3 Laboratory is accessible only to US citizens with security clearance. They are accorded diplomatic immunity under the 2002 US-Georgia Agreement on defense cooperation.
Ive seen posts here about the power grids? I happened to be at a kids birthday party today and one of the women there said her husband works for the Federal Government and said that they are talking about shutting down the power grid in April or May. To cause more fear and chaos.
That could swing a number of ways. There are millions who work in infrastructure and who know its strengths and vulnerabilities in adverse action. Our commitment to peace is what preserves the American way and the comforts we take for granted. That is in no way sacrosanct.
He may have hoped all Ukraine would collapse into to lap, but the East was his main goal.
As recently as 2018, reports leaked that this particular US-funded bioweapons lab had developed a new strain of meningitis, according to the Daily Mail article cited above, which puts a whole new wheel on this wagon.
Biowarfare scientists using diplomatic cover test man-made viruses at Pentagon bio laboratories in 25 countries across the world. These US bio-laboratories are funded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency DTRA under a $ 2.1 billion military program Cooperative Biological Engagement Program CBEP and are located in former Soviet Union countries such as Georgia and Ukraine, the Middle East, South East Asia, and Africa.
In a 15-day span, the Ottawa Police Service lost its chief and every member of its oversight board, a situation that police observers said they had never seen at a major metropolitan police force. https:t.co8wTVc7JsbE
I posted a reply to another message earlier today that talked about Russia removing 20 VAT on retail banking cutomers buying gold from Russian banks. I believe Putin has been building his reserves these past 5 years and has about 10 trillion dollars of Gold on hand. His response to sanctions has been to suspend payment to foreign owners of Russian Treasuries and instruct Russian corps to suspend dividends. Here is an article on where I think this is heading and the Ruble will quickly become a dominant currency in the world.
Im pretty sure at this point anyone that watches those demon infested ugly old bags pretty much deserves whats coming for them.
Got that?US-funded  and its yet another bio-weapons lab! How stupid are Dr. Anthony Fauci and the U.S. Department of Defence?
Gasoline report, northern suburbs of the Twin Cities. All stations in my neighborhood increased prices for 87 a minimum of 20 centsgallon overnight now $3.76 to $3.85. Four stations went up an additional 6 cents between 9 and 11 this morning. Several stations have stopped posting prices altogether.
They are raising money playing the Vegas odds as the world hedges their bets on if a D or an R gets
Does every small town get a biolab? Assuming China had a few before, how many do they need? If they let the biolabs have a drive through and a kitchen they could be self supporting by selling fast food? The Golden Hypos?
RyanM58699717 is a lightly followed Internet Sleuth who is tracking and investigating Russiagate  John Durham.
The long lines, the high prices. It was so obvious, just had to get it out there.
Financial repression is a term that describes measures by which governments channel funds from the private sector to themselves as a form of debt reduction. The overall policy actions result in the government being able to borrow at extremely low interest rates, obtaining low-cost funding for government expenditures.
On the other hand, Russia has not shown such incompetence before, so that really isnt likely this time. But I just cant put what we hear into a sensible frame.
Were not even over their criminal collaboration with the CCP to unleash a virus that more or less halted the globe for two years  and now we learn that this evil little White House Elf, Fauci, prepped Klaus Schwab and his Globalists with the tools to kill off the rest of us when they take over?
Would love to see her commit suicide with two shots to the back of the head.
I cant imagine what its gong to be like in Honolulu my kiddo already spends a fortune on grocery and eats like a bird
Some 76 of Israelis support Ukraine, according to a survey conducted by Shlomo Filber and Tzuriel Sharon of Direct Polls
North Central Alabama. 3.99. Except Costco 3.50. Lines were very long, similar to when a Hurricane or Tornado might disrupt the gasoline supply.
Found this very interesting. A long read but striking coming from this particular source, whom Ive never heard of:
The IMF working paper on the Liquidation of Government Debt was first introduced in 2011, and then updated in 2015. This details how governments can use financial repression tools to ease their own debt burdens by transferring it to their citizens. Tools such as zero interest rates, price controls and capital controls. All in an effort to transfer the wealth of individuals to the state.
In 2014 a leaked audio clip revealed US government officials choosing the new Ukrainian government after the US-backed coup in Kiev that year which installed a puppet regime.
Went to the local grocery store today, the roads were deadI did no stop for gas, just could not fathom paying $4.09gal.
Whats their plan once they enter the Beltway? My understanding is they are not going into D.C. proper.
Looks like that time ABC news reported on the Syria invasion of . Kentucky !
Corporate news outlets did not disclose the money they took to push dangerous drugs to their conservative audience
I just read that I am on her mailing list. Disgusting, all of it probably getting money now to promote spending billions on Ukraine. We have no legitimate media now.
Keep an eye on Americas collective personal indebtedness. I suspect that this number will jump dramatically this year.
Went into the store, seemed much of the store prices climbed dramatically. Decided to hit my reserves already at home, just bought exactly what I needed, not a penny more.
Its only a minute and 10 seconds, so please listen to it so you know. Link
The answer you are looking for is financial. The American approach to war is to turn everything into rubble, install a puppet regime, and then spend US taxpayer dollars by the trillions to rebuild the rubble. Putin does not have this option. If he turns a Ukrainian city into a latter day East Berlin, he will not be able to rebuild it. Since he intends to partition Ukraine at the Dnieper, he will go to great lengths to avoid destroying cities east of the river. These will be the centers of pro-Russian client states, andor zones directly incorporated into Russia proper.
Propaganda and focus has shifted to Ukraine so Ill provide an alternative, the fringe minority that is still focused on the domestic strife which average Americans face. Thats a sarcastic phrase theyre using, fringe minority, and it plays pretty well.
Theyre at serious risk of hyperimmune response If you allow mandates to happen, youre allowing children to die.
US Government paid $1BILLION in US Taxpayer Dollars to Mainstream Media for promoting COVID narrative
Linked text about big data surveillance including Rodney Joffe, the DOD, and a Microsoft big wig techie.
Until I see a copy the notice police are handing out, I couldnt give proper and complete legal advice on this, so this is not a suggestion but if anybody defies this request and is charged with anything, the first person who brings me such a summons Ill represent pro bono. https:t.coBKWiKJ4rmr
Oh, and dont think Canada is done yet either. There are protestors in front of Parliament as I write this, signs plastered everywhere and a march planned for later today. Free the Prisoners. Their version of our J6 political prisoners. Thank you Canadians. You are an inspiration. Good day to Treepers and have a great weekend!
Fox News  Newsmax Took Biden Money To Push Deadly COVID Vaccines To Its Viewers
This, coupled with the US and NATO surrounding Russia and breaking the Minsk agreement by flooding arms to the Donbas, led to the war were seeing today.
The main convoy congregation is now camped in Hagerstown, MD at a race track there and will be having a big rally tonight and my understanding is they will be moving to a venue within minutes of the D.C. beltway tomorrow. This is of course subject to change and update. Very fluid situation. Very large group, thousands of people and hundreds of trucks.
Credit cards were still in their infancy during the Nixon-Carter years, when most of us paid for routine purchases with cash or personal check. Not so today.
While I take because the Russians arent really capable as a possibility, then invading doesnt make sense.
After meeting Putin, Israeli Prime Minister Bennett is currently on his way from Moscow to Berlin, where he will meet with German Chancellor OlafScholz
There are a lot of things like this that dont make sense in this invasion.
The audio recording depicts Victoria Nuland, who was Dick Cheneys foreign policy adviser. She is back in the same position today.
If you answered yes to both these questions, but were born and raised in the US after 1965, then you have yet to experience what is coming at you in the next 90 days. Heres a set of variables that you can tailor to your individual situation:
OhLindsey Graham, John McCain visiting AZOV Battalion  Ukrainian troops in Dec of 2016.Why?Because planned on attacking Russia in a Syria 2.0 type Proxy WarYour fight is our fight, 2017 will be the year of OFFENSE.Trump stopped it. The Elite Restarted it Putin knows this pic.twitter.comZ8Td2g0srd
This action also results in savers earning rates less than the rate of inflation and is therefore repressive. The concept was first introduced in 1973 by Stanford economists Edward S. Shaw and Ronald I. McKinnon to disparage government policies that suppressed economic growth in emerging markets.
Open, one-sided war has been waged against peoples of the West by our own governments for over 2 years now
Paid $4.24 per gallon yesterday in the cheapest gas station in my area  central AZ.
Kazakhstan denies military laboratory was seized by rioters after Russia claimed a possible pathogen leak occurred at controversial facility Daily Mail Jan. 9, 2022
STILL UNCERTAIN IF REVOLT IS BY OR AGAINST GLOBALISTS N.W.O.  BUT LOOK AT THIS! VanguardN.W.O.-controlled U.S. media is mum, but Russian media highlighted claims that the US-funded facility near Almaty was compromised, resulting in a possible leak of dangerous pathogens.Got that?US-funded  and its yet another bio-weapons lab! How stupid are Dr.  Continue reading
