Op Ed DC Foreign Policy Crowd Demands More Weapons and Money for Ukraine US Southern Border Not So Much
20220820
https://theconservativetreehouse.com/blog/2022/08/19/op-ed-dc-foreign-policy-crowd-demands-more-weapons-and-money-for-ukraine-u-s-southern-border-not-so-much/
This was a weapon used recently against the Zap nuclear power plant. Looking at the part number and description, does it look like Russian manufacturing? Or does it look like a western country manufacturing label? pic.twitter.comEu1r9ONHOJ
Hes working on it, Matt. $500,000 for a fence around his Delaware beach property. Gotta start somewhere
As one Treeper here commented a while backI cant believe its Monkey Pox Season already, and I still have my Ukrainian decorations still up.
Im not a Gonzalo fan since the video he made spewing hate on all Americans. Was starting to have doubts when he trashed Scott Ritter shortly before. Gonzalo is too emotional and too ready to heap piles of hate. I like my political analysis to be served chilled like a good martini I can sip and enjoy thoughtfully. Gonzalo just slams you over the head with his bluster. No thanks.
How many BILLIONS have we shoveled at Ukraine? I think its about time that we admitted that its an never ending cesspool and cut our losses. Shelling that nuclear power plant is just about the last straw  why should the Russians shell a power plant that is under their control? No matter how sympathetic the Ukrainian cause seems to be, on the ground it is beginning to look pretty fishy.
FILTHY LIBERALS. I love the extra stupid ones that fly the Uke flag upside down. The Sheep says U Crane. The Sheep says Global Warming, the Sheep says Climate Crisis. Its all WEF Sheepshit
If this administration doesnt STOP giving them MORE and MORE everytime they dont have enough cream in their coffeemy quote, This country is DEFINITELY going to lose more of our strength! I say ENOUGH AND NO MORE!!! THEYRE FREE-LOADERS TAKING ADVANTAGE!!
For Ukraine to perform acts of sabotage in Crimea, and perhaps to shoot rockets at Crimea and the Kerch Strait Bridge with the visible aid of the US, will poke the Russian bear to defend its people and infrastructure.
Imagine a world where there are no proxy wars. This clown from the Ukraine has been extorting money from the same group of clowns he has always laundered money for. I would guess he hasnt even gotten his feet wet in that Swamp, yet. I think the theft of the peoples money will reach a trillion dollars before any of the elected bozos in our Goobermint even wonder what has been done with all of that money.
Doesnt that paragraph basically say Biden hasnt been doing enough to produce good propaganda to keep the public interested?
The signatories to the op-ed are a murderers row of Globalist ideologues. In their view, America is a proposition nation and the proposition is as follows: We know best how you should live. We know better than you yourself do. And if you resist us, we will destroy you.
Could the Feds be sued? Maybe with their permission. I believe you are required to request permission before filing suit against the federal government. If California, Arizona and New Mexico would get off their asses and support Texas on the border it might help. From what I see Texas is pretty much fighting the battle themselves.
So, could, perhaps, a nuclear catastrophe be created to blame on Russia to agitate the masses to want war?
Now St. Zelenskyy wants to blow up the nuke plant in the southern part of the country, potentially irradiating a sizeable amount of Europe in the case of a meltdown. We are not dealing serious people here.
Today saw this headline  the US buying Ukraine grain to ship to hungry regions of the world  150,000 metric tons, $68 million.
Guess its too much to expect our current resident would focus on getting baby formula into the stores or was that job given to his VP too?
They envision the return to Ukrainian control of all territories seized since Feb. 24 and, ultimately, the lands stolen in 2014, including Crimea. And they are willing to fight to the very last Ukrainian to achieve this goal. Their vision is pure fantasy, like most Globalist visions.
This is good. Let Brandon send them more money and bring on some more vax mandates while you are at it. Anything that potentially disturbs the grazing animals I strongly support. The sheep need to be disrupted plain and simple and its best done by TPTB.
These are dangerous moves because Russia considers Crimea Russian territory since the 2014 referendum in Crimea to be part of Russia. And the Crimean bridge is a red line for Russia.
These are the same people who think the following are good things for the US: Green Masochism, open borders, LGBT-grooming for school children, elimination of 1A, 2A and 10A Rights, and the rest of the woke agenda. Of course all this is creating chaos in the US, and these Globalists want to impose the same regime and create the same chaos in the rest of the globe.
Why would shards of artillery debris recovered from this nuclear power plant be written in English? https:t.con0uSk1qG69
Yes, the people of Crimea voted to be a part of Russia. It is their will, their decision.
Well, we know 10 goes to the Big Guy! Probably nothing gets to the soldiers or Military, not after the elites take their slice.
I am. Read The Putin Interviews by Oliver Stone  who is a liberal being actively canceled btw. Definitely changed my opinion towards Putin and Russia and made a whole heck of a lot of sense about whats going on in this Ukranian Hollywood War.
If illegals can enter the US unimpeded why cant Russians enter the Ukraine unimpeded? sarc
Something like, say, Ukraine blowing up a nuclear power station with American weapons and surely at American direction then blaming it on Russia?
How much of this money is being kicked back to our elected officials and their kids?
This is nothing more than a raid of the American taxpayer to fund the scumbags like pelosi, schumer obozo the bidens etc etc. They know that this is their last shot at stealing our money thru phony foreign aid programs.
And  still  nobody is asking the little comedian how much of our money he has tucked away in foreign bank accounts.
Just an update. Politico has reported that the US plans to approve the use of US weapons against Crimea. The sabotage or drone attacks have not been more than pinpricks, but if we approve the use of HIMARS missiles with the 300 km range to attack Crimea, it is definitely upping the ante.
Ukraine is still the most corrupt country in Europe. All that money thats going out is being laundered right back in. And, those weapons are being sold on the black market. How long will it be before one of those missiles is used to shoot down a civilian aircraft or three?
The crew of the op ed are the veritable whos who of the interventionists.including the same crew involved in the Trump impeachment. Shall we guess some of the names? GW Bush, Dick Chaney, Carl Rove. By the way this same crew donated over 1 million dollars to the re-election of Lizzy Chaney. That was money flushed down the toilet.
Seems they are trying to turn the US into Ukraine. The big guy is good at creating chaos and disasters.
As long as its an immigration issue the Federal Government is in charge per the Constitution. I dont have my copy handy but one clause states Congress shall make laws governing immigration and citizenship. My verbiage may not be exact.
I dont get it, theres less diversity in Ukraine than America. The DemoNazi Party needs to divert this illegal invaders of our country and ship them to Ukraine!
Man, what a crock that Hill piece is and those who signed this garbage are neocons squared. This conflict was created by a US- led NATO that had to push east to Russias borders. I am ashamed of the behavior of the west in this war and I think most Americans are finally waking up to the real facts.
The sad legacy of neocons and liberal chickenhawks is that they never ever admit when they are wrong. With every foreign policy blunder, they just move on to another one. The collapse of Afghanistan is all but a distant memory to them. Its hard to believe that people get their sons and daughters thrown into this meat grinder to appease the objectives of these psychopaths.
Exactly, We will be paying for them until we are totally replaced by them. And that is exactly their plan.
Screw the DemoNazi Party. They need to be relegated to the dustbin of history. This malevolent organization needs to be no more.
It galls me that at church, they pray for Ukraine. Theres been a war inside Ukraine for decades. Anyone praying for Putin and his people?
The signatories of the op-ed are a veritable whos who of U.S. foreign policy intervention, including the same crew involved in the first Trump impeachment effort.
Why would the Russians shell a nuclear power plant that they have controlled for months now?
What goes around comes around and this is small potatoes compared to the amount of money the Gang Green will be extorting from the Goobermint over the next couple of years. They have laundered trillions already.
The Atlanticists are looking for someone to blame for their arrogant stupidity. Please, just take your taxpayer pension and go far, far away.
Putin needs to come out and declare that his troops are just migrating to Ukraine, you know like on our Southern border.
In addition, the Finnish company ICEYE is going to give their synthetic aperture radar imaging on the Crimean Bridge to Ukraine through a charity that was set up to help Ukraines military. Article here: https:www.defensedaily.comiceye-contracts-to-dedicate-radar-satellite-for-ukraines-needsspace
Globalists like those who signed the op-ed are pure evil. Russias success in Ukraine is showing the rest of the world that the Globalist West can be successfully resisted.
The Western cabal is desperate to keep this all going, and will continue to foolishly damage, hurt, and provoke.
