Smart Move by Zelensky Puts Date on US Claim of Russian Invasion State Dept Begins Embassy Evacuations in Ukraine
20220216
https://theconservativetreehouse.com/blog/2022/02/14/smart-move-by-zelensky-puts-date-on-u-s-claim-of-russian-invasion-state-dept-begins-embassy-evacuations-in-ukraine/comment-page-3/
As soon as all the corrections which happened to be necessary in any particular number of the Times had been assembled and collated, that number would be reprinted, the original copy destroyed, and the corrected copy placed on the files in its stead. This process of continuation alteration was applied not only to newspapers, but to books, periodicals, pamphlets, posters, leaflets, films, sound tracks, cartoons, photographsto every kind of literature or documentation which might conceivably hold any political or ideological significance. Day by day and almost minute by minute the past was brought up to date. In this way every prediction made by the Party could be shown by documentary evidence to be correct nor was any item of news, or expression of opinion, which conflicted with the needs of the moment, ever allowed to be on record.George Orwell, 1984
Via the State Dept: The US is offering a sovereign loan guarantee to Ukraine of up to $1 billion to support its economic reform agenda and continued engagement with the International Monetary Fund. Its being described as a reaffirmation of US commitment to Ukraines economy pic.twitter.comhSCgxrYNV1
REplies to that tweet show clueless out of touch people talking about who has POWER. All word salad, speaking for the IMF, G7, and other Bilateral donors, now who could that be.
I expect aggressive Russian sorties aimed at the NATO bases surrounding Russia, which are fortified by the US. I expect trigger happy Biden, Obama, Rice, Blinken, Milley, Pelosi could shoot first to insure there is a war, then claim they were threatened. Perhaps the false flag they keep warning about.
8 years. A longer term goal is to free itself from US influence. The main
PS Report just out a few minutes ago is that the Russian forces are returning to their bases. Diplomacy deterence has had a result
Ill go with yes, war. Russia targets NATO bases first. Russia is the 2nd to fire nuclear. If Biden keeps shipping US troops, another 60 tons of ammo to support the 82nd airborne and ships, fighter jets, tanks, he already sent, or strikes once onto Russian soil then Putin enlarges the war to US soil.
Thank goodness we have such a strong President as we do in the great negotiator President Biden. Putin has retreated and the world is safe again!
Mr. Klain has a face I would love to slap the you what out of. And Bidenhe has enough mouth for another row of teeth!
Putin does not have to INVADE. He doesnt want to. He has warned of Nato putting people in and Ukraine trying to become a member. It is the LAST one that matters. If Zelensky tries to move forward and continue to talk getting into Nato.
However, on the positive side. hopefully by the end of this week it will all be over, and we can just watch the national address by Joe Biden and various White House officials, as they proudly declare victory and emphasize how brilliant their foreign policy and diplomacy have been because nothing happened.
were signed by Ukraine, but the details were to be ironed out later. Once the
You may be right, Sundance. The corrupt Deep State Democrats already got away with one big Russia bogeyman hoax with Pres. Trump! Theyve convinced at least half of all Americans that Donald Trump colluded with Vlad Putin to win the 2016 Presidential election with the totally fabricated Russian Collusion Hoax, why not go Russia for $1000, Daily Double, Alex 
15 February, 2022, will go down in history as the day Western war propaganda failed.
Factually, this entire fiasco is a little embarrassing for The United States. Its all made worse by some allied nations going along with the pretense.
Factually, this entire fiasco is a little embarrassing for The United States.Its all made worse by some allied nations going along with the pretense.
Incidentally, the Via Carpatia is the first major northsouth artery to be built in this ares since the Roman Amber route 1800 years earlier.
Excellent analysis by David C. Hendrickson in the National Interest, basically agrees with Sundance, but with fuller historical and political detail. Pull quote:
dont see Russia as a threat  proof- can be seen from German spending on NATO
banner on Fox News Feb 15 3:30pm Eastern, other news services reporting same, saw an article on my phone news feed
In this wag the dog scenario, Ukraine President Vladimir Zelensky is being used as a pawn, as the United States keeps up the pretense. However, in a pretty smart move today, Zelensky tells the world very publicly the Americans have informed him of the exact date of the Russia attack which he knows is never coming.
Both Germany and Russia want to Finlandize the region. Russia needs to gain control back over the Ukraine. Germany needs to gain control over what is called the Three Seas Area. The Three Seas governments Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary plus the smaller ones dont want to let the Germans into the club. Refused to take German funding. Germany fears the rise of a competing block that is outside the Euro Currency. This makes these countries very completive to the Germans whose economic success since 1999 is due to a systematically weak DMark currency inside the Euro  allowing the Germans to asset-strip the entire EU, especially southern Europe.
The crazier they are, the more our sheeple will refuse to believe the obvious and instead prefer their less insane but fake narratives. This technique will be used to submerge the proof of the fraudulent Russia hoax.
 we are in the process of temporarily relocating our Embassy operations in Ukraine from our Embassy in Kyiv to Lviv due to the dramatic acceleration in the buildup of Russian forces. The Embassy will remain engaged with the Ukrainian government, coordinating diplomatic engagement in Ukraine. We are also continuing our intensive diplomatic efforts to deescalate the crisis. link
criminal elite did to President Trump, dial up the volume to 12 and extend it
Funny you should mention ports, StoryTime. The reason Russia is still entangled in the hell-hole known as Syria is related to the only deep water port in the Middle East that Russia has access to, Latakia. Russia needs a naval base in the Middle East 
But back to the story, up to now, this is how the game was playing itself out until the Biden poll number started to tank.
CNN  Russian President Vladimir Putin continues to add to his menu of options with the type of capabilities he has added from the Russian military by land, sea and air, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said during a briefing on Monday.
The brilliant JoeBama will probably get a real Nobel peace prize for his fake war Sabre rattling efforts.
Putin has never said he was planning to invade Ukraine, Putin hasnt used the word invasion. It has been Biden repetitiously using the word invasion. I disagree that Putin will do nothing but exercise Russian troops and go home.
Severely damaging Europes NATO bases would be necessary in order to take Ukraine back and occupy a long time not surrounded by NATO and its ever changing Heads of State every 4 or 6 years.
As soon as Russia completes their military exercises without an invasion of Ukraine, Joe Biden will declare victory.
Last point, do not ignore an important point that Republicans in DC know this is all a performance. They fall into two groups. Group 1 are involved in the pretense, and Group 2 wont call it out because they are fearful of the media portraying them as nuts.
Only destabilizing I see is you Joe, better sit down before your ass is handed to you. Impossible Mission Force. or IMF or the banksters agreed to this. been on the phone with all these people.
You would have better luck with Movie IMF. Putin says sure give him the money. FSB, go get the money
RT is reporting on the loading  start of the withdrawal of Russian forces from the areas adjoining Ukraine, based on their finishing up their long  massive joint exercise with Belarus. Announcements  video:
We already know the baseline fraud from the Joe Biden White House. They have built out an elaborate and fabricated scenario that Russia is going to attack Ukraine. The have used the political control operatives within the IC, Pentagon and State Dept to manufacture their claim. There is no attack planned and there never was. The absence of the attack will be declared a brilliant and strategic victory by the Biden administration. Thats the plan.
So the sides here arent Russia versus the US and its allies i.e. Germany, but rather
Wait a minute! We know that the embassy in Kiev was shredding documents and destroying computers before their departure. Has all of this been a ruse in order to wipe out ANY remaining incriminating evidence in Ukraine?
Next week the Biden team will be on television telling stories about how their strategic geopolitical excellence averted a thermonuclear war that was never coming in the first place. Believe me, tens of millions of Americans will fall for it, because the reality of what took place is just too grand in scale, too bizarre, to fathom.
Putin also has built up his maritime presence. He has added at least half a dozen ships in the Black Sea that are LSTs  or landing ships  which have one purpose, and thats to put troops ashore, Kirby said.
If I were Putin I would wait until Biden and Team take their victory lap and then I would invade.
Antony Blinken Helped U.S. Universities Take CCP Cash, Refused to Help Highest Profile CCP Defector. This jack wad Winken Blinken is a full throttle communist for sure!
Big ChiefPoopNpants will always and forever look like the demented hair sniffing pervert he is. Claiming victory for something that did not happen is as stupid and futile as it sounds, and trying at the same Time to make Putin look WEAK.
It will have to be a short war hes too old to finish a long US type extended war. So yes, nuclear attacks on NATO bases will shorten a war. Russia has 4000 nuclear missiles. Moscow to European NATO nations 5 minutes. Moscow to Wa. DC 9 minutes. Ive watched countless videos of thousands of tanks, planes, helicopters, troop transports, medical equipment. This is not flexing muscles.
Yet another clue as to how a Democrat President could relax sanctions against Putin and Russia, including the Nord Stream pipeline, and get away with it, and also how the Hillary Campaign made sure all the anti-PutinRussia rhetoric of 2016 did not result in any kind of armed conflict. Before they do such things, first someone goes to Moscow, or telephones Putin, and a quid pro quo is reached. Then the Democrats can say all kinds of nasty things about Putin because, once in power, the Democrats will make it worth Putins while to hold no grudges.
Germans want is for the Ukraine to move into the Three Seas sphere and as to prosperity
So it might be a good idea to present for the readers here as to why Poland and rest of Eastern Europe would want to go along with a hysterical US Russia scaring strategy.
A problem for Putin is the current Ukrainian government oppression of Russian speakers in Ukraine. His two main demands are going to be a guarantee that Ukraine will not join NATO, and that the Russian-speaking eastern provinces be given a measure of autonomy. The Joebama administration hawks will probably agree, but take credit for winning the peace.
Im sure that has nothing to do with keeping Zelensky from exposing the bogus narrative.
Game on then. Ukraine does not have much of a GPD, they are not a rich country with a thriving industries. Nato will give them dollars so THEY CAN CONTROL the WARM WATER PORT. pretty simple.
With OBiden running this clown show, Ukraine will soon be inviting Putin in and happy to give him the warm water ports in exchange for getting rid of theOBiden idiots.
You called it Sundance: Russia-Ukraine crisis: Boris Johnson says Russia sending mixed signals as Moscow says West humiliated over Ukraine invasion warnings  World News  Sky News
Remember, this is all a pantomime, an elaborate ruse, a complete farce. The Biden crew picked this week because several months ago Russia announced they were conducting military exercises in Western Russia near the Ukraine border. The United States is fabricating their claim of a pending Russian invasion of Ukraine around these Russian exercises. When the invasionattack doesnt happen, Biden officials will declare a strategic geopolitical victory.
Without NATO support Zelensky knows he cant win against Russia. Zelensky can either allow a slaughter of his people or concede to save them. A lose lose war. Putin wins. The issue is the condition of what Putin wins. He wants the warm water ports better if theyre not destroyed and there remains the round up the Neo Nazis in Ukraine. If you hate a people you might go to war to kill them. But if you see a house in a beautiful field and want to move in you dont bomb the house and burn the field. If Putin invaded Ukraine hed occupy a bombed and burned out nation of angry people and still be surrounded by NATO nuclear bases.
Please remember the PR firm alignment when you are deciphering the horsepucky. State Dept uses CNN, Intel Community use Washington Post, FBI use New York Times and Politico. This is constant. So, when you want to see the fraudulent narrative from the State Dept, check CNN. Its all a pantomime, a theatrical performance, played out on a geopolitical stage.
Thursday Putin shuts off the gas and goes home. In Canada, truckers go home and trucks dont move.
The World is deciding whether he is just a useful idiot or a masterful grifter.
Gotta remember he was a comedian in his previous life. A good one too I see.
I also anticipate there could be a last minute compromise resulting in what will prove later only to be a delay connived by the US to shift the start of the war into our hands and at a more opportune time for the US. The surprise of attack would then be in our control.
Some guest Tucker had on last night  cant remember name..actually explained that Ukraine is not a good place- they are corrupt to the bone. So for the US to stick our nose in protecting a corrupt country is just ridiculous
Remember Brennans trip to Moscow to confer with Russian intel agencies while he claims later that two of themGRU and FSBSVRare inside the DNC network getting ready to interfere in our 2016 election. Brennan had to know that, too, since it was an FBI matter as early as July 20152015as cyber crimes, in furtherance of election interference, were one of the scenarios to which Brennan alluded in his 20142014 intel report about future Russian interference in the elections of other countries.
February 16 will be the day of attack on Ukraine by Russia, said a post on Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskys Facebook page accompanying a video address to his country on Monday night. linkWednesday aligns with the previous statements from the White House and State Dept.
On the U.S. side, in order to keep up the pretense of the pending attack and to attempt to create a larger victory than the collapsed mess they created in Afghanistan the State Dept issues a carefully crafted statement LINK declaring their mission priority to protect Americans and saying they are evacuating the U.S. embassy in Kyiv:
Biden can prim and pretty pose and put on all the make up he wants. He will still look like a fool after this, and I hope Putin releases the images from the hard drive. There is more than one hard drive in the world with those images. how many people saw them at the shop. Rudi saw them, how many copies were made no one knows about. Who has the best computer hacking skills in the World. Who can break into computers and steal information from all kinds of sources. And probably started as SOON s the word was out on this YEARS ago.
Time to trot out this insight from Marshall McLuhanOnly the small secrets need to be protected. The large ones are kept secret by public incredulity.
The only reason I have a hard time believing this is that the entire State Department apparatus dealing with Ukraine is staffed almost exclusively with red-diaper Ukrainian Jews who picture Putin as czar of the Cossacks, come to smash their illicit stills. As Vindman testified before Congress I would never act against Ukrainian interests.
Voters are reluctant to change Politicians in office during a war. Would Democrats instigate a war before Nov. 2022? Heck yes.
On land, Putin has combined arms capability, so its infantry, its armor, but he has also added air and missile defense as well as offensive air, Kirby said.
And since the polling turned really South, the Biden administration pivoted against the Germans and went for the low hanging fruit: Russia, Russia, Russia, as per Sundance scenario.
Putins stated vision for Russia and Ukraine is not absorption into a common state, but the sort of relationship that exists between the United States and Canada, in which people who share a common ancestry cooperate and profit from their relationship, while still having separate states.
