Twitter Announces Elon Musk Appointed to Board of Directors
20220406
https://theconservativetreehouse.com/blog/2022/04/05/twitter-announces-elon-musk-appointed-to-board-of-directors/comment-page-1/
But the NATURE of twitter must change and voices being denied need to have an open and free platform.
They probably make more money than that if they can prevent him being elected. They still want to do their part in the next fraud.
As for the shareholders, Twitter went from $32.42 per share to $50.98 per share today. Interesting how that works with a -.29 Earnings per Share.
With his large stake however, there is a twist. If corruptor go after him aggressively, they will burning down the value of twitter.
When he is pressed about it in interviews, Musk is not supportive of PDJT. Quite critical.
As far as I know, he is responsible for Ukraine to be hooked up to his Neuralink ? which has given the folks in Ukraine internet service. I have no idea if this iswas a charitable pursuit or if hes getting a fortune for doing it.
I dont think much is going to change at Twitter. Elon is playing a goof game to raise the share price, which is adding to his wealth. Unfortunately I dont see many people having much skepticism of Elon on this to the level I have, so if Im proven right, all I will be able to do is shout idiots two years from now, in frustration. Elon is a genius, but like Bezos he has had big government help in making his fortune also, and I dont think he really is as independent and fearless as people think he is.
He might not be a great herobut he is nontheless a force that is working against the same enemies of the people.
I saw an interview a while ago. It was a boy who had been previously abused, and his photos were on twitter. He had requested that they be removed and twitter said no. Sick bastards.
These imports just dont get it. Our free speech is GOD given, no man allowed.
Heres the video of that moment below. When I saw that, my first thought was IN YOUR FACE NASAGovernmentBoeingMcDonnell DouglasAirbus, et all.
Im still trying to figure out why may tax dollars are supporting a company like this.
I think the best way forward is that private websites practice as best as they can and have clear rules and policies and follow them and apply them equally.
Musk is a really complicated person. He has a brilliant mind, a true modern, restrained rain man, so to speak.
Bravo Elon. I may not agree with you on many areas but there is no denying you have earned respect.
If Freedom of Speech does not apply to private companies why was a privately owned bakery forced to bake a cake for a gay wedding?
There has been a lot of those, including one VERY important oneand as PDJT says..
Space and what can be done from there control with technology like Starlink is very important to deep state, TPTB and governments.
meanwhile, what does this mean for truth twitter competitor? I can only speculate at this point, but if Elon is as capable as he seems to be, there may not be a viable profitable opportunity for truth media at least in the twitter competitor.
Sorry, Not sorryI dont buy that Elon Musk is driving left wing crazies away from Twitter. But thats just me. I dont jump on any of the Hope and Change that is thrown out.
What I oppose is discrimination toward a certain brand of thought and politics and ideaology and the nature of twitter and others to give that a black flag registry, but fails to apply the same metric to others.
If youre a Twitter employee whos considering resigning because youre worried about Elon Musk pushing for less regulated speech please do not come work here.
WTH is Nunes doing? Evidently, not much. He needs to clean house with his devs. There is no excuse for this level of fery. Saboteurs or incompetents, no other excuse. TS can put apps on its webpage for any platform, even PCMAC. There is NO excuse. If people want to join, download the app for your device and get on and start conversing. Its not rocket science.
Second, fire anyone who colors their hair with Kool-Aid and who is racist towards African Americans, such as Elon musk.
I cant speak for Sundance, but I have a pretty good idea why he wrote this article in the manner in which he understand the situation and stakes. I tend to agree with his opinions on the matter.
Im betting Musk has a plan and I am adopting a wait and see attitude for the time being.
Musk has his own interests. He knows that if there is no pushback against the crazy he will be eaten, too. That doesnt mean he is on our side. It means he is on his own side.
yes, elon sent starkink to ukraine. yes, it made a big difference in helping ukraine and its military to connect and use the technology in ways that are more than just sending email and browsing cat videos on youtube. He did that FOR FREE. Why? Because he simply believes in the right of Ukraine to defend itself and that in a war, one of the worst possible situations is where communications are compromised. I cant speak to Elon about his world political view or the ukraine-russia conflict. But he took action as a private citizen because he saw the opportunity to help make a difference. Its obvious he wants ukraine to not back down against Russian agression. He did not coordinate with the USG , nor EU, NOR NATO. He saw the opportunity to help and he took action. I tend to agree with that reasoning. I also happen to believe that Ukraine has the moral obligation to defend itself against russia. Ukraine DID NOT INVADE RUSSIA. Its an important distinction. And this is the the first time russia has invaded. And broken at least two brokered deals with Ukraine. But there is something far more critical to understand and that deals with WHY russia has taken this actionAnd as much as I would not like to be posting my disagreements with others here, the neo nazo narrrative in azoz and pro russia nuance is toxic to me. I dont understand it and I frankly find it offensive. I mean we stand here every day declaring our own congress as commie bastards and rightly so,as totalatarian fascists and right so, but cannot seem to recognize the putin russia threat as a far greater threat to global energy and markets. From my view, we have lost focus on the big picture. Either that, or I am just a raving lunatic who someone doesnt realize that Putin-Russia has somehow become our great friendsI am not a raving lunatic and am fully aware that russia has the full backing of china to advance its global energy plan using military force, which it certainly has.
Maybe the threat is: listen to me or Ill buy it all and fire you.
Our role is not to be bound by the First Amendment focus less on thinking about free speech, but thinking about how the times have changed.New Twitter CEOParag Agrawal,Nov. 29, 2021
I think what we will find, and what elon is very capable of helping and URGING the board to recognize is that the so called algorithm itself is entirely biased in a ONE WAY ONLY targeting developed BY REAL PEOPLE who DO NOT HAVE THE SHAREHOLDERS INTERESTS .and that gets attention if Elon can sell it. it should be very easy.
For me, altho its a big ask, Im asking for Elon to reinstate Pres Trumps Twitter.
the difference is finding success. Its never easy. Otherwise you and I would be billionaires.
reminder questions 2: for WHAT SPEECH did the SEC seek to fine him and even force him OUT as tesla leadership? an ongoing case btw
Sorry, you are incorrect, there are five planned launches of Falcon Heavy this year. Three are military satellites not government handouts, one is private Viasat, and one is NASA Psyche mission.
Im not buying it.. its to steal trumps new sight  truth social im not buying it. they made a deal remember hes selling electric cars. with them 1000 pound batteries under your ass. Not me. wont buy dont want to be a rat in lab once again covid was enough to show me  not a one can be trusted
Neuralink is experimenting with implanting electrodes in your brain so that you can communicate with technology more quickly and effectively. I doubt anything will come of it for at least a decade yet.
as an active investor, he cannot do these things and must confine his comments very carefully and narrowly to stay out of the long reach of the radical SEC arm.
Musk owns 73,486,938 shares of Twitter, which represents a 9.2 passive stake in the company, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission 13G filing released Monday. The stake is worth $2.89 billion, based Twitters closing price Friday.
TS is losing the some folks that were core to its implementation, suggesting they failed and its not getting better soon.
Well, geez, he built the worlds most successful space company, I would think you would know that!
I just got back to here and saw your reply. First, I dont care what Elon Musk says, I dont believe Twitter is the de facto public town square. As to what should be done? Get off Twatter. If only the number of America First MAGA supporters that comprise a portion of the 23 of adults that use this garbage, Twatter would die a slow, deserved death. Talking from experience, believe me, anyone can live without Twatter or Fakebook in their life. Ive never had Twitter and dumped Fakebook well over a year ago and dont miss that Marxist spying clap trap one bit. Oh and FJB
Tesla is the least of his contributions to their cause. Look at Starlink and AI.
If Trump runs they will have to reinstate him or risk being fined BIGLY for campaign finance violations. Like a Billion or more!
Every government office from dog catcher to state officials to federal agency heads have official Twitter accounts, yet that same company has no problem silencing those forced to pay taxes going to these clowns.
I have avoided twitterI have never had an account. I probably still never will. To me, its just a time suck.
Like him or not, elon stands to force change on a company that laid WASTE to many conservative voices, up to and including President Trump.
Why was the SC BBQ sauce Maurices forced out of business for its owners controversial views in the 1990s?
TS can get its act together immediately or go into the dustbin of ideas that fizzled and failed. I wont do Twit-like social media, but if I were so inclined and had been waiting with bated breath for weeks to get on TS and communicate, Id be ticked. Bigly.
Ill believe it when the Deep Staters who run Twitter seek redemption during this holiest of seasons.
DWAC fell in value even more today. Im wondering if the tech execs who left werent fired because they were not getting users registered quick enough. Truth Social was only registering 20,000 peopleday and they have a backlog of over a million people wanting to get on.
Buy a ton of rainbow colored Play-Doe and hand it out to all those employees who wear skinny jeans, dress up like animals, have co-exist stickers on their laptops, and anyone under the age of 50 whos never fought in a war, but somehow or another suffer from PTSD.
But if you learn anything about DJT rise in his own industry its par for the course to face alot of resistance and haters ..
Im not a big fan of twitter. I really do believe society as a whole would be a better place without twitter, facebook, etc.
So I understand some of the confusion about why some viewers might see this article at odds with positions and articles and reports written by sundance.
Elon Musk is completely remaking the world, and very few people, really, are even aware of it. It is only due to his efforts that the US is in a position to ignore the Russians when they bluster and threaten to exit the space station. It probably is making Rogozin drink himself to death to know that SpaceX only exists because Russia wouldnt sell him an old ICBM to put something in orbit with. Musk said okay and went back home to do it himself.
I dont know the answer to this problem, but I can see how a overly broad and non-fine tuned redress of section 230 would have a very terrible effect on small but very important websites.
Simple answer is, no. Our hero came 2000 years ago and the only reason any of this is happening now is because too many have fallen away from him.
I remember watching his demonstration of his most powerful rocket a few years ago, when the test included putting his convertible Tesla up top as the payload. That was not good enough, He then landed the two side boosters back on land perfectly in unison.
That was a turning point moment where he showed our government bureaucracy HOW IT IS DONE. Everyone cheered but the government was not very happy about that. He showed us the bureaucracys and by consequence the major aerospace companies how it is done!
Agrawal added, which is exactly what we need on Twitter, and in the boardroom, to make us stronger in the long-term.
In this sense, he is not anything like howard hughes. Far more significant to the culture wars.
Plausible  else the bureaucracies would be constantly attacking him and foot dragging on every conceivable permit necessary for business operations.
Well, I saw this kid and his lawyer being interviewed and I believe they were telling the truth about their case against twitter.
There is no doubt in my mind that the little dictator Parag Agrawaldid not appoint Musk voluntarily. Im guessing Musk has a lot more than 9.2 right now.
Same with Fakebook or any other social media platform. Clearly favoritism is shown to certain companies, and those same companies use that support to steal elections and censor Americans.
Could Trump and Elon have been in some communication to divert attention from Elons play? Trump work for months to get his startup going with everyone watching and then Elon makes his play? If Twitter knew what was planned, couldnt they have quickly created a poison pill sort of thing to guard against the Elon play? Im sure Elon made sure to get the shares that mattered without anyone knowing.
Sometimes you find out more about someone and their power, when you tune your radar on how much hate your enemy has for them.
as a passive investor, as long as he is not stating insider data, he can talk all he wants about the business practices of twitter.
Starlink, not Neuralink. No, hes not making a fortune with it yet, but hes getting into position to be the worlds premier internet service provider. Riches will come later. I have Starlink service, and its fantastic.
Its an honor and privilege to have angiewong as the realBlakPac President and to make the announcement at MarALago
we live in cancel culture and vast array of vulture attorneys who salivate at the potential to take down website they oppose and make bank doing it.
A false prophet if you prefer. One of many coming to soothe your fears .
Please allow Elon Musk to make a shareholders meeting and meet with the other board members.
Its all a chess gamerun up the stock pricehopiumimprove relevance. After all, what is he known for? A car. Starlink.
Could also be doing the deep state a favor to fool people who should be sticking out to commit to Truth Social. Get Twitter some new momentum, get people hooked again, and then ramp up the censorship to interfere with the 2024 election.
All I hope for is that those left sleeping who are yet to wake do so with haste. I always knew falling away from God brings destruction, but I never realized how gay and pedophilic it would be. The longer this takes to fix, the more people get hurt. Simple as that, so if famine, strife and war are required, lets rip the bandaid asap so we can become healthy again.
I am not surprised Sundance has written this article to notice and tone it with a positive spin.
Elon Musk doesnt care about you. He doesnt even want to live on this planet.
I expect nothing to change. This is just window dressing. They are owned by the gubt actors and will do as they say.
You dont invest that much of your own money in a company without a plan.
Falcon Heavy is being slow-walked because Starship will make it looking like a Chinese bottle rocket. NASA has spent billions upon billions and over a decade attempting to get the SLS built, and it will be outclassed with the first orbital launch of Starship, which has only been in serious development for four years now. Starship will launch with over two times the thrust of the famed Saturn V moon rocket.
TS was not ready and is not ready and probably will never be ready. They must have saboteurs or incompetents running their show over there to be this bad. People have been waiting for WEEKS to get on. Why wait when you want to communicate?
Elon will show them how to optimize. And that optimization inevitably boils down to solving and reforming the idiotic anti-shareholder policy is denying speech from voices who have and probably will keep their third vacations homes above the waterline.
We all know that he doesnt have the final say or even if hes in favor of that.
TS right now is a failure and a joke. I dont think the social media world at large even considers it viable for a second. Musk wouldnt. Its a dog, failure, and has already crashed and burned. TS overpromised and never delivered.
Im excited to share that were appointing elonmusk to our board! Agrawal tweeted. Through conversations with Elon in recent weeks, it became clear to us that he would bring great value to our Board. Musk is both a passionate believer and intense critic of the service, Agrawal added, which is exactly what we need on Twitter, and in the boardroom, to make us stronger in the long-term.
reminder questions: for WHAT SPEECH was elon musk censored on twitter, not once, but three times?
and intense critic of the service, Agrawal added, which is exactly what we need on Twitter,
One does not often KNOW when something is RIGHT, UNTIL ONE LEARNS WHEN THAT THING CAN NOT BE WRONG.
when you get to these two answers, you find the libtards are not faking their distain for elon..They are targeting him specifically because he is not aligned to the preferred right think doctrine He routinely MOCKS the press with facts and quite hilarious trolling. I dont pretend to know his political leanings, but they are most certainly NOT with the radical embeciles who have weaponised social media, news outlets, and even the SEC. Of that I am sure.
IMO. anyone who drops off TS to go back into the blue birds snare anticipating censorship to disappear is very naive. Twit  FB  Google  Apple  Amazon are 100 owned by the Globalist Left, and they are compelled to block discussion of any topic that conflicts with the Lefts agenda. They cant help themselves. They accept no other way of thinking other than their own. All others must be eliminated.
Lets accept what help we might get and stop waiting on prophets to fix the problem. This is going to take many people.
Activist investors has been a game played by vulture capitalists for decades. Buy 2 or more of the stock, get your guy on the board, then demand changes that benefit you dividends, stock buy backs, etc. Now Musk learned those lessons and is turning the tables. Good for him. If Twitter doesnt want to play along, dump his stake overnight and they will be on the ashbin of history. $2.5 billion is pocket lint to a guy like Musk, so it must be fun to watch the wokesters squirm 
Arent we all desperate for a real hero right now? Even Trump is not enough to turn the tide against the hateful woke mobsters. If the Republicans shellack the Democrats in the mid terms and Trump wins again in 2024, there will still be tens of thousands of elected and unelected woke scum bags in all levels of American government who will be working hard to destroy this great country.
If they do not reinstate President Trump, Elon holds great leverage in a variety of ways:
What about people who are racists, period. What kind of racist cares ONLY about Blacks? Give me a damned break!
A good example of what you say are people banned for supposed hate speech or targeted abuse, while raging leftists on Twitter can openly threaten the life of JK Rowling, and Twitter does nothing.
Elon makes no decisions, the Deep State does and always did. They control Twitter, FacebookInstagram, Google and YouTube
Regardless, Musks move has hurt Truth Social bigly. And can anyone explain to me why President Trump would even want to give Twatter his business again, when he just started a competitor?
Elon Musk has done more to advance freedom in the last 24 hours than Joe Biden has done in the last 50 years.
while that is likely to be the case, and to be clear I think that private companies do have the power and the legal means to censor and even ban people they do not want on their platformsthe essential issue here is of equal rights from a private company. The inequity in handling only some voices that they do not desire, but then allowing others who are engaged in similar if not higher levels of deceit, lies, manipulations, and hate speech and only ONE WAYIs the issue.
It could be coincidental that another powerful Billionaire demonstrates uber power, but I kind of doubt it was not without some or at least a little outside counsel.
Then he got a lawyer I think the lawyer had been abused too, or something had happened years earlier??. Then twitter were forced to remove the photos.
If they are not gonna make a distinction between muslims and extremists, then why should I distinguish between white people and racists?Parag Agrawal, 2010
The issue of how to treat section 230 is very complicated. And if history is useful, congress screws things like this up all the time, and forces the issue out at the courts. And under the current justice climate, I dare say, conservative websites are going to have a hell of a time trying to appeal regulations placed upon them for the crimes and misconduct that these larger social media platforms are responsible for creating.
eBay has that same philosophy about their sellers. They consider sellers a product and not as customers that they could be making boatloads of cash from if they ran their platform effectively.
Im not very impressed with his EV technologies..to be clear. Cost prohibitive and only workable in niche areas, and impossibly stupid unless the oil and gas markets can be manipulated into scarcity. oh wait. but is THAT his fault really? 
think of it this way: what happens under some future reformed section230 that CTH decides to eject some bad actors who come here and deliberately break the rules and policies. Or intentionally link to completely false and provably false content. ?
So Elon is in a very powerful position. Even without Twitter, he has a very large following. Shareholders will be closely aligned to his ideas and changes because it directly affects stock prices and their wealth.
Truth social is such a screw up I doubt there is much fear of it. Sad!
Elon is not like you and I. He has a power of influence by his personal power, but also of his wealth.
I think there might be other reasons for him to join the board or to stay off it.
Why are physicians in Catholic hospitals constantly in the news being forced to provide services against their consciences by lawsuit?
After Elon Musk purchased the largest single stake in Twitter, social media CEO Parag Agrawal announces SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk will be appointed to the companys board of directors.
He can always buy more stock or threatened to tank the company financially. All of it is pocket change for the richest man in the world.
TrumpNunes needs to work out the bugs quickly because one would think Trump wants this platform ready for the midterm election.
Musk is a carnival barker whose biggest and most important clients are the US and Chinese governments. He is also a graduate of the WEF Future Young Global Leaders group. This move is nothing more than him playing both sides, with the Republicans forecasted to sweep both the House and Senate this Fall, all Musk is doing to trying to show he values free speech at the moment, subject to change depending on who is in power because that is his bread and butter client. He is a corporatist salesman sucking at the teet of the government. Musk, by the way, is on record supporting putting chips in humans, supports transhumanism, which is a WEF goal. Take away the government subsidies for TESLA and have government eliminate the sole source contract with Space X and then we can see where Musk truly stands.
Stock plummeted because presumably two important people quit. They had trouble before Elon bought Twatter shares.
Elon next month:  Oh well, I tried, I suppose I will move my chips on over the TRUTH Social, where the 1st amendment is respected.
I often wonder if President Trump and Elon have been having dinner together and discussing approaches.
The little fact check communist liars should be getting nervous in the company break rooms. Whether Musk can change anything is secondary to making some of them pucker
Why was BJU forced to change its policies on dating in the 1980s by lawsuit?
I have just given another example of why speech is so important. It IS THE MOST IMPORTANT THING TO PROTECT ESPECIALLY WHEN IT IS MESSY, UNCERTAIN, AND EVEN WHEN IT IS WRONG.
Hes the reason we dont need to beg Russia for rockets to get into space any longer. Sheesh.
You should really read the Elon Musk biography by Ashley Vance and Lift Off by Eric Berger  the story of Space X, youll actually learn something about him.
How to fix it? Elon Musk will pretend, under the guise of going in to fix it, to invest in the company for the purpose of making things right. yeah right. No it was a standard trick the globalistsleftistscommunists typically do. Pretend their actions are for one thing, while being for the opposite. The billions of dollars Elon Musk poured into Twitter will enable them to continue to hold the house of cards up and the perception that Twitter is fine, for years to come. It is a game. One in which they think hiding the truth of their failure will pay off once they can totally undo all constitutional rights. At which point, it doesnt matte what people think, bcus the communist satanic order will simply kill you or put you in a cell or a camp if you look at unapproved facts.
The only choice was for Twitter to make a big change and downsize substantially. That is, until the Leftists, the Globalists and the Fascists decided that Elon Musk should prevent this optical disaster after all, what would that say about the establishment if their beloved Twitter was forced to openly fall becuase of their crimes and embrace of lunatic communist agenda? No this couldnt be. The Right would win a victory that must never be allowed.
What does this tell me? That salvation depends on the mercy of the rich and famous. I am not swayed in Elons elevation.
At Twitter and Facebook youre not the customer youre the product! Its why I do neither of them.
I dont think Elon has the complete say so who to ban as theres other members on the board.
Given that Twitter serves as the de facto public town square, failing to adhere to free speech principles fundamentally undermines democracy.
Even PDJT only posted 1 post on TS so far you cannot blame that on Musk.
I dont know much about Elon. But among SpaceX, The Boring Co., Tesla, et al., I have to believe hes one smart fella.
amplified by 1 Million and the explanation is applied to Amazon. Its always been a hot mess for sellors and manufacturers at amazon
Maybe his play will help Americans feel better about spending more time on Twatter, but he has been quite vocal about his distaste for PDJT. Being America First, my loyalty is to President Trump here.
Looking forward to working with Parag  Twitter board to make significant improvements to Twitter in coming months! Musk tweeted.The news of Musks appointment comes after he took a 9.2 percent stake in Twitter on Monday, making him the companys biggest shareholder. Sky News has a good recap of recent events. WATCH:
I really dont have a problem with twitter or any other social media or website to have a speech policy. Including here at CTH naturally.
And a lot of people love him for that. Never forget though that he is doing this for a purpose all his own, and in doing so, bringing a lot of people with him, sometimes unbeknownst to them.
I think I know where people might be getting stuck here, so lets me give my opinion for what it is worth on this:
I come here to perform that test. I find it quite honestly, inspiring to do so.
I believe what you say is wise. We must remember every move made to oppose progressives invites an opportunity by the progressives to oppress. This is their plsn.
grossly, broadly, congress may continue a path where they define ALL social media portals UP TO AND INCLUDING ANY WEBSITE THAT HAS A COMMENT SEGMENT.
IMHO, do not look to Elon Musk to change Twitter. He is very much plugged into the WEF transhumanist agenda. And not for human beings benefit.
Depending on how broadly or narrowly congress applies a publisher test could have far reaching effects with many toxic unintended consequences to very small webowners.
Which is why, i think, Elon Musk is approaching this in the right way. Conservatives must stop reacting to the progressives. Conservatives must start playing the game the progressives play.
One I would say is starting to shape up as one of the most intelligent strategic business plays in the last 20 years or so.
So if they end up burning it all down, I say good riddance. I doubt that is what elon has in mind, but he can afford to take the hit.
as a board member he has to be limited in his discussion publicly about the nature of twitter and policies see all the SEC actions against him on this very subject.
Child porn is illegal, to put on the internet and to view. That doesnt sound right.
FWIW, I read that they gave Musk a board seat in exchange for his promise not to buy more stock in significant amounts.
remember, it takes a great deal of staff and money to support websites. If you being laying on even more regulations this has a profound effects and legal liability on the small outlets. It will or could end up favoring only the largest social media outlets. Forcing the smaller outlets to out in face of overwhelming regulation. it might also trigger many small outlets to simply remove the elements of their websites that exist as publisher content.
Twitter woke commie executives basically just told their largest individual owner Elon Musk that they run the company not him who just spent billions. I think these commie woke execs are a disease of epic proportions.
One also needs to be aware that Elon has been targeted relentlessly by the left radical press, media and including harassment from the long reach of the SEC. Most of these actions if directed fairly would have placed dozens of industry leaders into the can. But that never happened.
From all I have seen in interviews of Musk, he seems to be a libertarian with a small L. Well see if he pushes for free speech for all
Sundance, I thought you, of all people would have covered the Russian delegate to the U.N.s speech and press conference today.
His priority is SpaceX that is de facto financed and controlled by the national security state.
Why? Because we are at the point where they progressives have set the rules. We arent operating under conservative rules any longer. Progressives have the power. They ARE the ruling class. We must beat them using their rules against them. Just as they used conservative rules against us. I
I read that by being on the BOD, Elon is limited to owning 14.5 of total shares. Had he stayed off, he could have purchased more and obtained controlling interest. Their bringing him onto the Board was purely a defensive measure.
Its so disgusting that they choose to keep child porn, when they have the capability to remove it. Id seen people saying this happens, but when I saw this boys story, it really drove home that twitter were literally fighting to keep child porn on their site.
my read is that whatever it takes to buck against the censorship and shadowbanning at twitter.
Its not beyond the realm of possibilities that bad actors could contract a lawfare type and literally financially ruin this entire website.
It might be fun to watch if he DOES try to takeover, but that might not even be a part of his plan.
Why are convents of nuns forced to buy health insurance that supports birth control and abortion?
If that is the case, does anyone believe that Musk didnt know? He was publicly invited to join Truth Social. He knows every little thing that goes on with regard to social media platforms.
If successful, the Starship system will make essentially all other rockets built in the world obsolete. They are being built on an assembly line, and the anticipated launch cadence is 4  6 launches per day. The cost of is expected to be a fraction of the cost of the current Falcon 9 which blows my mind.
Private companies may have a right to censor but they should not get Section 230 protections. They need to be liable for their actions. ZERO protection from lawsuits if they operate as Dorsey and Agrawal have.
He will abuse it relentlessly using his power of influence in a way that these corrupt embeciles cannot ignore:
This wont mean much, unless Elon gets a controlling interest, or can form a coalition among enough stockholders that will allow him to vote their shares.
Imagine for a moment we can agree Elon is a loose cannon. But what has his effects been? Its rather obvious he has declared war on the very foundations of the most corrupt elements of main stream mediaand distilled it down to concrete arguments that matches as accurately to the spirit and intent of free speech. Which the left radicals have moved mountains to undermine.
Twitter can say whatever they want to keep themselves out of the cross hairs of the administration. If they suggest that conservatives will be allowed the installed admin will start break up lawsuits and they know it.
Elon is a distraction, a false hope. How do you explain how he is allowed to say and do what many others can not ?
GB, if Elon intended to truly change Twitter, then it makes sense that he would have KNOWN the info you shared. My only guess is that he did not wish to expend that much cash for controlling interest in Twitter and instead hoped his initial purchase and board appointment would be sufficient to change things.
I read somewhere today that Musk is prevented fr going over a certain  w his appt. to the Board.
I am not persuaded entirely Elon has perfectly altruistic patterns, but there is little doubt he is capable of delivering on his promises. Maybe delayed. maybe a little prices. And always with drama and chaos.
I am not offended by the seeming mismatch. By responsibility if you can refer it that way as a treeper is to find my way to keep an open mind and understand that there is always going to be incredibly complex issues competing head to head. Our job together is to locate the truth and hopefully form in our own way how to interpret the truth. I come here not because I need to be reinforced about what I already feel I KNOW, but to have my position challenged and learn more facts and different views.
Elon may just be the one who has the ability and the brass to reform social media. Who knows. But all signs point that he has a very focused reason to reform twitter. And I very much doubt that this is limited to simply trying to advance his own ticket. It could be that. But if you consider the strategy he appears to have designed here, the speech doctrine at twitter is very likely about to get a full enema.and long overdue. If he benefits financially from it, should be be a reason to discount the benefits of that reform to all of us.
Assuming you are correct in the hurt that Musks appointment to Twitters board has caused to Truth Social, then it would stand to reason that Musk is pulling a William Barr.
Truth Social has hurt itself. It launched and crashed and burned all at once. You dont market like that. Hype, hype, hype, launch. OMG! Nobody can get on to the site! Well, give us until the end of March, and it will be up and running. Promise! Uh, oh. Its the middle of April and we are still spinning and cant get anyone on the platform..PUNT!
People on the right keep looking for a hero of the United States. There wont be one. But there is one for the world. It aint Elon Musk, either.
Elon is more AMERICAN than at least half of the people who squat on this soil.
Ive studied him from a psych perspective. He is very functional but not easy at all to predict. One thing for sure is that he is very goal oriented. His goals are however all his own. The most interesting thing about the man is that he can motivate, and direct people, not only to do things better than governments especially, but also to drive regular people to new heights.
At all. Sundance is a formidable intellectual who has a working knowledge of social media doctrine regarding speech and also the impact of disruptive financial plays in these kinds of markets.
I dont know how many of you have realized that they just took over DuckDuckGo that became big enough by lying to us that it was nothing like Google?
But given his past record, elon has failed very few times to make good on many promises.
So will Elon Musk step into the OANN controversy with ATT and support OANN on his satellite network to support free speech?
Twitter has come on hard times. An exodus of milions of users fleeing speech oppression, bigotry on Twitter, and rejecting Twitters advocacy and facilitation of human trafficking, has resulted in Twitters considerable hollowing out.
I mean, at the end of the day, twitter has monetized speech. It is literally what they do to make money.
How do you know Musks move has hurt Truth Social bigly ? Twitter hasnt changed their censoring at all.
To be glad about Musk doing this is way too early. If he had bought stock in Truth Social that would scare the left  mean something, but not this. Now, hes in the echo chamber of all the censors against the truth. How brave of him.
