98 Irish citizens registered with Ukraine embassy
20220216
https://www.clydebankpost.co.uk/news/19930004.98-irish-citizens-registered-ukraine-embassy/
Russia has massed about 150,000 troops east, north and south of Ukraine, sparking Western concerns it was planning an attack.
European leaders will discuss RussiaUkraine crisis tomorrow Ill meet with partners at MunSecConf over weekend, incl Ukrainian FM DmytroKuleba. Irelands support for Ukraines sovereignty, territorial integrity and right to choose its foreign and security policy is unwavering
Mr Coveney said that two Irish diplomats in Ukraine will remain there to assist Irish nationals as long as it is safe.
He also told colleagues that ahead of a meeting the UN Security Council, the focus of preventing Russian aggression in the region would continue and that he did not expect the story to abate.
Russia has said it is returning more troops and weapons to bases, but Nato has said it sees no sign of a drawdown.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Two Irish diplomats will remain in Ukraine for the foreseeable future, amid ongoing tensions at the Russian border.
Moscow denies it has any such plans and this week said it was pulling back some forces and weapons, though it gave few details.
The Foreign Affairs Minister told a meeting of the Fine Gael parliamentary party on Wednesday that 98 Irish citizens are currently registered with the Irish embassy in Kyiv.
Official Irish Government advice is to avoid non-essential travel to Ukraine, with Irish citizens in the country being told to leave by commercial means.
Those claims have been met with scepticism from the US and its allies  even as they seemed to lower the temperature following weeks of escalating East-West tensions.
Mr Coveney told Fine Gael TDs and senators that there exists significant consular challenges being worked on, including surrogacy cases.
