What is a windfall tax and how are energy companies reacting to the idea
20220526
https://www.clydebankpost.co.uk/news/trendingacrossscotland/20167598.windfall-tax-energy-companies-reacting-idea/
The energy industry has warned that introducing a windfall tax will bring about job losses.
She also shared the Prime Ministers concerns regarding the potential lack of investment a windfall tax might cause.
Labour have said the Chancellor has been "dragged kicking and screaming" into backing its call for a levy on fossil fuel companies who have benefited from high global prices.
Chief executive of Offshore Energies UK Deirde Michie said: This will directly impact manufacturing in this country.
It's being introduced because companies who get oil and gas from the ground are profitting from it more than they were last year.
Like BP, they said they had felt the impact of the Ukraine War and that pulling out of Russian investments has cost them 3.1bn.
The idea is to target companies who are benefitting from something which they themselves are not responsible for - iea windfall.
Similarly, Shells profits almost tripled to 7.3bn  the companys largest quarterly profit on record.
This isnt feeling good, to have this unexpected surprise on a sector that has been committed to working positively with the government on the security of energy supply and on the energy transition.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
This will form part of a relief package for households across the country struggling with rising bills as a result of the cost of living crisis.
The Prime Minister has previouslysaid that it would put off investors: I dont like them. I dont think they are the right way forward. I want those companies to make big, big investments.
A windfall tax is a one-off tax which is imposed by a government on a company or a specific group of comapnies.
BPs profits more than doubled to around 4.9bn in the first three months of this year, although this was cancelled out by money written off after the decision to exit its investments in Russian oil firms after the invasion of Ukraine.
CHANCELLOR Rishi Sunak is expected to cave into pressure and impose a windfall tax on the soaring profits of oil and gas companies.
Chancellor Rishi Sunak has previously said he is not naturally attracted to the policy, but that he is pragmatic about introducing it.
