Authors of DW article on Ukrainian president forget lessons of history  Russian diplomatDeutsche Welle published an article on Friday which was dedicated to Zelenskys call on the residents of Donbass who considered themselves to be Russians to move to RussiaRussian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova Russian Foreign MinistryTASSMOSCOW August 7 TASS The authors of a Deutsche Welle article on Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky forgot the lessons of history Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on her Telegram channel on SaturdayDeutsche Welle published an article on Friday which was dedicated to Zelenskys call on the residents of Donbass who considered themselves to be Russians to move to Russia The article described Zelensky as a modest Jewish guyOnly a completely uneducated person can say that young peoples modesty guarantees that they will never share radical views History has seen many modest guys become the most notorious bloodsuckers Zakharova pointed out According to her no ethnicity provides immunity against nationalismOn August 5 Zelensky said in an interview with the Dom TV channel that people who considered themselves to be Russians were making a big mistake by staying in Donbass because it will never be part of Russia He also said that those in Donbass who considered themselves to be Russians should move to Russia In response Zakharova stated that the Kiev regime has crossed all the red lines that separate a national policy from nationalismTagsMaria ZakharovaVladimir Zelensky
20210807
https://tass.com/politics/1323643
Deutsche Welle published an article on Friday, which was dedicated to Zelenskys call on the residents of Donbass who considered themselves to be Russians to move to Russia. The article described Zelensky as "a modest Jewish guy."
"Only a completely uneducated person can say that young peoples modesty guarantees that they will never share radical views. History has seen many modest guys become the most notorious bloodsuckers," Zakharova pointed out. According to her, no ethnicity provides immunity against nationalism.
MOSCOW, August 7. TASS. The authors of a Deutsche Welle article on Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky forgot the lessons of history, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on her Telegram channel on Saturday.
On August 5, Zelensky said in an interview with the Dom TV channel that people who considered themselves to be Russians were making a big mistake by staying in Donbass because "it will never be part of Russia." He also said that those in Donbass who considered themselves to be Russians, should move to Russia. In response, Zakharova stated that "the Kiev regime has crossed all the red lines that separate a national policy from nationalism.".
