EUs new strategy for Russia not a breakthrough contains blunders  Russian envoyThe EUs top diplomat Josep Borell presented the EUs new strategy for Russia on June 16 the next day after the EUUS summit in BrusselsRussian Permanent Representative to the EU Vladimir Chizhov Sergei BobylevTASSBRUSSELS June 22 TASS The European Unions new strategy for relations with Russia confining to three principles push back constrain and engage to be discussed at the EUs summit on June 2425 has not become a breakthrough document and contains gross factual blunders Russias envoy to the EU Vladimir Chizhov told TASS in an interviewThis document is certainly not a breakthrough It is a report authored by the European Commission and the Josep Borrellled European External Action Service It is addressed to the European Parliament the EU Council and the European Council  the leaders of the EU memberstates Its wording is not a surprise It has been worked on for quite a long time Chizhov stressedFactual blundersThe reports wording contains some gross blunders including factual ones For instance it argues that direct contacts between Kiev and the selfproclaimed Donbass republics contradict the Minsk protocol They should certainly read up for the exam because such contacts are precisely one of the fundamental features of the Minsk Accords Chizhov saidRead alsoUS reserves funds for Kiev in case of escalation at RussiaUkraine border  White HouseAlso I was surprised to see references to humanitarian aid which the EU allegedly provides via the Red Cross to some Ukrainian refugees in Russia It looks like they think that there are some camps of Ukrainian refugees in Russia where the Red Cross reportedly delivers humanitarian aid from the EU although we know nothing about the former or the latter But the money must be going somewhere he addedChizhov said that the report would now be discussed by the European Parliament and there is a possibility another resolution on Russia may be passed or not As far as the EUs executive bodies are concerned after the EU Foreign Affairs Council studied the report on June 21 this paper will go before the EU summit on June 2425 As far as we know no special discussions are expected in the EU executive bodies  they will rubberstamp it as it is Chizhov concludedLike in NATOThe EUs top diplomat Josep Borell presented the EUs new strategy for Russia on June 16 the next day after the EUUS summit in Brussels where US President Joe Biden and the chiefs of EU institutions made a decision to coordinate Brussels and Washingtons policies towards Russia The concept of this document  push back constrain and engage  is very similar to NATOs dual approach to Russia which the alliance has adhered to since 2014  it boils down to dialogue and deterrence and in practice has resulted in the total curtailment of cooperation with RussiaRead alsoNATO states must decide if they want to make friends in earnest  ZakharovaAs follows from Borrells explanations push back means resistance to violations of Ukraines sovereignty hybrid and other challenges and human rights violations for which Russia is allegedly responsible Brussels is going to constrain Russias influence on the European Union and its role on the international scene and popularity in the West and around the worldAlso Borrell suggests engaging or cooperating with Russia there where progress without Russia is impossible He referred to climate change struggle against the coronavirus pandemic the Arctic and other regional cooperation matters as well as the settlement of global and regional conflicts Once again the EU called for stepping up peopletopeople contacts by easing visa rules but only for certain groups of citizens such as young scientists and skilled specialistsTagsForeign policy
20210622
https://tass.com/politics/1305721
"The report's wording contains some gross blunders, including factual ones. For instance, it argues that direct contacts between Kiev and the self-proclaimed Donbass republics contradict the Minsk protocol. They should certainly 'read up for the exam', because such contacts are precisely one of the fundamental features of the Minsk Accords," Chizhov said.
Chizhov said that the report would now be discussed by the European Parliament, "and there is a possibility another resolution on Russia may be passed, or not." As far as the EU's executive bodies are concerned, after the EU Foreign Affairs Council studied the report on June 21 "this paper will go before the EU summit on June 24-25. "As far as we know, no special discussions are expected in the EU executive bodies - they will rubberstamp it as it is," Chizhov concluded.
"This document is certainly not a breakthrough. It is a report authored by the European Commission and the Josep Borrell-led European External Action Service. It is addressed to the European Parliament, the EU Council and the European Council - the leaders of the EU' member-states. Its wording is not a surprise. It has been worked on for quite a long time," Chizhov stressed.
"Also, I was surprised to see references to humanitarian aid, which the EU allegedly provides via the Red Cross to some 'Ukrainian refugees' in Russia. It looks like they think that there are some camps of Ukrainian refugees in Russia, where the Red Cross reportedly delivers humanitarian aid from the EU, although we know nothing about the former or the latter. But the money must be going somewhere," he added.
BRUSSELS, June 22. TASS. The European Union's new strategy for relations with Russia confining to three principles: "push back, constrain and engage", to be discussed at the EU's summit on June 24-25, has not become a breakthrough document and contains gross "factual blunders," Russia's envoy to the EU, Vladimir Chizhov, told TASS in an interview.
The EU's top diplomat Josep Borell presented the EU's new strategy for Russia on June 16, the next day after the EU-US summit in Brussels, where US President Joe Biden and the chiefs of EU institutions made a decision to coordinate Brussels' and Washington's policies towards Russia. The concept of this document - push back, constrain and engage - is very similar to NATO's dual approach to Russia, which the alliance has adhered to since 2014 - it boils down to "dialogue and deterrence" and in practice has resulted in the total curtailment of cooperation with Russia.
As follows from Borrell's explanations, "push back" means resistance to violations of Ukraine's sovereignty, hybrid and other challenges and human rights violations for which Russia is allegedly responsible. Brussels is going to "constrain" Russia's influence on the European Union and its role on the international scene and popularity in the West and around the world.
Also, Borrell suggests engaging or cooperating with Russia there where progress without Russia is impossible. He referred to climate change, struggle against the coronavirus pandemic, the Arctic, and other regional cooperation matters, as well as the settlement of global and regional conflicts. Once again, the EU called for stepping up people-to-people contacts by easing visa rules, but only for certain groups of citizens, such as young scientists and skilled specialists.
