Finland may face electricity outages this winter  TVFinland may be faced with electricity outages already this winter due to the refusal from Russian energy sources oil and gas Finlands YLE television channel saidSTOCKHOLM July 17 TASS Finland may be faced with electricity outages already this winter due to the refusal from Russian energy sources oil and gas Finlands YLE television channel said on SundayEurope is refusing from Russian fossil fuels but there are problems with alternative energy sources It means that regulation and restrictions in the energy sector may be a possible solution Since Europe is getting prepared for the coming winter by means of regulating energy consumption its is quite possible that Finland will have to fact similar restrictions it saidAccording to YLE electricity outages may not last for more than two hours a dayzMeanwhile Fingrid Finlands electricity grid operator said that electricity outages are an extreme measure which will be used only in case of emergencyOn February 24 Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in response to a request for help by the heads of the Donbass republics He stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories but aimed to demilitarize and denazify the country In response the West imposed largescale sanctions against Russia including in the energy sector
20220717
https://tass.com/economy/1481091
"Europe is refusing from Russian fossil fuels but there are problems with alternative energy sources. It means that regulation and restrictions in the energy sector may be a possible solution. Since Europe is getting prepared for the coming winter by means of regulating energy consumption, its is quite possible that Finland will have to fact similar restrictions," it said.
STOCKHOLM, July 17. TASS. Finland may be faced with electricity outages already this winter due to the refusal from Russian energy sources, oil and gas, Finlands YLE television channel said on Sunday.
Meanwhile, Fingrid, Finlands electricity grid operator, said that electricity outages are an extreme measure, which will be used only in case of emergency.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in response to a request for help by the heads of the Donbass republics. He stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories, but aimed to demilitarize and denazify the country. In response, the West imposed large-scale sanctions against Russia, including in the energy sector.
According to YLE, electricity outages may not last for more than two hours a dayz.
