Finnish leader Putin discuss Ukraine and bilateral relationsThe Finnish president expressed serious concern over the tense situation and stressed the necessity of finding a diplomatic solutionHELSINKI December 14 TASS The situation in Ukraine and bilateral relations were among the topics of a telephone conversation between Finnish and Russian Presidents Sauli Niinisto and Vladimir Putin the Finnish presidents press service said on TuesdaySauli Niinisto and Vladimir Putin held a telephone conversation on December 14 Along with bilateral relations the presidents discussed in detail the situation at Ukraines borders it said The Finnish leader expressed serious concern over the tense situation and stressed the necessity of finding a diplomatic solutionApart from that Niinisto reiterated that he sticks to a stable course in his foreign and security policy He also continues the discussion about the Helsinki spirit ie the principles laid down in the Final Act that was signed in Helsinki in 1975 and that laid the groundwork for the OSCE activitiesOn Monday Niinisto discussed the situation around Ukraine with US President Joe Biden The same topic was the focus of Russian President Vladimir Putins virtual talks with Joe Biden on December 7 Other topics included bilateral relations cybersecurityand the Iran nuclear deal
20211214
https://tass.com/politics/1375261
On Monday, Niinisto discussed the situation around Ukraine with US President Joe Biden. The same topic was the focus of Russian President Vladimir Putins virtual talks with Joe Biden on December 7. Other topics included bilateral relations, cybersecurity,and the Iran nuclear deal.
"Sauli Niinisto and Vladimir Putin held a telephone conversation on December 14. Along with bilateral relations, the presidents discussed in detail the situation at Ukraines borders," it said. The Finnish leader "expressed serious concern over the tense situation and stressed the necessity of finding a diplomatic solution."
HELSINKI, December 14. TASS. The situation in Ukraine and bilateral relations were among the topics of a telephone conversation between Finnish and Russian Presidents, Sauli Niinisto and Vladimir Putin, the Finnish presidents press service said on Tuesday.
Apart from that, Niinisto reiterated that he sticks to a stable course in his foreign and security policy. He also continues the discussion about the "Helsinki spirit," i.e. the principles laid down in the Final Act that was signed in Helsinki in 1975 and that laid the groundwork for the OSCE activities.
