Foreign participants may join Russian analogue of SWIFT says Central Bank chiefThe Bank of Russia launched the System for Transfer of Financial Messages in the test mode in 2014MOSCOW February 28 TASS Foreign financial market participants may join Russias analogue of SWIFT the System for Transfer of Financial Messages Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina told a press conference following the regulators board meeting on MondayWe have the system of financial messages transfer which can replace SWIFT inside the country Participants from abroad can join it she saidOn February 27 foreign ministers of the European Union agreed cutting a number of Russian banks off from the SWIFT international interbank system The EU has not yet decided on the list of such banks so far since it cannot fully cut Russia off from SWIFT due to the links between the countrys economy and the economies of other states Europe has also imposed restrictions against the Bank of Russia and intends to freeze around half of its financial reserves Sanctions are being imposed due to Russias military operation in UkraineThe Bank of Russia launched the System for Transfer of Financial Messages in the test mode in 2014 The system can transfer data in SWIFT format though it does not depend on its channelsIn 2017 the financial messaging system started full operation transferring messages on transactions in any currencies Initially it was meant only for users inside Russia though by April 2021 over 20 Belarusian lenders joined it as well as the Armenian Ardshinbank and the Kyrgyz Bank of Asia Moreover the subsidiaries of large Russian banks in Germany and Switzerland have access to it
20220228
https://tass.com/economy/1413553
"We have the system of financial messages transfer, which can replace SWIFT inside the country. Participants from abroad can join it," she said.
MOSCOW, February 28. TASS. Foreign financial market participants may join Russias analogue of SWIFT, the System for Transfer of Financial Messages, Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina told a press conference following the regulators board meeting on Monday.
On February 27, foreign ministers of the European Union agreed cutting a number of Russian banks off from the SWIFT international interbank system. The EU has not yet decided on the list of such banks so far, since it cannot fully cut Russia off from SWIFT due to the links between the countrys economy and the economies of other states. Europe has also imposed restrictions against the Bank of Russia and intends to freeze around half of its financial reserves. Sanctions are being imposed due to Russias military operation in Ukraine.
The Bank of Russia launched the System for Transfer of Financial Messages in the test mode in 2014. The system can transfer data in SWIFT format, though it does not depend on its channels.
In 2017, the financial messaging system started full operation, transferring messages on transactions in any currencies. Initially it was meant only for users inside Russia, though by April 2021 over 20 Belarusian lenders joined it, as well as the Armenian Ardshinbank and the Kyrgyz Bank of Asia. Moreover, the subsidiaries of large Russian banks in Germany and Switzerland have access to it.
