Kiev urges UN to join efforts to reduce tensions around UkraineUkraines Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba believes the UN should join efforts by Ukraine and its partners to reduce tensions around DonbassKIEV February 14 TASS Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba on Monday said he believed the UN should join efforts by Ukraine and its partners to reduce tensions around DonbassConfident that UN can and should take active part in diplomatic efforts by Ukraine and partners to reduce tensions Kuleba said on Twitter following his talks with UN Secretary General Antonio GuterresThey discussed the security crisis Kuleba said Important call with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on ways to deescalate the security crisis created by Russia he said Diplomacy is the only responsible wayThere has been a flurry of statements in the West and Kiev lately that Russia could invade Ukraine Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said they were unsubstantiated escalation and that Russia doesnt threaten anyone At the same time he didnt rule out provocations to corroborate these Western statements and warned that the use of force to resolve the crisis in southeastern Ukraine will have serious consequences
20220215
https://tass.com/world/1403215
They discussed the security crisis, Kuleba said. "Important call with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on ways to de-escalate the security crisis created by Russia," he said. "Diplomacy is the only responsible way."
KIEV, February 14. TASS. Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba on Monday said he believed the UN should join efforts by Ukraine and its partners to reduce tensions around Donbass.
There has been a flurry of statements in the West and Kiev lately that Russia could invade Ukraine. Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said they were unsubstantiated escalation and that Russia doesnt threaten anyone. At the same time, he didnt rule out provocations to corroborate these Western statements and warned that the use of force to resolve the crisis in southeastern Ukraine will have serious consequences.
"Confident that UN can and should take active part in diplomatic efforts by Ukraine and partners to reduce tensions," Kuleba said on Twitter following his talks with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres.
