Lukashenko Putin discuss growing NATO presence in Ukraine  press serviceAlso the presidents considered countering threats in Central Asia by member states of the CSTO in the wake of the US forces pullout from Afghanistan Belarusian Presidential Spokeswoman Natalia Eismont saidMOSCOW July 14 TASS The presidents of Belarus and Russia Alexander Lukashenko and Vladimir Putin discussed NATOs increasing presence in Ukraine Belarusian Presidential Spokeswoman Natalia Eismont said on Wednesday after the presidential talks in St PetersburgThe international agenda is Western policy particularly of the European Union and the United States towards Belarus and Russia Regarding Ukraine  on this issue they focused on the situation around the NATO blocs increasing military presence in that country In particular largescale exercises and the Alliances plans to build military bases she said in a video commentary on the Telegram channel Pool OneAdditionally the presidents considered countering threats in Central Asia by member states of the CSTO the Collective Security Treaty Organization  TASS in the wake of the US forces pullout from AfghanistanThe presidents also touched upon security and defense issues counterterrorism efforts and cybersecurity The spokeswoman pointed out that Belarus and Russia had unified approach to those issuesIt is mutual support and agreement to join forces Eismont saidTagsUkraineVladimir PutinBelarusNATOAlexander Lukashenko
20210714
https://tass.com/world/1314049
MOSCOW, July 14. TASS. The presidents of Belarus and Russia, Alexander Lukashenko and Vladimir Putin, discussed NATOs increasing presence in Ukraine, Belarusian Presidential Spokeswoman Natalia Eismont said on Wednesday after the presidential talks in St. Petersburg.
The presidents also touched upon security and defense issues, counterterrorism efforts and cybersecurity. The spokeswoman pointed out that Belarus and Russia had unified approach to those issues.
"The international agenda is Western policy, particularly of the European Union and the United States, towards Belarus and Russia. Regarding Ukraine - on this issue, they focused on the situation around the NATO blocs increasing military presence in that country. In particular, large-scale exercises and the Alliances plans to build military bases," she said in a video commentary on the Telegram channel Pool One.
Additionally, the presidents considered "countering threats in Central Asia by member states of the CSTO the Collective Security Treaty Organization - TASS, in the wake of the US forces pullout from Afghanistan".
