Military operation in UkraineOver 446 tonnes of humanitarian aid delivered to DPR LPR southern UkraineSince March 2 a total of 583194 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes have already been delivered to Ukraine by RussiaMOSCOW August 22 TASS More than 446 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes were delivered to people in Ukraines south and in the Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR Mikhail Mizintsev chief of Russias National Defense Management Center said on MondaySix humanitarian operations were conducted in the Donetsk Peoples Republic and in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions during the past day A total of 4465 tonnes of humanitarian aid were distributed among people he saidAccording to Mizintsev who also heads the Russian Joint Coordination Headquarters for Humanitarian Response in Ukraine since March 2 a total of 583194 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes have already been delivered to Ukraine by Russia As many as 1489 humanitarian operations have been conductedHe also said that more than 60100 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes have been raised by Russias executive authorities jointly with Russian regions public organizations and patriotic movementsHe also said that six humanitarian operations were conducted in the Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics and in the Kharkov and Kherson regions on August 22 A total of 5114 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes were deliveredTagsMilitary operation in Ukraine
20220822
https://tass.com/defense/1496933
According to Mizintsev, who also heads the Russian Joint Coordination Headquarters for Humanitarian Response in Ukraine, since March 2, a total of 58,319.4 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes have already been delivered to Ukraine by Russia. As many as 1,489 humanitarian operations have been conducted.
MOSCOW, August 22. TASS. More than 446 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes were delivered to people in Ukraines south and in the Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR, Mikhail Mizintsev, chief of Russias National Defense Management Center, said on Monday.
He also said that six humanitarian operations were conducted in the Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics, and in the Kharkov and Kherson regions on August 22. A total of 511.4 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes were delivered.
"Six humanitarian operations were conducted in the Donetsk Peoples Republic, and in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions during the past day. A total of 446.5 tonnes of humanitarian aid were distributed among people," he said.
He also said that more than 60,100 tonnes of humanitarian cargoes have been raised by Russias executive authorities jointly with Russian regions, public organizations and patriotic movements.
