Military operation in UkraineAgreements on grain export no guarantee of resumption RussianUkrainian talks  politicianLeonid Slutsky pointed out that the Ukrainian side is set for antagonism and encouraged by the collective WestMOSCOW July 15 TASS Agreements on grain export are not linked with a possible resumption of talks between Russia and Ukraine the Ukrainian side continues to commit hideous atrocities Leonid Slutsky leader of Russias Liberal Democratic Party LDPR and a member of the Russian delegation to the talks with Ukraine said on FridayAccording to Slutsky the agreements on grain export are no guarantee the Moscow and Kiev will resume peace talks Hideous atrocities are being committed including against our prisoners of war This is what must be changed rather than talks on grain in Istanbul I dont rule out that they will ultimately have common sense but today they have none the LDPR faction quoted him as saying on its Telegram channelToday our so to say partners but in other words opponents in Kiev want to fight It is unreasonably it is incomprehensible it is perversive from a normal point of view said Slutsky who also head the international committee of the Russian State Duma lower parliament houseThey are encouraged by the collective West he noted They are set for antagonism They continue to hold nationalist positionsRussian Defense Ministry Spokesman Igor Konashenkov said earlier on Friday that participants in the meeting on the grain problem in Turkey had basically supported Russias proposals and the work of a final document would soon be finished He recalled that fourparty consultations between the United Nations Russia Turkey and Ukraine on the problem of unblocking Ukrainian ports for exporting agricultural products had been held in Istanbul onn July 13A source in the European External Action Service told journalists on Friday that an agreement between Russia Turkey and Ukraine on a naval corridor for exporting Ukrainian grain could be signed next weekTagsForeign policyMilitary operation in Ukraine
20220708
https://tass.com/politics/1480777
MOSCOW, July 15. TASS. Agreements on grain export are not linked with a possible resumption of talks between Russia and Ukraine, the Ukrainian side continues to commit hideous atrocities, Leonid Slutsky, leader of Russias Liberal Democratic Party LDPR and a member of the Russian delegation to the talks with Ukraine, said on Friday.
"They are encouraged by the collective West," he noted. "They are set for antagonism. They continue to hold nationalist positions."
"Today, our so to say partners, but, in other words, opponents in Kiev want to fight. It is unreasonably, it is incomprehensible, it is perversive from a normal point of view," said Slutsky, who also head the international committee of the Russian State Duma lower parliament house.
Russian Defense Ministry Spokesman Igor Konashenkov said earlier on Friday that participants in the meeting on the grain problem in Turkey had basically supported Russias proposals and the work of a final document would soon be finished. He recalled that four-party consultations between the United Nations, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine on the problem of unblocking Ukrainian ports for exporting agricultural products had been held in Istanbul onn July 13.
According to Slutsky, the agreements on grain export are no guarantee the Moscow and Kiev will resume peace talks. "Hideous atrocities are being committed, including against our prisoners of war. This is what must be changed, rather than talks on grain in Istanbul. I dont rule out that they will ultimately have common sense but today they have none," the LDPR faction quoted him as saying on its Telegram channel.
A source in the European External Action Service told journalists on Friday that an agreement between Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine on a naval corridor for exporting Ukrainian grain could be signed next week.
