No link between order of visits to Russia Ukraine and Western states positions  MFAHowever Maria Zakharova pointed out that Moscow sees the Elysee Palaces obvious attempt to make efforts so that the RussianFrench dialogue can go onMOSCOW February 9 TASS Russia does not associate the sequence of Western officials visits to Russia and Ukraine with any political signals or any positions of the Western states Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing on WednesdayWhen asked by a reporter to comment whether Moscow sees French President Emmanuel Macrons actions as an attempt to reestablish a dialogue with Russia since unlike German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock he first visited Russia and then Ukraine Zakharova said that it is not worth considering the issue in this contextWell prior to that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken traveled to the region visiting one country and not the other but he met with our minister Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov  TASS in Geneva It is the third configuration of the negotiation process No we definitely wont look at it that way the diplomat said As for the position of France and President Macron seeking to normalize relations with Russia you should have no doubts since at least there have been plenty of verbal statementsHowever Zakharova pointed out that Moscow sees the Elysee Palaces obvious attempt to make efforts so that the RussianFrench dialogue can go onOn Monday Russian President Vladimir Putin and his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron held lengthy talks in Moscow focusing on Ukraine The next day the French president visited Kiev After talks with Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky Macron plans to hold another round of talks with Putin over the phoneOn Monday Ukraine was also in the spotlight of US President Joe Bidens meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in WashingtonTagsForeign policyMaria Zakharova
20220209
https://tass.com/politics/1400565
On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin and his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron held lengthy talks in Moscow, focusing on Ukraine. The next day, the French president visited Kiev. After talks with Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky, Macron plans to hold another round of talks with Putin over the phone.
However, Zakharova pointed out that Moscow sees "the Elysee Palaces obvious attempt to make efforts so that the Russian-French dialogue can go on."
MOSCOW, February 9. TASS. Russia does not associate the sequence of Western officials visits to Russia and Ukraine with any political signals or any positions of the Western states, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing on Wednesday.
On Monday, Ukraine was also in the spotlight of US President Joe Bidens meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in Washington.
When asked by a reporter to comment whether Moscow sees French President Emmanuel Macrons actions as an attempt to re-establish a dialogue with Russia, since, unlike German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, he first visited Russia and then Ukraine, Zakharova said that "it is not worth considering the issue in this context."
"Well, prior to that, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken traveled to the region visiting one country and not the other, but he met with our minister Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov - TASS in Geneva. It is the third configuration of the negotiation process. No, we definitely wont look at it that way," the diplomat said. "As for the position of France and President Macron seeking to normalize relations with Russia, you should have no doubts since at least there have been plenty of verbal statements."
