Russian lawmaker calls it mistake to stay in Ukraine for those who desire EUEarlier Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky called it a huge mistake to stay in Donbass for citizens who considered themselves Russian since this would never be Russian territory MOSCOW August 5  TASS  Deputy Speaker of the Russian State Duma lower house Pyotr Tolstoy urged Ukrainian citizens who wanted to live in Europe to leave the country and look for a place in the EU stressing that Ukraines future was impossible without RussiaRead alsoKiev crosses red lines separating national policy from nationalism Russian diplomat saysTolstoy commented on the words of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky who called it a big mistake to stay in Donbass for citizens who considered themselves RussianIt seems to me that those who live in Ukraine idolize Europe and want this country to join the EU and NATO should understand exactly this will never happen to Ukraine And it is a huge mistake for them to stay in Ukraine if they do want to be in Europe the deputy speaker stated in his Telegram channel on ThursdayAccording to Tolstoy Ukraine in its current occupied cut off from Russia position has no prospects If one loves Europe believe that they were in Ukraine all their life but felt that it was an occupied part of AustriaHungary or just want to join the millionsstrong army of Ukrainian Europeans working as servants and nurses in the West one should understand that in the name of their children and grandchildren they need to go and find their place in the EU It would be right Because without Russia there will be no civilization in Ukraine the deputy speaker claimedTolstoy also urged those who believed that Ukraine was a part of Russian civilization and Kiev was the mother of Russian cities to hold on This territory will still be deoccupied in any case he assuredEarlier Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky called it a huge mistake to stay in Donbass for citizens who considered themselves Russian since this would never be Russian territory Ukraines leader made such a statement during an interview on the Dom TV channel on Thursday Zelensky also addressed Ukrainians in Donbass and expressed confidence that the region would return to Ukraine
20210805
https://tass.com/politics/1323081
Earlier, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky called it a huge mistake to stay in Donbass for citizens who considered themselves Russian since "this would never be Russian territory." Ukraines leader made such a statement during an interview on the Dom TV channel on Thursday. Zelensky also addressed Ukrainians in Donbass and expressed confidence that the region would return to Ukraine.
Tolstoy also urged those who believed that "Ukraine was a part of Russian civilization, and Kiev was the mother of Russian cities" to hold on. "This territory will still be de-occupied in any case," he assured.
"It seems to me that those who live in Ukraine, idolize Europe and want this country to join the EU and NATO should understand exactly: this will never happen to Ukraine. And it is a huge mistake for them to stay in Ukraine if they do want to be in Europe," the deputy speaker stated in his Telegram channel on Thursday.
Tolstoy commented on the words of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky, who called it a big mistake to stay in Donbass for citizens who considered themselves Russian.
MOSCOW, August 5.  TASS . Deputy Speaker of the Russian State Duma lower house Pyotr Tolstoy urged Ukrainian citizens, who wanted to live in Europe, to leave the country and "look for a place in the EU", stressing that Ukraines future was impossible without Russia.
According to Tolstoy, Ukraine in its current "occupied, cut off from Russia" position has no prospects. "If one loves Europe, believe that they were in Ukraine all their life but felt that it was an occupied part of Austria-Hungary or just want to join the millions-strong army of Ukrainian Europeans working as servants and nurses in the West, one should understand that in the name of their children and grandchildren they need to go and find their place in the EU. It would be right. Because without Russia, there will be no civilization in Ukraine," the deputy speaker claimed.
