Russian diplomat urges OSCE to respond to suppression of freedom of expression in UkraineRussian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova pointed out that Kievs steps which violate its commitments under a wide range of international agreements had not yet met an appropriate assessment by international institutionsMOSCOW July 17 TASS International institutions including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE should clearly respond to the blatant suppression of freedom of expression in Ukraine Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on her Telegram channel on Saturday commenting on OSCE Media Freedom Representative Teresa Ribeiros visit to UkraineAnd what is the outcome of the visit The world has never seen a meaningful analysis of the outrages taking place there There are just halftimid comments doctored hints and abstract wishes Zakharova saidThe diplomat pointed out that Kievs steps which violate its commitments under a wide range of international agreements had not yet met an appropriate assessment by international institutionsPerhaps the inadmissibility of this polity should be articulated more clearly It is not enough to simply wish success in finding the right methods to battle disinformation she stressed What is required is a timely complete and sincere response to the blatant practice of suppressing freedom of expression
20210717
https://tass.com/russia/1315039
"Perhaps, the inadmissibility of this polity should be articulated more clearly? It is not enough to simply wish success in finding the right methods to battle disinformation," she stressed. "What is required is a timely, complete and sincere response to the blatant practice of suppressing freedom of expression.".
"And what is the outcome of the visit? The world has never seen a meaningful analysis of the outrages taking place there. There are just half-timid comments, doctored hints, and abstract wishes," Zakharova said.
MOSCOW, July 17. TASS. International institutions, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE, should clearly respond to the blatant suppression of freedom of expression in Ukraine, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on her Telegram channel on Saturday, commenting on OSCE Media Freedom Representative Teresa Ribeiros visit to Ukraine.
The diplomat pointed out that Kievs steps, which violate its commitments under a wide range of international agreements, had not yet met an appropriate assessment by international institutions.
