RussiaHungary gas agreement does not violate anyones rights  KremlinThis is a longterm contract which will guarantee reliable predictable regular gas supplies to Hungary along guaranteed and economically profitable routes Dmitry Peskov notedRussian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov Mikhail MetzelTASSMOSCOW September 28 TASS The new longterm contract between Hungary and Russian company Gazprom for gas supplies to the country bypassing Ukraine does not violate anyones rights Kiev has no right to interfere in this aspect of bilateral relations between Moscow and Budapest Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on TuesdayThis is a longterm contract which will guarantee reliable predictable regular gas supplies to Hungary along guaranteed and economically profitable routes Nobodys rights are violated here No international trade norms are violated here Hardly any country including Ukraine has the right to interfere in this aspect of RussianHungarian relations Peskov saidEarlier on Tuesday spokesman for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Oleg Nikolenko said that transporting gas bypassing Ukraine undermines its national security as well as Europes energy security According to Peskov this does not require retaliatory actions from Moscow This is part of our bilateral relations with Hungary he saidOn Monday Hungary signed a new longterm contract with Gazprom to supply gas bypassing Ukraine Before the agreement was concluded Kiev announced its disappointment with the deal and promised to apply to the European Commission for an assessment of the deals compliance with European energy legislationTagsDmitry PeskovGazprom
20210928
https://tass.com/economy/1343255
Earlier on Tuesday, spokesman for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Oleg Nikolenko said that transporting gas bypassing Ukraine undermines its national security, as well as Europes energy security. According to Peskov, this "does not require retaliatory actions" from Moscow. "This is part of our bilateral relations with Hungary," he said.
MOSCOW, September 28. TASS. The new long-term contract between Hungary and Russian company Gazprom for gas supplies to the country bypassing Ukraine does not violate anyone's rights, Kiev has no right to interfere in this aspect of bilateral relations between Moscow and Budapest, Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Tuesday.
On Monday, Hungary signed a new long-term contract with Gazprom to supply gas bypassing Ukraine. Before the agreement was concluded, Kiev announced its disappointment with the deal and promised to apply to the European Commission for an assessment of the deals compliance with European energy legislation.
"This is a long-term contract, which will guarantee reliable, predictable, regular gas supplies to Hungary along guaranteed and economically profitable routes. Nobody's rights are violated here. No international trade norms are violated here. Hardly any country, including Ukraine, has the right to interfere in this aspect of Russian-Hungarian relations," Peskov said.
