Russias OSCE envoy says US UK arms supplies encourage Kiev to sabotage Minsk accordsHe said that since the beginning of 2022 at least 12 aircraft from the United States and Great Britain each two from Canada and one from Poland arrived in Ukraine delivering weapons and other military cargoesVIENNA February 10 TASS Russias envoy to the OSCE Alexander Lukashevich on Thursday said Ukraines foreign sponsors encourage Kiev to sabotage the Minsk accords by shipping weapons to the countryLukashevich the Russian permanent representative to OSCE said Ukraines foreign supporters should be helping to establish dialogue within Ukraine to move forward with the Minsk accords rather than invest in Ukraines militarizationRather than send political messages about the need to comply with the Minsk accords they started to send military funds equipment armaments and ammunition that some people in Ukraine are still using to kill other people in Ukraine he said in a speech at an OSCE council meeting They are pushing the hot heads toward a military solution of the Donbass issueHe said that since the beginning of 2022 at least 12 aircraft from the United States and Great Britain each two from Canada and one from Poland arrived in Ukraine delivering weapons and other military cargoes The US and Britain sent their instructors to train the Ukrainian military in using the missile systems grenade launchers and other weapons which have been supplied in urban areas Lukashevich said Theres a plan to send at least 100 more troops of the British special forces and 200 more people of the Canadian special operations forces he saidWhy is all that if the Kiev government insists they are not preparing for offensives or armed provocations Lukashevich said
20220210
https://tass.com/politics/1401295
Lukashevich, the Russian permanent representative to OSCE, said Ukraines foreign supporters should be helping to establish dialogue within Ukraine to move forward with the Minsk accords, rather than "invest in Ukraines militarization."
"Why is all that if the Kiev government insists they are not preparing for offensives or armed provocations?" Lukashevich said.
"Rather than send political messages about the need to comply with the Minsk accords, they started to send military funds, equipment, armaments and ammunition that some people in Ukraine are still using to kill other people in Ukraine," he said in a speech at an OSCE council meeting. "They are pushing the hot heads toward a military solution of the Donbass issue."
VIENNA, February 10. TASS. Russias envoy to the OSCE Alexander Lukashevich on Thursday said Ukraines "foreign sponsors" encourage Kiev to sabotage the Minsk accords by shipping weapons to the country.
He said that since the beginning of 2022, at least 12 aircraft from the United States and Great Britain each, two from Canada and one from Poland arrived in Ukraine delivering weapons and other military cargoes. The US and Britain sent their instructors to train the Ukrainian military in using the missile systems, grenade launchers and other weapons, which have been supplied, in urban areas, Lukashevich said. Theres a plan to send at least 100 more troops of the British special forces and 200 more people of the Canadian special operations forces, he said.
