Russia US have opportunity to continue dialogue this is most important Putin saysThe Russian leader noted that he discussed with Biden the issues of security NATOs Eastern expansion including Ukraine interaction in cyber sphere and the Iranian issueSOCHI December 8 TASS Russian President Vladimir Putin said his conversation with his US counterpart Joe Biden was open and constructiveThe conversation was very open detailed and I would say constructive In any case I hope that the American side has the same evaluation of the results of our meeting the Russian head of state said about his meeting with the American president at a press conference following talks with Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on WednesdayWe have an opportunity to continue this dialogue I think this is the most important thing Putin addedThe Russian leader noted that he discussed with Biden the issues of security NATOs Eastern expansion including Ukraine interaction in cyber sphere and the Iranian issue We talked about a number of other issues about normalizing diplomatic relations and so on In general indeed we talked for a rather long time in detail about all these subjects the Russian president said He noted that the conversation lasted over two hours although he didnt recall the exact timeTagsForeign policy
20211208
https://tass.com/politics/1372823
"The conversation was very open, detailed, and, I would say, constructive. In any case, I hope that the American side has the same evaluation of the results of our meeting," the Russian head of state said about his meeting with the American president at a press conference following talks with Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on Wednesday.
"We have an opportunity to continue this dialogue, I think, this is the most important thing," Putin added.
SOCHI, December 8. TASS. Russian President Vladimir Putin said his conversation with his US counterpart Joe Biden was open and constructive.
The Russian leader noted that he discussed with Biden the issues of security, NATOs Eastern expansion, including Ukraine, interaction in cyber sphere, and the Iranian issue. "We talked about a number of other issues, about normalizing diplomatic relations and so on. In general, indeed, we talked for a rather long time, in detail about all these subjects," the Russian president said. He noted that the conversation lasted "over two hours" although he didnt recall the exact time.
