Russias UN envoy rules out invasion of UkraineAccording to Nebenzya Russia does not rule out the possibility of provocations committed by the Ukrainian sideUNITED NATIONS January 31 TASS The option of invading Ukraine is not being considered by Russia Russian Permanent Representative to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya told reporters on MondayI can rule that invasion out he said answering to a reporters questionThe secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine Ukraines minister of defense Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky himself said the rhetoric about what is happening is scaling up the Russian diplomat continued I am not the person to decide whatever happens No Russian politician or even public figure ever said that we are planning to attack UkraineThe other thing is that we remember what happened in Georgia in 2008 when former President Mikhail Saakashvili gave a criminal order to strike South Ossetias capital Tskhinval with missiles Then he moved his troops there Our peacekeepers died civilians died and we had to react Nebenzya saidAccording to the diplomat Russia does not rule out the possibility of provocations committed by the Ukrainian sideWe do not exclude provocations from Ukrainians he said adding that the selfproclaimed eastern Ukrainian republics of Donetsk and Lugansk DPR and LPR said they had information that such provocations may happenDo you remember what happened in 2014 When we had Minsk1 Ukrainian forces started moving towards the republics Nebenzya continued We are trying to avoid that  Attempts to resolve the conflict by military means are totally unacceptableIn his words Russia is alarmed by the possibility of Western nations holding Russia responsible for Kievs provocationsI am concerned that this might be a scenario Even talking about an imminent war is a provocation by itself the envoy said
20220131
https://tass.com/politics/1395589
"The secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, Ukraines minister of defense, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky himself said the rhetoric about what is happening is scaling up," the Russian diplomat continued. "I am not the person to decide whatever happens. No Russian politician or even public figure ever said that we are planning to attack Ukraine."
UNITED NATIONS, January 31. TASS. The option of invading Ukraine is not being considered by Russia, Russian Permanent Representative to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya told reporters on Monday.
"We do not exclude provocations from Ukrainians," he said, adding that the self-proclaimed eastern Ukrainian republics of Donetsk and Lugansk DPR and LPR "said they had information that such provocations may happen."
In his words, Russia is alarmed by the possibility of Western nations holding Russia responsible for Kievs provocations.
According to the diplomat, Russia does not rule out the possibility of provocations committed by the Ukrainian side.
"The other thing is that we remember what happened in Georgia in 2008, when former President Mikhail Saakashvili gave a criminal order to strike South Ossetias capital Tskhinval with missiles. Then he moved his troops there. Our peacekeepers died, civilians died, and we had to react," Nebenzya said.
"I am concerned that this might be a scenario. Even talking about an imminent war is a provocation by itself," the envoy said.
"Do you remember what happened in 2014? When we had Minsk-1, Ukrainian forces started moving towards the republics," Nebenzya continued. "We are trying to avoid that.  Attempts to resolve the conflict by military means are totally unacceptable.
