Russia wont abide by PACE resolution on Crimea as it contradicts constitution  lawmakerThe resolution was adopted by PACE on Wednesday to follow up the report by Icelandic representative Sunna Aevarsdotti about the situation involving Crimean TatarsMOSCOW June 25 TASS The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe PACE on Crimea reaches the heights of absurdity Russia will not implement the document as it runs completely counter to the Russian constitution and national law Chairman of the Russian State Duma lower house of parliament Committee for Foreign Affairs Leonid Slutsky wrote on his Telegram channel on ThursdayPACE unfortunately stays true to its double standards The resolution that was adopted contains calls to use Ukrainian law in Crimea on Russian territory which is the peak of absurdity from the legal point of view primarily he notedAccording to him it is high time the assembly stopped rubberstamping decisions that Russia will not implement from the start because they contradict the Russian constitution and national law Maybe the mutual dialogue will be advanced from more constructive positions then Slutsky concludedThe resolution was adopted by PACE on Wednesday to follow up the report by Icelandic representative Sunna Aevarsdotti about the situation involving Crimean Tatars The document emphasizes that Russia should not apply its law in Crimes particularly in the sphere of terrorism and extremism and recommends using Ukrainian laws
20210625
https://tass.com/russia/1307055
The resolution was adopted by PACE on Wednesday to follow up the report by Icelandic representative Sunna Aevarsdotti about the situation involving Crimean Tatars. The document emphasizes that Russia should not apply its law in Crimes, particularly in the sphere of terrorism and extremism and recommends using Ukrainian laws.
"PACE unfortunately stays true to its double standards. The resolution that was adopted contains calls to use Ukrainian law in Crimea on Russian territory!!! which is the peak of absurdity from the legal point of view primarily," he noted.
According to him, "it is high time the assembly stopped rubberstamping decisions that Russia will not implement from the start because they contradict the Russian constitution and national law." "Maybe the mutual dialogue will be advanced from more constructive positions then," Slutsky concluded.
MOSCOW, June 25. TASS. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe PACE on Crimea reaches the heights of absurdity, Russia will not implement the document as it runs completely counter to the Russian constitution and national law, Chairman of the Russian State Duma lower house of parliament Committee for Foreign Affairs Leonid Slutsky wrote on his Telegram channel on Thursday.
