Russia remains open to equal security dialogue with West diplomat saysOn December 17 the Russian Foreign Ministry released draft agreements on the security guarantees that Moscow expects to receive from Washington and NATOMOSCOW February 4 TASS Russia is open to dialogue with the West provided that it is equal and both parties concerns are taken into account Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing on FridayWe are open to dialogue per se It should be equal and the interests and concerns of both parties should be taken into account This idea was not developed especially for NATO this is our position and then again its not knowhow it is reflected in the international legal agreements that we view as crucial first and foremost in the UN Charter Zakharova notedAt the same time she pointed out that NATO remained focused on containing Russia The alliance has made it perfectly clear that containing Russia is a priority It impacts military buildup plans drills and the construction of infrastructure facilities as well as the organizations cooperation programs with its partners the diplomat addedOn December 17 the Russian Foreign Ministry released draft agreements on the security guarantees that Moscow expects to receive from Washington and NATO Consultations on the issue took place in Geneva on January 10 followed by a meeting of the RussiaNATO Council in Brussels on January 12 and a session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE Permanent Council in Vienna on January 13 The United States and NATO handed their written responses to Russias security proposals over to Moscow on January 26 Russian President Vladimir Putin said on February 1 that the US and NATO had failed to take Russias key demands into accountTagsForeign policyMaria Zakharova
20220204
https://tass.com/politics/1398205
On December 17, the Russian Foreign Ministry released draft agreements on the security guarantees that Moscow expects to receive from Washington and NATO. Consultations on the issue took place in Geneva on January 10, followed by a meeting of the Russia-NATO Council in Brussels on January 12 and a session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE Permanent Council in Vienna on January 13. The United States and NATO handed their written responses to Russias security proposals over to Moscow on January 26. Russian President Vladimir Putin said on February 1 that the US and NATO had failed to take Russias key demands into account.
At the same time, she pointed out that NATO remained focused on containing Russia. "The alliance has made it perfectly clear that containing Russia is a priority. It impacts military build-up plans, drills, and the construction of infrastructure facilities, as well as the organizations cooperation programs with its partners," the diplomat added.
MOSCOW, February 4. TASS. Russia is open to dialogue with the West provided that it is equal and both parties concerns are taken into account, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing on Friday.
"We are open to dialogue per se. It should be equal and the interests and concerns of both parties should be taken into account. This idea was not developed especially for NATO, this is our position, and then again, its not know-how, it is reflected in the international legal agreements that we view as crucial, first and foremost, in the UN Charter," Zakharova noted.
