Russias envoy to EU rejects possibility of Ukrainian invasion on Wednesday  TVCommenting on claims of alleged invasion into Ukraine Vladimir Chizhov stressed that such reports were not backed by any evidenceMOSCOW February 16 TASS Russian Permanent Representative to the European Union Vladimir Chizhov said in an interview with Germanys WELT TV that Russia has no plans of invading the territory of Ukraine on WednesdayI can assure that there will be no attack this Wednesday No escalation on the Ukrainian border is projected next week or a week later or next month the ambassador said Wars in Europe rarely begin on WednesdayCommenting on claims of alleged invasion into Ukraine the Russian diplomat stressed that such reports were not backed by any evidenceWhen you are making such claims  very serious claims against Russia in particular  you must back them up with evidence Otherwise they are nothing but libel he saidAt the same time the diplomat once again called upon Western nations to take security issues including those outlined by Moscow seriouslyIf our partners listen to our concerns the deescalation process will follow quickly It would be beneficial for all Europeans  and for all other nations all over the world he saidConcerns over Moscows alleged preparations for an invasion into Ukraine became more and more frequent in the West and in Kiev recently Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov castigated these statements as an empty and groundless escalation of tension emphasizing that Russia posed no threat to anyone At the same time the Kremlin press secretary did not rule out possible provocations to justify such claims and warned that the attempts to resolve the Ukrainian conflict by force would carry extremely serious consequencesTagsVladimir Chizhov
20220216
https://tass.com/politics/1404061
"If our partners listen to our concerns, the de-escalation process will follow quickly. It would be beneficial for all Europeans  and for all other nations all over the world," he said.
MOSCOW, February 16. TASS. Russian Permanent Representative to the European Union Vladimir Chizhov said in an interview with Germanys WELT TV that Russia has no plans of invading the territory of Ukraine on Wednesday.
"I can assure that there will be no attack this Wednesday. No escalation on the Ukrainian border is projected next week, or a week later, or next month," the ambassador said. "Wars in Europe rarely begin on Wednesday."
At the same time, the diplomat once again called upon Western nations to take security issues, including those outlined by Moscow, seriously.
Concerns over Moscows alleged preparations for an invasion into Ukraine became more and more frequent in the West and in Kiev recently. Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov castigated these statements as an empty and groundless escalation of tension, emphasizing that Russia posed no threat to anyone. At the same time, the Kremlin press secretary did not rule out possible provocations to justify such claims and warned that the attempts to resolve the Ukrainian conflict by force would carry extremely serious consequences.
Commenting on claims of alleged invasion into Ukraine, the Russian diplomat stressed that such reports were not backed by any evidence.
"When you are making such claims - very serious claims against Russia in particular - you must back them up with evidence. Otherwise, they are nothing but libel," he said.
