Schroeder rules out severing of relations with Russian leader over UkraineThe former Chancellor noted that in Germany he was being rebuked for close ties with RussiaBERLIN August 3 TASS Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder served from 1998 till 2005 has ruled out the severing of relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin against the backdrop of the current events in Ukraine He was speaking in an interview with Stern magazine published on WednesdayAt the same time Schroeder recalled that he had repeatedly criticized what was happening in Ukraine But will personal distancing from Vladimir Putin benefit anyone he asked Do I have to jump over every stick they put in my way Im not like that Ive made decisions and I stand by them Ive made it clear that I can be useful again So why should I apologize Schroeder saidAt the same time he remarked that he was receiving many letters from Germany saying Its good that there still is someone who maintains open channels of communication with Russia in the context of the current conflict Schroeder also said he was impressed by the possible economic sanctions the European Union might impose on him but added that there are still judges in Germany who can ensure that it doesnt come to thatAsked if the sanctions could limit his economic activities and whether he would go financially incapable soon Schroeder said I dont know But apart from the bank account Sparkasse in Hannover I still dont have any accounts and it can be controlled In conclusion he recalled that he had quit his seat on the supervisory board of the Russian company Rosneft and rejected the offer of a lucrative position at Gazprom I wanted to protect my family What they are doing in their attempts to impose sanctions is beyond imagination Schroeder concludedIn Germany Schroeder is being rebuked for close ties with Russia Earlier the budget committee of the Bundestag approved the ruling parties demand for stripping the exchancellor of some of his privileges which in accordance with the law are financed with taxpayers money The Schroeder Bureau will no longer be financed from the budget and the payment of salaries to its employees will stop At the same time the exchancellors monthly pension which all former heads of government are entitled to remains So does the right to personal bodyguardsAbout Schroeders trip to MoscowEarlier Der Spiegel magazine cited sources as saying that Schroeder had arrived in Moscow for energy policy talks According to the sources gas supplies via the Nord Stream pipeline will be central to the negotiations in Moscow At the same time Der Spiegel says it remains unclear with whom exactly the former German chancellor will meet in the Russian capitalSchroeders wife Seo Yeon SchroederKim confirmed to the magazine that the purpose of his visit is to negotiate energy At the same time the exchancellor told reporters in Moscow that he was on vacationHe is not on vacation he is negotiating energy policies in Moscow SoYong KimSchroeder said in turn Later in an interview with Stern Schroeder claimed that he had met with Russian President Vladimir Putin during his visit to MoscowLast time the former German chancellor officially visited Moscow in March for talks with Putin on the situation in Ukraine Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that Schroeder as far as the Kremlin knows is in Moscow Meetings with the Russian leader he said are not yet scheduled but contacts are not ruled outThe Kremlin spokesman also said that now Putin and Schroeder maintain contacts less actively than during his tenure as Germanys chancellorTagsForeign policy
20220803
https://tass.com/politics/1488711
The Kremlin spokesman also said that now Putin and Schroeder maintain contacts "less actively" than during his tenure as Germanys chancellor.
At the same time, he remarked that he was receiving many letters from Germany saying: "It's good that there still is someone who maintains open channels of communication with Russia in the context of the current conflict." Schroeder also said he was impressed by the possible economic sanctions the European Union might impose on him, but added that "there are still judges in Germany who can ensure that it doesn't come to that."
"He is not on vacation, he is negotiating energy policies in Moscow," So-Yong Kim-Schroeder said in turn. Later, in an interview with Stern, Schroeder claimed that he had met with Russian President Vladimir Putin during his visit to Moscow.
Asked if the sanctions could limit his economic activities and whether he would go financially incapable soon, Schroeder said: "I don't know. But apart from the bank account Sparkasse in Hannover, I still don't have any accounts and it can be controlled." In conclusion, he recalled that he had quit his seat on the supervisory board of the Russian company Rosneft and rejected the offer of a lucrative position at Gazprom. "I wanted to protect my family. What they are doing in their attempts to impose sanctions is beyond imagination," Schroeder concluded.
Last time the former German chancellor officially visited Moscow in March for talks with Putin on the situation in Ukraine. Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that Schroeder, as far as the Kremlin knows, is in Moscow. Meetings with the Russian leader, he said, are not yet scheduled, but contacts are not ruled out.
At the same time, Schroeder recalled that he had repeatedly criticized what was happening in Ukraine. "But will personal distancing from Vladimir Putin benefit anyone?" he asked. "Do I have to jump over every stick they put in my way? I'm not like that. I've made decisions and I stand by them. I've made it clear that I can be useful again. So why should I apologize?" Schroeder said.
Earlier, Der Spiegel magazine cited sources as saying that Schroeder had arrived in Moscow for energy policy talks. According to the sources, gas supplies via the Nord Stream pipeline will be central to the negotiations in Moscow. At the same time, Der Spiegel says, it remains unclear with whom exactly the former German chancellor will meet in the Russian capital.
BERLIN, August 3. TASS. Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder served from 1998 till 2005 has ruled out the severing of relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin against the backdrop of the current events in Ukraine. He was speaking in an interview with Stern magazine published on Wednesday.
In Germany, Schroeder is being rebuked for close ties with Russia. Earlier, the budget committee of the Bundestag approved the ruling parties demand for stripping the ex-chancellor of some of his privileges, which, in accordance with the law, are financed with taxpayers money. The Schroeder Bureau will no longer be financed from the budget and the payment of salaries to its employees will stop. At the same time, the ex-chancellor's monthly pension, which all former heads of government are entitled to remains. So does the right to personal bodyguards.
Schroeder's wife Seo Yeon Schroeder-Kim confirmed to the magazine that the purpose of his visit is to negotiate energy. At the same time, the ex-chancellor told reporters in Moscow that he was "on vacation."
