Some 16000 Russian citizens in Donbass filed application to join United Russia partyUp to date there are about 16000 such applicationsDONETSK February 1 TASS About 16000 residents of Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics with Russian citizenship filed their applications to join the United Russia political party says Viktor Vodolatsky First Deputy Chairman of Russian State Duma Committee on CIS Affairs Eurasian Integration and communication with compatriotsDonbass residents want to participate in Russias political life Since weve passed the first stage elected the State Duma deputies now the State Duma deputies must among other things work for their voters And the voters want to join the party Therefore there is a huge number of applications in the Rostov office of the United Russia party filed by Russian citizens living in Donbass who want to become party members There are about 16000 such applications today he told the Donetsk News AgencyVodolatsky also informed that in the upcoming days he will have a business trip to the Lugansk Peoples Republic which will receive 860 party membership IDs which will increase the number of party members to about 1000Previously United Russia simplified the admission procedure for Donbass residents with Russian citizenship now the applicants are being admitted immediately without the sixmonth supporter statusThe Unite Russia started receiving applications in DPR and LPR in midJuly last year In late November the first 100 Russian citizens living in Donbass received their party membership IDsOn April 24 2019 Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the decree that makes it possible for Donbass residents to obtain Russian citizenship under a simplified procedure One year later the President canceled the state fee for the issue of a Russian passport In September 2021 Donbass residents with Russian citizenship were able to vote in Russian parliamentary elections for the first time
20220201
https://tass.com/politics/1395849
On April 24, 2019, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the decree that makes it possible for Donbass residents to obtain Russian citizenship under a simplified procedure. One year later, the President canceled the state fee for the issue of a Russian passport. In September 2021, Donbass residents with Russian citizenship were able to vote in Russian parliamentary elections for the first time.
The Unite Russia started receiving applications in DPR and LPR in mid-July last year. In late November, the first 100 Russian citizens living in Donbass received their party membership IDs.
"Donbass residents want to participate in Russias political life. Since weve passed the first stage elected the State Duma deputies now the State Duma deputies must, among other things, work for their voters. And the voters want to join the party. Therefore, there is a huge number of applications in the Rostov office of the United Russia party, filed by Russian citizens living in Donbass, who want to become party members. There are about 16,000 such applications today," he told the Donetsk News Agency.
DONETSK, February 1. TASS. About 16,000 residents of Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics with Russian citizenship filed their applications to join the United Russia political party, says Viktor Vodolatsky, First Deputy Chairman of Russian State Duma Committee on CIS Affairs, Eurasian Integration and communication with compatriots
Previously, United Russia simplified the admission procedure for Donbass residents with Russian citizenship now, the applicants are being admitted immediately, without the six-month supporter status.
Vodolatsky also informed that, in the upcoming days, he will have a business trip to the Lugansk Peoples Republic, which will receive 860 party membership IDs, which will increase the number of party members to about 1,000.
