Ukraine crisisUkrainian President vows strong response to assassination attempt of his aideVladimir Zelensky noted that he didnt know yet what kind of forces could be behind the incidentKIEV September 22 TASS President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky promised a strong response to the assassination attempt on his aide Sergey Shefir He also stressed that this incident will not affect the course of his fight with influential financial groups in his countryZelensky is now in New York where he participating in the UN General AssemblyIt is believed that it was an assassination attempt and after speaking at the UN General Assembly I will immediately go to the capital of Ukraine he said on Wednesday in a video address to the Ukrainian publicWho is behind this  Ill be frank  I dont know yet and what kind of forces there can be  internal or external But I dont consider them forces because it is a weakness to send me greetings with a shot from the forest at my friends car But the response will be strong he stressed The President also assured that the incident does not affect the strength of his teamIt does not affect the course that I have chosen with my team to change to bring our economy from the shade to fight against criminals large influential financial groups because it is the people of Ukraine who gave me this mandate for change he concludedEarlier on Wednesday there was an attempt on the life of the Ukrainian presidents first aide Sergey Shefir While he was not harmed in the incident his driver suffered gunshot woundsAccording to the Ukrainian media resource Stranas sources the driver is in intensive care in a serious conditionAccording to the Interior Ministry 18 shots were fired in totalUkraines ProsecutorGeneral Irina Venediktova said on her Facebook page that criminal proceedings had been launched over an attempted murder of two or more personsShefir is regarded as a longstanding friend of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky According to media reports he is responsible for drafting the head of states daily schedule He is the founder and director of the show business studio Kvartal95TagsUkraine crisis
20210922
https://tass.com/world/1341089
Earlier on Wednesday there was an attempt on the life of the Ukrainian president's first aide, Sergey Shefir. While he was not harmed in the incident, his driver suffered gunshot wounds.
Ukraine's Prosecutor-General Irina Venediktova said on her Facebook page that criminal proceedings had been launched over an "attempted murder of two or more persons."
"Who is behind this - Ill be frank - I dont know yet, and what kind of forces there can be - internal or external. But I dont consider them forces, because it is a weakness to send me greetings with a shot from the forest at my friends car. But the response will be strong," he stressed. The President also assured that the incident "does not affect the strength of his team."
"It is believed that it was an assassination attempt, and after speaking at the UN General Assembly, I will immediately go to the capital of Ukraine," he said on Wednesday in a video address to the Ukrainian public.
According to the Ukrainian media resource Strana's sources, the driver is in intensive care in a serious condition.
KIEV, September 22. TASS. President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky promised a "strong response" to the assassination attempt on his aide Sergey Shefir. He also stressed that this incident will not affect the course of his fight with influential financial groups in his country.
"It does not affect the course that I have chosen with my team to change, to bring our economy from the shade, to fight against criminals, large influential financial groups because it is the people of Ukraine who gave me this mandate for change," he concluded.
Shefir is regarded as a long-standing friend of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky. According to media reports, he is responsible for drafting the head of state's daily schedule. He is the founder and director of the show business studio Kvartal-95.
