Ukraine was prepared to join association of countries in Eurasian spaceVladimir Putin recalled that Kazakhstans first president Nursultan Nazarbayev was the brainfather of such an associationNOVOOGARYOVO December 10 TASS Ukraine did express the intention to join an association of countries in the Eurasian space when such plans were still being discussed Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a videoconference of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council on FridayPutin recalled that Kazakhstans first president Nursultan Nazarbayev was the brainfather of such an associationI remember well his telephone call when he asked a number of fundamental questions about Russias vision of its priorities in the near future Putin said We agreed that both Kazakhstan and Russia would attach priority to creating an integration association which we had discussed before and which Belarus and incidentally Ukraine were ready to join thenRegarding Ukraine it did not work although its leaders at that time expressed certain intentions Whatever the case Kazakhstans first president gave this process an impetus and today we feel that it was an absolutely correct thing to do Putin saidHe joined his voice to a chorus of thanks to the authorities of Kazakhstan for the work done during Kazakhstans EAEU presidency in 2021The Eurasian Economic Union is an international economic integration organization incorporating Russia Armenia Belarus Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan Moldova Uzbekistan and Cuba enjoy the status of observers The EAEUs highest supranational body is the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council The Eurasian Economic Commission is the permanent supranational regulatory body The leaders of the EAEUs membercountries participate in the Supreme Eurasian Economic Councils meetingsTagsEurasian Economic Union
20211210
https://tass.com/economy/1374027
He joined his voice to a chorus of thanks to the authorities of Kazakhstan for the work done during Kazakhstans EAEU presidency in 2021.
"I remember well his telephone call, when he asked a number of fundamental questions about Russias vision of its priorities in the near future," Putin said. "We agreed that both Kazakhstan and Russia would attach priority to creating an integration association, which we had discussed before and which Belarus and, incidentally, Ukraine were ready to join then."
The Eurasian Economic Union is an international economic integration organization incorporating Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. Moldova, Uzbekistan and Cuba enjoy the status of observers. The EAEUs highest supra-national body is the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council. The Eurasian Economic Commission is the permanent supra-national regulatory body. The leaders of the EAEUs member-countries participate in the Supreme Eurasian Economic Councils meetings.
NOVO-OGARYOVO, December 10. TASS. Ukraine did express the intention to join an association of countries in the Eurasian space when such plans were still being discussed, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a videoconference of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council on Friday.
"Regarding Ukraine it did not work, although its leaders at that time expressed certain intentions. Whatever the case, Kazakhstans first president gave this process an impetus, and today we feel that it was an absolutely correct thing to do," Putin said.
Putin recalled that Kazakhstans first president Nursultan Nazarbayev was the brain-father of such an association.
