Ukrainian opposition politician says Kievs offer to increase gas transit is belatedThe fact that today Mr Zelensky suggested gas pumping via our pipe be increased by 50 is an absolutely right decision but the question is whom it is addressed to Viktor Medvedchuk saidKIEV October 24 TASS Kievs offer to increase discounted gas transit is right but belated Viktor Medvedchuk leader of the Opposition Platform For Life party said in an interview posted on the partys website on SundayThis offer is somewhat belated Moreover I think it cannot be negotiated because today Russia is obviously interested in commissioning Nord Stream 2 rather than in increasing gas transit via Ukraines gas transport system he saidThe fact that today Mr Zelensky suggested gas pumping via our pipe be increased by 50 is an absolutely right decision But the question is whom it is addressed to If it is addressed to Europeans they cannot do it If it is addressed to Russians they should accept it But I dont know if the do it or not he said adding that Ukraines gas transport system may turn into a museum of metal scrap any minute and its future depends on talks with the Russian sideUkrainian President Vladimir Zelensky told Bloomberg on October 22 that Ukraine offered Russias Gazprom and other potential gas suppliers a 50 discount for gas transit to Europe exceeding 40 billion cubic meters a year envisaged by the contract He said that Ukraine guarantees special anticrisis transit terms for such supplies It was confirmed on Sunday by Ukraines Naftogaz CEO Yuri VitrenkoIn late December 2019 Naftogaz and Gazprom signed a fiveyear gas transit contract under ship or pay terms Under the contract the minimal pumping volume is 65 billion cubic meters during the first year and 40 billion cubic meters a year in the following years
20211024
https://tass.com/economy/1353491
KIEV, October 24. TASS. Kievs offer to increase discounted gas transit is right but belated, Viktor Medvedchuk, leader of the Opposition Platform For Life party, said in an interview posted on the partys website on Sunday.
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky told Bloomberg on October 22 that Ukraine offered Russias Gazprom and other potential gas suppliers a 50 discount for gas transit to Europe exceeding 40 billion cubic meters a year envisaged by the contract. He said that Ukraine guarantees special anti-crisis transit terms for such supplies. It was confirmed on Sunday by Ukraines Naftogaz CEO Yuri Vitrenko.
"The fact that today Mr. Zelensky suggested gas pumping via our pipe be increased by 50 is an absolutely right decision. But the question is whom it is addressed to. If it is addressed to Europeans, they cannot do it. If it is addressed to Russians, they should accept it. But I dont know if the do it or not," he said, adding that Ukraines gas transport system may turn into "a museum of metal scrap any minute" and its future depends on talks with the Russian side.
"This offer is somewhat belated. Moreover, I think it cannot be negotiated because today Russia is obviously interested in commissioning Nord Stream 2 rather than in increasing gas transit via Ukraines gas transport system," he said.
In late December 2019, Naftogaz and Gazprom signed a five-year gas transit contract under ship or pay terms. Under the contract, the minimal pumping volume is 65 billion cubic meters during the first year and 40 billion cubic meters a year in the following years.
