Ukraine suffers 5 bln losses due to untimely purchases of gas  former PMUkraine has one of Europes largest underground gas storage facilities and could have pumped gas into them in advance he said AP PhotoJoerg SarbachKIEV October 16 TASS The current Ukrainian government should be hold accountable as it failed to buy gas at a lower price and is currently overpaying former Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk said on Ukraine24 television channel on Saturday adding that the country was facing 5 billion lossesNow 5 billion will be pulled out of the pockets of Ukrainians  just think about this figure  5 billion These are losses of the state and the staterun company Naftogaz because when gas should have been bought at 250 per 1000 cubic meters they did not buy it and now we have to buy it at 1200 per 1000 cubic meters 5 billion is equal to annual defense spending Yatsenyuk saidThe former prime minister recalled that Ukraine has one of Europes largest underground gas storage facilities and could have pumped gas into them in advanceHow could we hedge against paying Russia almost 2000 per 1000 cubic meters of gas The key formula was to buy gas when it cost 250 per 1000 cubic meters Not everyone could have afforded that since not everyone has gas storage facilities But Ukraine has one of the biggest gas storage facilities in Europe and Naftogaz used to have 2 billion in its accounts This money could have been used to buy enough gas and pump it into storage facilities he said with confidenceYatsenyuk believes that gas prices were soaring because of a speculation arranged by Russias Gazprom but points out that Ukraines current authorities should be held accountable for this situationUkraines current authorities are personally responsible for this he is convincedIn November 2015 Kiev stopped buying Russian gas directly and substituted it by what is known as virtual reverse flows from Europe which had a negative impact on tariffs for Ukrainian consumers Ukraine refused to resume direct purchases of gas from Russia at a reduced price under the 2019 agreement reached by Viktor Medvedchuk leader of the Opposition Platform  For Life party At that time Russia was ready to sell Ukraine gas at a fixed price of 175 per 1000 cubic meters Ukraine has faced a gas crisis after Russia had completed the construction of the Nord Stream2 gas pipeline and after energy prices skyrocketed in Europe
20211016
https://tass.com/world/1350463
"Now, $5 billion will be pulled out of the pockets of Ukrainians - just think about this figure - $5 billion. These are losses of the state and the state-run company Naftogaz, because when gas should have been bought at $250 per 1,000 cubic meters, they did not buy it, and now we have to buy it at $1,200 per 1,000 cubic meters. $5 billion is equal to annual defense spending," Yatsenyuk said.
"How could we hedge against paying Russia almost $2,000 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas? The key formula was to buy gas when it cost $250 per 1,000 cubic meters. Not everyone could have afforded that, since not everyone has gas storage facilities. But Ukraine has one of the biggest gas storage facilities in Europe and Naftogaz used to have $2 billion in its accounts. This money could have been used to buy enough gas and pump it into storage facilities," he said with confidence.
KIEV, October 16. TASS. The current Ukrainian government should be hold accountable as it failed to buy gas at a lower price and is currently overpaying, former Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk said on Ukraine-24 television channel on Saturday, adding that the country was facing $5 billion losses.
The former prime minister recalled that Ukraine has one of Europes largest underground gas storage facilities and could have pumped gas into them in advance.
Yatsenyuk believes that gas prices were soaring "because of a speculation arranged by Russias Gazprom", but points out that Ukraines current authorities should be held accountable for this situation.
In November 2015, Kiev stopped buying Russian gas directly and substituted it by what is known as virtual reverse flows from Europe, which had a negative impact on tariffs for Ukrainian consumers. Ukraine refused to resume direct purchases of gas from Russia at a reduced price, under the 2019 agreement reached by Viktor Medvedchuk, leader of the Opposition Platform - For Life party. At that time, Russia was ready to sell Ukraine gas at a fixed price of $175 per 1,000 cubic meters. Ukraine has faced a gas crisis after Russia had completed the construction of the Nord Stream-2 gas pipeline and after energy prices skyrocketed in Europe.
