Ukraine crisisUpdated atMoscow expects Red Cross to assist in releasing Russian sailors held by KievIt is noted that more than 60 Russian sailors on merchant vessels in Izmail have been in this situation for almost six monthsMOSCOW August 18 TASS Russia expects that the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC will take specific steps on releasing over 60 Russian sailors illegally held for about six months on merchant vessels in Izmail in the Odessa Region Ivan Nechayev Deputy Director of the Russian Foreign Ministrys Information and Press Department told a briefing on ThursdayWe want to highlight the cases where Russian citizens were illegally detained on Ukrainian soil More than 60 Russian sailors on merchant vessels in Izmail have been in this situation for almost six months Despite our repeated appeals Kiev is holding them hostage apparently considering them as an exchange pool he saidThe diplomat stressed that Russia presented this issue to the ICRCs leadership We are anticipating specific steps from them on releasing the sailors he notedHe also said that Kievs illegal detention of the Russian sailors is comparable to terrorists actionsAs Russian Human Rights Commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova reported in May Russian civilian sailors had been held at ship repair plants in Izmail in southern Ukraine since February without being allowed to leave their vessels On July 30 the ombudswoman wrote on her Telegram channel that seven female crewmembers returned to Russia Another 67 Russian sailors remain in UkraineEarlier Russian Permanent Representative to the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva Gennady Gatilov reported that Russia had sent diplomatic notes to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and ICRC President Peter Maurer over the forcible detention of 67 Russian civilian sailors by the Kiev regime in IzmailTagsUkraine crisis
20220818
https://tass.com/world/1495393
As Russian Human Rights Commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova reported in May, Russian civilian sailors had been held at ship repair plants in Izmail in southern Ukraine since February without being allowed to leave their vessels. On July 30, the ombudswoman wrote on her Telegram channel that seven female crewmembers returned to Russia. Another 67 Russian sailors remain in Ukraine.
"We want to highlight the cases where Russian citizens were illegally detained on Ukrainian soil. More than 60 Russian sailors on merchant vessels in Izmail have been in this situation for almost six months. Despite our repeated appeals, Kiev is holding them hostage, apparently, considering them as an exchange pool," he said.
The diplomat stressed that Russia presented this issue to the ICRCs leadership. "We are anticipating specific steps from them on releasing the sailors," he noted.
MOSCOW, August 18. TASS. Russia expects that the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC will take specific steps on releasing over 60 Russian sailors, illegally held for about six months on merchant vessels in Izmail in the Odessa Region, Ivan Nechayev, Deputy Director of the Russian Foreign Ministry's Information and Press Department, told a briefing on Thursday.
Earlier, Russian Permanent Representative to the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva Gennady Gatilov reported that Russia had sent diplomatic notes to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and ICRC President Peter Maurer over the forcible detention of 67 Russian civilian sailors by the Kiev regime in Izmail.
He also said that Kievs illegal detention of the Russian sailors is comparable to terrorists actions.
