Ukraine crisisDPR may request Russias assistance if Donbass situation deteriorates  republics headThe DPR forces are on high alert Denis Pushilin stressed adding that the Ukrainian armys personnel and military hardware were being amassed at the engagement line on a large scaleMOSCOW December 2 TASS The selfproclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR may request Russias assistance if fullblown combat operations erupt in Donbass DPR Head Denis Pushilin said on ThursdayWe will act depending on the situation Beyond any doubt we count on our own forces but considering that Ukraine is increasingly engaging external forces  and we clearly see this process  I do not rule out this move Pushilin said in a live broadcast on the Rossiya24 TV channel replying to a question about the probability of requesting Russias assistanceThe DPR forces are on high alert he stressed adding that the Ukrainian armys personnel and military hardware were being amassed at the engagement line on a large scaleOf course we have no right to sit idle and observe what Ukraine is doing and that is why we are now on high alert he addedUkraine is also using Turkish Bayraktar drones for reconnaissance purposes the DPR head said This is quite a serious challenge for us and for the LPR Lugansk Peoples Republic because this is very complex equipment Bayraktars are observing the situation in the DPR and the LPR actually every day We are registering all these instances and see all this but the drones are still operating at a safe distance for them Pushilin explainedIt is also necessary to take into account crisis developments underway on the Ukrainian track  the political crisis the crisis in the energy sector and of course external pressure being exerted on Kiev Finally this may result in a very serious escalation up to a fullblown military clash the DPR head saidTagsUkraine crisis
20211202
https://tass.com/world/1369881
"It is also necessary to take into account crisis developments underway on the Ukrainian track - the political crisis, the crisis in the energy sector and, of course, external pressure being exerted on Kiev. Finally, this may result in a very serious escalation, up to a full-blown military clash," the DPR head said.
"We will act depending on the situation. Beyond any doubt, we count on our own forces but considering that Ukraine is increasingly engaging external forces - and we clearly see this process - I do not rule out this move," Pushilin said in a live broadcast on the Rossiya-24 TV channel, replying to a question about the probability of requesting Russias assistance.
Ukraine is also using Turkish Bayraktar drones for reconnaissance purposes, the DPR head said. "This is quite a serious challenge for us and for the LPR Lugansk Peoples Republic because this is very complex equipment. Bayraktars are observing the situation in the DPR and the LPR actually every day. We are registering all these instances and see all this but the drones are still operating at a safe distance for them," Pushilin explained.
"Of course, we have no right to sit idle and observe what Ukraine is doing and that is why we are now on high alert," he added.
MOSCOW, December 2. TASS. The self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR may request Russias assistance if full-blown combat operations erupt in Donbass, DPR Head Denis Pushilin said on Thursday.
The DPR forces are on high alert, he stressed, adding that the Ukrainian armys personnel and military hardware were being amassed at the engagement line on a large scale.
