Ukraine crisisOSCE report on media freedom in Ukraine based on Kievs own data  diplomatAs it turns out OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmid is unaware that three Russianspeaking TV channels have been shut down in Ukraine Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman notedMOSCOW June 21 TASS OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmids unawareness about the shutdown of the Russianspeaking TV channels in Ukraine may indicate that OSCE bases its reports about the media in this country on Kievs official data Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said MondayRead alsoEUs treatment of Russian media deserves a separate discussion at OSCE says LavrovAs it turns out OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmid is unaware that three Russianspeaking TV channels have been shut down in Ukraine She said so during the press conference in Moscow the diplomat said in her Telegram channel How so Does OSCE not read the news We assumed such a development and we sent materials via our mission in Vienna To make sure they received itIn this regard Zakharova wondered how OSCE monitors the situation in Ukraine writes reports and makes conclusions about the freedom of speechIt does it the same way it watches over Crimea Apparently based on the patients own words as they say  meaning based on the data provided by the Kiev regime the diplomat concludedTagsUkraine crisis
20210621
https://tass.com/world/1305353
MOSCOW, June 21. TASS. OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmids unawareness about the shutdown of the Russian-speaking TV channels in Ukraine may indicate that OSCE bases its reports about the media in this country on Kievs official data, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Monday.
In this regard, Zakharova wondered how OSCE monitors the situation in Ukraine, "writes reports and makes conclusions about the freedom of speech".
"It does it the same way it watches over Crimea. Apparently, based on the patients own words, as they say - meaning, based on the data provided by the Kiev regime," the diplomat concluded.
"As it turns out, OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmid is unaware that three Russian-speaking TV channels have been shut down in Ukraine. She said so during the press conference in Moscow," the diplomat said in her Telegram channel. "How so? Does OSCE not read the news? We assumed such a development, and we sent materials via our mission in Vienna. To make sure they received it".
