Ukraine crisisStrike at Odesa port to entail no problems with implementation of grain accords  Turkey The attack caused no problems that could hamper loading procedures communications director of the presidential administration Fahrettin Altun notedMADRID July 29 TASS Russia strike at the military infrastructure of the Odessa seaport on July 23is not supposed to entail problems with the implementation of grain export agreements Fahrettin Altun communications director of the presidential administration said in an interview with Fridays issue of the Spanish El MundoI dont think that the attack near the Odessa port will entail problems with the implementation of the grain agreement he noted The attack caused no problems that could hamper loading proceduresNaturally it is expected that all parties are to take steps to ensure timely and complete implementation of this agreement he noted Turkey will maintain close contacts with the Ukrainian and Russian sides as it has hadAccording to Altun the Istanbul agreement has prevented a global food crisis The key problem for us is to ensure security of ships with grain sailing from Ukraine to destinations across the globe after necessary checks he addedA package of documents geared to resolve the problem of food and fertilizer supplies on global markets was signed on July 22 in Istanbul Under the RussiaUN memorandum the United Nations undertakes to work toward lifting antiRussian restrictions hampering exports of agricultural products and fertilizers Another document envisages a mechanism of exporting grain from Ukrainecontrolled Black Sea ports An agreement between Russia Turkey and the United Nations provides for the establishment of a fourside coordination center to search ships carrying grain to prevent weapons smuggling and avoid provocationsRussian Defense Ministry Spokesman LieutenantGeneral Igor Konashenkov reported earlier that Russian forces had delivered a strike by precision weapons against the premises of the ship repair plant in Odessa destroying a warship in the dock and a depot of USsupplied Harpoon missiles According to Russian presidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov the strike at the military infrastructure cannot and will not delay grain loading in line with the Istanbul agreementsTagsUkraine crisis
20220729
https://tass.com/world/1486615
According to Altun, the Istanbul agreement has prevented a global food crisis. "The key problem for us is to ensure security of ships with grain sailing from Ukraine to destinations across the globe after necessary checks," he added.
"I dont think that the attack near the Odessa port will entail problems with the implementation of the grain agreement," he noted. "The attack caused no problems that could hamper loading procedures."
"Naturally, it is expected that all parties are to take steps to ensure timely and complete implementation of this agreement, he noted. "Turkey will maintain close contacts with the Ukrainian and Russian sides, as it has had."
Russian Defense Ministry Spokesman Lieutenant-General Igor Konashenkov reported earlier that Russian forces had delivered a strike by precision weapons against the premises of the ship repair plant in Odessa, destroying a warship in the dock and a depot of US-supplied Harpoon missiles. According to Russian presidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov, the strike at the military infrastructure cannot and will not delay grain loading in line with the Istanbul agreements.
A package of documents geared to resolve the problem of food and fertilizer supplies on global markets was signed on July 22 in Istanbul. Under the Russia-UN memorandum, the United Nations undertakes to work toward lifting anti-Russian restrictions hampering exports of agricultural products and fertilizers. Another document envisages a mechanism of exporting grain from Ukraine-controlled Black Sea ports. An agreement between Russia, Turkey and the United Nations provides for the establishment of a four-side coordination center to search ships carrying grain to prevent weapons smuggling and avoid provocations.
MADRID, July 29. TASS. Russia strike at the military infrastructure of the Odessa seaport on July 23is not supposed to entail problems with the implementation of grain export agreements, Fahrettin Altun, communications director of the presidential administration, said in an interview with Fridays issue of the Spanish El Mundo.
