Ukraine crisisUkrainian military fires 200 shells at Donetsk Republic over three hoursThe situation at the line of engagement in Donbass escalated on the morning of February 17DONETSK February 19 TASS The Ukrainian armed forces fired 200 munitions during their bombardments of the territory of the selfproclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR during three hours employing heavy artillery guns the DPR mission to the Joint Ceasefire Control and Coordination Center reported on SaturdayIn particular from 1107 to 1355 Moscow time the Ukrainian military shelled the DPR territory bombarding the cities of Donetsk the settlement of the Trudovskaya coalmine on the citys outskirts Dokuchayevsk the community of Ozeryanovka the villages of Belaya Kamenka Kommunarovka Dzerzhinskoye Zaitsevo and Spartak In their bombardments the Ukrainian armed forces used various types of grenade launchers 82mm and 120mm mortars They also employed 122mm artillery guns to bombard the settlement of Dzerzhinskoye in the Donetsk Peoples Republic firing 14 shells the DPR mission reportedThe situation at the line of engagement in Donbass escalated on the morning of February 17 The Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics reported the most intensive bombardments by the Ukrainian military in recent months There have been no reports about casualties yet The DPR mission to the Joint Ceasefire Control and Coordination Center reported on Saturday that the Ukrainian military had shelled the republic 49 times during the previous 24 hours firing 667 shellsTagsUkraine crisisUkraine
20220219
https://tass.com/world/1406417
In particular, from 11:07 to 13:55 Moscow time, the Ukrainian military shelled the DPR territory, bombarding the cities of Donetsk the settlement of the Trudovskaya coalmine on the citys outskirts, Dokuchayevsk, the community of Ozeryanovka, the villages of Belaya Kamenka, Kommunarovka, Dzerzhinskoye, Zaitsevo and Spartak. In their bombardments, the Ukrainian armed forces used various types of grenade launchers, 82mm and 120mm mortars. They also employed 122mm artillery guns to bombard the settlement of Dzerzhinskoye in the Donetsk Peoples Republic, firing 14 shells, the DPR mission reported.
The situation at the line of engagement in Donbass escalated on the morning of February 17. The Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics reported the most intensive bombardments by the Ukrainian military in recent months. There have been no reports about casualties yet. The DPR mission to the Joint Ceasefire Control and Coordination Center reported on Saturday that the Ukrainian military had shelled the republic 49 times during the previous 24 hours, firing 667 shells.
DONETSK, February 19. TASS. The Ukrainian armed forces fired 200 munitions during their bombardments of the territory of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR during three hours, employing heavy artillery guns, the DPR mission to the Joint Ceasefire Control and Coordination Center reported on Saturday.
