Ukraine crisisRussiaNATO talks change nothing for Ukraine expert saysAccording to head of Ukraines Trety Sektor think tank Andrey Zolotarev the same goes for efforts to resolve the conflict in DonbassKIEV January 13 TASS Wednesdays talks between NATO and Russia did not change the parties approach to Ukraines NATO accession and Kiev received no guarantees of its future membership head of Ukraines Trety Sektor or Third Sector think tank Andrey Zolotarev told TASSNo one gave any guarantees to Ukraine he said commenting on the Brussels meeting of the RussiaNATO Council Kiev heard nothing new as all parties stuck to their positions It means that nothing will change for Ukraine the expert pointed outAccording to him the same goes for efforts to resolve the conflict in Donbass Finding a peaceful solution to the Donbass is still an issue to be resolved the process has come to a standstill and time is not on Ukraines side here NATOs position clearly is to play for time and prolong the dialogue which runs counter to Russias position Zolotarev notedIn the future the impasse in dialogue may lead to a rise in tensions both between Russia and NATO and in Donbass he addedNATO Secretary General said at a briefing following the meeting that Ukraine was not a NATO member and Article 5 of the NATO treaty did not apply to it As for the prospects for Ukraines NATO accession he noted that every country was free to choose its own path and NATO allies were ready to support Kiev on that pathTagsUkraine crisis
20220113
https://tass.com/world/1387311
NATO Secretary General said at a briefing following the meeting that Ukraine was not a NATO member and Article 5 of the NATO treaty did not apply to it. As for the prospects for Ukraines NATO accession, he noted that every country was free to choose its own path and NATO allies were ready to support Kiev on that path.
KIEV, January 13. TASS. Wednesdays talks between NATO and Russia did not change the parties approach to Ukraines NATO accession and Kiev received no guarantees of its future membership, head of Ukraines Trety Sektor or Third Sector think tank Andrey Zolotarev told TASS.
According to him, the same goes for efforts to resolve the conflict in Donbass. "Finding a peaceful solution to the Donbass is still an issue to be resolved, the process has come to a standstill and time is not on Ukraines side here. NATOs position clearly is to play for time and prolong the dialogue, which runs counter to Russias position," Zolotarev noted.
"In the future, the impasse in dialogue may lead to a rise in tensions both between Russia and NATO, and in Donbass," he added.
"No one gave any guarantees to Ukraine," he said, commenting on the Brussels meeting of the Russia-NATO Council. "Kiev heard nothing new as all parties stuck to their positions. It means that nothing will change for Ukraine," the expert pointed out.
