Ukrainian Foreign Ministry summons Hungarian ambassador over Budapests deal with GazpromEarlier Hungarys Foreign Minister said the Ukrainian ambassador had been summoned to the Hungarian Foreign Ministry over Kievs steps taken regarding the deal between Budapest and GazpromUkrainian Foreign Ministry startsevaShutterstockFOTODOMKIEV September 28 TASS The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry is inviting Hungarys ambassador to brief him on Kievs stance regarding Budapests deal with Russias Gazprom Ukrainian Foreign Ministry spokesman Oleg Nikolenko said on TuesdayRead alsoHungary summons Ukrainian envoy over Kievs position on Budapests deal with GazpromThe Ukrainian Foreign Ministry is inviting Hungarys ambassador in Kiev to brief him on our fundamental position he said in a commentary to RBCUkraine adding that it was a proportionate response to Budapests stepsHe explained that in Kievs opinion gas transportation routes bypassing Ukraine undermined its national security and also Europes energy securityThe latest agreement between Hungary and Gazprom deals a hard blow to UkrainianHungarian relations The Ukrainian side will take resolute steps to protect its national interests Nikolenko saidEarlier on Tuesday Hungarys Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said the Ukrainian ambassador had been summoned to the Hungarian Foreign Ministry over Kievs steps taken regarding the deal between Budapest and Gazprom He described as extremely outrageous the Ukrainian governments actions taken through the European Commission against this agreement Szijjarto added that Budapest saw Kievs moves as a violation of Hungarys sovereignty and its national security interestsContract with GazpromOn Monday Hungary signed another longterm contract with Gazprom on importing gas via routes bypassing Ukraine The chiefs of Gazprom and energy company MFM have secured the deals authorization at the Hungarian Foreign Ministry Ahead of the deals conclusion Kiev had expressed disappointment and warned it would ask the European Commission to scrutinize this agreement for compliance with European energy legislation The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry warned that the gas contract might cause a postponement of a meeting of the join UkrainianHungarian commission for energy cooperationIn response Budapest accused Kiev of intervention in its internal affairs Starting from October 1 Hungary will be receiving gas solely through the Balkan Stream gas pipeline an extension of TurkStream and the Southeast European pipelinesTagsUkraine
20210928
https://tass.com/economy/1343271
Earlier on Tuesday, Hungary's Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said the Ukrainian ambassador had been summoned to the Hungarian Foreign Ministry over Kiev's steps taken regarding the deal between Budapest and Gazprom. He described as "extremely outrageous" the Ukrainian government's actions taken through the European Commission against this agreement. Szijjarto added that Budapest saw Kiev's moves as a violation of Hungary's sovereignty and its national security interests.
In response, Budapest accused Kiev of intervention in its internal affairs. Starting from October 1, Hungary will be receiving gas solely through the Balkan Stream gas pipeline an extension of TurkStream and the Southeast European pipelines.
He explained that, in Kiev's opinion, gas transportation routes bypassing Ukraine undermined its national security and also Europe's energy security.
KIEV, September 28. TASS. The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry is inviting Hungary's ambassador to brief him on Kiev's stance regarding Budapest's deal with Russia's Gazprom, Ukrainian Foreign Ministry spokesman Oleg Nikolenko said on Tuesday.
"The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry is inviting Hungary's ambassador in Kiev to brief him on our fundamental position," he said in a commentary to RBC-Ukraine, adding that it was a proportionate response to Budapest's steps.
On Monday, Hungary signed another long-term contract with Gazprom on importing gas via routes bypassing Ukraine. The chiefs of Gazprom and energy company MFM have secured the deal's authorization at the Hungarian Foreign Ministry. Ahead of the deal's conclusion Kiev had expressed disappointment and warned it would ask the European Commission to scrutinize this agreement for compliance with European energy legislation. The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry warned that the gas contract might cause a postponement of a meeting of the join Ukrainian-Hungarian commission for energy cooperation.
"The latest agreement between Hungary and Gazprom deals a hard blow to Ukrainian-Hungarian relations. The Ukrainian side will take resolute steps to protect its national interests," Nikolenko said.
