Ukraine crisisGermany wont supply weapons to Ukraine  German economy ministerThe German government stands against lethal weapons supplies to Ukraine which they reaffirmed multiple timesBERLIN February 24 TASS Germany wont supply weapons to Ukraine German Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck who is also Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Action said on ThursdayThe demands by Ukrainian Ambassador to Germany Andrey Melnik are known as is the position of the German government Habeck said at a news conference in Berlin I can reiterate the position of the German government We wont supply weapons to UkraineThe German government stands against lethal weapons supplies to Ukraine which they reaffirmed multiple timesRussian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address on Thursday morning that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territoriesThe Russian Defense Ministry said that Russian troops are not targeting Ukrainian cities but are incapacitating Ukrainian military infrastructure by precision strikes There are no threats to the civilian population the ministry saidTagsUkraine crisisUkraine
20220224
https://tass.com/world/1410187
"The demands by Ukrainian Ambassador to Germany Andrey Melnik are known as is the position of the German government," Habeck said at a news conference in Berlin. "I can reiterate the position of the German government: We wont supply weapons to Ukraine."
The German government stands against lethal weapons supplies to Ukraine, which they reaffirmed multiple times.
BERLIN, February 24. TASS. Germany wont supply weapons to Ukraine, German Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck, who is also Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Action, said on Thursday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address on Thursday morning that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation. The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories.
The Russian Defense Ministry said that Russian troops are not targeting Ukrainian cities, but are incapacitating Ukrainian military infrastructure by precision strikes. There are no threats to the civilian population, the ministry said.
