Ukraine crisisRussian has no intentions to attack Ukraine  Chinas UN envoyIts my strong wish that all countries parties to existing conflicts will abide by the Olympic truce resolution Zhang Jun saidUNITED NATIONS January 25 TASS Russia has told China it has no intentions to stage any aggression against Ukraine and calls on all parties concerned to sit down at the negotiating table to find solutions Chinas Permanent Representative to the United Nations Zhang Jun said on TuesdayIts my strong wish that all countries parties to existing conflicts will abide by the Olympic truce resolution he saidConcerning the situation in Ukraine we have heard from Russia that it is not their intention to launch any war What we should do at this moment is to call on all parties to come to the negotiation table and to find the solution through dialogue the Chinese diplomat notedRecently Western and Ukrainian media outlets have been echoing claims about Russias possible aggression against Ukraine Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier slammed such statements as empty and groundless and their goal is to whip up tensions He stressed that Russia doesnt pose any threat to anyone but did not rule out possible provocations to justify the remarks in question and warned that attempts at using force to settle the crisis in southeastern Ukraine would have the most serious consequencesThe 24th Olympic Winter Games will be held in Beijing on February 4 through 20 and the Paralympic Games will run between March 4 and 13TagsUkraine crisis
20220125
https://tass.com/world/1393017
UNITED NATIONS, January 25. TASS. Russia has told China it has no intentions to stage any aggression against Ukraine and calls on all parties concerned to sit down at the negotiating table to find solutions, Chinas Permanent Representative to the United Nations Zhang Jun said on Tuesday.
"Concerning the situation in Ukraine, we have heard from Russia that it is not their intention to launch any war. What we should do at this moment is to call on all parties to come to the negotiation table and to find the solution through dialogue," the Chinese diplomat noted.
Recently, Western and Ukrainian media outlets have been echoing claims about Russias possible aggression against Ukraine. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier slammed such statements as "empty and groundless" and their goal is to whip up tensions. He stressed that Russia doesnt pose any threat to anyone, but did not rule out possible provocations to justify the remarks in question and warned that attempts at using force to settle the crisis in southeastern Ukraine would have the most serious consequences.
The 24th Olympic Winter Games will be held in Beijing on February 4 through 20, and the Paralympic Games will run between March 4 and 13.
"Its my strong wish that all countries, parties to existing conflicts will abide by the Olympic truce resolution," he said.
