Updated atBelarusian MP says Lukashenko recognizes Crimea as Russias territoryAndrei Savinyh stressed that Belarus had considered Crimea as Russias territory for a long time but this was not formalized for Russias media spaceMOSCOW November 4 TASS Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenkos statement on Crimea at the meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus means recognizing it as part of Russia Belarusian MP Andrei Savinyh said on ThursdayBeyond all doubt Savinyh who chairs the permanent commission for international affairs at the House of Representatives lower house of the Belarusian parliament told YouTube channel Solovyov LiveThe lawmaker stressed that Belarus had considered Crimea as Russias territory for a long time but this was not formalized for Russias media spaceNevertheless several times and the presidents statement was that this Crimea as part of Russia  TASS is a political reality Today it was unequivocally announced and for us Crimea as well as lets say a month ago is and was an integral part of the Russian Federation the lawmaker addedLukashenko complained to Putin earlier in the day at a video conference of the Supreme Council of the Union State that he had not been invited to Sevastopol to mark Russias National Unity Day although Putin used to promise me that he would bring me along to Crimea In response Putin told Lukashenko about the monument to victims of the Russian Civil War 19171922 in Crimea and assured that he would always be delighted to welcome the Belarusian president in the peninsulaAbout Crimeas recognitionAfter a government coup in Ukraine in February 2014 the authorities of Crimea and Sevastopol made a decision to hold a referendum on reunification with Russia In the voting held on March 16 more than 80 of those eligible to cast their ballots took part The unification with Russia was supported by 967 and 956 in Crimea and Sevastopol respectively On March 18 the Russian president signed a treaty on the accession of the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to the Russian Federation On March 21 the treaty was ratified by the Federal Assembly In defiance of the indisputable results of the referendum Kiev refused to recognize Crimea as part of RussiaOn March 23 2014 Lukashenko said that Crimea was de facto part of Russia pointing out that nobody demanded that he recognizes or does not recognize the Crimean referendumOn August 9 2021 Lukashenko said that Belarus will recognize Crimea as part of Russia when the last Russian oligarch starts delivering goods there
20211104
https://tass.com/world/1357991
"Beyond all doubt," Savinyh, who chairs the permanent commission for international affairs at the House of Representatives lower house of the Belarusian parliament told YouTube channel Solovyov Live.
"Nevertheless, several times and the presidents statement was that this Crimea as part of Russia - TASS is a political reality. Today it was unequivocally announced, and for us, Crimea, as well as, lets say, a month ago, is and was an integral part of the Russian Federation," the lawmaker added.
After a government coup in Ukraine in February 2014 the authorities of Crimea and Sevastopol made a decision to hold a referendum on reunification with Russia. In the voting held on March 16 more than 80 of those eligible to cast their ballots took part. The unification with Russia was supported by 96.7 and 95.6 in Crimea and Sevastopol respectively. On March 18, the Russian president signed a treaty on the accession of the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to the Russian Federation. On March 21, the treaty was ratified by the Federal Assembly. In defiance of the indisputable results of the referendum Kiev refused to recognize Crimea as part of Russia.
Lukashenko "complained" to Putin earlier in the day at a video conference of the Supreme Council of the Union State that he had not been invited to Sevastopol to mark Russias National Unity Day, although Putin "used to promise me that he would bring me along to Crimea." In response, Putin told Lukashenko about the monument to victims of the Russian Civil War 1917-1922 in Crimea and assured that he would always be delighted to welcome the Belarusian president in the peninsula.
On August 9, 2021, Lukashenko said that Belarus will recognize Crimea as part of Russia when "the last Russian oligarch" starts delivering goods there.
On March 23, 2014, Lukashenko said that Crimea was de facto part of Russia, pointing out that nobody demanded that he recognizes or does not recognize the Crimean referendum.
The lawmaker stressed that Belarus had considered Crimea as Russias territory for a long time, but this was not "formalized for Russias media space."
MOSCOW, November 4. TASS. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenkos statement on Crimea at the meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus means recognizing it as part of Russia, Belarusian MP Andrei Savinyh said on Thursday.
