Updated atRussian French presidents call for ceasefire in Donbass  agencyThe telephone call lasted for one hour and 45 minutesPARIS February 20 TASS Russian and French Presidents Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron have spoken in favor of ceasing fire in eastern Ukraine the Elysee Palace said after their telephone conversationThe two presidents agreed on the resumption of the work in the Normandy format including on the basis of recent exchanges and Ukraines proposals it said adding that the president also spoke in favor of calling a Trilateral Contact Group meeting to receive ceasefire commitments from all the partiesThe two heads of state will take all useful measures to avoid escalation reduce the risks and preserve peace it saidThe telephone call lasted for one hour and 45 minutesAfter that Macron had a sixtyminute telephone conversation with Ukrainian President Vladimir ZelenskyThe situation along the contact line in eastern Ukraine took a turn for the worse in the morning of February 17 The selfproclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics report the most massive shelling by the Ukrainian military over the past months There have been no reports of deaths but one civilian woman was wounded and the shelling damaged some civilian facilitiesAmid the mounting threat of combat actions the selfproclaimed republics on Friday announced the evacuation of civilians to Russia On Saturday the Donbass republics announced general mobilizationTagsVladimir PutinEmmanuel Macron
20220220
https://tass.com/russia/1406695
The two presidents agreed "on the resumption of the work in the Normandy format," including "on the basis of recent exchanges and Ukraines proposals," it said, adding that the president also spoke in favor of "calling a Trilateral Contact Group meeting to receive ceasefire commitments from all the parties."
"The two heads of state will take all useful measures to avoid escalation, reduce the risks and preserve peace," it said.
Amid the mounting threat of combat actions, the self-proclaimed republics on Friday announced the evacuation of civilians to Russia. On Saturday, the Donbass republics announced general mobilization.
The situation along the contact line in eastern Ukraine took a turn for the worse in the morning of February 17. The self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics report the most massive shelling by the Ukrainian military over the past months. There have been no reports of deaths, but one civilian woman was wounded and the shelling damaged some civilian facilities.
PARIS, February 20. TASS. Russian and French Presidents, Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron, have spoken in favor of ceasing fire in eastern Ukraine, the Elysee Palace said after their telephone conversation.
