Updated atWest not to react to Ukraines bill on indigenous peoples Putin believesThe Russian president noted that Ukraine is being viewed as some kind of antipode of RussiaMOSCOW June 9 TASS Russian President Vladimir Putin said that he views negatively the bill submitted by his Ukrainian counterpart Vladimir Zelensky which outlines that Russians cannot be considered a native ethnicity of the country he said on Wednesday in an interview for the Rossiya24 TV channelWhen asked his personal view of the initiative the Russian leader said Negative of course How else can you view this he askedHe suggested recalling how Ukraine was formed as a state It is a brood of the Soviet period The Bolsheviks created union republics including Ukraine when forming the Soviet Union he notedKievs idea to declare Russians nonindigenous in Ukraine deals a powerful and serious blow to the Russian nation Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday in an interview for the Rossiya24 TV channelIt is a very powerful a very serious blow to the Russian nation in general and we of course cannot be indifferent to this the president stressedPutin also said that implementation of this legislative initiative will force hundreds of thousands and possibly even millions of people to either leave Ukraine as they wont want to be secondrate people or rewrite information about their nationality in official records in some other wayThe Russian president noted that Ukraine is being viewed as some kind of antipode of Russia so Western structures prefer not to notice itUkraine is being created as Russias antipode so the West prefers not to notice anything including the swastikas that neoNazi walk with in the Ukrainian cities Putin concludedIdeas of Nazi GermanyPutin believes that attempts to divide different ethnicities leaving in Ukraine into indigenous and nonindigenous seemingly echo ideas of Nazi Germany he saidSeparation between indigenous firstrate and secondrate categories of people and so on in itself very much resemble and echo the theory and practices of Nazi Germany the Russian leader commented on the bill on indigenous peoples proposed by the Kiev authorities This initiative particularly states that Russians cannot be considered native peoples in UkraineAnd what should people with mixed blood do he asked Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky himself is Jewish by nationality I dont know maybe he has more different blood in him Putin addedThe president noted that he read through the bill According to one of its provisions Ukraines indigenous peoples cannot be discriminated against he said There is a general legal rule that everything that is not banned is allowed So indigenous peoples cannot face discrimination And nonindigenous can be discriminated against he askedPutin also noted that this initiative wont only affect Russians We are not just talking about Russians Romanians Poles Hungarians It is a huge issue he pointed out Putin believes that this is completely unacceptable and runs counter to any provisions of the international humanitarian lawTagsUkraineVladimir Putin
20210609
https://tass.com/politics/1300963
Putin believes that attempts to divide different ethnicities leaving in Ukraine into indigenous and non-indigenous seemingly echo ideas of Nazi Germany, he said.
The Russian president noted that "Ukraine is being viewed as some kind of antipode of Russia," so Western structures prefer not to notice it.
"Separation between indigenous, first-rate and second-rate categories of people and so on in itself very much resemble and echo the theory and practices of Nazi Germany," the Russian leader commented on the bill on "indigenous peoples" proposed by the Kiev authorities. This initiative particularly states that Russians cannot be considered native peoples in Ukraine.
"And what should people with mixed blood do?" he asked. "Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky himself is Jewish by nationality. I dont know maybe he has more different blood in him," Putin added.
Putin also noted that this initiative wont only affect Russians. "We are not just talking about Russians. Romanians, Poles, Hungarians. It is a huge issue," he pointed out. Putin believes that "this is completely unacceptable and runs counter to any provisions of the international humanitarian law.".
MOSCOW, June 9. TASS. Russian President Vladimir Putin said that he views negatively the bill submitted by his Ukrainian counterpart Vladimir Zelensky which outlines that Russians cannot be considered a native ethnicity of the country, he said on Wednesday in an interview for the Rossiya-24 TV channel.
The president noted that he read through the bill. According to one of its provisions, Ukraines indigenous peoples "cannot be discriminated against," he said. "There is a general legal rule that everything that is not banned is allowed. So, indigenous peoples cannot face discrimination. And non-indigenous can be discriminated against?" he asked.
He suggested recalling how Ukraine was formed as a state. "It is a brood of the Soviet period. The Bolsheviks created union republics, including Ukraine, when forming the Soviet Union," he noted.
Putin also said that implementation of this legislative initiative "will force hundreds of thousands and possibly even millions of people to either leave Ukraine as they wont want to be second-rate people or rewrite information about their nationality in official records in some other way.".
"Ukraine is being created as Russias antipode, so the West prefers not to notice anything, including the swastikas that neo-Nazi walk with in the Ukrainian cities," Putin concluded.
"It is a very powerful, a very serious blow to the Russian nation in general and we, of course, cannot be indifferent to this," the president stressed.
When asked his personal view of the initiative, the Russian leader said, "Negative, of course. How else can you view this?" he asked.
Kievs idea to declare Russians non-indigenous in Ukraine deals a powerful and serious blow to the Russian nation, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday in an interview for the Rossiya-24 TV channel.
