Updated atLPR DPR may join Russia only if they hold such referendums  MedvedevDeputy Chairman of the Russian Security Council added that such a referendum was held in Crimea and everyone knows its resultsMOSCOW August 26 TASS The Lugansk and Donetsk Peoples Republics LPR and DPR can join Russia only after corresponding referendums Deputy Chairman of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev said on FridayNaturally such recognition is only possible if these republics conduct necessary procedures ie referendums Such a referendum was held in Crimea and everyone knows its results Crimea returned to Russia and became a Russian territory As for referendums on the territories of these countries let us wait and see their outcomes he said in an interview with Frances LCI television channelHe rejected the French hosts words who called Russia as an aggressor As for aggression and everything which is being said today we have article 51 of the United Nations Charter about the countries right to selfdefense There is an interpretation of this article which by the way is based on a range of the British and American cases of the 19th century including those about the right to preemptive selfdefense when another side is openly demonstrating its intention to deliver a strike against certain territories Medvedev saidHe recalled that Russia recognized the LPR and DPR as independent states that is why it interpreted the threat to their territories and people living on these territories as such a threatSuch interpretation rests completely on the United Nations Charter and on the case considered by the UN court and by a range of other instance in the 19th and 20th centuries Moreover various countries  both European and naturally the United States  have numerously used the right to preemptive defense preventive protection he said adding that this right can be used when it is about a neighboring statePlease take note of that And those who are interested can study the socalled Carolina case and a range of other judicial cases of the 19th and 20th centuries he added
20220826
https://tass.com/politics/1498859
He rejected the French hosts words, who called Russia as an "aggressor." "As for aggression and everything which is being said today, we have article 51 of the United Nations Charter about the countries right to self-defense. There is an interpretation of this article, which, by the way, is based on a range of the British and American cases of the 19th century, including those about the right to preemptive self-defense, when another side is openly demonstrating its intention to deliver a strike against certain territories," Medvedev said.
"Please take note of that. And those who are interested can study the so-called Carolina case and a range of other judicial cases of the 19th and 20th centuries," he added.
"Such interpretation rests completely on the United Nations Charter and on the case considered by the UN court and by a range of other instance in the 19th and 20th centuries. Moreover, various countries - both European and, naturally, the United States - have numerously used the right to preemptive defense, preventive protection," he said, adding that this right can be used when it is about a neighboring state.
He recalled that Russia recognized the LPR and DPR as independent states, that is why it interpreted the threat to their territories and people living on these territories, as such a threat.
"Naturally, such recognition is only possible if these republics conduct necessary procedures, i.e. referendums. Such a referendum was held in Crimea and everyone knows its results. Crimea returned to Russia and became a Russian territory. As for referendums on the territories of these countries, let us wait and see their outcomes," he said in an interview with Frances LCI television channel.
MOSCOW, August 26. TASS. The Lugansk and Donetsk Peoples Republics LPR and DPR can join Russia only after corresponding referendums, Deputy Chairman of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev said on Friday.
