Updated atLukashenko claims he discussed Belavia flights to Crimea during meeting with PutinBelarusian President has already ordered relevant agencies to devise flights to CrimeaMINSK June 1 TASS Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko claimed that the government of Belarus and the Russian side will look into opening flights to Crimea BelTA reported TuesdayUkraine has closed its sky to us We have our own resort in Crimea in Miskhora where people used to travel to fly to all the time he said according to the report I dont think there will be problems here  oh well there are more open states that we can always get to Crimea throughAccording to Lukashenko he told Russian President Vladimir Putin during their meeting in Sochi you should think how we can get to Crimea We cant go through Poland after all they dont let us through eitherAccording to the report Lukashenko has already ordered relevant agencies to plan flights to CrimeaHe noted that the economy has always been the foundation of RussianBelarusian relations while the organization of flights to Crimea also has a certain political subtextHe disclosed that earlier when asked about how to get to Crimea now Ukrainian ExPresident Pyotr Poroshenko said I beg you only through UkraineToday I would like to ask Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky how to get to Crimea now Only through Russia Lukashenko saidTherefore the Belarusian leader believes he is totally free in this matter and has no concernsThey made this mess this combination that borders on provocation So I believe Im off the hook as well as the rest of the Belarusians the president notedFollowing the May 23 Ryanair plane incident in Minsk the EU barred Belarusian airlines from flying to and over the Unions territory and recommended European carriers to avoid the Belarusian airspace A number of countries have already closed their airspace for the Belarusian flag carrier including the UK France Sweden Latvia Ukraine the Czech Republic Lithuania Poland and Slovakia forcing Belavia to look for new destinationsTagsBelarusAlexander Lukashenko
20210601
https://tass.com/economy/1296713
According to the report, Lukashenko has already ordered relevant agencies to plan flights to Crimea.
"Today, I would like to ask Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky: how to get to Crimea now? Only through Russia," Lukashenko said.
He noted that the economy has always been the foundation of Russian-Belarusian relations, while the organization of flights to Crimea also has a certain political subtext.
"Ukraine has closed its sky to us. We have our own resort in Crimea, in Miskhora, where people used to travel, to fly to all the time," he said, according to the report. "I dont think there will be problems here - oh well, there are more open states that we can always get to Crimea through."
MINSK, June 1. TASS. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko claimed that the government of Belarus and the Russian side will look into opening flights to Crimea, BelTA reported Tuesday.
According to Lukashenko, he told Russian President Vladimir Putin during their meeting in Sochi: "you should think how we can get to Crimea. We cant go through Poland, after all, they dont let us through either."
Following the May 23 Ryanair plane incident in Minsk, the EU barred Belarusian airlines from flying to and over the Unions territory, and recommended European carriers to avoid the Belarusian airspace. A number of countries have already closed their airspace for the Belarusian flag carrier, including the UK, France, Sweden, Latvia, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Poland and Slovakia, forcing Belavia to look for new destinations.
He disclosed that, earlier, when asked about "how to get to Crimea now," Ukrainian Ex-President Pyotr Poroshenko said: "I beg you, only through Ukraine."
Therefore, the Belarusian leader believes he is "totally free" in this matter and "has no concerns."
"They made this mess, this combination that borders on provocation. So, I believe Im off the hook, as well as the rest of the Belarusians," the president noted.
