US approves of Kiev using American weapons to strike Crimea  reportWashington considers such actions selfdefense the Politico newspaper notesWASHINGTON August 19 TASS The US approves of Kiev using the American weapons to strike Crimea as it believes that would be selfdefense the Politico newspaper reported on Wednesday citing a senior US administration officialWe dont select targets of course and everything weve provided is for selfdefense purposes Any target they choose to pursue on sovereign Ukrainian soil is by definition selfdefense the official saidWhen the reporter checked if Washington considered Crimea sovereign Ukrainian territory the official replied Crimea is UkraineA senior Pentagon official earlier said the US didnt provide Ukraine with weapons that could be used to shell military targets in CrimeaOn February 24 Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in response to a request for help by the heads of the Donbass republics The West retaliated to the Russian decision by imposing sweeping sanctions on the country Also Western countries started shipments of weapons to Kiev which by now are worth billions of dollarsCrimeas Supreme Council and the Sevastopol City Council on March 11 2014 adopted a declaration of independence of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol amid a political crisis and change of government in Ukraine The peninsula held a referendum on March 16 with the turnout exceeding 80 where 967 of voters in Crimea and 956 in Sevastopol supported a reunification with Russia On March 18 a treaty on the accession of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation was signed Russias Federal Assembly ratified the treaty on March 21 Ukraine the US and the EU refused to recognize Crimea as part of RussiaTagsUkraine
20220819
https://tass.com/world/1495627
Crimeas Supreme Council and the Sevastopol City Council on March 11, 2014 adopted a declaration of independence of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol amid a political crisis and change of government in Ukraine. The peninsula held a referendum on March 16, with the turnout exceeding 80, where 96.7 of voters in Crimea and 95.6 in Sevastopol supported a reunification with Russia. On March 18, a treaty on the accession of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation was signed. Russias Federal Assembly ratified the treaty on March 21. Ukraine, the US and the EU refused to recognize Crimea as part of Russia.
On February 24 Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in response to a request for help by the heads of the Donbass republics. The West retaliated to the Russian decision by imposing sweeping sanctions on the country. Also, Western countries started shipments of weapons to Kiev, which by now are worth billions of dollars.
"We don't select targets, of course, and everything we've provided is for self-defense purposes. Any target they choose to pursue on sovereign Ukrainian soil is by definition self-defense," the official said.
A senior Pentagon official earlier said the US didnt provide Ukraine with weapons that could be used to shell military targets in Crimea.
When the reporter checked if Washington considered Crimea sovereign Ukrainian territory, the official replied: "Crimea is Ukraine."
WASHINGTON, August 19. TASS. The US approves of Kiev using the American weapons to strike Crimea as it believes that would be self-defense, the Politico newspaper reported on Wednesday, citing a senior US administration official.
