Western policy of sanctions leads to third world war  LukashenkoHe stressed that Belarusian hightech enterprises might help Russia obtain substitutes for Western and Asian microchipsMINSK February 27 TASS Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has said that the policy of sanctions is aimed at eliminating Russia as a competitor and is leading to another world warIn a situation like this we should be aware that there are such sanctions A great deal is being said about the banking sector Gas oil SWIFT Its worse than war Russia is being pushed towards a third world war We should be very reserved and steer clear of it Because nuclear war is the end of everything Lukashenko saidHe stressed that Belarusian hightech enterprises might help Russia obtain substitutes for Western and Asian microchipsThe United States is the sole beneficiary of what is happening here In this way Europe can be shown its place and competitors eliminated he saidLukashenko stressed that Russia and the United States were the United States main rivalsThis is the problem they are addressing They have gone as far as war the Belarusian leader saidWhat is happening today is urging us to cooperate tightly For instance they have warned Russia that they will terminate the supplies of hightech equipment first and foremost microchips and so on which we make at our industrial association Integral Belarusian manufacturer of microchips and LCD indicators  TASS Welcome he said Lukashenko remarked that Belarusian microchips might be a little larger but they were in no way inferior in terms of quality and reliabilityCountersanctions to be painful for the WestLukashenko warned that Minsk and Moscow would take very panful sanctions against the WestOur sanctions to be taken by Russia and Belarus will be very panful These mechanisms have already started working If need be we will be building up these measures but not to our own detriment the Belarusian leader saidHe warned that another iron curtain was about to fallIts a journalistic clich iron curtain iron curtain It began to be lowered a long time ago Possibly only a narrow gap remains letting some light to get through When the iron curtain was not beneficial to them they were criticizing it aloud Now they are lowering it themselves We do not need it We will not cause it to fall We are very delicate and cautious Lukashenko concludedRussian President Vladimir Putin on February 24 declared a special military operation in Ukraine in response to a message from the leaders of the Donbass republics He stressed that Moscow had no plans for an occupation of Ukrainian territories The sole purpose is the demilitarization and denazification of Ukrainian territories The Russian Defense Ministry said its forces were not attacking cities but merely putting out of order military infrastructures without endangering the civilian population After that the United States the European Union and Britain and also a number of other countries declared they were imposing sanctions on a number of Russian individuals and legal entitiesThe West has imposed several packages of sanctions on Belarus individuals and leading industrial enterprises That was done after the country held a presidential election which the Western countries refused to recognize Also they blamed the Belarusian authorities of a harsh crackdown on protesters Minsk has taken retaliatory measures
20220227
https://tass.com/world/1412509
The West has imposed several packages of sanctions on Belarus individuals and leading industrial enterprises. That was done after the country held a presidential election, which the Western countries refused to recognize. Also, they blamed the Belarusian authorities of a harsh crackdown on protesters. Minsk has taken retaliatory measures.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on February 24 declared a special military operation in Ukraine in response to a message from the leaders of the Donbass republics. He stressed that Moscow had no plans for an occupation of Ukrainian territories. The sole purpose is the demilitarization and denazification of Ukrainian territories. The Russian Defense Ministry said its forces were not attacking cities, but merely putting out of order military infrastructures without endangering the civilian population. After that the United States, the European Union and Britain, and also a number of other countries declared they were imposing sanctions on a number of Russian individuals and legal entities.
"Our sanctions, to be taken by Russia and Belarus, will be very panful These mechanisms have already started working. If need be, we will be building up these measures, but not to our own detriment," the Belarusian leader said.
"Its a journalistic clich: iron curtain, iron curtain. It began to be lowered a long time ago. Possibly, only a narrow gap remains, letting some light to get through. When the iron curtain was not beneficial to them, they were criticizing it aloud. Now they are lowering it themselves We do not need it. We will not cause it to fall. We are very delicate and cautious," Lukashenko concluded.
"What is happening today is urging us to cooperate tightly. For instance, they have warned Russia that they will terminate the supplies of high-tech equipment, first and foremost, microchips and so on, which we make at our industrial association Integral Belarusian manufacturer of microchips and LCD indicators - TASS. Welcome!" he said. Lukashenko remarked that Belarusian microchips might be a little larger, but they were in no way inferior in terms of quality and reliability.
"This is the problem they are addressing. They have gone as far as war," the Belarusian leader said.
"The United States is the sole beneficiary of what is happening here. In this way Europe can be shown its place and competitors eliminated," he said.
MINSK, February 27. TASS. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has said that the policy of sanctions is aimed at eliminating Russia as a competitor and is leading to another world war.
"In a situation like this we should be aware that there are such sanctions. A great deal is being said about the banking sector. Gas, oil, SWIFT. Its worse than war. Russia is being pushed towards a third world war. We should be very reserved and steer clear of it. Because nuclear war is the end of everything," Lukashenko said.
He stressed that Belarusian high-tech enterprises might help Russia obtain substitutes for Western and Asian microchips.
