World Bank immediately stops all its programs in Russia BelarusThe World Bank Group has not approved any new loans to or investments in Russia since 2014WASHINGTON March 3 TASS The World Bank WB made a decision to immediately stop all its programs in Russia and Belarus over the situation in Ukraine according to its statement made public on WednesdayThe World Bank Group has not approved any new loans to or investments in Russia since 2014 There has also been no new lending approved to Belarus since mid2020 Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine and hostilities against the people of Ukraine the World Bank Group has stopped all its programs in Russia and Belarus with immediate effect the document saidOn February 24 Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation in order to protect people who have been suffering from abuse and genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territoriesRussias Defense Ministry reported later that Russian troops were not delivering strikes against Ukrainian cities It emphasized that Ukrainian military infrastructure was being destroyed by precision weapons
20220303
https://tass.com/economy/1415555
"The World Bank Group has not approved any new loans to or investments in Russia since 2014. There has also been no new lending approved to Belarus since mid-2020. Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine and hostilities against the people of Ukraine, the World Bank Group has stopped all its programs in Russia and Belarus with immediate effect," the document said.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation in order to protect people "who have been suffering from abuse and genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years." The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories.
Russias Defense Ministry reported later that Russian troops were not delivering strikes against Ukrainian cities. It emphasized that Ukrainian military infrastructure was being destroyed by precision weapons.
WASHINGTON, March 3. TASS. The World Bank WB made a decision to immediately stop all its programs in Russia and Belarus over the situation in Ukraine, according to its statement made public on Wednesday.
