Zelensky says Turkish Azerbaijani presidents offer to organize talks with RussiaIlham Aliyev and President Erdogan suggested organizing negotiations with Russia It can only be welcomed he saidKIEV February 26 TASS The presidents of Azerbaijan and Turkey Ilham Aliyev and Recep Tayyip Erdogan have offered to arrange talks with Russia Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky said in a video address to Ukrainians posted on his Telegram channel on Saturday adding that he welcomed the proposalIlham Aliyev and President Erdogan suggested organizing negotiations with Russia It can only be welcomed he saidEarlier in the day Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that on Friday afternoon Russian President Vladimir Putin gave orders to stop troop advancement in Ukraine as talks with Kiev had been anticipated but after the opposite side refused to negotiate on Saturday the troop advancement resumed In the meantime Mikhail Podolyak advisor to the head of the Ukrainian presidential office said that the conditions for the cessation of hostilities would be dictated by Kiev at negotiations with RussiaOn February 24 Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation in order to protect people who have been suffering from abuse and genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories Its objective is demilitarization and denazification of the countryWhen clarifying the unfolding developments the Russian Defense Ministry reassured that Russian troops are not targeting Ukrainian cities but are limited to surgically striking and incapacitating Ukrainian military infrastructure There are no threats whatsoever to the civilian population
20220226
https://tass.com/world/1412135
Earlier in the day, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that on Friday afternoon Russian President Vladimir Putin gave orders to stop troop advancement in Ukraine as talks with Kiev had been anticipated, but after the opposite side refused to negotiate, on Saturday the troop advancement resumed. In the meantime, Mikhail Podolyak, advisor to the head of the Ukrainian presidential office, said that the conditions for the cessation of hostilities would be dictated by Kiev at negotiations with Russia.
When clarifying the unfolding developments, the Russian Defense Ministry reassured that Russian troops are not targeting Ukrainian cities, but are limited to surgically striking and incapacitating Ukrainian military infrastructure. There are no threats whatsoever to the civilian population.
KIEV, February 26. TASS. The presidents of Azerbaijan and Turkey, Ilham Aliyev and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have offered to arrange talks with Russia, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky said in a video address to Ukrainians posted on his Telegram channel on Saturday, adding that he welcomed the proposal.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation in order to protect people "who have been suffering from abuse and genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years." The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories. Its objective is demilitarization and denazification of the country.
"Ilham Aliyev and President Erdogan suggested organizing negotiations with Russia. It can only be welcomed," he said.
