Russia failing in Ukraine war Blinken says amid new battles
20220426
https://www.havasunews.com/nation/russia-failing-in-ukraine-war-blinken-says-amid-new-battles/article_67607024-c522-11ec-ad4c-8b4d888b9afb.html
Zelenskyy, in an address to his nation Monday, thanked Biden and the people of the U.S. for the strong and sincere support.
Nearly 5.2 million Ukrainians have fled into exile, according to the latest figures from the United Nations refugee agency, and almost 8 million others are internally displaced, according to separate estimates from the U.N.s International Organization for Migration.
DNIPRO, Ukraine  U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken declared Monday that Russia is failing in its war aims, as deadly new fighting flared in Ukraines eastern battle zone and Russian forces reportedly aimed a round of airstrikes at rail facilities in the countrys west and center.
The coming weeks will likely be critical militarily, analysts say, with Russia having announced its determination to seize the entire Donbas, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland. Moscow last week also signaled aspirations to win control of the countrys southern seacoasts, which would render Ukraine landlocked, crippling it economically.
Defense Secretary Lloyd J. Austin III, who traveled with Blinken to the Ukrainian capital to meet with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday, added that Washington not only wanted to see Ukraine repel Moscows forces but also to see Russia weakened to the point where it cannot mount such aggression again.
The death toll has risen to at least 64 in the migrant tragedy off Italys southern coast after rescue crews recovered several more bodies. Children were among the dead after a wooden boat broke up in stormy seas on the reefs near the Calabrian coast on Sunday. At least 80 people survived but more were feared dead. Survivors told authorities that that the boat which set off from Turkey last week had carried about 170 people. The beach on Calabrias Ionian coast was littered with the splintered remains of the boat as well as the belongings the migrants had brought with them. There were only a few life jackets scattered amid the debris.
The war, which has killed thousands and created an immense humanitarian disaster, has also sparked a refugee crisis whose scale has not been seen on the European continent since World War II.
The first step in winning is believing that you can win, Austin said after his and Blinkens visit. We believe that they can win if they have the right equipment, the right support, and were going to do everything we can ... to ensure that gets to them.
These are real things that strengthen not only our state, but democracy as a whole, he said. We share the same understanding with the United States: When democracy wins in one country, it wins all over the world.
President Joe Biden is nominating Julie Su, the current deputy and former California official, as his next labor secretary. She would replace the departing incumbent, former Boston Mayor Marty Walsh. Su, a civil rights attorney and former head of Californias labor department, was central to negotiations between labor and freight rail companies late last year, working to avert an economically debilitating strike, She has also worked to broaden employee training programs and crack down on wage theft. Biden, in a statement, called her a champion for workers. Walsh announced his intention to leave the administration earlier this month to lead the National Hockey League Players Association.
A prosecutor says Alex Murdaughs theft of millions of dollars was about to be revealed so he killed his wife and son to buy time to figure a way out. Prosecutor Creighton Waters gave his closing argument Wednesday in the disgraced South Carolina attorney's murder trial. He says Murdaugh was facing unbearable pressure in June 2021 and decided that killing his family was the only way to keep his theft of money from his law firm and clients from being revealed and to save his lofty standing in the community. The defense will get to wrap up its case on Thursday. Earlier Wednesday, jurors visited the crime scene.
Blinken and Austin made their remarks to reporters after crossing into Poland from Ukraine, following the first official U.S. visit to Kyiv since the war began two months ago. In a show of support, the two announced a fresh infusion of $300 million in military aid and a revived U.S. diplomatic presence in Ukraine.
