Unleash power of West Virginia coal for stronger nation and safer world
20220316
https://www.wvnews.com/westondemocrat/opinion/unleash-power-of-west-virginia-coal-for-stronger-nation-and-safer-world/article_2d102404-a3bd-11ec-aa88-933d492e7649.html
Years of a strategic, concerted effort by the regulatory agencies of our federal government have eroded our ability to produce the coal America needs to remain self-sufficient and energy secure. West Virginia alone has lost approximately 90 million tons of its coal production since 2008. Greenwashing of portfolios by large investment firms have strangled the capital available to U.S. coal producers but it hasnt stopped them from underwriting production in other nations, including Russia.
Russia currently supplies 30 of the metallurgical coal used by European steelmakers and 60 of the thermal coal used to generate electricity. West Virginia coal can replace that continents need for Russian coal.
If this isnt a wake-up call, I dont know what is. President Biden and Congress should lift regulations impeding coal and fossil fuel production in America today.
American exports of coal to Europe were constrained, particularly from West Virginia, where our coal is preferred by European buyers for its quality and heating value, due to environmental, social and governance ESG pressures that have limited the ability of coal producers to secure financing necessary to expand production. The capital limitations were compounded by transportation difficulties associated with the railroads, which created a huge backlog at U.S. export ports.
Matters of stability, national security and energy independence are shared objectives and should remain front and center in global policy debates. West Virginias opportunity is so substantial today, it could influence a coal and fossil energy renaissance of unprecedented proportions.
Even before the invasion of Ukraine, Europe was in the grips of a full-blown energy crisis. De-carbonization efforts by several western European nations led to the accelerated retirement of coal-fired power plants, the closure of mines in Germany and Poland that supplied coal to the continent, and even the closure of nuclear plants. These shifts from traditional, reliable energy sources were based on an increased reliance on intermittent renewable sources of energy.
The crisis is creating a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for West Virginia to shore up national security, reset domestic and global energy policies, and reestablish itself as a major supplier of energy to the world.
By shutting down coal-fired power plants, prohibiting natural gas production and pipeline development, and importing Russian oil  yes, our nation had been importing about 200,000 barrels of Russian oil a day  the liberal establishment has weakened our energy security and capacity to help our allies overseas.
The same pressures limiting coal exports to Europe also constrained the coal supply to U.S. power plants, which were called on to generate more electricity in the face of natural gas price spikes and a recovering economy.
Dependence on Russian coal, gas and oil has limited Europes and the United States ability to hit Vladimir Putin where it hurts: Fuel sales to NATO countries, which are funding the atrocity in Ukraine.
According to the federal Energy Information Administration, coal stockpiles at U.S power plants are the lowest they have been since 1979. Combined, international and domestic demand has pushed coal prices to their highest levels ever.
Russias war with Ukraine shines a bright light on the critical importance of maintaining robust systems of fossil energy production, transportation, and generation in the United States and among our NATO ally countries.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
Sign up to receive our daily newsletter about all things business and politics in West Virginia.
To accomplish this will require a significant effort by the government, producers, and the railroads to provide coal, our freedom fuel, to our European allies.
Lets unleash the power of West Virginia coal for a stronger nation and safer, more secure global community.
While the crisis has eased a little domestically as winter turns to spring and natural gas prices moderate, there remains a coal shortage in the United States. Russias Ukrainian aggression only makes the situation worse.
As the energy crisis worsened, European nations called for more coal from the U.S. and other nations to offset the remarkably high natural gas prices, if the supplies could be secured at all. Europe went so far as to suspend its restrictions on lower quality coal to keep the lights on.
