Real men dont bomb women and children They protect them
20220312
https://www.christianpost.com:443/voices/real-men-dont-bomb-women-and-children-they-protect-them.html
Throughout his career, Russian President Vladimir Putin has cultivated the image of a strong man, in both the political and physical sense. He has projected a powerful masculine image for himself while reasserting Russian influence on the world stage.
Zelenskys unwavering and passionate communications to his fellow Ukrainians and the outside world have earned him countlesscomparisonsto Winston Churchill. His leadership has rallied Ukrainians to fight back against the Russian onslaught andstirredthe hearts of world leaders to act. Neither Zelenskys politics nor his lifestyle are a perfect model of masculinity. Yet, as he leads his countrys struggle to fight back against one of the most powerful militaries on earth, people around the world are drawn to his powerful example of what masculinity can look like when channeled in the right direction. He has shown he is willing to sacrifice his life for the good of his people and country after beingofferedan easy way out.
While Putins military indiscriminately harms women and children, Ukraine is making provisions for their safety. Ukraine instituted a policy that allows women and children to flee across the border butexpectsmen to stay and fight. Extra concern for women and children will be all the more important as somefearincreased vulnerability for women in the wake of Russias invasion and reports of abuses by Russian soldiers.
Meanwhile, Russian forces are ruthlesslytargetingresidential areas for missile attacks. Over the weekend, Russian forcesfired mortar shells toward a bridge civilians were using to flee. Four people died, including an eight-year-old child. Thats what Putin is doing to his own soldiers and the innocent people of Ukraine. This is not masculine strength  its cruelty.
Instead of modeling sacrificial leadership, Putin chose to put the lives of his troops on the line  for some, perhaps even unknowingly  to assault a neighboring sovereign country withouta legitimate cause. At home, Putins state mediaobscuresthe truth about the war he started in Ukraine, and authorities are severelycracking downon the Russians who are brave enough to protest it.
Zelensky, like the Ukrainianpeople, has inspired the world with unexpected bravery and resolve in the face of a seemingly impossible situation. In doing so, he provides a clear alternative to Putins faux, destructive masculinity. Real men dont bomb women and children. They protect them.
Arielle Del Turco is Assistant Director of the Center for Religious Liberty at Family Research Council.
Standing in stark contrast to the Russian presidents shirtless wilderness photoshoots is comedy actor turned politician, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Before the Russian invasion, Zelensky was a relatively unknown figure on the world stage. But now, he has risen to the task of being a wartime leader with determination, good humor, and fearlessness. Standing in the dark streets of Kyiv as the invasion was underway, Zelenskyrecordeda video on his smartphone reassuring his people and warning his adversaries that We are here.
Yet, with Putins unprovoked invasion into peaceful neighboring Ukraine, the humor of Putins self-made macho image is fading. Writing forWORLD, Andrew Walker points out, Putins masculinity is one of cavalier ruthlessness and vainglory  one using raw strength to self-aggrandize, bully, destroy, denigrate, and suppress.
Of course, many Ukrainian women have been courageously volunteering to fight.Grandmas, members ofparliament,teachers, and many others have taken up arms to defend Ukraine. Even so, the Ukrainian government isnt placing the bulk of the burden to fight onto women, and that is appropriate. A culture expecting men to protect and defend women and children is an impactful display of healthy masculinity.
Therisksto his own life are great, but thus far, Zelensky has refused to leave. In anaddressfrom his office, he said, I stay in Kyiv. On Bankova Street. Im not hiding. And Im not afraid of anyone. As much as it takes to win this Patriotic War of ours. This is a strength and courage that Putins vacation pics cant replicate.
Numerousphotospublished by the Kremlin show a shirtless Putin doing stereotypically manly outdoorsy things. Images of him hunting, fishing, horseback riding, and submerging himself in icy waters for the Orthodoxobservanceof the Epiphany are accompanied by the Russian state medias glowing reports of how physically fit the president is. Sure, Putin knows international audiences poke fun at these stunts, but hesayshe sees no need to hide.
