Belarus respects understands Russias decision to recognize independence of DPR LPR
20220222
https://eng.belta.by/politics/view/belarus-respects-understands-russias-decision-to-recognize-independence-of-dpr-lpr-148015-2022/
According to the ministry, Belarus has always actively and consistently supported a peaceful settlement of the conflict in southeastern Ukraine: We still consider diplomacy a priority and are ready to contribute to this process in every possible way. We welcome Russia's statements about its openness to diplomacy in this context. Negotiations, as we understand it, are the only right way to prevent bloodshed between the kin Slavic peoples. We call on all parties to refrain from military escalation and any other actions that close the road to peace.
MINSK, 22 February BelTA - Belarus respects and understands Russia's decision to recognize the independence of the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics, reads a statement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with Russia's recognition of the independence of the DPR and LPR, BelTA has learned.
"In such a situation, we respect and understand Russia's decision to recognize the independence of the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed.
In its further actions Belarus will rely on the principles of bona fide attitude of all parties to the fulfillment of international obligations, strategic alliance with its ally Russia, and will take into account further development of the situation, the ministry's statement reads.
The Belarusian Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed that the United States and the European Union bear special responsibility for the situation in the region. It is important to stop provoking violence, building up military presence in Ukraine and the Baltic states, and imposing illegal sanctions, the ministry said.
As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated, Belarus has repeatedly warned against reckless behavior of the leadership and politicians of a number of Western countries, who in recent years have increasingly used blatant pressure and threats as tools to solve their domestic and international problems. "Respect for the interests of other participants to the process was almost universally replaced by unilateral restrictive measures, hybrid pressure and aggressive rhetoric," the statement said. This has resulted in rapid growth of tensions in the Eastern European region, degradation of the international security system that was created over decades, the lessening authority of such important sources of peace and security as the UN and the OSCE, the devaluation of international treaties and agreements and the obligations undertaken under them. The disregard for the guarantees to Belarus that the UK and the United States have undertaken under the Budapest Memorandum is an eloquent example of this."
According to the Belarusian ministry, this step by Russia has a political and also a serious human and humanitarian dimension, given the number of Russian citizens living in these territories and experiencing deprivation for almost eight years. Belarusians knows more than anyone else the horrors of war. The striving to live in peace and harmony is in our DNA, the ministry said.
