Russian soldiers cause HAVOC in Ukraine
20220323
https://www.dailysun.co.za/dailysun/news/get-ready-for-more-attacks-20220322
It is common knowledge that Ukraines Azov Battalion is an army with right wing leanings.
But EU foreign ministers on Monday disagreed on whether and how to include energy in sanctions, with Germany saying the bloc was too dependent on Russian oil to declare an embargo.
Putin calls the war, which is the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two, a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from Nazis.
Russian troops have failed to capture any major Ukrainian city more than four weeks into their invasion and increasingly are resorting to causing massive destruction to residential areas using air strikes, long-range missiles and artillery.
The southern port of Mariupol has become a focal point of Russias assault and lies largely in ruins, with bodies lying on the streets, but attacks were also reported to have intensified on the second city Kharkiv on Monday.
A part of Mariupol now held by Russian forces, reached by Reuters on Sunday, was an eerie wasteland.
The conflict has driven almost a quarter of Ukraines 44 million people from their homes and Germany predicted the refugee number could reach as high as 10 million in coming weeks.
Ahead of the trip he discussed Russias brutal tactics in a call with European leaders on Monday, the White House said.
Ukraine on Monday rejected a Russian demand to stop defending the besieged Mariupol, where hundreds of thousands of civilians are suffering through Russian bombardments laying waste to their city.
Russias siege and bombardment of Mariupol Port, which European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell called a massive war crime, is increasing pressure for action.
American President Joe Biden is due to travel to Europe this week for meetings with allied leaders to discuss tighter sanctions on Russia, on top of the unprecedented financial penalties already announced.
UKRAINES military said on Tuesday, 22 March residents should brace themselves for more random Russian shelling of critical infrastructure.
People who came out of basements sat on benches amid the debris, bundled up in coats.  REUTERS
Several bodies lay by the road, wrapped in blankets. Windows were blasted out and walls were charred black.
Russia said it does not attack civilians although the devastation wrought on Ukrainian towns such as Mariupol and Kharkiv are reminiscent of previous Russian assaults on cities in Chechnya and Syria.
