WATCH Russian forces HIT Ukraine
20220301
https://www.dailysun.co.za/dailysun/News/watch-russian-forces-hit-ukraine-20220224
THE Russian ground forces have crossed into Ukraine from several directions and the border guards say several people have died after the invasion.
"Russia cannot feel safe, develop, and exist with a constant threat emanating from the territory of modern Ukraine," Putin said.
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation said the world does not need another war, as "that will result in death and destruction, hence the call for enhanced diplomacy.
Reuters reports that shortly after Vladimir Putin spoke in a televised address on Russian state TV, explosions could be heard in the pre-dawn quiet of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.
South Africa further called on the United Nations Security Council UNSC to play a central role in the search for peace.
Putin said he had authorised military action after Russia had been left with no choice but to defend itself against what he said were threats emanating from modern Ukraine, a democratic state of 44 million people.
South Africa has urged all parties to devote increased efforts to diplomacy and to find a solution that will help de-escalate tensions and avert armed conflict.
All parties have much to gain from a negotiated outcome and much to lose from an unnecessary and violent conflict, the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Dr. Naledi Pandor, said on Wednesday.
Russia has demanded an end to NATO's eastward expansion and Putin repeated his position that Ukrainian membership of the U.S.-led Atlantic military alliance was unacceptable.
The South African government has expressed concern about the ongoing tensions between Ukraine and Russia.
As South Africa, we believe all the issues of concern to any of the parties must be addressed in inclusive talks led by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Security Council, Pandor said.
In response to an invasion that had been predicted for weeks, US President Joe Biden said his prayers were with the people of Ukraine "as they suffer an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces."
"All responsibility for bloodshed will be on the conscience of the ruling regime in Ukraine."
Gunfire rattled near the capital's main airport, the Interfax news agency said, and sirens were heard over the city.
Russian forces fired missiles at several Ukrainian cities and landed troops on its south coast on Thursday.
