US assures Ukraine of swift and decisive response to any new Russian aggression
20220214
https://www.archyde.com/us-assures-ukraine-of-swift-and-decisive-response-to-any-new-russian-aggression/
US President Joe Biden assured his Ukrainian counterpart on Sunday that the United States would respond swiftly and decisively to any new Russian aggression.
The United States has already made clear that its response to an invasion of Ukraine will not be a military confrontation with Russia, but rather punitive sanctions.
On Friday, the United States warned that Russia could invade Ukraine at any time, despite intense diplomatic efforts to avert war.
Moscow recently deployed more than 100,000 troops near Ukraine, raising fears that the Kremlin is preparing a new military offensive against the former Soviet republic.
Russia has denied preparing for an invasion and accused Western countries of undermining its security due to NATO expansion to its borders.
Ukraine has been embroiled in conflict in its eastern regions since March 2014, following Russias invasion and annexation of Crimea.
The US president also made it clear that the United States, together with our allies and partners, would respond quickly and decisively to any further Russian aggression against Ukraine.
In a telephone interview with Volodymyr Zelenskiy, Joe Biden reaffirmed that the United States is committed to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, reads a transcript of the conversation released by the White House.
Home  world  US assures Ukraine of swift and decisive response to any new Russian aggression
The Kremlin has also drawn up a list of security demands on the West, including a reduction in troop deployments in some former Soviet republics and guarantees that Ukraine and Georgia will not join NATO.
Only part of the dispatches, which Anadolu Agency broadcasts to its subscribers via the Internal Broadcasting System HAS, is broadcast on the AA website, in a summarized manner. Please contact us to subscribe.
Biden and Zelensky agreed on the importance of maintaining diplomatic efforts, as well as the deterrent component, in response to Russias military buildup on Ukraines borders, the statement added.
