Zelensky asks Scholz for guarantees to protect Ukraine
20220214
https://www.archyde.com/zelensky-asks-scholz-for-guarantees-to-protect-ukraine/
Within the framework of the talks  which have lasted almost two hours, longer than had been planned  Scholz has offered Ukraine other 150 million euros in economic aid, which are added to another 150 million already committed but that Berlin has not yet paid. In total, Berlin has allocated more than 2,000 million euros to Ukraine.
My family is always with me. It is always with Ukraine, Zelensky assured. The daily Ukrainskaya Pravda previously wrote that Ukraines oligarchs and businessmen have started leaving the country en masse following the latest US warnings of an approaching Russian attack.
According to the newspaper, only on Sunday, February 13, about 20 charter flights were chartered for take rich Ukrainian men and members of their families abroad. They have to come back with tens of thousands of people who work for them and for the state, Zelensky said of businessmen leaving the country these days.
Scholz, who has remarked that no country in the world has given more economic aid to Kiev in the last eight years than Germany, He has indicated that he has visited the country in difficult times, while reiterating that Germany firmly supports Ukraine.
He added that he discussed with Scholz the need to establish specific legal guarantees that can protect Ukraine.
The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, asked this Monday during a meeting with the German chancellor, Olaf Scholzlegal guarantees that protect Ukraine against the Russian threat.
It is in Ukraine where today the future European security architecture is decided, of which our country is an integral part, Zelensky said at a joint news conference with Scholz.
On the other hand, the German ChancellorOlaf Scholz, assured this Monday that, currently, there are no plans to admit Ukraine to Western alliances like NATO, in full tension with Russia, which does not want Kiev to enter the group.
Zelenski, for his part, has indicated that he has discussed with Scholz the need to include specific legal guarantees to protect Ukraine in Europes security architecture.
I think they all have to come back or we, the state, will draw serious conclusions, he said. As for his family, he denied rumors that he too has left Ukraine.
That is why it is somewhat peculiar to observe that The Russian government is making something that is practically not on the agenda the subject of major political problemsthe chancellor has indicated after meeting with the president of Ukraine, Volodimir Zelenski, in Kiev.
The issue of security challenges and the peace process has been the main topic of our talkshas confirmed the Ukrainian president, who has insisted that it is in his country where the future of the European security architecture is being decided, of which our State is a part.
There is no Western Ukraine, there is a whole UkraineZelensky said. He also called on the deputies who have left the country due to the news of an early Russian invasion, to return within 24 hours.
In this sense, he has argued that Ukraine is a reliable ally and a true outpost of democracy in the region. Without Ukraine, the creation of a functioning security architecture in Europe is impossible, he concluded, according to the Ukrainian news agency Ukrinform.
This is, after all, the challenge we face now. The fact that something its not an issue now its becoming an issueHe continued, according to the German news agency DPA.
The Ukrainian president criticized the decision of some embassies to transfer their staff to the west of the country amid the increase in tension with Russia and affirmed that if something happens in one part, it will have repercussions throughout the country.
