Russias War on Ukraine Risks Meltdown of Global Food System UN Chief Says
20220315
https://truthout.org/articles/russias-war-on-ukraine-risks-meltdown-of-global-food-system-un-chief-says/
In an address Monday night, Zelenskyy  who is demanding an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of all Russian troops  sounded a note of cautious optimism following the latest round of diplomatic talks between Russia and Ukraines delegations, saying the discussions went pretty well.
The U.N. chiefs urgent appeal for a halt to the conflict came as Russian and Ukrainian negotiators prepared for another round of talks Tuesday amid Russias continued military onslaught. According to the Associated Press, Russias relentless bombardment of Ukraine edged closer to central Kyiv on Tuesday, with a series of strikes hitting a residential neighborhood.
Forty-five African and least-developed countries import at least one-third of their wheat from Ukraine or Russia  18 of those countries import at least 50, Guterres continued. This includes countries like Burkina Faso, Egypt, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and Yemen. We must do everything possible to avert a hurricane of hunger and a meltdown of the global food system.
The head of the United Nations warned Monday that Russias assault on Ukraine is pushing the global food system to the brink of disaster as wheat prices skyrocket and key supply chains are thrown into chaos, threatening a hunger crisis in Europe and well beyond.
Shortly before dawn, large explosions thundered across Kyiv from what Ukrainian authorities said were artillery strikes, AP reported. The shelling ignited a huge fire and a frantic rescue effort in a 15-story apartment building. At least one person was killed and others remain trapped inside.
Guterres also warned that Russias invasion of its neighbor and President Vladimir Putins alarming rhetoric has brought the prospect of a full-blown nuclear war back within the realm of possibility.
Oxfam International sounded the alarm Tuesday over the impact that Russias war on Ukraine could have on the already hunger-stricken people of Syria, a country that relies heavily on imports from Russia.
Further escalation of the war, whether by accident or design, threatens all of humanity. Raising the alert of Russian nuclear forces is a bone-chilling development, Guterres said. Its time to stop the horror unleashed on the people of Ukraine and get on the path of diplomacy and peace.
Were proud to publish real news 365 days of the year, completely free of charge to our readers. But producing high-quality, independent work is not cost-free  we rely heavily on your support.
Guterres noted in his statement that, weeks into Russias invasion, grain prices have already exceeded those at the start of the Arab Spring and the food riots of 2007-2008 and the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organizations FAO global food prices index is now at its highest level ever.
If you found the piece above useful, informative, or inspiring, please consider supporting Truthout with a tax-deductible donation. A gift of any size makes a difference and helps keep this unique platform alive.
Russia and Ukraine represent more than half of the worlds supply of sunflower oil and about 30 of the worlds wheat, U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres said in remarks to the press in New York City. Ukraine alone provides more than half of the World Food Programmes wheat supply All of this is hitting the poorest the hardest and planting the seeds for political instability and unrest around the globe.
Russias intensifying attacks on the Ukrainian capital came as the leaders of Slovenia, Poland, and the Czech Republic announced they would visit Kyiv on Tuesday to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in a show of support.
