At CCS meet on Ukraine crisis PM Modi said govts topmost priority is safety security of Indian nationals Shringla
20220224
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/World/20220224/3911324.html
Putin on Thursday morning said special military operations are being launched "to protect" the people in the Donbas region. He also warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to "consequences".
Leaders from a number of countries including the UK, the US, Canada, and the European Union have condemned Russia's military operations in the Donbas region.
Amid the ongoing Russian military operations in Ukraine, the Prime Minister on Thursday chaired a CCS meeting in New Delhi.
Addressing a special briefing on the Ukraine situation following the CCS meet here, Shringla said, "At the CCS meeting, PM Modi has stated that the topmost priority of the government is the safety and security of Indian nationals including students in Ukraine."Amid the ongoing Russian military operations in Ukraine, the Prime Minister on Thursday chaired a CCS meeting in New Delhi.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce  Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas of India Hardeep Singh Puri among others were present in the meeting.Meanwhile, PM Modi will speak to Russian President Vladimir Putin shortly amid Moscow's ongoing military operations in Ukraine, said Shringla on Thursday.The tensions between the two nations escalated after Putin on Monday recognized Ukraine's breakaway regions - Donetsk and Luhansk - as independent entities escalating the ongoing tensions between the two countries. Ukraine gained independence in 1991 after the disintegration of the Soviet Union.Putin on Thursday morning said special military operations are being launched "to protect" the people in the Donbas region. He also warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to "consequences".Leaders from a number of countries including the UK, the US, Canada, and the European Union have condemned Russia's military operations in the Donbas region.Moreover, many Indian citizens and students are stranded in Ukraine.The Indian Embassy on Thursday issued a third travel advisory to Indian nationalsstudents.The Mission asked Indians to be aware of the surroundings, be safe, do not leave homes unless necessary and stress on carrying their documents at all times. ANI
Addressing a special briefing on the Ukraine situation following the CCS meet here, Shringla said, "At the CCS meeting, PM Modi has stated that the topmost priority of the government is the safety and security of Indian nationals including students in Ukraine."
Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce  Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas of India Hardeep Singh Puri among others were present in the meeting.
The Mission asked Indians to be aware of the surroundings, be safe, do not leave homes unless necessary and stress on carrying their documents at all times. ANI
The tensions between the two nations escalated after Putin on Monday recognized Ukraine's breakaway regions - Donetsk and Luhansk - as independent entities escalating the ongoing tensions between the two countries. Ukraine gained independence in 1991 after the disintegration of the Soviet Union.
Meanwhile, PM Modi will speak to Russian President Vladimir Putin shortly amid Moscow's ongoing military operations in Ukraine, said Shringla on Thursday.
