Russian special services plan terror attacks in Russia to discredit Ukrainians
20220314
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/Asia/20220314/3919045.html
It is also proposed to implement a series of provocations of a violent terrorist nature which will be "organized" by ethnic Ukrainians. Intensifying propaganda to explain to the citizens of the Russian Federation the inevitability of war with Ukraine and the need to exterminate Ukrainians is also part of the said plan, Ukraine has claimed. --IANS sanskp 204 Words2022-03-13-21:42:03 IANS
As part of the special operation they are planning to disseminate appeals to Ukrainians living in Russia to lead a protest movement to overthrow the Putin regime. Leaders of public opinion outside Russia with a supposedly pro-Ukrainian position will be involved in the proclamation of the appeals, the report said. The plan includes giving protests related to the sharp deterioration of living conditions of Russians an ethnic "Ukrainian" colour. It is also proposed to implement a series of provocations of a violent terrorist nature which will be "organized" by ethnic Ukrainians. Intensifying propaganda to explain to the citizens of the Russian Federation the inevitability of war with Ukraine and the need to exterminate Ukrainians is also part of the said plan, Ukraine has claimed. --IANS sanskp 204 Words2022-03-13-21:42:03 IANS
The plan includes giving protests related to the sharp deterioration of living conditions of Russians an ethnic "Ukrainian" colour. It is also proposed to implement a series of provocations of a violent terrorist nature which will be "organized" by ethnic Ukrainians. Intensifying propaganda to explain to the citizens of the Russian Federation the inevitability of war with Ukraine and the need to exterminate Ukrainians is also part of the said plan, Ukraine has claimed. --IANS sanskp 204 Words2022-03-13-21:42:03 IANS
Intensifying propaganda to explain to the citizens of the Russian Federation the inevitability of war with Ukraine and the need to exterminate Ukrainians is also part of the said plan, Ukraine has claimed. --IANS sanskp 204 Words2022-03-13-21:42:03 IANS
The Centre for Countering Disinformation at the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine said in order to consolidate Russian society in support of the war with Ukraine, Russian special services plan to conduct an operation aimed at discrediting Ukrainians living in Russia, Ukrayinska Pravda reported. As part of the special operation they are planning to disseminate appeals to Ukrainians living in Russia to lead a protest movement to overthrow the Putin regime. Leaders of public opinion outside Russia with a supposedly pro-Ukrainian position will be involved in the proclamation of the appeals, the report said. The plan includes giving protests related to the sharp deterioration of living conditions of Russians an ethnic "Ukrainian" colour. It is also proposed to implement a series of provocations of a violent terrorist nature which will be "organized" by ethnic Ukrainians. Intensifying propaganda to explain to the citizens of the Russian Federation the inevitability of war with Ukraine and the need to exterminate Ukrainians is also part of the said plan, Ukraine has claimed. --IANS sanskp 204 Words2022-03-13-21:42:03 IANS
