RussiaUkraine crisis Over 2100 Mariupol residents killed since war began
20220313
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/World/20220313/3918973.html
The West however denies these claims by the Russians and in response, Western nations have imposed comprehensive sanctions on Moscow. In addition, they introduced sanctions on Belarus for supporting Russia's operation in Ukraine. ANI
On February 24, Russia began a special military operation in Ukraine after the Donetsk and Luhansk people's republics requested help in defending themselves.
The Russian Defense Ministry said the special operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only and the civilian population is not in danger.
Officials in the besieged city said, it has suffered 22 bombing attacks in the last 24 hours to 10 a.m. ET, according to CNN.
"To date, 2,187 Mariupol residents have died from attacks by Russia," the city council of besieged Mariupol said.
"The situation in Mariupol continues to be very difficult. The city has no electricity, water, heat, almost no mobile communication, is running out of food and water," CNN quoted officials as saying.
Officials in the besieged city said, it has suffered 22 bombing attacks in the last 24 hours to 10 a.m. ET, according to CNN. "To date, 2,187 Mariupol residents have died from attacks by Russia," the city council of besieged Mariupol said."The situation in Mariupol continues to be very difficult. The city has no electricity, water, heat, almost no mobile communication, is running out of food and water," CNN quoted officials as saying.On February 24, Russia began a special military operation in Ukraine after the Donetsk and Luhansk people's republics requested help in defending themselves.The Russian Defense Ministry said the special operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only and the civilian population is not in danger.The West however denies these claims by the Russians and in response, Western nations have imposed comprehensive sanctions on Moscow. In addition, they introduced sanctions on Belarus for supporting Russia's operation in Ukraine. ANI
