Russian forces trying to seize control of Chernobyl Nuclear Plant in Ukraine says  President Zelensky
20220225
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/World/20220224/3911314.html
"Russian occupation forces are trying to seize the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. Our defenders are giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 will not be repeated. Reported this to Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson. This is a declaration of war against the whole of Europe," he said in a tweet.The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry tweeted that a Russian attack on Ukraine could "cause another ecological disaster.""In 1986, the world saw the biggest technological disaster in Chernobyl," the ministry tweeted. "If Russia continues the war, Chernobyl can happen again in 2022."Amid Russian military operations, Ukrainian President is creating an anti-Russia coalition against President Vladimir Putin.He said that he has spoken to French President, Emmanuel Macron, President of EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen, Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, Karl Nehammer, about concrete sanctions and concrete assistance."We are creating an anti-Putin coalition. I spoke withvonderleyen, EmmanuelMacron, karlnehammer and RTErdogan about concrete sanctions and concrete assistance for our military. We are waiting for decisive action," tweeted Zelensky.Earlier in series of tweets, the Ukranian President said that he will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country and lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend the country."We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities," tweeted Zelensky."We will lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend our country as part of territorial defense with weapons in hands," added Zelensky.Soon after Russia launched its military operations in the Donbas region, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday announced the decision of severing his country's diplomatic relations with Moscow."We have severed diplomatic relations with Russia. For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine," said Zelensky.He said that Russia has treacherously attacked Ukraine in the morning and compared the act with Nazi Germany."Russia treacherously attacked our state in the morning, as Nazi Germany did in 2WW years. As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history. Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and won't give up its freedom no matter what Moscow thinks," added Zelensky.Meanwhile, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba called on its partners to severe diplomatic relations with Russia."Ukraine has severed diplomatic relations with Russia. I call on all our partners to do the same. By this concrete step you will demonstrate that you stand by Ukraine and categorically reject the most blatant act of aggression in Europe since WWII," tweeted Kuleba. ANI
"We are creating an anti-Putin coalition. I spoke withvonderleyen, EmmanuelMacron, karlnehammer and RTErdogan about concrete sanctions and concrete assistance for our military. We are waiting for decisive action," tweeted Zelensky.
Meanwhile, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba called on its partners to severe diplomatic relations with Russia.
"In 1986, the world saw the biggest technological disaster in Chernobyl," the ministry tweeted. "If Russia continues the war, Chernobyl can happen again in 2022."
Soon after Russia launched its military operations in the Donbas region, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday announced the decision of severing his country's diplomatic relations with Moscow.
"Russia treacherously attacked our state in the morning, as Nazi Germany did in 2WW years. As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history. Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and won't give up its freedom no matter what Moscow thinks," added Zelensky.
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry tweeted that a Russian attack on Ukraine could "cause another ecological disaster."
"Russian occupation forces are trying to seize the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. Our defenders are giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 will not be repeated. Reported this to Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson. This is a declaration of war against the whole of Europe," he said in a tweet.
Amid Russian military operations, Ukrainian President is creating an anti-Russia coalition against President Vladimir Putin.
"We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities," tweeted Zelensky.
"We have severed diplomatic relations with Russia. For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine," said Zelensky.
He said that Russia has treacherously attacked Ukraine in the morning and compared the act with Nazi Germany.
"We will lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend our country as part of territorial defense with weapons in hands," added Zelensky.
"Ukraine has severed diplomatic relations with Russia. I call on all our partners to do the same. By this concrete step you will demonstrate that you stand by Ukraine and categorically reject the most blatant act of aggression in Europe since WWII," tweeted Kuleba. ANI
Earlier in series of tweets, the Ukranian President said that he will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country and lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend the country.
He said that he has spoken to French President, Emmanuel Macron, President of EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen, Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, Karl Nehammer, about concrete sanctions and concrete assistance.
