South Korea to provide Ukraine with military materiel except for weapons Defense Ministry
20220315
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/World/20220315/3919622.html
"Our government has decided to provide Ukraine with military equipment but not weapon systems. Negotiations on specific details, such as a list of goods and then transportation, and a plan on shipments, are underway," Boo said at a press briefing.The spokesman also noted that Seoul will seek ways to purchase or produce weapons in third countries and in South Korea itself to phase out the use of Russian weapons by the national army.In late February, Seoul decided to provide Ukraine with humanitarian aid in the amount of $10 million amid Russia's military operation. The assistance package included 40 tonnes of medical goods, including first aid kits, face masks and respirators.On February 24, Russia began a military operation to "demilitarize and denazify Ukraine," responding to calls for help from the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. The Russian Defense Ministry said the operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only. ANISputnik
On February 24, Russia began a military operation to "demilitarize and denazify Ukraine," responding to calls for help from the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. The Russian Defense Ministry said the operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only. ANISputnik
The spokesman also noted that Seoul will seek ways to purchase or produce weapons in third countries and in South Korea itself to phase out the use of Russian weapons by the national army.In late February, Seoul decided to provide Ukraine with humanitarian aid in the amount of $10 million amid Russia's military operation. The assistance package included 40 tonnes of medical goods, including first aid kits, face masks and respirators.On February 24, Russia began a military operation to "demilitarize and denazify Ukraine," responding to calls for help from the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. The Russian Defense Ministry said the operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only. ANISputnik
In late February, Seoul decided to provide Ukraine with humanitarian aid in the amount of $10 million amid Russia's military operation. The assistance package included 40 tonnes of medical goods, including first aid kits, face masks and respirators.On February 24, Russia began a military operation to "demilitarize and denazify Ukraine," responding to calls for help from the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. The Russian Defense Ministry said the operation is targeting Ukrainian military infrastructure only. ANISputnik
