Ukraine considered use of biological weapons against Russia and Donbass
20220330
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/Asia/20220331/3925706.html
At the first stage of a special military operation, it was planned to force the enemy to concentrate his forces, means, resources and military equipment to hold large settlements in these directions, including Kiev, he explained. "To tie them down on the battlefield and without storming these cities in order to avoid losses among the civilian population, inflict such a defeat on the armed formations of the Kiev regime that would not allow it to use these forces in the main direction of operations of our armed forces - in the Donbass," the Ministry of Defense said. --IANS sanarm 195 Words2022-03-30-22:10:02 IANS
The Russian armed forces are carrying out a planned regrouping of troops in the Kiev and Chernigov directions, Konashenkov said. At the first stage of a special military operation, it was planned to force the enemy to concentrate his forces, means, resources and military equipment to hold large settlements in these directions, including Kiev, he explained. "To tie them down on the battlefield and without storming these cities in order to avoid losses among the civilian population, inflict such a defeat on the armed formations of the Kiev regime that would not allow it to use these forces in the main direction of operations of our armed forces - in the Donbass," the Ministry of Defense said. --IANS sanarm 195 Words2022-03-30-22:10:02 IANS
"To tie them down on the battlefield and without storming these cities in order to avoid losses among the civilian population, inflict such a defeat on the armed formations of the Kiev regime that would not allow it to use these forces in the main direction of operations of our armed forces - in the Donbass," the Ministry of Defense said. --IANS sanarm 195 Words2022-03-30-22:10:02 IANS
"The revealed facts prove that the Kiev regime seriously considered the possibility of using biological weapons against the population of Donbass and the Russian Federation," he said, RT reported. The Russian armed forces are carrying out a planned regrouping of troops in the Kiev and Chernigov directions, Konashenkov said. At the first stage of a special military operation, it was planned to force the enemy to concentrate his forces, means, resources and military equipment to hold large settlements in these directions, including Kiev, he explained. "To tie them down on the battlefield and without storming these cities in order to avoid losses among the civilian population, inflict such a defeat on the armed formations of the Kiev regime that would not allow it to use these forces in the main direction of operations of our armed forces - in the Donbass," the Ministry of Defense said. --IANS sanarm 195 Words2022-03-30-22:10:02 IANS
