Ukraine requests urgent UNSC meet after heads of DPR LPR ask Putin for help
20220224
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/World/20220224/3911000.html
This comes at a time when Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized the independence of the Ukraine breakaway regions following which Biden imposed sanctions on Russia and affirmed US' support to Ukraine.
Putin after his announcement also ordered the sending of the Russian Armed Forces to Ukraine's breakaway regions.
Apart from Kuleba, High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell Fontelles, said that request for assistance from DPR, LPR breakaway regions is a "very dangerous additional step" that would put thousands of lives at risk.
Taking to Twitter, Ukraine's Foreign Minister, Dmytro Kuleba said, "Ukraine has requested an urgent meeting of the UN Security Council due to the appeal by Russian occupation administrations in Donetsk and Luhansk to Russia with a request to provide them with military assistance which is a further escalation of the security situation."
In another key development, the Ukrainian parliament, Verkhovna Rada, on Wednesday approved declaring a state of emergency in the whole country except for Donetsk and Luhansk regions amid the escalating situation at the country's borders. ANI
Borrell in a tweet said, "The request for assistance by Moscow from the so-called DPRLPR breakaway regions announces a very dangerous additional step against Ukraine's sovereignty that would put thousands of lives at risk. The EU strongly urges Russia to refrain from any further escalatory actions."
Taking to Twitter, Ukraine's Foreign Minister, Dmytro Kuleba said, "Ukraine has requested an urgent meeting of the UN Security Council due to the appeal by Russian occupation administrations in Donetsk and Luhansk to Russia with a request to provide them with military assistance which is a further escalation of the security situation."Apart from Kuleba, High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell Fontelles, said that request for assistance from DPR, LPR breakaway regions is a "very dangerous additional step" that would put thousands of lives at risk.Borrell in a tweet said, "The request for assistance by Moscow from the so-called DPRLPR breakaway regions announces a very dangerous additional step against Ukraine's sovereignty that would put thousands of lives at risk. The EU strongly urges Russia to refrain from any further escalatory actions."This comes at a time when Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized the independence of the Ukraine breakaway regions following which Biden imposed sanctions on Russia and affirmed US' support to Ukraine. Putin after his announcement also ordered the sending of the Russian Armed Forces to Ukraine's breakaway regions.In another key development, the Ukrainian parliament, Verkhovna Rada, on Wednesday approved declaring a state of emergency in the whole country except for Donetsk and Luhansk regions amid the escalating situation at the country's borders. ANI
