Wife of Putin ally accuses Ukrainian authorities of beating her husband begs Zelenskyy to free Viktor
20220416
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/World/20220416/3931775.html
On Tuesday, Zelenskyy announced Viktor's arrest, showing him downcast and in cuffs and sparking widespread celebrations.
Oksana Marchenko who is a former TV star and hosted "X-Factor Ukraine" first posted a direct appeal on Wednesday, the day after her husband, longtime Putin pal Viktor Medvedchuk, was held in Kyiv for treason, reported New York Post.In a video, she appealed to Zelenskyy saying, "President Zelensky, I ask you to take all necessary actions for the immediate release of my husband."Medvedchuk who is listed by Forbes last year as Ukraine's 12th-richest person, worth USD 620 million was put under house arrest last May, charged with "high treason." However, according to Ukrainian police, he fled house arrest a few days after Putin invaded Ukraine at the end of February.On Tuesday, Zelenskyy announced Viktor's arrest, showing him downcast and in cuffs and sparking widespread celebrations."There is no doubt that my husband is being persecuted for political reasons, contrary to the laws of Ukraine and international law," she insisted of the 67-year-old oligarch and former leader of a pro-Russian opposition party.In yet another appeal on Friday, she pleaded for her husband's release and called him a "political prisoner." Marchenko at the press conference, without offering proof, said, "I have no doubt that my husband was beaten within hours after his capture.""I call for help to stop the physical and mental torture," she said. She said she had "unfortunately" not heard from Zelenskyy and conceded that she was not expecting to, either."He doesn't answer such questions, he is his own law," Marchenko added, according to Russia's TASS news agency, reported NY Post. ANI
"I call for help to stop the physical and mental torture," she said. She said she had "unfortunately" not heard from Zelenskyy and conceded that she was not expecting to, either.
"He doesn't answer such questions, he is his own law," Marchenko added, according to Russia's TASS news agency, reported NY Post. ANI
Medvedchuk who is listed by Forbes last year as Ukraine's 12th-richest person, worth USD 620 million was put under house arrest last May, charged with "high treason." However, according to Ukrainian police, he fled house arrest a few days after Putin invaded Ukraine at the end of February.
"There is no doubt that my husband is being persecuted for political reasons, contrary to the laws of Ukraine and international law," she insisted of the 67-year-old oligarch and former leader of a pro-Russian opposition party.
Oksana Marchenko who is a former TV star and hosted "X-Factor Ukraine" first posted a direct appeal on Wednesday, the day after her husband, longtime Putin pal Viktor Medvedchuk, was held in Kyiv for treason, reported New York Post.
In yet another appeal on Friday, she pleaded for her husband's release and called him a "political prisoner." Marchenko at the press conference, without offering proof, said, "I have no doubt that my husband was beaten within hours after his capture."
In a video, she appealed to Zelenskyy saying, "President Zelensky, I ask you to take all necessary actions for the immediate release of my husband."
