WTO downgrades forecast for global GDP growth in 2022 to 28pc
20220412
https://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/Business/20220413/3930674.html
The decline in the GDP of countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS, excluding Ukraine, will be 7.9 this year, with regional imports expected to drop 12 as a result.CIS exports, on the other hand, will not be affected by the crisis in Ukraine, the WTO said."Exports should grow by 4.9 as other countries continue to rely on Russian energy," the report read.On February 24, Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine after the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian provocations. In response to Russia's operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow. ANISputnik
CIS exports, on the other hand, will not be affected by the crisis in Ukraine, the WTO said."Exports should grow by 4.9 as other countries continue to rely on Russian energy," the report read.On February 24, Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine after the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian provocations. In response to Russia's operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow. ANISputnik
"World GDP at market exchange rates is expected to grow by 2.8 in 2022, down 1.3 percentage points from the previous forecast of 4.1. Growth should pick up to 3.2 in 2023, close to the average rate of 3.0 between 2010 and 2019," the report said.The decline in the GDP of countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS, excluding Ukraine, will be 7.9 this year, with regional imports expected to drop 12 as a result.CIS exports, on the other hand, will not be affected by the crisis in Ukraine, the WTO said."Exports should grow by 4.9 as other countries continue to rely on Russian energy," the report read.On February 24, Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine after the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian provocations. In response to Russia's operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow. ANISputnik
On February 24, Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine after the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian provocations. In response to Russia's operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow. ANISputnik
"Exports should grow by 4.9 as other countries continue to rely on Russian energy," the report read.On February 24, Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine after the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk appealed for help in defending themselves against Ukrainian provocations. In response to Russia's operation, Western countries have rolled out a comprehensive sanctions campaign against Moscow. ANISputnik
