A kamikaze drone attacked the headquarters of the Russian fleet in Sevastopol
20220820
https://myukraineis.org/news/a_kamikaze_drone_attacked_the_headquarters_of_the_russian_fleet_in_sevastopol-874.html
Videos of smoke over the headquarters building began to appear in social networks and local communities.
We will remind, on August 9, explosions rang out in Novofedorivka near Yevpatoria . Judging by satellite images published later, at least 8-9 aircraft were destroyed, as well as warehouse-like premises.
Mykhailo Razvozhaev, the so-called "governor" of Sevastopol temporarily occupied by Russia, wrote at 08:42 in Telegram that "25 minutes ago, a drone flew into the roof, unfortunately it was not shot down, although they were working on the bay with small arms." According to him, "there are no victims."
But despite the actions of the occupiers, the drone descended towards the headquarters of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation and crashed into the roof of the building, after which a column of smoke rose.
Original sabotage: employees of a Russian defense company "spoiled" Pantsyr air defense system for a blogger's money PHOTOS
How are Russian athletes in uniform going to infiltrate the Olympics? An investigation by Glavkom
Later, he clarified that the drone was shot down "right over the headquarters of the fleet", after which it fell on the roof and caught fire.
The Russian occupiers have already blamed Ukrainian forces for the attack. The Ukrainian military has not yet commented on the situation.
The Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation announced through the Russian mass media that the cause of the explosions at the military airfield in the village of Novofedorivka Saki was the "detonation of several aviation munitions."
In Russia, a junkie son killed his mother, threw her body off the balcony and killed himself by cutting off his penis
At night, users of social networks reported that air defense air defense had been activated in Yevpatoria and Sevastopol on the territory of the occupied Crimea .
The published footage shows a kamikaze drone over the bay approaching the building, and the Russians trying to shoot it down with small arms.
In Sevastopol, in the temporarily occupied Crimea, an explosion rang out near the headquarters of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation.
