Are the Biblical End Times Upon Us The Shocking RussiaIran Moment That Just Caused Ezekiel 38 to Trend on Social Media
20220720
https://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/cwn/2022/july/are-the-biblical-end-times-upon-us-the-shocking-russia-iran-moment-that-just-caused-ezekiel-38-to-trend
Laurie and others are careful in discussing these issues, though the chaos  and these latest developments with Russia and Iran  are adding fuel to the fire, especially when it comes to Ezekiel 38.
People were quick to point out alarming current events unfolding this week that led some to turn their focus to prophetic scripture. Before we get into the biblical implications, lets briefly recap the international events and happenings at the center of intrigue.
Putins trip is perplexing and troubling for a variety of reasons. First and foremost, Russia and Iran are shunned by numerous nations, most notably the United States. These isolated countries share in that dynamic as well as in their quest for power.
Embattled Russian President Vladimir Putin made whatThe Washington Postcalled a rare international trip to Iran this week as the Ukraine war drags on and tensions with the West continue to boil.
From a factual standpoint, it is understandable why Ezekiel 38 would be getting attention and trending on social media. But Christians must also be careful not to date-set and make definitive proclamations when it comes to the end of days.
He continued, The one-day, future evil leader of Russia is going to form an alliance with Iran, Turkey, and some other hostile countries to come and surround and attack Israel in the last days.
From a biblical perspective, anytime you have directions given in the Bible, then you always start with Israel being kind of the  center of the compass, Kinley explained. And it speaks about these nations coming from the uttermost parts of the north. If you just do a straight line north of Israel, youre going to land in the middle of Russia.
The Middle East has long been a powder keg, and Russias actions in Ukraine have only upped the ante in global chaos. Read more about Russia, the Bible, and prophecyhere.
Greg Laurie, pastor of Harvest Christian Fellowship in Riverside, California, reminded Faithwire earlier this year of Jesus words in Matthew 24 that warn of wars, rumors of wars, plagues, and other such elements in the lead-up to the end of days.
Take that along with the other global catastrophes and events unfolding, and theres much to discuss. The world is at a precarious juncture, which has led many pastors and end-times experts to openly ponder whether the biblical prophecies about the end of days are starting to unfold.
The Hebrew prophet Ezekiel wrote 2,500 years ago that in the last days of history, Russia and Iran will form a military alliance to attack Israel from the north, Rosenbergwrote. Bible scholars refer to this eschatological conflict, described in Ezekiel 3839, as the War of Gog  Magog.
As the number of voices facing big-tech censorship continues to grow, please sign up forFaithwiresdaily newsletterand download theCBN News appto stay up-to-date with the latest news from a distinctly Christian perspective.
Some Christians see the meeting between Iran, Russia, and Turkey as a harbinger of prophetic fulfillment. In contrast, others cast doubt on that idea and charged that current events could be getting improperly jammed into biblical prophecy.
The next natural question is: Why do many Bible experts believe Magog is Russia? Kinley explained some reasons, including geographic placement and directional mentions in Scripture.
Ezekiel 38, a key Bible chapter containing what is believed to be important end times prophecies, trended on Twitter Tuesday  and the reasons are nothing short of noteworthy.
The natural question with these events and proclamations in mind is: Why was Ezekiel 38 trending on Twitter? At the simplest level, the events above caught Bible readers eyes for fascinating reasons.
Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say to Gog: This is what the Sovereign Lord says: In that day, when my people Israel are living in safety, will you not take notice of it? You will come from your place in the far north, you and many nations with you, all of them riding on horses, a great horde, a mighty army. You will advance against my people Israel like a cloud that covers the land. In days to come, Gog, I will bring you against my land, so that the nations may know me when I am proved holy through you before their eyes.
It all boils down to the Gog and Magog prophecy discussed in that chapter, which many believe references Russia. Many believe this Gog an individual will be a future leader from Russia thought to be Magog.
Beyond that, Putins trip seems to indicate closer ties between the allies, as he met with Irans Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi before convening with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, according to CBN News.
In light of these biblical texts  texts that have already been getting increased scrutiny since the Ukraine invasion  Putins trip to Iran immediately sparked a plethora of speculation on Twitter, with Ezekiel 38 starting to trend as a result.
According to Ezekiel,this Gog from Magogwill attack Israel and other partner nations, including Persia modern-day Iran, but God will step in and defeat the coalition.
Jesus in Matthew 24 gave us signs of the times  one of them was therell be wars and rumors of wars, Laurie said. It certainly fits that. No. 2, there would be pestilence and plague, and if COVID is not a modern-day plague, I dont know it is, and its affected the whole planet and it still affects us to this day.
Author Joel Rosenberg is also among those who have vocally explored Old Testament prophecies about the biblical end of days, including Russias potential placement in the mix.Hepublished a blog posta few years ago in which he discussed world events as they pertain to the writings of Ezekiel.
End times author Jeff Kinley spoke earlier this year with CBNs Faithwire about Ezekiel 38, which he and others believe is currently an unfulfilled prophecy.
God is everywhereeven in the news. Thats why we view every news story through the lens of faith. We are committed to delivering quality independent Christian journalism you can trust. But it takes a lot of hard work, time, and money to do what we do. Help us continue to be a voice for truth in the media by supporting CBN News for as little as $1.
Its also impossible to ignore the fact Putins visit to Iran comes right after President Joe Biden visited Israel, a nation Iran has repeatedly threatened. Biden and Israel addressed concerns over Iran  a longstanding global issue for whichno real solutionseems to be on the table.
