Incredible Compilation of Ukrainian Christians Turning to God Praying Psalm 31 From Bomb Shelters Amid Deadly Uncertainty
20220304
https://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/world/2022/march/incredible-compilation-of-ukrainian-christians-turning-to-god-praying-psalm-31-from-bomb-shelters-amid-deadly-uncertainty
Clinging to faith has been a fixture of the Ukrainian peoples response to Russias invasion. Case-in-point: CBN News George Thomas captured footage of a church congregation worshiping amid the chaos over the weekend.
As uncertainty persists, many openly pray and worship, seeking God to calm and ease their pain. Throughout the ordeal, Psalm 31 has taken on special meaning in the hearts of Ukrainians.
What is faith and what does the Bible say about faith? Click here for answers.
As previouslyreported, theres a complex religious history in Ukraine and Russia, with Russian President Vladimir Putin purportedly seeing an opportunity to seize control again of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.
They have noticed that during this difficult time, many people want to find strength, rest, but also comfort in their faith and in Gods Word, Oldi Morava of the British and Foreign Bible Societytold Premiere. Theyre reading the book of Psalms for their own particular context. And Psalm 31 is becoming really significant for the entire nation.
The Orthodox Church in Ukraine was granted autonomy just three years ago, freeing itself from Russian control. Despite a portion of the Orthodox church in Ukraine still recognizing Russian authority, the schism has grown.
Please continue to pray for Ukraine and the many citizens hiding or fleeing the violence.
He told Faithwire the church is not only praying and worshipping but has also actively engaged in being the hands and feet of Jesus they are housing and clothing refugees.
Anatoliy Raychynets of the Ukrainian Bible Society is among those who have prayed Psalm 31, and he has spoken about the new lens through which he sees these ancient Scriptures.
For me, as a pastor, that Psalm  well, I read it differently now because its about our current situation in Ukraine, Raychynets recentlysaid. This ancient prayer  written several thousand years ago  now we see is so alive, is living.
The first five verses of Psalm 31 make perfectly understandable the passages placement at the center of the spiritual response to the war:
A new video compilationshows Raychynets isnt alone. It displays countlessUkrainians reciting Psalm 31 from their bunkers and other safe locations as they turn to the Lord in praise and adoration.
The Orthodox Church in Ukraine, just three years ago, gained its autonomy, and its chief bishop was recognized by the Patriarch of Constantinople as having his own distinct authority, no longer subordinate to the patriarch of Moscow, Mark Tooley, president of The Institute on Religion and Democracy, explained. Which, obviously, the Russian church and the Russian state did not like.
The pastor of the church, in essence, set the tone for this past Sunday, Thomassaid. He got up and said, As we worship and come into a time of praise and worship, that all of the songs we sing today, we sing keeping in mind what is going on today in our nation. And as we storm the gates of heaven with our praise  we are in essence storming the gates of heaven for peace as well.'
Despite the anguish and turmoil of Russias war, Ukrainian Christians remain steadfast, vowing to preach the unending, compassionate  redeeming love of Christ. Take heart, your prayers are being heard. God is moving powerful on their behalf! StandWithUkraine PrayForUkraine pic.twitter.com9OxPNTTIsu
God is everywhereeven in the news. Thats why we view every news story through the lens of faith. We are committed to delivering quality independent Christian journalism you can trust. But it takes a lot of hard work, time, and money to do what we do. Help us continue to be a voice for truth in the media by supporting CBN News for as little as $1.
Ukrainian Christians continue to turn to their faith amid Russias brutal onslaught, as the violent military assault increasingly claims lives and property.
Morava encouraged people to read the Psalm from the perspective of a person who is hunkering down right now in a shelter, desperately hoping and praying for an end to Russias aggression.
As the number of voices facing big-tech censorship continues to grow, please sign up forFaithwires daily newsletterand download theCBN News appto stay up-to-date with the latest news from a distinctly Christian perspective.
A million refugees have fled Ukraine in the wake of Russias attack, with more citizens likely to seek safety outside the nations confines. As Faithwire noted,churches are stepping upto the plate to help individuals and families.
