Some Kind of Lightning Shooting from the Sky Ukrainians Tell Stories of Divine Intervention from the Battlefield
20220304
https://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/entertainment/2022/march/some-kind-of-lightning-shooting-from-the-sky-ukrainians-tell-stories-of-divine-intervention-from-the-battlefield
So the father called other members of their church and asked them to start praying. Later, the son called his father back.
"He said, 'Dad, you have to pray right now. We're in a situation,'" Lytvynenko said.
Lytvynenko says what happened next reminds him of several similar incidents that were recorded in the Bible.
Be sure to watch The Global Lane. It airs at 8:30 pm Thursdays on the CBN News Channel. Click here for a programming schedule.
Lytvynenko said both groups of tanks were confused and thought they were looking at the enemy.
In this week's episode of CBN News The Global Lane, CBN Ukraine Director Kostyantine Lytvynenko explains that although his fellow countrymen are showing incredible strength and resiliency in the war with Russia, they're also experiencing some divine intervention.
"He said, 'There's some miracle that happened. It looked like an attack on the Russians from a spaceship. There was some kind of lightning shooting from the sky,'" Lytvynenko told CBN News. "And sparks were spreading everywhere."
"Another part of the Russian army, they occupied one little town. And they removed flags from the town's government buildings and they attached those flags to their tanks," he said. "And they started to drive. Eventually, in the evening they met the first group of the Russian tanks."
CBN News asked Lytvynenko how should people pray for his family, other CBN workers there, and the people of Ukraine.
Lytvynenko also relayed another incident he heard from a friend.He says the friend told him, "'We were praying that they the Russians would start resisting each other. That the enemy would resist the enemy.'"
What is prayer? Does God hear me if I pray? Your important questions about prayer are addressed here.
"Please pray that we could hear God in this time," he said. "The most deficit thing in our country now is the peace in our hearts. That our God, who is the Prince of Peace would grant the peace in our hearts. And in that, this condition of peace, we could see the ways how we can build the kingdom in the times of war. That we could be the light, and the warmth and the love, and the hand of God to other people who are in need."
"Pray that we would be active members of the body of Christ at this time," Lytvynenko added. "That we would not just sit and be afraid and fear for our lives. That we would be productive in building the kingdom."
Lytvynenko said one man shared with him a story of his son who's serving in the Ukrainian army. He said the man told him on one dark night, the soldiers were holding their positions and discovered there were a lot of Russian Federation tanks and other mobile units coming directly at them. It appeared the soldiers would have trouble defending themselves.
"All of those soldiers thought maybe it was done by some kind of a weapon we didn't know about," Lytvynenko said. "It was just God's intervention."
MUST SEE:Who Really Is the Antichrist? Bible Expert Explains After Ukrainian Archbishop Calls Putin the 'Anti-Christ of Our Time'
READAre We Living in the Biblical End Times? What Scripture Says About Gog, Magog, and Russian Chaos
God is everywhereeven in the news. Thats why we view every news story through the lens of faith. We are committed to delivering quality independent Christian journalism you can trust. But it takes a lot of hard work, time, and money to do what we do. Help us continue to be a voice for truth in the media by supporting CBN News for as little as $1.
PRAYFORUKRAINE: Join CBN News Senior International Correspondent George Thomas, and his special guesta Ukrainian pastorin an exclusive LIVE CBN News Prayer Event! Register now for the event to be held at 11:00 a.m. EST, Saturday, March 5.
In the morning, they the Ukrainian troops discovered the Russian tanks and other mobile units had been destroyed.
Please sign up forCBN Newslettersand download theCBN News appto ensure you keep receiving the latest news from a distinctly Christian perspective.
Stories of divine intervention are being told that sounda lot like accounts from the Bible, including a pillar of fire at night and confused Russian troops.
