14 from city among many Indians to safely reach Hungary Romania
20220302
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nagpur/14-from-city-among-many-indians-to-safely-reach-hungary-romania/articleshow/89931527.cms
Nagpur: At least 14 MBBS students from Nagpur were among the hundreds of stranded Indians who managed to safely reach Hungary and Romania on Tuesday after a 1,200 km train journey from Zaporizhia East Ukraine to Uzhord western border. They were among those lucky to leave while many have got stuck in conflict zone Kharkiv, where the first Indian was killed during the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war on Tuesday.Foreigners fleeing the conflict zone need to exit from the western borders as Russia is located on the eastern border of Ukraine. Parents of all of those who made it out safely lived tense moments as most of them lost contact with their children, who were unable to charge their mobile phones or find alternative communication in the war-torn country.Late Tuesday afternoon, one of them managed to contact a parent to convey the message that the group had safely reached Hungary and Romania, but were facing food and shelter issues. Also, the group was not sure of its onward journey back home.City-based NGO The Platform has established different WhatsApp groups in Hungary, UK, and Australia to coordinate safe passage for Indians. The NGO also said that volunteers had made arrangements for food and shelter in friendly countries, but couldn't establish contact with those in need. Rajiv Khobragade, a volunteer with the NGO, said the Nagpur district authorities have confirmed 51 students from Nagpur were in Ukraine. A couple of them have returned. Some were still on train travelling between Ukraine cities and trying to flee. Rescue points have also been made available in Slovakia, where some students are headed, he said. Khobragade said Nagpurs Vaishnavi Wankhede, a student at Zaporizhia State Medical University, was among those who got shelter and food arrangement at Budapest, Hungary, through the network of The Platform. He added that no further updates were available after the group reached airports in Romania and Hungary.The NGO said they also received reports of some more students from Nagpur and rest of the state stuck in Kharkiv.The NGO received a distress post from the CEO of an overseas company in their WhatsApp group in the evening. I am Dr Karan Sandhu from Kharkiv. The situation here is v bad. Its continous bombardment. we tried our best to help students but now it becoming impossible. 1 student has already died today from bomb explosion. i am in hostel with 1,000 students right now. tried in morning to send some students to railway station .but now its impossible to reach railway station in this heavy shelling .moreover we dont have any information about next train .there is flood of passengers at station too. help us, the post read.
