ADANI WILMAR STOCK UPDATE
20220225
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/topic/adani-wilmar-stock-update
The index service provider said it will defer the implementation of cuts in the weights of Adani Total Gas and Adani Transmission to May, when it reviews the indices next, in light of "potential replicability issues due to impact from price limit mechanisms in specific securities."
Wall Street short-seller Hindenburg Research alleged the conglomerate improperly used offshore tax havens and manipulated stocks. The report also flagged concerns over its high debt levels.
Adani Ports, which reported a 16 fall in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,315 crore and 17 rise in revenues in the December quarter, was up around 6. Adani Wilmar was locked in the 5 upper circuit limit at Rs 419.35. Adani Transmission, Adani Power and NDTV rallied between 2-5 each.
The sprawling Adani Group, controlled by tycoon Gautam Adani, has been rocked to its core in recent days after Hindenburg Research accused the conglomerate of widespread corporate malfeasance, including market manipulation and accounting fraud. In a bitter showdown thats riveted investors worldwide, the allegations have prompted steep falls in the companies share prices despite a lengthy rebuttal from Adani Group.
Adani Wilmar's consolidated net profit rose 16 year-on-year to Rs 246 crore for the three months ended December period. Revenue from operations increased 7 year-on-year to Rs 15,438 crore in the December quarter.
We like the companys strategy of penetration-led growth, focus on the international market, increasing distribution reach, timely capacity addition to supporting the growth, new product launches, and acquisition of the Kohinoor brand. We expect Adani Wilmar to benefit from the recent uptick in demand," it said.
Adani Wilmar has been included in Nifty Next 50 and Nifty 100 indices, whereas Adani Power will now be part of Nifty 500, Nifty 200, Nifty Midcap 100, Nifty Midcap 150, Nifty LargeMidcap 250, and Nifty Midsmallcap 400 indices
At close, the LIC stock was at Rs 585, a little above its all-time low level of Rs 582.
Realising the severity of the hit to its image, Adani Group has brought in Kekst CNC as a global communications advisor, according to Bloomberg News. The public relations firm co-headquartered in New York and Munich, is known for its work with other corporate blow-ups in recent years.
Hindustan Unilever Ltd HUL has entered into definitive agreements with Uma Global Foods to divest its Annapurna and Captain Cook brands in the atta and salt categories of the foods business for Rs 60.4 crore.
Out of the 10 Adani stocks listed on stock exchanges, only Adani Ports was trading marginally higher and all other nine stocks were blinking red.
In Adani's 10-stock pack, flagship entity Adani Enterprises was the worst performer as it was locked in a 15 lower circuit limit at Rs 1,834.9. Six other stocks - Adani Ports, Ambuja Cements, Adani Power, Adani Transmission, Adani Total Gas and Adani Green - were trading 5 lower each.
Adani Enterprises, Adani Transmission, Adani Total Gas and ACC could see outflows of $425 million or about 3,450 crore by the end of this month when the MSCI index adjustments come into effect.
Adani bulls suffered a loss of about Rs 5,600 crore today as the market capitalisation of all 10 stocks in the pack decreased to Rs 8.75 lakh crore. In the last 15 sessions, the stocks have lost around Rs 10.45 lakh crore.
"While global cues could act as the major trigger for domestic equities in the near-term, the Nifty 50 is likely to remain resilient due to reasonable valuations and India's macro stability," said Narendra Solanki, head of equity research at Anand Rathi Shares and Stock Brokers. Here are the factors that will drive markets in the week ahead.
Majesco LPP, Focus Lighting, Vinny Overseas, RM Drip and Sprinkle and Soma Textiles, hit their fresh 52-week highs at 10:50AM.
If you look at the valuation also these were relatively reasonably valued even pre-correction and now post-correction they are definitely attractive from a long-term investor's point of view so this can be acquired.
Adani Enterprises slid 11 to close at 1,925.70 and Ambuja Cements declined 7 to 357.80. Five stocks - Adani Green Energy, Adani Total Gas, Adani Power, Adani Transmission and NDTV - hit a 5 lower circuit barrier. Adani Wilmar gained 5 to close at 439.70, while ACC declined 3 to 1,916. "This MSCI move may result in likely weight reductions," said Abhilash Pagaria, head, Nuvama Alternative and Quantitative Research.
Since the release of the Hindenburg report on January 25, the combined market capitalisation of all 10 Adani stocks have so far lost around Rs 11.62 lakh crore to Rs 7.58 lakh crore. In less than a month, Adani stocks have lost 60 of their value.
Wall Street short-seller Hindenburg Research had warned against price manipulation and accounting fraud by the group. Market regulator Sebi, which is already probing allegations made against the group, has now sought details of all ratings of local loans and securities of group companies from credit rating firms
The company, engaged in warehousing of Kirana grocery items, also provides goods to the civil supplies department and police department in the state. It has recorded a business of Rs 135 crore last year.
