Biden Putin to talk today as US asks Americans to get out of Ukraine in 2448 hours
20220212
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/biden-putin-to-talk-today-as-us-asks-americans-to-get-out-of-ukraine-in-24-48-hours/articleshow/89516388.cms
WASHINGTON: United States President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin will be speaking on phone Saturday morning amid a Code Black warning that Russian invasion of Ukraine could happen in days if not hours. Such war clouds between two superpowers is unprecedented after the height of the Cold War in the 1960s when the US and the former USSR dodged a nuclear war. So frenetic is the alarm that the White House is asking Americans to get out of Ukraine in the next 24-48 hours, warning that it will not be possible to evacuate them if Russia invades, which, going by the crescendo of alarms, is inevitable in Washington's eyes.US citizens in Ukraine should be aware that the US government will not be able to evacuate US citizens in the event of Russian military action anywhere in Ukraine. Military action may commence at any time and without warning a US travel advisory said. "In light of multiple countries ordering their citizens to evacuate Ukraine immediately, and the announcement tonight that US intel believes Russia will invade in the coming week, we are now moving to our highest alert level: Code Black, for Ukraine," the International Centre for Strategic Intelligence, a global intelligence community group, tweeted.The US alarm is not shared by Ukraine, which has repeatedly asked Washington not to cause unnecessary panic even as the situation in Kyiv is reported to be normal. But the urgency of the outreach between Washington and Moscow suggested a serious situation. According to a White House pool report, Russia proposed a call between the two leaders on Monday, but "the White House counter-proposed Saturday, and they accepted."PBS Newshour Foreign Affairs and Defense Correspondent Nick Schifrin, who previously served in Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Middle East tweeted, "US officials anticipate a horrific, bloody campaign that begins with two days or aerial bombardment and electronic warfare, followed by an invasion, with the possible goal of regime change."The tweet was met with some withering responses: "Isn't that what the US has been doing for the last - say - 76 years??? That is standard operation for the US military!""I'm sorry, this is not being corroborated or reported literally anywhere else. It is likely you are a player in a disinformation campaign designed to force someone's hand.""Forgive me, but ever since they pulled a kind of false flag about WMDs in Iraq, to me, everything they say sounds fishy to me. I could be way wrong, of course, but I hope the media will be keeping both eyes open as things progress.
