Biden open to meeting Putin despite calling him war criminal and butcher
20220329
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/us-and-world/biden-open-to-meeting-putin-despite-calling-him-war-criminal-and-butcher/articleshow/90525827.cms
WASHINGTON: Amid signs of a drawdown in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, US President Joe Biden has indicated he is open to meeting President Vladimir Putin for talks despite calling him a "war criminal" and a "butcher" and calling for his ouster. "The question is: Is there something to meet on that would justify him being able to end this war and be able to rebuild Ukraine. Thats the issue," Biden said in a White House press conference, amid signs of a breakthrough in talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials in Turkey. Pressed by reporters wanting to know whether or not he would be willing to meet with President Putin again, Biden said, "It depends on what he wants to talk about."Indications that the two sides are still open talks at the highest levels is remarkable considering Biden's withering comments on Putin, which Kremlin termed "personal insults," and calls for his ouster, which the US President refused to walk back despite criticism at home and from some of his European allies, notably France. Russia too responded positively on Tuesday to the signal, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying, "One way or another, sooner or later, we will have to speak about questions of strategic stability and security and so on."Biden however laid down markers for any prospective talks, reminding correspondents of his last meeting with Putin in Geneva where the Russian leader had identified two objectives: Making sure Ukraine never becomes part of NATTO and making sure there are no long-range missiles in Ukraine."I said, 'We can deal with the second one easily, but we cant close the door on the first.' Because when we talk about missiles, we want to talk about whats also on the Russian border heading towards Europe. Do both." Biden recalled, explaining that since that meeting Putin's "demand list...have escalated significantly." Biden had a conference call on Tuesday morning with French Prime Minister Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi to discuss what the White House said was "latest developments" on the Russia-Ukraine front, including progress made in talks between Kiev and Moscow. Russia has announced that it will "radically reduce" military activity outside Kyiv and Chernihiv after "meaningful" negotiations, days after signaling it was changing its military objectives after completing the initial phase of its operation.Ukraine is reported to have agreed to maintain a neutral status, not joining NATO, a potential territorial concessions in return. There is even talk of a meeting between Putin and Ukraine's leader Voldymyr Zelensky to seal a deal. Washington remains leery of any such agreement. There is what Russia says and theres what Russia does. And what Russia is doing is the continued brutalization of Ukraine and its people and that continues as we speak," US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said during an unrelated trip to Morocco.While Biden maintained that this remarks on Putin and calling for his ouster would not complicate any talks with Russia, the Kremlin said "Personal insults cannot but leave their mark on relations between heads of state," although it did not rule out a meeting between the two leaders. Every US President going back to Bill Clinton has met with Putin with varying degrees of warmth that has gradually evaporated except during the Presidency of Donald Trump, who had a chummy relationship with the Russian President. Biden has met Putin going back to 2011 when he was vice-president their last meeting was in Geneva in June 2021, following which US officials said it was a "very focused, practical, nonpolemical discussion."
