Biological laboratories in Ukraine UNSCs insouciant approach
20220314
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/ChanakyaCode/biological-laboratories-in-ukraine-unscs-insouciant-approach/
While on the 11 th March the UNSC discussed an important issue of biological labs in Ukraine on the insistence of Russia, the matter was given a very casual approach missing an opportunity to have a serious discussion to comprehensively deal with the issue to eliminate possibilities of dangerous pathogens being weaponised. The cryptic statement of Izumi Nakamitsu, the UN High Representative for Disarmament Affairs, that the UN is not aware of any biological weapons programmes in Ukraine was a testimony to such an approach. She further remarked that both Ukraine and Russia are state parties to the Biological Weapons Convention BWC, an international treaty that prohibits such weapons. Biological weapons have been outlawed since the BWC entered into force in 1975. Such an approach was all the more shocking as the world has not yet recovered from the Covid-19s devastation.
In view of the foregoing, it was imperative on the part of UNCS to take cognizance of the reports and work out a plan to establish a mechanism like we have for the CWC. Unfortunately, there was no attempt in this direction. The issue got lost in the accusations and counter-accusations. India did try to focus on the larger issue. Indias Permanent Representative at the UN T S Tirumurthy highlighting the importance of the BTWC as a key global and non-discriminatory disarmament convention, stressed that India believes that any matter relating to obligations under the BTWC should be addressed as per the provisions of the Convention, and through consultations and cooperation between the parties concerned. This approach is based on realism and needs to pushed up to ensure establishment of a strong multilateral apparatus to verify such matters. If it is not done, Covid 19 type of viruses can keep on visiting this planet with devastating consequences.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
The Russian Foreign Ministry had pointed out that there were 30 laboratories funded by the US which were running a secret military biological programme for the US with full support of Ukraine.
It is not only Russia but the US Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland also indicated during a hearing that Ukraine has biological research facilities when asked if Ukraine has bioweapons.
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
The biological and chemical weapons had been used in the past and some steps were taken to ensure that they are not used. These are included in the Weapons of Mass Destruction WMD. Two important Conventions are in place to prohibit their development, production, acquisition, stockpiling, transfer and use. While the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention BTWC entered into force on 26 th March 1975 and has 183 States Parties including all P5 countries and Ukraine, the Chemical Weapons Convention CWC, which came into force on 29 th April 1997. However, the CWC received more attention and a mechanism was created for its implementation. The CWC is administered by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons OPCW, with a permanent Secretariat and a Secretary General, while there is no such apparatus for BTWC. In fact, the biological pathogens are more dangerous than the chemical elements.
She was also reported to have stated that the US was working with Ukraine to prevent Russia from getting those research materials. In addition, the WHO is reported to have advised Ukraine to immediately destroy high-threat pathogens stored at Ukraines bio-labs to prevent any potential spills that would have catastrophic consequences.
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
On the 10 th March, the Russian Defence Ministry released documents that it claimed to have been acquired by the personnel of a bio-lab in Ukraine. Russian Permanent Representative Vassily Nebenzia said in the UNSC that we discovered truly shocking facts of emergency clean up by the Kyiv regime of traces of a military biological programme being implemented by Kyiv with support by the US Ministry of Defense. He further stated that in Ukraine there was a network of 30 bio-labs where very dangerous biological experiments were being conducted aimed at strengthening pathogenic qualities of plague, anthrax, cholera and other lethal diseases using synthetic biology. Linda Thomas-Greenfield of the US countered it by accusing Russia of attempting to use the Security Council to legitimise disinformation and deceive people to justify President Vladimir Putins war of choice against the Ukrainian people. The representatives of UK and Ukraine also supported the view of the US. Thus, the matter ended without going into the larger issue of placing effective mechanism to check any such possibility in future.
