Blood oil security Ukraine foreign ministers critique of India misses some obvious geopolitical realities
20220819
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/toi-editorials/blood-oil-security-ukraine-foreign-ministers-critique-of-india-misses-some-obvious-geopolitical-realities/
Sure, EU is also providing critical military and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine. But thats because the Russian invasion poses a serious threat to wider European security. India is simply not in the same boat. That said, the growing China-Russia compact does pose a long-term strategic challenge for India too. Therefore, it is better to focus on conversations about Indias deep dependence on Russian military hardware and ways to mitigate this, as well as the dangers posed by Beijing and Moscow to New Delhis interests in the Indo-Pacific. But trying to guilt-trip India about Russian oil wont work. On the contrary, it could see GoI turn cold towards the Ukrainian cause.
Ukraine foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba was unusually dramatic for a diplomat in saying the Russian oil India buys has a portion of Ukrainian blood. He was also being somewhat hypocritical. His country is at the brutal end of a Russian invasion. He can critique Indias official neutrality. But as foreign minister he surely knows each country has its own specific set of economic challenges and interests. Therefore, Indias foreign and economic policies must serve India first. Discounted Russian oil is a big help for a major economy thats also a big oil importer and which until recently was battling rising crude prices. The math is clear: For every $1 increase in the price of oil, Indias import bill increases by $2.1 billion. Plus, the global supply of oil remains tight with sanctions on Iran, and with Europe snapping up energy deliveries from the Middle East. Moreover, Europe is continuing to buy Russian gas despite its active support for Ukraine against Russian military action. Yet we dont see Ukrainian authorities lecture EU on purchase of Russian energy in such dramatic terms.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
This piece appeared as an editorial opinion in the print edition of The Times of India.
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
