Ensure safety of nuclear facilities India at UN
20220304
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/ensure-safety-of-nuclear-facilities-india-at-un/articleshow/90001696.cms
India attached the highest importance to safety and security of nuclear facilities, its permanent representative told a special UNSC briefing on Friday. The UN Security Council's emergency meeting came hours after Russian forces reportedly attacked a nuclear power plant in Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia. "India attaches the highest importance to ensuring safety and security of nuclear facilities as any accident involving nuclear facilities may have severe consequences for public health and the environment," PR TS Tirurmurti said. "India accords the highest priority to the discharge by the IAEA of its safeguards and monitoring activities, in accordance with its statute in an effective, non-discriminatory and efficient manner. We have also noted the latest information available with regard to the nuclear power plants and facilities in Ukraine, including today's updates provided by the DG, IAEA on the current situation. An immediate cessation of violence and end to all hostilities are essential."The Russian permanent representative alleged the incident was 'lies spread by Ukraine', while the US held Russia responsible. The Russian envoy repeated the allegations Indians were used as human shields in Ukraine cities.The Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant is the biggest in Europe. It supports one fifth of total electric power generated in Ukraine. It has six units in total, with the first one connected to the power grid in 1984, and the sixth one connected in 1995. The fighting stopped near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant and background radiation levels are normal as a fire continued at the facility, a spokesperson at the plant said on Friday.At the UN Human Rights Council, earlier in the day, India once again abstained from voting on the issue of setting up an independent international inquiry commission to probe Russia's human rights violations in the 9-day war against Ukraine. The 47-member UNHRC voted on a draft resolution on the situation of human rights in Ukraine. It was approved with total 32 votes in favour while Russia and Eritrea voted against the motion. India, China, Pakistan, Sudan, Cuba, Venezuela and seven others abstained. Those who voted in favour of the draft resolution included the US, UK, France, Germany, Japan and Nepal."The Human Rights Council has decided to urgently establish an independent international commission of inquiry as a result of Russia's aggression against Ukraine," UNHRC later tweeted. the Council tweeted. "The message to Putin has been clear: You're isolated on a global level and the whole world is against you," Ukrainian ambassador Yevheniia Filipenko told reporters after the overwhelming vote."While we discuss the nuclear dimension of an unfolding conflict, this Council must acknowledge that there is a pressing humanitarian crisis confronting us in Ukraine, where safety and security of innocent civilians including several thousand Indian nationals, in particular students, are at stake. We therefore hope that the second round of talks between the two sides contributes to the immediate establishment of a safe humanitarian corridor," Tirumurti said.India and other members of UNSC are debating a draft resolution of UNSC on humanitarian issue. India had abstained on two resolutions on Ukraine in the UNSC and UNGA in the last one week.
