ESTA 2021 Government exploring ecommerce framework options says Piyush Goyal
20220312
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/startups/esta-2021-piyush-goyal-asks-startups-to-help-india-become-energy-independent/articleshow/90174844.cms
Bengaluru: The government is exploring multiple options to regulate the ecommerce sector, including completely new legislation or benign rules, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said at the ET Startup Awards on Saturday, even as he urged the industry to self-regulate.The country needs big ideas and innovations to spark disruption, he told the elite startup gathering while assuring them of full government support in exploring the tonnes of opportunities coming their way.Speaking on the current geopolitical situation, he said it was a wake-up call to move away from depending on the world for edible oil, crude or defence equipment, urging the startup community to work on solutions for the various issues faced by the country.Ecommerce policyGoyal said the draft ecommerce rules had thrown up a lot of ideas, some limitations and food for thought for the government, explaining why multiple regulation options were being considered.We are looking at how we can make rules for the organised marketplace model, for an organised regular ecommerce model or how the platform will be differentiated from the multi-brand retail model, keeping in mind the FDI foreign direct investment rules without tinkering with them, Goyal said at an interactive session. We have not yet made up what's the best route forward. Do we need a new ecommerce act like many countries have? Do we need to make very benign rules?Discover the stories of your interestBlockchain5 StoriesCyber-safety7 StoriesFintech9 StoriesE-comm9 StoriesML8 StoriesEdtech6 StoriesHe chided the industry for trying to go around the laws.Can the industry come forward and say we are willing to self-regulate, so the interference of the government is minimum, he said. Are the people willing to stick by the rules, stay within the ambit rather than trying to find deep valuations out of brilliant interpretation of the law.In June 2021, the ministry of consumer affairs had released draft ecommerce rules for public consultation that sought to bar affiliated entities from selling on ecommerce platforms besides restricting flash sales. The draft rules had faced opposition from industry groups as well as within the government.Startup opportunityHe told the startup community that the government is listening to their needs, pointing out the large opportunities for them.Our doors are open 24x7, Goyal told the gathering. Can we have more innovators help India become independent? Everything seems to be collectively conspiring to help India become independent, he said, adding that geopolitical events have underlined the need for India to become more self-sufficient.On high oil prices, he said short-term pain could also lead to long-term gain.We have always been import-dependent on petrol, diesel and crude oil. I think some of our startups will be looking at innovative ways and the revolution towards green tech and the movement out of our dependence on fossil fuel will get wings, he said.Goyal said every sector provides tonnes of opportunity to startups.Simple thing could be the supply chain logistics. India is already at a disadvantage in the logistics chain. Covid started it and the war has accelerated the vulnerability of India on the logistics front and management of logistics, said Goyal, who is also minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution, as well as textiles. There is opportunity in storage of food grains, movement of vegetables and fruits, the transport of small-value goods across continents at an affordable price. All of this will need some innovative solutions.Goyal asked startup unicorns to float a domestic fund to assist new startups and provide seed capital in their ventures.I do think we can raise $10-15 billion dollars. To my mind, the money should be dedicated to the tier 2 or 3 towns, particularly at the seed-funding stage. If we were to persuade guys with big bucks to put in some of the capital to get a reasonable return, it could get some of our young entrepreneurs to own a significant chunk of their company, he said.It is sad that young entrepreneurs, the brightest of brains, land up getting a very small piece of the pie by the time they grow big, he said, pitching the idea of a domestic fund he had floated earlier.
