Fortress Russia  Sanctions have to pierce it better than they did last time
20220224
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/toi-editorials/fortress-russia-sanctions-have-to-pierce-it-better-than-they-did-last-time/
The bigger nuclear sanctions are being withheld for use in the event of further escalation. And there is an irony to this in that when Ukraine achieved independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union it was persuaded to give up its nuclear weapons by the US and the UK pledging alongside Russia that if there was an act of aggression against Ukraine, they would seek immediate United Nations Security Council action to provide assistance to Ukraine. But today, nobody is coming forward to put troops on the ground to help Ukraine withstand Russia. Even stronger sanctions are being withheld because they would inflict pain on the Western economies too.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
It is now well established that the Western sanctions imposed after Russias annexation of Crimea were quite ineffective. Indeed, Russias current attack on Ukraine is proof positive that they were not a deterrent at all. It must be underlined that the goal of sanctions is not just to inflict pain on the Russian economy but to do so to such an extent that President Vladimir Putin significantly moderates his aggressive Ukraine policy. The new round of sanctions targeted at individuals and entities including some of Russias smaller banks are by all accounts simply not up to the above task.
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
The key problem today is a fundamental asymmetry between a government not shy of inflicting tons of domestic pain to push its global agenda, and governments that put growth, prosperity, peace, basically their peoples interests first. But if Ukraine is allowed to be just run over, tomorrows problem could be a new era of invasions and illegal conquests. To prevent that, democracies have to keep working to get through Fortress Russia collectively.
