FUEL SALES NEWS
20220416
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/topic/fuel-sales-news
Importance of having high-dividend-yielding stocks in ones portfolio is realized by the majority at the time of correction. One which is being witnessed in markets. For the purpose of this report, we had kept the dividend yield of at least 7 percent as a benchmark. Another condition was that the company should have a track record of paying dividends in the last four of the five years.
Domestic recovery, that has been driving momentum so far, is getting wobbly. The Reserve Bank of India, which has raised borrowing costs six times since May to 6.50, is seen increasing interest rates again in its April review amid inflation topping estimates and further tightening by global central banks.
The countrys largest electric two-wheeler manufacturer, which reported zero dispatches last month due to disruptions in production on account of a semiconductor chip shortage, has also arranged for alternative sources of supply, Hero Electric chief executive Sohinder Gill told ET.
even the fallow land was brought under wheat cultivation. From the beginning of the season till January, we estimated wheat production to increase by 13 from the previous year to 110 MMT, thanks to the higher sowing progress amid better subsoil moisture left by the late-season rains
Around 20 of the lateral movement from IT firms have been absorbed into captives and non-tech firms that are going digital. This is largely because of a lateral hiring squeeze at IT services firms, said Guruprasad Srinivasan, chief executive at Indias largest staffing firm Quess Corp.
As the market witnesses volatile movement and bearish bias once again comes back to the street. There are few large cap stocks which are still finding favor with analysts. After the recent correction, even the most well known name in the cement sector has made it to the list as the upside potential in them comes close to algorithm fixed minimum target price. ET screener powered by Refinitivs Stock Report Plus lists down quality stocks with high upside potential over the next 12 months, having an average recommendation rating of buy or "strong buy". The screener applies different algorithms for all BSE and NSE stocks. This predefined screener is only available to ET Prime users.
Realising the demographic dividend would require sustained growth in manufacturing. Over the last few years, the government has delivered crucial reforms such as lowering corporate tax rates, Production Linked Incentive Schemes and improving the ease of doing business.
Infosys will release its December quarter earnings after market hours. Consolidated revenue is seen rising nearly 19 on year, and 4 sequentially to Rs 37,890 crore, according to the average of estimates given by 10 brokerages. The net profit is seen rising 11 on year and 7.2 sequentially to Rs 6,455.40 crore. Infosys is seen retaining its sales growth and margin guidance for FY23.
The board will meet to consider and approve earnings for the quarter and 9 months ended December. The company is expected to see a moderate growth in revenue due to the impact of furloughs and year-end holidays. But, profitability will improve sequentially on better utilisation and lower attrition.
As the market witnesses volatile movement and bearish bias once again comes back to the street. There are few large cap stocks which are still finding favor with analysts. After the recent correction, even the most well known name from many sectors has made it to the list as the upside potential in them comes close to algorithm fixed minimum target price. ET screener powered by Refinitivs Stock Report Plus lists down quality stocks with high upside potential over the next 12 months, having an average recommendation rating of buy or "strong buy". The screener applies different algorithms for all BSE and NSE stocks. This predefined screener is only available to ET Prime users.
In a letter addressed to oil industry coordinator, which is BPCL, Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers, an association of fuel retail dealers, claimed they are under pressure to keep petrol and diesel sales under control and said it is afraid the situation may lead to fuel shortage at retail outlets and cause law and order problems.
Sales of Petrol surged 13.2 per cent to 2.65 million tonnes in September as compared to 2.34 million tonnes of consumption in the corresponding period of last year. Sales were 20.7 per cent higher than Covid-marred September 2020 and 23.3 per cent more than pre-pandemic September 2019.
Its a question that seems preposterous to even ask, given the catastrophic fallout from FTXs failure, but investigations, lawsuits and trials are the domain of cold reason, not seething emotion.
The stunning collapse of Sam Bankman-Frieds FTX crypto empire, followed by his arrest in the Bahamas and extradition to the US last month, is rippling through parts of the banking industry
That outcome has become the catalyst for the market one way or the other," Carlson added. "Earnings matter but what's really got the market's focus is the Fed interest rateinflation story.
IndusInd Bank will report its earnings for the December quarter on Wednesday. The bank is expected to report strong growth in income on the back of a steady rise in loan book, but analysts view on the margin performance remains mixed.
India has traditionally been known as a price-sensitive small car market. But the latest trend shows that Indian consumers are upgrading year-on-year not only in fossil fuel driven vehicles but also for EVs, Rajeev Singh, automotive sector leader at Deloitte India told ET. Earlier lot of EVs would come in the Rs25 lakh plus bracket but now Rs15-25 lakh has emerged as the sweet spot, he said.
Option data suggests a broader trading range in between 17700 to 18300 zones while a shift in immediate trading range in between 17850 to 18200 zones.
For the last one week, volatility in broader market indices and also in market breadth has been high. Given the unpredictable new flow, both around individual companies and global macros, it is very likely that volatility will remain high in the near term as no one knows which side the wind will blow. ET screener powered by Refinitivs Stock Report Plus applies different algorithms  filters to all BSE and NSE stocks, and lists down stocks which fulfill the various criteria as specified into the algorithms  filters to find stocks which might help navigate the market conditions.
Even cooking gas LPG, which had consistently shown growth even during the pandemic period, saw a 1.7 per cent month-on-month fall in consumption during April 1-15.
Nifty in correction mode: For all those busy guessing how things will pan out for D-Street and how long will this correction last, a small reminder, corrections are part and parcel of markets. We are now approaching the end of the earning season, and there is always a reset across various market sectors and market cap segments. ET screener powered by Refinitivs Stock Report Plus lists down quality stocks with high upside potential over the next 12 months, having an average recommendation rating of buy or "strong buy". This predefined screener is only available to ET Prime users.
Since short-seller Hindenburg Research published its critical report on Jan. 24, investors have responded to its allegations of fraud and market manipulation by selling Adani shares. But for investors with environmental, social and governance mandates, theres an added layer of pain as they realize their green dollars were indirectly supporting the dirtiest of fossil fuels.
The FM said it is proposed to levy a Social Security Cess on Indian Made Foreign Liquor IMFL and on the sale of petrol and diesel as the commitment to continue protecting the decent lives to vulnerable sections of society require supplementing the financial resources.
Investors have been looking for signs of weakness in the labor market as a key ingredient needed for the Fed to begin to slow its policy tightening measures. Other data showed manufacturing activity in the mid-Atlantic region was subdued again in January, while data from the commerce department confirmed the recession in the housing market persisted.
The country's largest two-wheeler maker said it will increase the prices of its motorcycles and scooters by up to Rs 1,500, with effect from December 1.
Indian Oil, Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum, the three state-run OMCs, are seeking compensation for the losses they have incurred by keeping domestic retail prices frozen while international rates rocketed in 2022. The government gave OMCs a one-time grant of 22,000 crore a few months back to offset their losses on cooking gas.
Running costs of CNG vehicles at 2.1-2.2 per km are less than half of 5.30-5.45 per km for petrol and diesel driven vehicles.
In the July-September quarter, listed FMCG companies, including HUL, ITC, Dabur, Nestle, Tata Consumer, Britannia and Marico, reported pressure on their margins on similar lines as the preceding quarter and said the demand environment remained challenging with inflation impacting consumption.
Companies such as Tata Motors, MG Motor India and Mahindra  Mahindra are set to launch a number of electric passenger vehicles in FY24. This, combined with sky-high fuel prices and improvements in Indias charging infrastructure, is expected to boost the demand for passenger EVs next year and push sales above 100,000 for the first time.
