Gimme bombs shelter When Putin comes to shove you can bash your nuke and eat it too
20220314
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/churn-after-reading/gimme-bombs-shelter-when-putin-comes-to-shove-you-can-bash-your-nuke-and-eat-it-too/
This fissile reasoning doesnt hold for nuclear upstarts like India and Israel. Nor, certainly, for Pakistan, North Korea and nuclear wannabe Iran. Besides, the Big Five know best that denuclearisation moves in fits and false STARTs. Its a perfect world for bashing your nuke and eating it too.
Accordingly, verbal ballistics isnt subject to restraint. Hence Russia, battle-readying its nukes, can threaten the West for backing Ukraine. And Frances foreign minister can coolly retort: Nato is a nuclear alliance. Doubtless, tit-for-tat projectiles carry coded messages of peace. Namely, dont show me yours and I wont show you mine because if yours is big, mines bigger, so there.
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Meantime, nuclear have-nots are jolly under a nuclear brolly. With the US-UK pushing AUKUS, buddy Australia could access uninspected fissile materials by running nuclear-powered subs, giving aspiring proliferators ideas. And with expansionist, Taiwan-fixated China flaunting hypersonic missiles, South Korea and even peacenik Japan, US allies both, might soon say: pacifism, at what price?
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Think. In 1994, Ukrainians chose flower power, renouncing nukes in a post-Soviet security arrangement. Today, theyre being bombed while being accused of building a dirty bomb. Their nemesis? Vladimir Putin who, by recently flexing nuclear muscle, perhaps drove the last nail in disarmaments coffin.
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
Tellingly, in January the Big Five jointly stated that nukes, while they exist, should deter aggression, and prevent war. So, lets forget yesterdays Cuban missile crisis, todays arms race and tomorrows WWIII. Let nukes, not their foot-dragging dismantlers, become peacekeepers. Thatll suit North Koreas dictators, who have kilotons of fun parading defensive nuclear capability. It might also help non-state actors correct their nuclear incapability.
And if, one day, a bomb or two detonates by error or design, take heart. The lucky survivors can always create art, the tragic kind from which we destructive, amnesiac humans learn nothing. Remember Hiroshima Mon Amour?
Should we learn to stop worrying and, like Dr Strangelove, love the Bomb? Definitely maybe.
Russia, of course, represents an elite nuclear club, alongside the US, UK, France and China. Preaching non-proliferation, these Big Five seem disinclined to disarm. Owning most of the worlds 13,000-plus nuclear weapons, they follow their warheads, not their hearts. Doesnt hypocrisy serve the noble cause of Deterrence?
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
