Good brands like Fortune have strong resilience against drop in prices Adani Wilmar CEO
20220627
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/good-brands-like-fortune-have-strong-resilience-against-drop-in-prices-adani-wilmar-ceo/articleshow/92489308.cms
This year the monsoon has been a little erratic in the middle, but we now see the consumption going up. Second half is always very interesting because edible oil consumption is always more in the second half. The technical period is between July and September and the conditions in India, China and the US will need to be watched. If everything goes well, then we see a very good production, consumption as well as stable prices, says Angshu Mallick, CEO  MD, Adani WilmarHave commodity prices come down because they have come down in the spot market but changes happen in a proportionate manner when it comes to long term contracts?Normally, we have seen that when the prices come down in any commodity, it does not come down at the same speed in the spot market. But yes, the spot market responded very fast because overall expectation was that the prices are at a higher level and it might come down and we all expected there would be some corrections. How much, we were not sure but yes 10-15 correction and that has happened in the spot market.Give me an impact analysis. Could this lead to inventory losses? What changes for the customerconsumer and what changes for the shareholders?We have reduced the MRP, and we had announced that around a week back. To some extent, the trade prices also were reduced. Coming to inventory management, we have a rotation cycle. The inventory gets churned every 80 to 90 days and so on an average, on a 90-day cycle, it does not impact so much on a day-to-day basis. As the prices keep going down, all the commodity players will also have to correct their prices. However, when there is a strong brand like Fortune, we have an advantage where the pass through is not so rapid and slow as consumers do not look at the daily market prices. Fortune and so to that extent, good brands have strong resilience towards drop in prices whenever it happens.The expectation is that in the second half of this year we are going to see a pickup in volumes. Now the fact is there has been rural de-growth for the last two quarters, has that started to change?The demand generally contracts during April, May and June because of the peak summer and this year we had very strong heat waves particularly in May and the first part of June which has subsided. Consumption starts picking up from June 15th onwards. This year the monsoon has been a little erratic in the middle, but we now see the consumption going up. The second half is always very interesting because edible oil consumption is always more in the second half but very important is the technical period between July and September. The conditions in India, China and the US will be very important to watch. If everything goes well, then we see very good production, consumption as well as stable prices.Wheat prices have gone back to the pre-Russia-Ukraine war level. This has happened at a time when the total supply from Ukraine and Russia at least the wheat supply has got disrupted. Since Adani is also in the business of rice, wheat, and atta, let me throw this question at you: what is your view on the big picture of soft commodities? As far as wheat is concerned, we knew that this years production is going to be around 15-18 out because of the heat wave that was there in the first week of March. So the prices went up accordingly and then the government opened up exports and it went up. The moment it stopped, we saw the prices getting corrected. But wheat has always been a very stable commodity unlike this year where it experienced turbulence during the procurement season. Going forward, these are the rates which will continue and will grow slowly. The government does not have a great buffer stock as it always used to have so we may not see open markets selling this year. It is the traders and the farmers who will continue to decide the prices going forward particularly after September or October. As far as rice is concerned, India has always been a surplus country and India has been exporting. As of late, worldwide, the rice production has not been good, and India supported that by higher exports. We are also exporting quite a reasonable quantity of rice both Basmati and non-Basmati and we see the prices of Basmati now stabling at these prices but non-Basmati particularly IR64 and other lower variety Swarna might go up by almost 10-15 because the Bangladesh is now opening for imports.
