India tries to negotiate for a safe corridor in Sumy
20220305
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/india/india-tries-to-negotiate-for-a-safe-corridor-in-sumy/articleshow/90020463.cms
The government on Saturday said it is in touch with authorities in Russia and Ukraine to facilitate a ceasefire in Ukraine's conflict zone and ensure safe evacuation of Indian students trapped in the northeastern city of Sumy.ET has learnt that Indian diplomats and officials in New Delhi and in the conflict region are coordinating with Russian and Ukrainian authorities to help impose a ceasefire for a safe corridor for Indian students in Sumy."The focus is now on evacuation from Sumy. We are in touch with students. We are deeply concerned about Indian students. Have strongly pressed Russian and Ukrainian governments through multiple channels for an immediate ceasefire to create a safe corridor for our students," said Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs MEA.According to Bagchi, over 20,000 Indians have left Ukraine since India issued initial advisories. So far, 13,300 Indians have been evacuated from Ukraine on 63 flights operating under the government's 'Operation Ganga'. Of these 63 flights, 15 had landed in the 24 hours till Saturday evening, bringing back some 3,000 Indians.Russian Ambassador designate Denis Alipov on Saturday said, "Task now is safe evacuation of people through the territory of Russia."Sources alleged that the route from Sumy to the Russian border has the presence of Ukrainian vigilantes, which is making movement difficult. "Using Javelin  NLAW anti-tank weapons, as well as Stinger portable air defence systems, foreign fighters commit provocations as well as sabotage and raids on the Russian transport, trying to disrupt the evacuation of the wounded and the supply of ammunition," a Russian government source alleged.The Ukrainian side, however, claimed that the Russians are not agreeing to a ceasefire in Sumy.Some sources claimed that Russia is putting in place a plan to evacuate Indians from Ukraine, organise safe corridors, and provide security and accommodation to them. It has proposed to organise 30 flights from Belgorod in Russia to New Delhi for evacuation, they added.Meanwhile, hours after Russia and Ukraine had agreed to a temporary ceasefire in Mariupol and Volnovakha to enable civilians to leave safely, students of Sumy State university stuck in their university hostels and neighbouring bunkers for the last 10 days posted a video saying they have started walking towards Mariupol, about 600 km from Sumy, "as they had received no help in getting out of the war-torn region despite repeated pleas for help"."Mariupol is 600 km from Sumy. We are risking our lives and moving towards the border. We heard about the ceasefire. This is our last video and we are letting the Indian embassy know if something happens to us, they will be responsible," a student was heard saying in the video. Indian embassy officials later reached out to the students and convinced them not to move out as the ceasefire agreement was not being followed, and that a plan was being worked out to get them out at the earliest.
