IndiaChina Relations Latest LIVE Updates India rebuffs Chinas claims on pressuring Colombo to defer Chinese ships visit
20220812
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/newsblogs/daily-news-and-latest-updates-live-12-august-2022/liveblog/93510159.cms
03:25 PMTerrorists fires upon joint naka party of policeCRPF in Bijbehara area of AnantnagTerrorists fired upon joint naka party of policeCRPF in Bijbehara area of Anantnag. In this terror incident, one police personnel got injured who was immediately evacuated to hospital for treatment. Area cordoned off. Search in progress, informed Kashmir Zone Police.
03:29 PMCong MP Bittu's personal assistant attacked by assailants in LudhianaCongress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu's personal assistant Harjinder Singh Dhindsa was attacked by assailants near Ayali Chowk in Ludhiana. "We are verifying the details of the matter. Dhindsa is under medical treatment in a hospital investigation underway," said police.
08:27 PMEAM S Jaishankar on Belt  Road InitiativeThere was a violation of our territorial integrity  sovereignty, the fact that 3rd country is doing things on sovereign Indian territory occupied by another country. We have extensive connectivity projects with Bangladesh, Bhutan  Nepal, says S Jaishankar
03:51 PMNO Change in policies pertaining to permanent commission and terms of service for officers in IndianArmyFake messages are being circulated on Social Media about change in policies pertaining to permanent commission and terms of service for officers in Indian Army. Beware of such fraudulent messages, Indian Army tweeted.
04:06 PMBetul villagers risk their lives to save anotherVillagers in Betul district carry a pregnant woman on a cot as they risk their lives while crossing a river to take her to a hospital in Shahpur town. "Since the river has a lot of water, some people took the woman on a cot and crossed the river to take her to the hospital. It often happens during such situations, if there'll be a bridge then such incidents could be avoided." reported Dr. Gaajendra Yadav, BMO, Betul.
04:11 PMClimate change doesn't just affect one country. If temperatures are soaring,  sea levels are rising, then crores of people would be wiped out. No one country can alone stop it. Today, there is a need for a new definition for 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'- Union Min Dharmendra Pradhan
03:56 PMThe rupee falls by 4 paise to close at 79.66 provisional against the US dollar
03:52 PMNamgya C. Khampa became the next High Commissioner of India to the Republic of KenyaNamgya C. Khampa, Deputy Chief of Mission in Embassy of lndia, Kathmandu, has been appointed as the next High Commissioner of India to the Republic of Kenya. She is expected to take up the assignment shortly, announced MEA.
08:45 PMIndia-China relationsBengaluru  We have maintained our position that if China disturbs the peace and tranquillity in border areas, it will impact our relations. Our relationship is not normal, it cannot be normal as the border situation is not normal, says EAM S Jaishankar on the India-China issue
05:35 PMRetail inflation eases to 6.71 in JulyIndias Consumer price-based CPI inflation eased to 6.71 percent in July on an annual basis, from 7.01 percent in June, owing to easing food and oil prices.
08:29 PMUP ATS arrests JeM terrorist tasked to kill Nupur SharmaA Jaish-e-Muhammad terrorist tasked to kill suspended BJP leader Nupur Sharma has been arrested by Uttar Pradesh Police. The Anti-Terrorist Squad of Uttar Pradesh Police has arrested one terrorist associated with Jaish-e-Mohammed JeM and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan TTP from Saharanpur, informed Uttar Pradesh Anti Terrorist Squad on Friday. The arrested terrorist has been identified as Muhammad Nadeem 25, a resident of Kunda Kala village of Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur.
07:36 PMRanveer Singh nude photoshoot controversyMaharashtra: Actor Ranveer Singh to be served notice to record his statement in connection with his nude photoshoot controversy summoned on August 22. A team of Mumbai Police reached his residence but couldn't serve the notice as he's not present in Mumbai right now.
08:36 PMAt 871, Mumbai logs highest COVID-19 cases since July 1Mumbai on Friday recorded 871 new coronavirus cases, crossing the 800-mark for the second time this week and registering the highest daily count since July 1, while one more patient succumbed to the infection, the city civic body said.
04:38 PMYamuna river flowing above danger mark in DelhiYamuna river flowing above the danger mark in the capital as the river's level reached 205.38 meters at 4pm, today. The danger mark of the Yamuna river is 205.33 meter.
03:16 PMBihar CM Nitish Kumar on reason to quit alliance with BJPBihar CM on quitting the alliance with BJP said, the discussion was one by the party members and it was people's wish. "Even during polls, winning candidates said nobodyfrom BJPsupported them and losing candidates said they were defeated by BJP people. I had to keep my party safe and act as per people's wish."
05:12 PMDesign  tech service provider 'Tata Elxsi' brings new age solutions for driverless cars, connected vehicles and OTT services, says company CMO Nitin Pai
09:37 PMRussian economy shrinks 4 yy in Q2 as sanctions weigh, reports ReutersRussia's economy shrank 4.0 year-on-year in the second quarter of 2022, the first full quarter of what Russia calls a "special military operation" in Ukraine, preliminary data from the federal statistics service Rosstat showed on Friday.
04:56 PMIn the context of India and China, we have consistently maintained the necessity of mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interest, as the basis of the development of ties.- Arindam Bagchi, Spokesperson, Ministry of External Affairs
09:19 PMGujarat logs 459 new coronavirus cases, zero death active tally at 4,534Gujarat registered 459 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the overall tally to 12,64,289, while no fresh death linked to the infection was recorded in the state, said the Health Department.
04:24 PMBJP's 'Dostwadi' model waives friends' loans of crores of rupees but deprives common man of facilities like health, education.- Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia
08:44 PMAnother setback for TMCWest Bengal  Former Rajya Sabha MP Pavan K Varma resigns from Trinamool Congress TMC
08:25 PMMTNL loss narrows to Rs 653 crore in June quarterState-owned telecom company MTNL on Friday reported narrowing of consolidated loss to Rs 653 crore in the June quarter. The company had posted a loss of Rs 688.69 crore in the same period a year ago. The consolidated revenue from operations of MTNL fell by about 17 per cent to Rs 250.72 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal, according to a regulatory filing. In the year-ago period, the same stood at Rs 301.15 crore.
04:16 PMFree bus travel for women an 'economic revolution', says Tamil Nadu CM StalinThe ruling DMK's key initiative aimed at women, providing them free bus travel, should not be confined to a "narrow" aspect of freebies but it is an economic revolution, said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin. The scheme has ensured an 8-12 per cent savings for the families of the beneficiaries, he said while chairing the third meeting of the Tamil Nadu State Planning Commission here. He said the free bus travel for women has found a place in the hearts of people.
06:22 PMIndia's exports riseIndia's July exports up 2.14 to $36.27 bIlion, but trade deficit widens to $30 billion vs $10.63 billion in July21, reports ET Bureau
04:33 PMDelhi govt is revenue surplus despite running free schemes while BJP state govts are in deficit: Dy CM Manish Sisodia
04:14 PMDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia slams Central govt on calling free education as free rabdiesHon39ble Dy CM msisodia Addressing an Important Press ConferencenbspnbspLIVE https:t.coG2Zgd0rdvJmdash AAP AamAadmiParty 1660300511000
12:22 AMTwelve people including a gunman were killed in a mass shooting in Montenegro, while another six were injured, reports Reuters
04:21 PMDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia calls out BJP for making fun of welfare schemesDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia  says BJP is making fun of welfare schemes by saying it's a 'Revdi' and had a 'Dostwaadi' model. "They won't waive off the loan of a single farmer. Under this model, they don't believe in giving free govt education to students," he said.
03:49 PMSensex rises 130.18 points to close at 59,462.78 Nifty gains 39.15 points to settle at 17,698.15
04:10 PMTMC Birbhum Dist Prez Anubrata Mondal faces breathing problem taken to Command Hospital in KolkataTMC Birbhum District President Anubrata Mondal who was arrested by the CBI in a cattle smuggling case was taken to the Command Hospital in Kolkata for a medical checkup after he complained of a breathing problem.
04:16 PMCongress promises farm loan waiver up to Rs 3 lakh, free electricity for 10 hours daily to farmers if voted to power in Gujarat
12:29 AMWrap-up: Here's all you need to knowRussian economy shrinks 4 yy in Q2 as sanctions weigh, reports ReutersComedian Raju Srivastava continues to be in a critical stage: SourcesCorporate tax mop up grows 34 between Apr-JulyGujarat logs 459 new coronavirus cases, zero death active tally at 4,534At 871, Mumbai logs highest COVID-19 cases since July 1UP ATS arrests JeM terrorist tasked to kill Nupur SharmaMTNL loss narrows to Rs 653 crore in June quarterU.S. import prices decline for first time in seven monthsIndias industrial growth IIP decelerates to 12.3 percent YoY in JuneRetail inflation eases to 6.71 in July
03:55 PMNitish Kumar is not PM contender, but he has all qualities needed to become PM:  JDU PrezJDU national president Rajiv Ranjan Lalan Singh said, Nitish Kumar is not PM contender, but he has all qualities needed to become "PM. Once new govt starts functioning, we'll go to Delhi and meet Opposition leaders to arrive at consensus to wage a fight against BJP across India," he added.
11:35 PMCovid UpdateAssam reported 152 new COVID-19 positive cases, 290 recoveries and 2 deaths with a 2.76 positivity rate, in the last 24 hours. Active cases: 3,359
07:10 PMU.S. import prices decline for first time in seven months, reports ReutersU.S. import prices posted their first decline in seven months in July, helped by a strong U.S. dollar and on lower costs for both fuel and nonfuel products in another sign that inflation may have peaked.Import prices fell by a more-than-expected 1.4 last month after rising 0.3 in June, the Labor Department said on Friday. It was the largest monthly drop since April 2020. In the 12 months through July, import prices increased 8.8 after rising 10.7 in June, the fourth straight month the annual rate has fallen.
06:07 PMCovid ResurgenceMinistry of Home Affairs issues advisory, asks states and Union Territories to avoid large congregations in the ceremony of Independence Day as a precaution against Covid-19.
09:25 PMCovid-19: Delhi reports 2,136 new cases, 2,623 recoveries, and 10 deaths in the past 24 hoursPositivity Rate at 15.02Active cases at 8,343
04:32 PMDelhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia says BJP run 'Dostwadi' modelDelhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia said BJP believe in ruining schools and hospitals to the extent that people are forced to go to private schools and hospitals which mostly belong to their friends. "Once poor people fail to pay the fee, gates of these private institutes are shut for them."
04:27 PMLike many other countries, India too is concerned over recent developments: MEA on Taiwan issueArindam Bagchi, MEA Spox said, India urge the exercise of restraint, avoidance of unilateral actions to change status quo, de-escalation of tensions and efforts to maintain peace and stability in the region.India's relevant policies are well-known and consistent. They do not require reiteration.
04:29 PMMEA's Arindam Bagchi on the technical hold by China in UNSCOn the technical hold by China in UNSC, MEA's Arindam Bagchi said, "This is an issue our permanent representative made a statement on flagged the concern categorically. We note with regret that a technical hold has been placed on the listing proposal for Abdul Rauf Asghar."It is unfortunate that the int'l community has been unable to speak in one common voice on our collective battle against terrorism. There should be no double standards in dealing with terrorists. Practice of placing holds and blocks without giving any justification must end.It is most regrettable that genuine and evidence-based listing proposals pertaining to some of the most notorious terrorists in the world are being placed on hold. Double standards and continuing politicisation have rendered credibility of sanctions committee at an all-time low.
03:57 PMBanda boat capsize incident:Uttar Pradesh  Search amp rescue operations by SDRF amp NDRF teams are underway in connection with the Banda boat caps https:t.coQ8VzmXNFQ5mdash ANI UPUttarakhand ANINewsUP 1660299949000
06:51 PMWe saw all the drama by BJP that went down in Maharashtra, MP,  Jharkhand - scare those who fear, buy those who will sell. Our constitutional institutions - CBI, ED, IT - are being ruined one by one their condition is worse than a police station- Bihar Deputy CM Tejashwi Yadav
03:26 PMTennis player Naina Jaiswal's father files complaint against an unknown person for harassing her on InstagramTennis player Naina Jaiswal's father filed a Police complaint against an unknown person for harassing her on Instagram. A case was registered late last night, said Gajarao Bhupal, DCP, Cybercrime Crime Security.
06:53 PMRaju Srivastava remains on ventilatorPopular comedian-actor Raju Srivastava continues to be "critical and on ventilator" in the intensive care unit ICU of the AIIMS here, hospital sources said on Friday. The 58-year-old stand-up comic was admitted to the hospital after suffering a heart attack on Wednesday and later underwent angioplasty.
06:36 PMUP ATS arrests Pakistan-linked terroristThe Anti-Terrorism Squad of UP has arrested Jaish-e-Mohammed and Tehrikh-e-Taliban Pakistan-linked terrorist from Saharanpur: UP ATSTerrorist Muhammad Nadeem was in direct contact with Pakistan-based terrorist outfits JeM  TTP. He was given the task by JeM to kill Nupur Sharma, says UP ATS
04:17 PMNirmala Sitharaman tried to scare people by saying spending government money on public welfare will destroy country says Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia
10:32 PMCorporate tax mop up grows 34 between Apr-JulyThe income tax department on Friday said corporate tax collections in the first four months of the current fiscal have grown 34 per cent over the year-ago period.During 2021-22 fiscal, corporate tax collections stood at Rs 7.23 lakh crore, a 58 per cent growth over 2020-21 mop up.
05:20 PMEAM S Jaishankar says GDP growth rates aren't matched by employment increasesEAM S Jaishankar in Bengaluru said, it's interesting to look at the last 25 yrs, India's GDP growth rates aren't matched by our employment increases. "What had happened is that businesses have bloomed in India without supplying chains growing commensurately, we didn't look after our MSMEs. A lot of businesses found it profitable  easier to source from outside and then deliver products in India," he said.
05:00 PMMEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on suicide of Mandeep Kaur, Indian living in New YorkMEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi  said that suicide of Mandeep Kaur was very tragic. "Our Consulate in New York is in touch with the local authorities, police, family and the Indian community. Our embassy in Washington, DC is in contact with US authorities, who assured us of appropriate action."
04:03 PMLandslide in Himachal PradeshOne woman dead, four including 3 women and one child injured after a landslide was reported in Runpu village of Rampur.
05:42 PMIndias industrial growth IIP decelerates to 12.3 percent YoY in JuneIndias industrial growth, measured by the Index of Industrial Production IIP, recorded a growth of 12.3 percent in June, as against 19.6 percent in May, data released by the National Statistical Office showed.
05:05 PMGo First flight emergency lands at Coimbatore airport due to engine overheatA Go First flight, carrying 92 passengers, from Bengaluru to Mal Maldives had an emergency landing today at 12pm at Coimbatore airport after the engine overheat warning bell rang, an hour after the takeoff. Go First Spokesperson informed that all passengers safely disembarked. The flight will depart for Mal, Maldives, after 5pm after following certain procedures. The matter is being inspected by the Go First engineering team and rectification is underway.
08:12 PMHimachal Pradesh  12 students of Una's SSRVM Senior Secondary school injured after their school bus fell 20-30m from the road near Lamlehri Upperli bend in Samoor Kalan, Una. All students rescued, taken to regional hospital in Una 3 students serious, says DC Una.
07:15 PMBasmati crop surveyGovt commences Basmati crop survey, after a gap of 2 years, to estimate acreage, assess crop health, expected yield of Basmati rice during the 2022-2023 crop year. Exports of Basmati rice increased by 25.54 in April-June 2022-23 to USD 1.15 billion: Commerce  Industry Ministry
03:33 PMOne police personnel injures in terrorist attack on a joint party of policeCRPF in the Bijbehara area of Anantnag
05:00 PMOrange alert of torrential rain in Odisha for next 2 days due to the possible formation of a new low-pressure area, says MeT office
10:31 PMSalman Rushdie attack incidentSalman Rushdie is alive and has been transported, airlifted, to safety... The event moderator was attacked as well he's getting the care he needs at a local hospital, says Kathy Hochul, Governor of New York State, USA
08:59 PMAuthor Salman Rushdie has been attacked as he was about to give a lecture in western New York, reports AP
