Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren sends Amit Shah list of those stranded in Ukraine
20220228
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-sends-amit-shah-list-of-those-stranded-in-ukraine/articleshow/89891675.cms
RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday dispatched a "hurriedly" prepared list of people from Jharkhand who are stranded in Ukraine along with a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting for their early rescue from the war-torn eastern European country. Till Sunday, the state control room which was activated in Ranchi managed to track and trace 152 people who are stranded in Ukraine.In his letter, Soren wrote: "My office is constantly being approached by the relatives of those persons from Jharkhand who are stranded there. They are in a state of panic, and horror and compelled to move with limited stocks of essential provisions to makeshift places. Even the departmental stores are insisting on cash payments against essential procurements. Extreme inclement weather is only adding to their woes. I feel we must reach out to them in the hour of crisis and make best possible efforts to evacuate them."He added that though everyone was aware about the brewing tension between Ukraine and Russia for quite sometime, presuming it as just a posturing by Russia turned out to be a monumental blunder.The number of stranded Indians in Ukraine is believed to be 20,000, including 18,000 students. From Jharkhand, the state control room which was activated in Ranchi on Saturday had managed to track and trace 86 people stranded from this state. The rest out of 152 was traced on Sunday. Officials manning the telephone war room have anticipated that the figures may increase in due course of time with the crisis deepening in Ukraine.Sources in the chief minister's office, however, said Soren's letter to Shah contained the initial list of about 45 persons prepared by the government based on its preliminary information. But with numbers soaring, further details of the stranded along with their coordinates will be shared with the Union government. Since Saturday, India has already begun evacuating its citizens, many of whom had reached late on Saturday night and early Sundy to Mumbai and Delhi. It was still not known till the time of filing this report if anyone from the initial returnees hailed from Jharkhand.
