KPMG Accenture other consulting companies exit Russia
20220308
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/international-business/kpmg-pwc-ey-others-exit-russia/articleshow/90063934.cms
BENGALURU: After Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet and others, big consulting and accounting firms are calling it quits in Russia following Western sanctions on the country for invading Ukraine.A KPMG International spokesperson said, ...our Russia and Belarus firms will leave the KPMG network. KPMG has over 4,500 people in Russia and Belarus, and ending our working relationship with them, many of whom have been a part of KPMG for many decades, is incredibly difficult. This decision is not about them  it is a consequence of the actions of the Russian government. Its spokesperson said it will provide transitional support for former colleagues impacted by this decision.PwC global chairman Bob Moritz tweeted on Sunday that PwC Russia will leave the network. He said PwC will take up an orderly transition for the business with a focus on the well-being of its 3,700 colleagues in PwC Russia.EY said its global organisation will no longer serve any Russian government clients, state-owned enterprises, or sanctioned entities and individuals anywhere in the world. This is heart-breaking as we have over 4,700 colleagues in Russia, who have been a part of our global network for over 30 years and worked side by side with our global, Eastern European and Ukrainian colleagues. As we go through this change, we will work to support those colleagues, as well as our clients in fulfilling our legal obligations and commitments, it said.Accenture too is discontinuing its business in Russia. We thank our nearly 2,300 colleagues in Russia for their dedication and service to Accenture over the years. We will be providing support to our Russian colleagues. While Accenture does not have a business in Ukraine, we will continue our efforts to help our Ukrainian colleagues working around the globe at Accenture and their extended families, it said.DXC Technology condemned the aggression from the Russian government that is leading to the death, injury, and displacement of innocent civilians in Ukraine. The company said it is committed to exit the market. "We have approximately 4,000 colleagues in Russia and are supporting them in this time of need. We continue to support and maintain rigorous compliance with all applicable sanctions levied against Russia, it said in a statement. DXC said it is matching employee donations to the Red Cross humanitarian efforts at 200 which includes providing direct financial support to its impacted colleagues.
