Rising UK energy prices may kill workfromhome aspirations Heres why
20220831
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/uk/rising-uk-energy-prices-may-kill-work-from-home-aspirations-heres-why/articleshow/93900723.cms
Amid the already increasing energy prices, analysis suggests that work from home will add over 2,500 a year to the energy bills. Because of the added cost, employees doing work from home are likely to return to offices in large numbers this winter as per expert suggestions. On Friday the energy regulator, Ofgem, confirmed that the energy will jump to 3,549 a year an 80 increase this October. According to Cornwall Insights new forecast, in January next year, the energy bill would rise to 5,400 a year and by spring 2023, itll rise again to 6,000 per year. So in January, the average monthly bill will hit 789 for employees doing work from home while for office-going workers itll be 580, according to a comparison from Uswitch. And this comes down to 2508 a year more energy bill for an employee doing work from home.An estimate from Uswitch revealed that an employee doing work from home uses 25 percent more electricity and 75 percent extra gas than those 5 days week office going people. And due to the rise in energy prices, daily use of household devices when working from home can add hundreds of pounds to the energy bills. Economic war: Europes energy crisisAutoplay1 of 6PresentThe Nord Stream 1 pipeline, the main conduit for Russian gas into Europe, faces technical glitches amid economic war between Moscow and Brussels. Europe is already on notice that supplies will be squeezed as Gazprom shuts off Nord Stream 1 from Wednesday to Friday for maintenance.Energy costA surge in gas prices as top exporter Russia cuts supplies has squeezed German utility company Uniper, prompting it to seek an extra 4 billion euros in credit lines from Berlin, on top of a 15 billion euro bailout deal agreed last month.BlameUkraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy accused Russia of economic terrorism as the cost of Europe's energy crisis spiralled with Germany on the hook for at least 19 billion euros to bail out its biggest importer of Russian gas.Impact on stockEuropean shares fell to their lowest level in nearly one month as worries about tightening gas supplies from Russia, hawkish signals from the European Central Bank and weak economic outlook weighed on investors' minds. The continent-wide STOXX 600 dropped 1.0 to touch its lowest level since July 28.SolutionThe European Union is drafting emergency plans to intervene in its energy market, as pressure grows from member states to put a lid on the surging price of electricity. As Russian gas deliveries to Europe have pushed up power costs almost 12 times than at the start of 2021.Some energy bills estimates for work-from-home employees: Calculations based on Citizens Advice 8 hours a day of desktop running will cost 35.68 a month  23.42 a month for cooking using an oven.  8 a month to energy bills for three times a day kettle boilingThough office returning means adding toward daily traveling costs, still it would cost 1,500 less. According to calculations done by Renny Biggins belonging to The Investing and Saving Alliance trade group shows that though an additional 700 a year would be the cost for employees doing work from home but to cover the cost a basic rate taxpayer would require an additional 900 a year earning. He said that 'commuting cost and work in a warm office' may prove to be more economical even with high train and fuel costs due to energy prices.
