Russia Ukraine News Updates In nod to Russia Ukraine says no longer insisting on NATO membership
20220308
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/newsblogs/russia-ukraine-war-crisis-news-live-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-latest-updates-march-8-2022/liveblog/90065077.cms
09:56 PM"We've seen some irresponsible comments on passing away of Mukul Arya, Representative of India in Ramallah. He died of natural causes. We urge that the tragic demise of a young diplomat be treated with decency and respect," MEA said in an official statement
05:35 PMIndia to resume regular international flights from March 27After two years, India will resume regular international flight operations from March 27. International operations shall be subject to strict adherence to Ministry of Health guidelines for international travel, the Civil Aviation Ministry said.
10:19 PMUkraine will 'never be a victory for Putin': BidenBiden: US ban on Russian oil a 'powerful blow' to 'Putin's war,' warns Americans 'defending freedom is going to cost'.
09:42 PMRussian air strike kills 21 civilians in Ukraine's Sumy city, say local authoritiesAt least 21 civilians, including two children, were killed in a Russian air strike on a residential street in Ukraine's northeastern city of Sumy late on Monday, the regional prosecutor's office said in a statement on Tuesday.
05:25 PMRussia's Lavrov sets out stance on Ukraine to Vatican counterpart in callRussian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov set out Moscow's position on the conflict in Ukraine to Vatican State Secretary Pietro Parolin in a call on Tuesday, the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement. In connection with the concern expressed by Parolin about the situation in Ukraine, Lavrov "outlined the principled Russian position regarding the causes and goals of the special military operation being carried out in Ukraine", the ministry said.
05:48 PMNumber of Indians airlifted by 75 special civilian flights goes up to 15,521IAF had flown 12 missions to bring back 2467 passengers, as part of Operation Ganga and carried over 32-tonne relief material: Ministry of Civil AviationAmong the civilian flights, 4575 passengers brought from Bucharest by 21 flights, 1820 from Suceava by 9 flights, 5571 from Budapest by 28 flights, 909 passengers by 5 flights from Kosice, 2404 Indians from Rzeszow by 11 flights, and 242 persons by a flight from Kyiv: MoCA
12:56 AMWrap Up: All you need to knowBiden announces ban on Russian oil and gas importsRussia announces humanitarian ceasefire for Wednesday morning, according to agenciesCERN suspends Russia's observer statusRecognise Russia as 'terrorist country': Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to UK ParliamentPoland's government says it's ready to hand over all its MIG-29 fighter jets to a US air base in GermanyUkraine president tells UK MPs "we will fight to the end"McDonald's says closing all restaurants in RussiaBBC says to resume English-language reporting from Russia Tuesday eveningUkraine will 'never be a victory for Putin': BidenPremier League suspends deal with Russian broadcaster: statementEnergy giant Shell says to withdraw from Russian oil, gasFlights under Operation Ganga being prepared to bring home Indian students moved out from Ukraine's Sumy: MEA
05:18 PMBlinken says Russia has self-interest in preventing nuclear-armed IranRussia has a self-interest in preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear arms, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said during a visit to Estonia on Tuesday. "We continue to work to see if we can come back to mutual compliance with Iran on the deal. Russia continues to be engaged in those efforts and it has its own interest in ensuring that Iran is not able to acquire a nuclear weapon," Blinken said.
03:13 PMUkraine asks IAEA to ban Russia from accessing technological resourcesUkraine has asked International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA to ban Russia from accessing its technological resources as well as break off its relations with Russian citizens in UN structures related to the nuclear field, Ukraine's energy ministry said on Tuesday.The statement issued by the Energy Ministry on Facebook called for "prohibiting Russia's access to intellectual and technological resources of IAEA, breaking relations with Russian citizens engaged in UN nuclear energy-related structures".The statement further appealed for an immediate ceasefire and prohibition of the occupation troops to approach closer than 30 km to nuclear energy objects.
07:43 PM474 civilian deaths in Ukraine 861 hurtThe U.N. human rights office says it has confirmed 474 civilian deaths in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Feb. 24. The office said Tuesday that the number of confirmed civilian injuries now stands at 861. The U.N. office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has been able to verify. It acknowledges that the real figures are much higher, in part because intense fighting has delayed its receipt of information and many reports still have to be corroborated.
08:06 PMOil markets fret over supply shock as some buyers shun RussiaWhile the West debates potential restrictions on Russian oil and gas, there are signs some buyers are already shunning them, fuelling market jitters about a potentially huge supply shock. While Western governments have imposed unprecedented sanctions on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine, they have so far not directly targetted its energy sector because of the damage that would inflict on their own economies.
10:40 PMWhat does a US ban on Russian oil accomplish?A full embargo would be most effective if it included European allies, which are also desperate to stop the violence in Ukraine and the danger Moscow poses to the continent. Yet it's far from clear that Europe would take part in an embargo.
06:00 PM'Russia wants to organise humanitarian corridors to take Ukrainians as prisoners'The Russian side wants to organise so-called humanitarian corridors to Russia and Belarus in order to take Ukrainians as prisoners, Vadim Denisenko, advisor to Ukraine Minister of Internal Affairs, said. "Yesterday, the Russians again stated that they plan to provide humanitarian corridors today. I would like to believe that this will succeed, but, unfortunately, it seems that the Russian Federation has instructed its military not to allow any humanitarian corridors throughout Ukraine," Denisenko said, UNIAN reported.
04:24 PMEU pledges to fight Russia's "information war" in EuropeThe EU has decided to suspend the broadcasting activities of Sputnik and RTRussia Today in the bloc until Russia ends its war in Ukraine and stop disinformation campaigns in member states.Borrell said Moscow-controlled outlets are part of a well-oiled propaganda machine providing biased news about Vladimir Putin's true intentions.
08:23 PMUkraine-Russia conflict shows conventional war could happen: Gen NaravaneThe ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia shows that a conventional war could happen, Indian Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said on Tuesday. In response to a question on the sidelines of an event here, he underlined that the war between Russia and the eastern European country was being fought in a physical domain. Is the war being fought in cyberspace or through air-conditioned chambers? he rhetorically asked, adding that this war shows that a "conventional war could happen".
06:18 PMChanging tune, Italy's Salvini pledges to help refugees from UkraineItalian rightist politician Matteo Salvini, who has been among Russian President Vladimir Putin's main supporters in Western Europe, has pledged to help refugees fleeing Ukraine from the Russian invasion. His stance marked a U-turn from the anti-immigration positions that previously shaped his politics.
10:45 PMFirst step towards a possible solution to Ukraine-Russia Crisis?In nod to Russia, Ukraine says no longer insisting on NATO membership
09:57 PMFrance's L'Oreal to close stores, e-commerce sites in RussiaL'Oreal, the world's largest cosmetics group, said on Tuesday it would temporarily close its own stores, its directly operated counters in department stores and its e-commerce sites in Russia, in reaction to Moscow's invasion of its neighbour Ukraine. The French company, which strongly condemns Russia's military action, also said it would also suspend all industrial and national media investments in Russia.
02:58 PMRussia's Foreign Ministry says Russia and United States should return to principle of peaceful co-existence like during the Cold War - IFAX
07:17 PMUkraine war: Icra sees serious downside risks to growth CAD to cross 3.2 pcRating agency Icra has warned of serious downside risks to the economy next fiscal with runaway current account deficit, steep fall in the rupee and a hardening yields on government bonds, as a result of the Russian-Ukraine crisis and the resultant spike in crude and other commodity prices. International crude oil prices have hit a 14-year high at USD 130 a barrel on March 7, up from USD 94 a barrel before the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which is the world's third-largest oil producer, supplying 14 per cent of global production.
04:58 PMGerman ministries say cannot recommend extending nuclear plants' lifetimeGermany's environment and economy ministries said the cost and risks of keeping the country's few remaining nuclear power plants running longer than planned outweighed the limited possible benefits. "As a result of weighing up the benefits and risks, an extension of the operating lives of the three remaining nuclear power plants is not recommended, also in view of the current gas crisis," the ministries said in a joint statement on Tuesday.
04:38 PMEnergy giant Shell says it will stop buying Russian oil, natural gas and shut service stations in RussiaEnergy giant Shell says it will stop buying Russian oil and natural gas as well as shut down its service stations and other operations in the country amid international pressure for companies to sever ties over the invasion of Ukraine. Shell says in a statement Tuesday that it would withdraw from all Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, petroleum products, natural gas and liquefied natural gas, in a phased manner.
03:14 PMTrapped civilians in Ukraine must be allowed to leave safely -UN's BacheletU.N. human rights chief Michelle Bachelet called on Tuesday for civilians trapped in active hostilities in numerous areas of Ukraine to be able to leave safely. Pro-Ukrainian activists have been unlawfully detained in the east of their homeland, while people considered pro-Russian have been beaten in Ukraine, she said in a speech to the Human Rights Council, citing reports received by her office.
04:18 PMUN warns of increasing repression in RussiaThe U.N.'s top human rights official is warning that a new Russian law allowing harsh punishment for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about the armed forces adds to concern about repressive legislation in Russia.High Commission for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet told the U.N. Human Rights Council that space for discussion or criticism of public policies - including Russia's military action against Ukraine - is increasingly and profoundly restricted.''Bachelet said some 12,700 people have been arbitrarily arrested'' for holding peaceful anti-war protests and noted that media are required to use only official information and terms.
04:17 PMShell to withdraw from Russian oil and gasShell plans to withdraw from Russian oil and gas and stop all spot purchases of Russian crude oil as a first immediate step, the British energy major announced on Tuesday.
11:55 PMMcDonald's to temporarily close 850 stores in RussiaMcDonald's said Tuesday it is temporarily closing all of its 850 restaurants in Russia in response to the country's invasion of Ukraine. The burger giant said it will continue paying its 62,000 employees in Russia who have poured their heart and soul into our McDonald's brand. But in an open letter to employees, McDonald's President and CEO Chris Kempckinski said closing those stores for now is the right thing to do.
03:43 PMUkraine Deputy Prime Minister says 30 buses en route to Mariupol to collect evacuees via humanitarian corridorThirty buses are en route to the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol to collect evacuees via a humanitarian corridor to Ukraine-controlled territory, deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on television on Tuesday. There were signs Russian forces were firing in the direction of a route for humanitarian aid, she added, without providing further details.
04:17 PMUkraine war may have limited impact on domestic credit market: ReportAccording to India Ratings, overall, the duration and intensity of the war will be the key determinant for the macro and micro risks. Although the direct impact seems to be limited on the credit based on limited escalation from the ongoing situation, the rippling effect will be disproportionately higher in case the war continues for long.From a financing point of view, the agency said the domestic banking system has adequate liquidity but, this does not ensure market and balance-sheet liquidity for the system as a whole. Given the rising uncertainties, high energy prices and cautious sentiments in the capital markets, entities with a weak financial profile may face financing challenges in case the situation worsens.
09:23 PMPremier League suspends deal with Russian broadcaster: statementThe Premier League announced Tuesday it was suspending an agreement with its Russian broadcast partner following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "The Premier League and its clubs today unanimously agreed to suspend our agreement with Russian broadcast partner Rambler Okko Sport with immediate effect and to donate 1 million $1.3 million to support the people of Ukraine," it said in a statement.
12:21 AMUkraine has blocked many Russian attempts to seize Mykolayiv city, says Ukrainian officialRussian forces have repeatedly tried to seize the southern regional capital of Mykolayiv in attacks that have been repulsed by Ukrainian troops, Ukrainian presidential advisor Oleksiy Arestovych said on Tuesday. "They'd need ten times more force to take Mykolayiv," he said in a televised briefing.
09:01 PMApplying to join NATO would destabilize security situation, Swedish PM saysA Swedish application to join NATO would destabilize the current security situation in Europe, Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said on Tuesday. "If Sweden were to choose to send in an application to join NATO in the current situation, it would further destabilize this area of Europe and increase tensions," Andersson told reporters.
03:01 PMRussia says it understands N.Korea's move to renew missile launches -RIARussia understands North Korea's decision to renew frequent missile launches, RIA news agency quoted a Russian foreign ministry official as saying on Tuesday.Pyotr Ilyichyov, head of the international organisations division at the foreign ministry, said that when Pyongyang paused missile tests earlier there had been an increase in military cooperation between Seoul and Washington.
03:12 PMNearly 2,500 Ukrainian military targets destroyed till now, claims RussiaAs many as 2,482 Ukrainian military targets have been destroyed by the Russian armed forces since the beginning of its military operation in the country, Sputnik reported citing the Russian defence ministry."In total, 2,482 military targets of Ukraine were hit during the operation, including 87 command posts and communication centres of the Ukrainian military, 124 S-300, Buk M-1 and Osa air defence missile systems, 79 radar stations," the news agency quoted the Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov as saying.According to Konashenkov, the destroyed facilities also include 866 tanks and other armoured combat vehicles, 91 multiple rocket launchers, 317 field artillery pieces and mortars, 634 units of special military vehicles, 81 unmanned aerial vehicles.
10:23 PMThe oil statusThe United States imported more than 20.4 million barrels of crude and refined products a month on average from Russia in 2021, about 8 of U.S. liquid fuel imports, according to the Energy Information Administration, and the ban is expected to send already high gasoline prices and inflation soaring. The United States also imports a negligible amount of coal from Russia.
10:09 PMCERN suspends Russia's observer statusThe international scientific laboratory that is home to the world's largest atom smasher says it is suspending Russia's observer status and halting any new collaboration with Russia or its institutions until further notice.
09:29 PMPentagon estimates 2,000 to 4,000 Russian soldiers already killed in UkrainePresident Joe Biden's top intelligence official said Tuesday the U.S. believes Russia underestimated the strength of Ukraine's resistance before launching an invasion that has likely caused thousands of Russian casualties.
04:52 PMRussia sanctions 'manageable' for UK finance, says Bank of EnglandSanctions against Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine are "manageable" for Britain's insurers and wider financial sector, Bank of England Deputy Governor Sam Woods said on Tuesday. Britain is banning Russian companies from the multi-billion dollar aviation and space insurance market in London, the world's largest commercial and specialty insurance centre.
03:56 PMEU to sanction more Russian oligarchs, Belarus banks over Ukraine invasion -sourcesThe European Commission has prepared a new package of sanctions against Russia and Belarus over the invasion of Ukraine that will hit additional Russian oligarchs and politicians and three Belarusian banks, three sources told Reuters on Tuesday. The sanctions, to be discussed by EU ambassadors on Tuesday at a meeting starting at 1400 GMT, will ban three Belarusian banks from the SWIFT banking system and add several oligarchs and Russian lawmakers to the EU blacklist, which already includes many, the sources told Reuters. The new sanctions package also bans exports from the EU of maritime technology to Russia, and provides guidance on the monitoring of cryptocurrencies to avoid their use to circumvent EU sanctions, the sources said.
04:26 PMUkraine energy system is operational despite costly damage, says ministerUkraine's energy system is working as normal despite sustaining damage that amounts to tens of billions of hryvnia, Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko said in televised comments on Tuesday. The ministry hopes to repair a damaged gas line near the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol despite active fighting in the area, he said.
10:04 PM"We're banning all imports of Russian gas, oil, and energy," announces US President Joe Biden"We're moving forward with this ban understanding that many of our European allies and partners may not be in a position to join us," US President Joe Biden said
07:55 PMUkraine's JKX Oil  Gas says operations largely uninterruptedUkrainian energy producer JKX Oil  Gas said on Tuesday its operations are largely uninterrupted with employees taking refugees from other parts of the country into their homes. Charles Valceschini, chairman of the Ukrainian natural gas producer, said at the CERAWeek energy conference that the safety of its staff is first priority for managers. Gas output is going into pipelines, liquid petroleum gas to end users, and oils to storage, he said.
11:07 PMBBC to resume reporting from RussiaBritain's BBC on Tuesday said it would resume English language reporting in Russia after it suspended its coverage to assess the implications of a new law. On Friday, the BBC said it had paused its reporting in Russia after parliament passed a law there that could impose a jail term of up to 15 years for anyone found to be intentionally spreading "fake" news.
06:51 PMIndian students moved out from Sumy currently en route Poltava, from where they will board trains to western Ukraine: MEAFlights under Operation Ganga being prepared to bring home Indian students moved out from Ukraine's Sumy: MEAHave been able to move out all Indian students from Ukraine's Sumy: MEA
09:15 PMAverage price for a gallon of gasoline in the US hits a record $4.17 as country prepares to ban Russian oil imports
11:40 PMUkraine central bank buys $673 mln of government war bondsUkraine's central bank on Tuesday said it had bought 20 billion hryvnias $673.40 million of local bonds the government has put on sale to help finance the war effort. The bank "will if necessary continue to finance critical government expenditures under martial law," it said in a statement.
05:37 PMHumanitarian Corridor for evacuation of stranded people announced in various parts of Ukraine from 1000 hrs on 8 March...All stranded Indians are urged to make use of this opportunity  evacuate using trainsvehicles or other available means of transport: Embassy of India in Kyiv
04:40 PMRefugees from Ukraine hit 2M people flee embattled citiesBuses packed with people fleeing the Russian invasion in Ukraine left two embattled cities along safe corridors Tuesday, while officials said the exodus of refugees from the country reached 2 million. The Russian onslaught has trapped people inside besieged cities that are running low on food, water and medicine amid the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II.
06:23 PMIndian oil companies to revise fuel pricesIndian oil companies will revise fuel prices following a surge in global crude markets due to Russia-Ukrainian war, oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Indian fuel retailers have not revised pump prices of heavily-taxed gasoline and gasoil since Nov. 4, apparently to help the federal government ahead of elections in five states. Indian state firms dominate fuel retailing in India.
05:47 PM410 Indians airlifted todayUnder OperationGanga to rescue Indian citizens from Ukraines neighbouring countries, 410 Indians have been airlifted today by 2 sPl civilian flights from Suceava. With this, about 18,000 Indians have been brought back through special flights which began on 22nd Feb 2022: MoCA
04:25 PMFormer Ukraine President Yanukovych urges Zelenskyy to 'stop the war'Ukraine's former President Viktor Yanukovych urged President Volodymyr Zelenskyy 'to stop the war' as Russia's military operation in the country entered the 13th day on Tuesday.Notably, Viktor Yanukovych now lives in Russia since being ousted in 2014. In his letter which was published by Russian local media, Yanukovych asked Zelenskyy 'to stop the war at any cost', reported The Kyiv Independent.The Kyiv Independent tweeted, citing a report by the Ukrayinska Pravda, an online newspaper, that the former president was being prepared by the Kremlin for a special occasion.Moreover, amid the ongoing tensions Mykhailo Podolyak, advisor to the head of Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office in a tweet slammed Russia for 'killing civilians'.
06:41 PMUK says visa centre for Ukrainians being set up in FranceThe UK government on Tuesday said it was setting up a visa centre for Ukrainian refugees in northern France, after confusion and anger that some were being turned away. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss told parliament a "pop-up" site would be located in Lille, some 70 miles 110 kilometres from Calais where scores of Ukrainians have flocked. Disappointed Ukrainians arriving in the Channel port city this week in the hope of getting to the UK have instead been told to go to Paris or Brussels to apply.
10:46 PMIn nod to Russia, Ukraine says no longer insisting on NATO membershipPresident Volodymyr Zelensky said he is no longer pressing for NATO membership for Ukraine, a delicate issue that was one of Russia's stated reasons for invading its pro-Western neighbor.
03:16 PMAuthorities in Ukraine's Sumy region say 21 civilians killed in Russian air strike late on Monday
10:31 PMUK to phase out Russian oil imports by end of 2022Britain will phase out imports of Russian oil and oil products by the end of 2022, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday, joining other nations including the United States in reducing their energy dependency on Russia. In response to President Vladimir Putin's decision to invade of Ukraine, Britain and others are seeking ways to deprive Moscow of income and cut their own use of Russian energy exports by becoming more self-sufficient.
11:19 PMUkraine president says he discussed humanitarian corridors issue with France's MacronUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Tuesday said he had spoken with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron about the need to establish humanitarian corridors to help civilians flee Ukraine's front line towns. "I maintain a constant dialogue with EmmanuelMacron. We discussed the implementation of agreements on humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of the population and delivery of necessary goods," he said on Twitter.
08:40 PMPresident of European Commission on gas suppliesRePowerEU will diversify our gas supplies, speed up the renewable roll-out, improve energy efficiency and replace gas in heating and power. It can reduce our demand for Russian gas by 23 before the end of the year: Ursula von der Leyen, President of European Commission
