RussiaUkraine War News Lavrov says Russian goal to oust Ukraines president
20220723
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/south-asia/russia-ukraine-war-news-live-updates-july-24/liveblog/93080539.cms
Russia's defence ministry said its forces had destroyed an ammunition depot for US-made HIMARS rocket systems in Ukraine's western Khmelnytskyi region, reports Reuters
Russia said its forces had hit a Ukrainian warship and a weapons store in Odesa with high-precision missiles Reuters
On the day the war in Ukraine started its sixth month, the nations Health Ministry took notice of the steep price that has been paid by medics on the front lines and by health care workers treating the wounded in hospitals across the country. Since Russias invasion of Ukraine began Feb. 24, Ukraines Health Ministry said Sunday that 18 medical workers have been killed and more than 50 have been injured. Furthermore, 123 medical facilities have been destroyed by Russian attacks, and 746 are in need of repairs after strikes. The Health Ministry said in a Facebook post that the assaults were a targeted destruction of the medical infrastructure.
Russia continued shelling along the entire frontline in the eastern Donetsk region, especially in the area of Bakhmut Reuters
Ukrainian medical workers have paid a steep toll in the war, the health ministry says
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday there are no barriers to the export of grain from Ukrainian ports, after Ukraine and Russia signed a deal to unblock grain shipments on the Black Sea in Turkey last week. Speaking after Russian missiles struck Ukraine's main port of Odesa on Saturday, Lavrov said the strike had been aimed at military infrastructure in the port.
The UK on Monday said it was "prioritising essential overseas aid funding" such as help for Ukraine, after a report that it had halted "non-essential" relief abroad following Russia's invasion. The Financial Times said the UK Treasury had blocked "non-essential new payments for the rest of the summer" over concerns relief work in Ukraine would breach a foreign aid spending cap. Outgoing Prime Minister Boris Johnson in 2020 decided to cut Britain's annual budget for overseas development aid, blaming ballooning debt caused by the Covid pandemic.
Ukraine said on Monday it hoped a UN-brokered deal aimed at easing global food shortages by resuming grain exports from the Black Sea region would start being implemented this week. A senior government officials told a news conference he hoped the first grain shipment under the deal would be from the port of Chornomorsk on Wednesday.
Russia, which invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, has captured a chunk of territory in southern Ukraine and used its artillery supremacy in the east to make gradual territorial gains.
The shelling damaged at least five houses and wounded one person, Ukrainian authorities said. Other cities under renewed Russian fire include Avdiivka and Kramatorsk.
Ukraine pressed ahead on Sunday with efforts to restart grain exports from its Black Sea ports under a deal aimed at easing global food shortages but warned deliveries would suffer if Russias strike on Odesa was a sign of more to come.President Volodymyr Zelensky denounced Saturdays attack as barbarism that showed Moscow could not be trusted to implement a deal struck just one day earlier with Turkish and UN mediation.Public broadcaster Suspilne quoted the Ukrainian military as saying after the strike that the missiles did not hit the ports grain storage area or cause significant damage and Kyiv said preparations to resume grain shipments were ongoing. Russia said on Sunday its forces had hit a Ukrainian warship and a weapons store in Odesa with missiles.
Russia tightened its gas squeeze on Europe on Monday as Gazprom said supplies through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to Germany would drop to just 20 of capacity.Gazprom said flows would fall to 33 million cubic metres per day from 0400 GMT on Wednesday - a halving of the current, already reduced level - because it needed to halt the operation of a Siemens gas turbine at a compressor station on instructions from an industry watchdog.
Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Sunday that Russian forces had hit a Ukrainian military boat in the port of Odesa in Ukraine with high-precision missiles. The Ukrainian military had said Russian missiles hit the southern port on Saturday, threatening a deal signed just one day earlier to unblock grain exports from Black Sea ports and ease global food shortages caused by the war. Stay with TOI for the latest updatesRead Less
Russian forces also shelled the town of Chuhuyiv in the northeastern Kharkiv region, reports Reuters
Ukraine said on Monday its forces had used U.S-supplied HIMARS rocket systems to destroy 50 Russian ammunition depots since receiving the weapons last month.In comments on national television, Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov underlined the growing impact that the High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS are having as Ukraine tries to repel Russia's invasion. "This cuts their Russian logistical chains and takes away their ability to conduct active fighting and cover our armed forces with heavy shelling," Reznikov said.
Ukraine President Zelenskyy said Russian missile strikes on Odesa were blatant "barbarism" that showed Moscow could not be trusted to implement the grain deal, reports Reuters
