Russia war a genocide trying to wipe out Ukraine says US President Joe Biden
20220413
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/russia-war-a-genocide-trying-to-wipe-out-ukraine-says-us-president-joe-biden/articleshow/90825477.cms
President Joe Biden has now said Russia's war in Ukraine amounts to "genocide," accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to "wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian." "Yes, I called it genocide," he told reporters in Iowa on Tuesday shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington. "It's become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian." Last week, Biden stopped short of saying Russia's actions amounted to genocide. At an earlier event Tuesday in Menlo, Iowa, addressing spiking energy prices caused by the war, Biden had implied that he thought Putin was carrying out genocide against Ukraine, but offered no details. Neither he nor his administration announced new consequences for Russia or assistance to Ukraine following Biden's public assessment. Biden's comments drew praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who had encouraged Western leaders to use the term to describe Russia's invasion of his country. French President Emmanuel Macron declined to take his rhetoric that far in comments Wednesday.MORE STORIES FOR YOURussia trying to 'wipe out' Ukraine, war a 'genocide' : US President Joe BidenPutin vows to press invasion until Russia's goals are metIn Bucha, Ukraine, burned, piled bodies among latest horrors Back to recommendation storiesI don't want to see these stories becauseThey are not relevant to meThey disrupt the reading flowOthersSUBMIT "I am prudent with terms today," Macron said. "Genocide has a meaning. The Ukrainian people and Russian people are brotherly people. It's madness what's happening today. It's unbelievable brutality and a return to war in Europe. But at the same time I look at the facts, and I want to continue to try the utmost to be able to stop the war and restore peace. I'm not sure if the escalation of words serves our cause." Macron said it's been established that the Russian army has committed war crimes in Ukraine. Zelenskyy praised with Biden's assessment.  "True words of a true leader POTUS," he tweeted Tuesday. "Calling things by their names is essential to stand up to evil. We are grateful for US assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities." A United Nations treaty, to which the U.S. is a party, defines genocide as actions taken with the "intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group." Past American leaders often have dodged formally declaring bloody campaigns such as Russia's in Ukraine as genocide, hesitating to trigger an obligation that under international convention requires signing countries to intervene once genocide is formally identified. That obligation was seen as blocking President Bill Clinton from declaring Rwandan Hutus' killing of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis in 1994 as genocide, for example. Biden said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russia's conduct met the international standard for genocide, as Ukrainian officials have claimed, but said "it sure seems that way to me." "More evidence is coming out literally of the horrible things that the Russians have done in Ukraine, and we're only going to learn more and more about the devastation and let the lawyers decide internationally whether or not it qualifies," he said. Just last week Biden said he did not believe Russia's actions amounted to genocide, just that they constituted "war crimes." During a trip to Europe last month, Biden faced controversy for a nine-word statement seemingly supporting regime change in Moscow, which would have represented a dramatic shift toward direct confrontation with another nuclear-armed country. "For God's sake, this man cannot remain in power," Biden said of Putin. He clarified the comments days later, saying: "I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man. I wasn't articulating a policy change."
