Russia Ukraine war live updates Russiaappointed head of occupied Ukraine town wounded in blast
20220521
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-may-21/liveblog/91699300.cms
A sea of Ukrainian flags mark the graves of the fallen at Kharkiv's cemetery N18. The cemetery, at Bezliudivka, on the outskirts of Ukraine's second city, has had a military section for several years. It has been burying Ukrainian soldiers since the Russian invasion three months ago. And on Saturday, more soldiers were laid to rest beside their comrades.
Belarusians are among those who have answered a call by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy for foreign fighters to go to Ukraine and join the International Legion for the Territorial Defence of Ukraine.And volunteers have answered that call, given the high stakes in a conflict which many people see as a civilisational battle pitting dictatorship against freedom. Weakening Putin, the Belarusian volunteers believe, would also weaken Lukashenko, who has held power since 1994, and create a window of opportunity to topple his oppressive government and bring democratic change to the nation of nearly 10 million people.For many of the Belarusians, their base is Poland, a country along NATO's eastern flank that borders Belarus and Ukraine and which became a haven for pro-democracy Belarusian dissidents before becoming one for war refugees from Ukraine
After just over 12 weeks of fierce fighting, Ukrainian forces have halted Russian attempts to seize Kyiv and the northern city of Kharkiv, but they are under intense pressure in the eastern Donbas region and on Ukraine's southern coast
Moscow will consider exchanging prisoners from Ukraine's Azov battalion for Viktor Medvedchuk, a wealthy Ukrainian businessman close to President Vladimir Putin, a Russian negotiator said on Saturday. "We are going to study the possibility," said Leonid Slutsky, a senior member of Russia's negotiating team on Ukraine, speaking from the separatist city of Donetsk in southeastern Ukraine, as per reports. AFP
The Russian-appointed head of the occupied Ukrainian town next to Europe's largest nuclear power plant was injured in an explosion on Sunday, a Ukrainian official and a Russian news agency said. Andrei Shevchik, who was named mayor of Enerhodar by Russia following its occupation of the town, was in intensive care following the blast, Russia's RIA news agency said, citing a source in the emergency servicesStay with TOI for all updates:Read Less
US President Joe Biden 'impressed' with steps taken by South Korea to support efforts in Ukraine: US official. Reuters
The bilateral meeting between US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the sidelines of the Quadrilateral Dialogue QUAD meeting which is set to take place in Tokyo on Tuesday, will include a "constructive and straightforward" dialogue along with a continued discussion on the Ukraine situation. While speaking on the US President's bilateral meeting with PM Modi in Japan, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said, "It will be a continuation of the conversation they have already had on how we see the picture in Ukraine. They will talk all of that through and this will be similarly constructive and straightforward."
Ukraine on Sunday extended martial law for three months through to August 23 as the war with Russia drags on. President Volodymyr Zelensky first signed the decree along with a general military mobilisation call on February 24 when Russian forces invaded. Ukraine's parliament on Sunday voted by an absolute majority for the third extension of the decree as Russia pursues its offensive targeting the eastern Donbas region. After failing to take control of the capital Kyiv, Moscow has since March switched its focus to the east of Ukraine.
Russia heads into the fourth month of its invasion of Ukraine on Tuesday with no end in sight to the fighting that has killed thousands, uprooted millions and reduced cities to rubble.After abandoning its assault on the capital, Kyiv, Russia is pressing on in the east and south in the face of mounting sanctions and a fierce Ukrainian counter-offensive bolstered by Western arms.
Russia pressed its offensive in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region Sunday as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the outcome of the grueling conflict would determine whether his country's fate lies with the West or under Moscow's domination. After declaring its full control of a sprawling seaside steel plant that was the last defense holdout in the port city of Mariupol, the Russian military launched artillery and missile attacks in Ukraine's industrial heartland, seeking to expand the territory Moscow-backed separatists have held since 2014.
Ukraine ruled out a ceasefire or concessions to Moscow while Russia intensified an offensive in the eastern Donbas region. Russian-backed separatists already controlled swathes of territory in Luhansk and the neighbouring Donetsk province before the Feb. 24 invasion, but Moscow wants to seize the last remaining Ukrainian-held territory in Donbas.
Russia's Gazprom halted gas exports to neighbouring Finland, the Finnish gas system operator said on Saturday, the latest escalation of an energy payments dispute with Western nations
PM Modi, US President Biden to have 'straightforward' talks on Ukraine on sidelines of Quad summit
With Russia claiming to have taken prisoner nearly 2,500 Ukrainian fighters from the besieged Mariupol steel plant, concerns grew about their fate as a Moscow-backed separatist leader vowed they would face tribunals. The Russian Defence Ministry released video of Ukrainian soldiers being detained after announcing that its forces had removed the last holdouts from the Mariupol plant's extensive underground tunnels. It said a total of 2,439 had surrendered.Family members of the fighters, who came from a variety of military and law enforcement units, have pleaded for them to be given rights as prisoners of war and eventually returned to Ukraine. Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Saturday that Ukraine will fight for the return" of every one of them.
Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, acting on President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's orders, spoiled at least temporarily what would have been the biggest historic shift in European security in decades, by blocking last Wednesday the start of NATO membership talks with Finland and Sweden. Erdogan has dashed hopes for the quick inclusion of the two Nordic countries, which for many decades have been neutral, into the Alliance.
The Russian-appointed head of the occupied Ukrainian town next to Europe's largest nuclear power plant was injured in an explosion on Sunday, a Ukrainian official and a Russian news agency said. Andrei Shevchuk, who was appointed mayor of Enerhodar following the Russian army's occupation of the town, was in intensive care following the attack, Russia's RIA news agency reported, citing a source in the emergency services.
Only Ukraine has the right to decide its future, the Polish president told lawmakers in Kyiv on Sunday, as he became the first foreign leader to give a speech in person to the Ukrainian parliament since Russia's Feb. 24 invasion. "Worrying voices have appeared, saying that Ukraine should give in to Putin's demands," Andrzej Duda said. "Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future... nothing about you without you."
The Russian-appointed head of the occupied Ukrainian town next to Europe's largest nuclear power plant was injured in an explosion on Sunday, a Ukrainian official and a Russian news agency said. Andrei Shevchik, who was named mayor of Enerhodar by Russia following its occupation of the town, was in intensive care following the blast, Russia's RIA news agency said, citing a source in the emergency services.
Russia pounded Ukrainian forces with airstrikes and artillery in the east and the south, targeting command centres, troops, and ammunition depots, the Russian defence ministry said on Sunday. Major General Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the defence ministry, said air-launched missiles hit three command points, 13 areas where troops and Ukrainian military equipment amassed, as well as four ammunition depots in the Donbas.
With Russia claiming to have taken prisoner nearly 2,500 Ukrainian fighters from the besieged Mariupol steel plant, concerns grew about their fate as a Moscow-backed separatist leader vowed they would face tribunals. Russia has declared its full control of the Azovstal steel plant, which for weeks was the last holdout in Mariupol and a symbol of Ukrainian tenacity in the strategic port city, now in ruins with more than 20,000 residents feared dead. The seizure gives Russian President Vladimir Putin a badly wanted victory in the war he began nearly three months ago.
