RussiaUkraine war updates G7 leaders to hold talks with Zelenskyy on May 8
20220504
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-may-5/liveblog/91328589.cms
We believe that no solution can be arrived at by shedding blood  at the cost of innocent lives. We have emphasized right from the beginning of the conflict that the path of diplomacy  dialogue should be the only viable option: Pratik Mathur
US media have reported in recent days that the United States has helped Ukraine identify and target the Moskva as well as Russian generals while they are in the field.
US President Joe Biden and other G7 leaders will hold talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in a virtual meeting on Sunday, a spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said on Friday. Stay with TOI for latest updates:Read Less
More civilians have been rescued from the tunnels under a besieged steel plant in Mariupol, a Ukrainian official said Friday, even as fighters holed up at the sprawling complex made their last stand to prevent Moscow's complete takeover of the strategic port city.
The UN Security Council on Friday unanimously adopted its first declaration on Ukraine since Russia invaded in February, backing the Secretary-General's efforts to find a "peaceful solution" to the war.
Russian defence ministry says it has fired at weapons depot near Ukraine's Popasna and 31 areas where Ukrainian forces were deployed: RIA
Andrei Turchak, secretary of the general council of Putin's party United Russia Yedinaya Rossiya, visited occupied Kherson and declared that "Russia is here forever.
A train carrying 2,000 metric tons of Ukrainian corn arrived in Austria on Friday, part of European efforts to elude a Russian blockade of Ukraine's ports that has prevented critical supplies of wheat, corn and other grains from getting to countries in Africa, Middle East and parts of Asia.
Delivering good cheer  and 5 gallons of ketchup  Jill Biden thanked U.S. troops deployed to Romania as a check against Russian aggression for their service, as she began a four-day trip to Europe to see first hand the refugee crisis caused by Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Friday blasted European Commission head Ursula von der Leyen for "attacking" EU unity with a plan to ban Russian oil imports, saying it crosses a "red line" and has been sent back
India has strongly condemned the killing of civilians in Bucha  supported the call for an independent investigation. We support all efforts to alleviate the suffering of the people of Ukraine. We believe that there'll be no winning side to this conflict: Mathur
The Pentagon on Friday denied reports that it helped Ukrainian forces sink the Russian warship Moskva in the Black Sea last month in a stunning setback for Moscow's invasion.
We welcome the visit by Secretary-General to Moscow  Kyiv  his engagement with the leadership in the Russian Federation  Ukraine... we appreciate the efforts of the UN in evacuating the civilian population from Mariupol: Counsellor Pratik Mathur
Officials from Ukraine's national security council warned residents Friday against the increased risk of shelling on Sunday and Monday, coinciding with Russia's Victory Day celebrations.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he is still open to negotiations with Russia, but only if Moscow withdraws its forces to their pre-invasion positions.
EU, US, more than two dozen other countries vow to boost food security amid Ukraine crisis: statement to WTO
We continue to remain deeply concerned about the worsening situation in Ukraine  reiterate the call for an immediate cessation of violence  end to hostilities: Pratik Mathur, Counsellor, India's Permanent Mission to UN, at UNSC Arria-formula meeting on Ukraine
Russia has handed over 41 people, including 28 military, in a prisoner exchange with Ukraine, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Friday.
