Russia Ukraine War News Russian forces leaving Chernobyl after radiation exposure
20220329
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates/liveblog/90527010.cms
Europe bought 15 more oil  gas from Russia than it did a month before. Most of the major buyers of oil  gas from Russia are in Europe. We get the bulk of our energy supplies from Middle East, about 7.5-8 from US, maybe less than a per cent from Russia: EAM Dr S Jaishankar
We had Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in India about a week ago, we discussed the Ukraine situation  our own relationship which is not exactly going through its best period. But the Chinese have their own analysis of what's happening in Ukraine: EAM Dr S Jaishankar
India is a sovereign nation, I am not gonna tell India what to do: British foreign secretary Elizabeth Truss, on being asked about India seeking to buy amounts of Russian oil at a very steep discount
Russia has attempted to disrupt Ukraine's government and military in cyberspace and is looking to digitally target countries that oppose its invasion, the head of Britain's GCHQ spy service said.
I'm very determined that we have a forward-looking relationship. We have a very strong people-to-people relationship. Our focus should be on where we India and UK want to be in next 20 yrs. We're both democracies, we need to work together for better future: British Foreign Secy Elizabeth Truss ANI
Russian troops began leaving the Chernobyl nuclear plant after soldiers got significant doses" of radiation from digging trenches at the highly contaminated site, Ukraines state power company said Thursday as heavy fighting raged on the outskirts of Kyiv and other fronts.
Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has arrived in New Delhi for a visit. He will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and foreign minister S Jaishankar on April 1, Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said.
The bit that we did agree on was that there is a need for an urgent ceasefire  a need to return to diplomacy  dialogue... in the British cooperation, we have logic in the relationship. There are plenty of things for us to work on: EAM Dr S Jaishankar
Western nations will try to find new grounds to sanction Russia, President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday, adding that his country must aim to retain jobs and to create new ones.
When oil prices go up, it's natural for countries to look for good deals for their people. But I'm pretty sure if we wait 2-3 months  look at the big buyers of Russian gas  oil, I suspect the list won't be any different than what it used to be  we won't be in the top 10: EAM
Russian troops began leaving the Chernobyl nuclear plant after soldiers got significant doses" of radiation from digging trenches at the highly contaminated site, Ukraines state power company said Thursday as heavy fighting raged on the outskirts of Kyiv and other fronts. Stay with TOI for more updatesRead Less
