RussiaUkraine war updates New Ukraine conflict talks start Monday in Turkey
20220327
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/newsblogs/russia-ukraine-war-news-live-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-latest-updates-27-march-2022/liveblog/90468248.cms
09:16 PMHindus in States where they are in a minority can be notified as minorities for the purposes of Articles 29 30 by the concerned State Governments : Centre tells SC in a plea seeking minority status for Hindus in Mizoram,Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab etcReports Live Law
05:33 PMBlinken stresses US does not seek Moscow 'regime change'US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday President Vladimir Putin's position is "up to the Russians", playing down President Joe Biden's comments that suggested a desire for regime change in Moscow. Biden's point, Blinken said in Jerusalem, was that "Putin cannot be empowered to wage war, or engage in aggression against Ukraine, or anyone else".
01:56 PMIndia test-fires MRSAM off Odisha coastIndia on Sunday test-fired an Army version of the medium range surface to air missile MRSAM from Chandipur Integrated Test Range ITR in Odisha, DRDO said. The missile was test-fired at 10.30 AM validating long-range parameters, it said. "MRSAM-Army missile system flight tested from ITR Balasore at around 1030 Hrs intercepting a high speed aerial target at long range. The target was destroyed by the missile in a direct hit," Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO tweeted.
08:33 PMKyrgyz town mourns Russian soldier killed in UkraineIn a provincial town in Kyrgyzstan, the mother of a man who died fighting for Russia in Ukraine wailed as his coffin was carried away by blue-uniformed Russian military men, on its final journey into the ground. "Cursed Ukraine!" she cried, gently stroking the green, embroidered fabric with Islamic inscriptions draped over the coffin.
12:41 PMUS to keep sanctions on Iran Guards even with nuclear dealThe United States will maintain sanctions on Iran's Revolutionary Guards even if there is a deal to limit the country's nuclear programme, US special envoy Robert Malley said Sunday. Iran has insisted that taking the Revolutionary Guard Corps IRGC off a US terrorist list be part of a revived nuclear accord, which diplomats say is close.
07:03 PMU.S. does not have policy of regime change in Russia, U.S. envoy to NATO saysThe U.S. envoy to NATO said on Sunday that the United States does not have a policy of regime change in Russia, in the latest effort to clarify President Joe Biden's statement that Russian President Vladimir Putin "cannot remain in power." "The U.S. does not have a policy of regime change in Russia. Full stop," Julianne Smith told CNN's "State of the Union" program.
08:13 PMKyiv says Russia could divide Ukraine like KoreaUkraine said Sunday that Russia, whose troops have been slowly advancing towards the capital Kyiv, may aim to divide the country into versions of North and South Korea.
06:54 PMPutin may try to impose a 'Korean' scenario on UkraineRussia will try to impose a "Korean" scenario on Ukraine and gather all the occupied territories into a single quasi-state entity, believes Kyrylo Budanov, Head of the Chief Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. "After their failures near Kiev and inability to overthrow Ukraine's central government, Putin is already shifting his main operational directions - now it is the south and the east. He may be considering a 'Korean' scenario for Ukraine," Budanov said, Ukrayinska Pravda reported.
04:25 PMA Trinamool worker was killed by another party worker. But only TMC is being criticised everywhere. We have taken several steps to investigate the matter and know the original cause of the Rampurhat incident: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee
07:45 PMJammu breaks 76-year record as day temp hits 37.3 deg CThe maximum temperature in Jammu on Sunday settled at 37.3 degrees Celsius, breaking a 76-year-old record for the month of March. The previous highest day temperature of 37.2 degrees Celsius was recorded on March 31, 1945, Director Meteorological Department Sonum Lotus said.
01:40 PMPVR, INOX Leisure set to merge operationsIn a major twist, Indias leading multiplex chain PVR, which was earlier in advanced talks with the local unit of Mexican company Cinpolis for a possible merger, has decided to combine operations with the second largest multiplex chain, INOX Leisure. PVR was earlier in talks with Cinepolis India for a possible merger.
07:34 PMICRC denies aiding forced evacuations of Ukrainians to RussiaThe International Committee of the Red Cross has denied accusations that it helped organise or carry out forced evacuations of Ukrainians to Russia. "The ICRC does not ever help organize or carry out forced evacuations. This applies everywhere we work. We would not support any operation that would go against people's will and our principles," the Geneva-based humanitarian organisation said in a statement published late Saturday.
02:48 PMEAM Dr S Jaishankar tweets, "Breaking new ground in India-Maldives friendship. The road project in Addu goes forward."
10:43 PMUkraine warns of escalation in fighting around MariupolUkraine on Sunday warned of a possible escalation in fighting around the besieged southern port city of Mariupol after Moscow said it was focusing its military resources on capturing the eastern Donbas region. "This means a potential or sharp deterioration around Mariupol," an adviser to the head of the President's office, Oleksiy Arestovich, said in a video statement.
09:41 PMUkraine crisis to keep crude prices elevatedGlobal crude oil prices are expected to further rise as Russian-Ukrainian war drags on. The Russia-Ukraine crisis, as well as robust demand, has led to a global hike in crude oil prices. The Brent-indexed crude oil prices stood at over $120 per barrel on last Friday and are expected to range between $115 to $130 per barrel in the coming days. The trend is significant for India since international prices determine domestic petrol and diesel cost.
09:28 PMFrench envoy compares Mariupol to AleppoFrance's top diplomat is warning that the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol is becoming a second Aleppo, the Syrian commercial capital that in 2016 saw widespread Russian-backed destruction. Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian on Sunday told the Doha Forum, a policy conference in Qatar, that Russia's siege warfare against Ukrainian cities should induce collective guilt.
05:44 PMSwiss Open 2022Indian shuttler HS Prannoy loses to Jonatan Christie of Indonesia 12-21 18-21 in men's singles final
11:00 PMRussia says Azeri troops pull back from Karabakh villageRussia said Sunday that Azerbaijan had pulled back troops from a Karabakh village following talks after Moscow accused Baku of violating a ceasefire. "The Azerbaijani side carried out the withdrawal of its units from near the settlement of Farukh," the Russian defence ministry said in a statement.
09:05 PMRussia's Deripaska says on Biden remarks: 'hellish mobilisation' is underwayRussian billionaire Oleg Deripaska said on Sunday that U.S. President Joe Biden's speech in Warsaw indicated that some sort of "hellish ideological mobilisation" was underway that may usher in a much longer conflict in Ukraine. Deripaska said he had thought the conflict in Ukraine was "mad" and that it could be stopped three weeks ago through talks.
06:22 PMKerala reports 400 new COVID19 cases, 593 recoveries and zero deaths, in the last 24 hours.3 deaths were not added due to lack of documents and 22 deaths were added as per the new guidelines of the central government. Death toll 67,797, active cases 3,833: State Government
03:24 PMWe'll start imparting education for Medical courses in Hindi. It will benefit students from the poorer and middle classes background. We have decided that for police recruitment 50 weightage would be given to physical strength of the candidate along with written exam.- MP CM, Shivraj Singh Chauhan
06:38 PMUkraine rebel region says may vote on joining RussiaThe head of Ukraine's Lugansk separatist region said Sunday it may hold a referendum on becoming part of Russia, after Moscow sent troops into its pro-Western neighbour.
05:56 PMBlinken says Israel's Ukraine-Russia mediation bid important, closely coordinated with U.S.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday described Israel's efforts to mediate an end to the Ukraine-Russia conflict as important and "closely coordinated" with Washington. Blinken made his remarks during a Jerusalem meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett.
11:49 PMRussian aluminium billionaire Deripaska warns of long war in UkraineRussian aluminium tycoon Oleg Deripaska said on Sunday that U.S. President Joe Biden's speech in Warsaw indicated that some sort of "hellish ideological mobilisation" was underway that may usher in a long conflict in Ukraine.
10:11 PMHumanitarian aid for Ukraine is dwindling, says health officialThe amount of humanitarian aid arriving in Ukraine is beginning to wane even as the Russian bombardment persists, Ukrainian Deputy Health Minister Oleksii Iaremenko said on Sunday. Speaking in a cargo warehouse near Warsaw's Chopin airport during a delivery of medical equipment facilitated by charity Direct Relief, Iaremenko said he was grateful to the international community for the relief provided so far.
05:05 PMMaharashtra minister Eknath Shinde on BMC standing committee chairman Yashwant JadhavCentral agencies should investigate those who are really corrupt. Taking action against some persons due to political reasons is not right in a democracy: Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde
03:23 PMToday, a school has been named after Tika Lal Taploo. He was honorable for us not only because he was a BJP president but also because he was a symbol of Kashmir's culture...: Union Minister Jitendra Singh, in Delhi
12:53 PMIndia asks Sri Lanka to 'exercise caution' while handling fishing boatsIndia has asked Sri Lanka to "exercise caution" so as to prevent any casualties in the course of crackdowns on Indian fishing boats and requested the island nation to tackle the fisheries issue based on a humanitarian approach. During a virtual meeting of the Joint Working Group on Fisheries on Friday, both countries agreed that the use of force could not be justified under any circumstances, and reiterated the importance of extending humane treatment to all fishermen, the Indian High Commission here said in a statement.
11:15 PMRussia warns media: don't report interview with Ukrainian presidentRussia's communications watchdog told Russian media on Sunday to refrain from reporting an interview done with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and said it had started a probe into the outlets which had interviewed the Ukrainian leader. In a short statement distributed by the watchdog on social media and posted on its website, it said a host of Russian outlets had done an interview with Zelensky.
01:20 PMSaudi-led coalition strikes Yemen despite rebel truceThe Saudi-led coalition carried out air strikes in Yemen early on Sunday after the country's Huthi rebels called a three-day truce and offered a permanent ceasefire, Saudi media said. The raids targeted Sanaa, the rebel-held capital, according to Saudi Arabia's Al Ekhbariya TV, which tweeted "the start of air strikes on Huthi camps and strongholds in Sanaa" around midnight.
12:01 PMIt is only due to hard work that the goal of exporting to the tune of $400 billion has been achieved and I am happy that this power of the people of India is now reaching new markets in every nook and corner of the world. When each and every Indian is vocal for local, it does not take long for the local to become global. Let's make the local 'global' and augment the prestige of our products further- Prime Minister Modi during Mann ki Baat
12:51 PMAmit Shah inaugurates several projects in ChandigarhUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday inaugurated several projects, including the state-of-the-art Integrated Command and Control Centre here. Shah also laid foundation stones of a hostel block of commerce college, a project for constructing 240 houses for police personnel and a bus depot-cum-workshop. The Union minister was accompanied by Punjab Governor Banwarlilal Purohit on this occasion.
04:46 PMRussia trying to split Ukraine in two, Ukraine intelligence chief saysRussia is trying to split Ukraine in two to create a Moscow-controlled region after failing to take over the whole country, the head of Ukrainian military intelligence said on Sunday.
10:13 PMAt least 6 dead in Oman rockslidesAt least six workers were killed and four injured after rockslides engulfed a quarry in northern Oman on Sunday, emergency services said. Further slides in the wake of the deadly collapse slowed rescue efforts at the quarry in Ibri, Al-Dhahirah governorate, the Gulf state's Civil Defence and Ambulance Authority said. Footage posted by the CDAA showed a towering cliff face crumbling onto the quarry below, creating a huge cloud of dust as workers shouted below.
07:37 PMBihar CM Nitish Kumar attacked: A man allegedly slapped CM Nitish Kumar in Bakhtiyarpur
04:56 PMSwiss Open 2022 women's singles titlePV Sindhu beats Busanan Ongbamrungphan of Thailand by 21-16, 21-8 to claim the Swiss Open 2022 women's singles title.
01:00 PMWar shakes Europe path to energy independence, climate goalsBefore Russia's war in Ukraine, Europe's most pressing energy policy goal was reducing carbon emissions that cause climate change. Now, officials are fixated on rapidly reducing the continent's reliance on Russian oil and natural gas  and that means friction between security and climate goals, at least in the short term. To wean itself from Russian energy supplies as quickly as possible, Europe will need to burn more coal and build more pipelines and terminals to import fossil fuels from elsewhere. This dramatic shift comes amid soaring fuel costs for motorists, homeowners and businesses, and as political leaders reassess the geopolitical risks from being so energy-dependent on Russia. In 2021, the European Union imported roughly 40 of its gas and 25 of its oil from Russia  an economic relationship that officials had thought would prevent hostilities, but is instead financing them.
03:06 PMHead of Ukraine military intelligence says Russia trying to unite occupied territories into one quasi state entity
07:59 PMSecond 'black box' found in China Eastern plane crashThe second "black box" from a China Eastern Boeing 737-800 was found Sunday, raising hopes that it might shed light on why the passenger plane nosedived into a remote mountainous area in southern China last week, killing all 132 people on board.
12:08 AMWrap Up: All you need to knowNext round of Ukraine-Russia talks will take place in Turkey, Ukrainian negotiator saysPV Sindhu beats Busanan Ongbamrungphan of Thailand to claim the Swiss Open 2022 women's singles titleUkraine warns of escalation in fighting around MariupolThousands ordered evacuated as Colorado fights latest fireHumanitarian aid for Ukraine is dwindling, says health officialUkraine asks Red Cross not to open office in Russia's Rostov-on-DonKyiv says Russia could divide Ukraine like KoreaSecond 'black box' found in China Eastern plane crashShanghai in China to start phased Covid-19 lockdown on MondayUkraine rebel region says may vote on joining RussiaHead of Ukraine military intelligence says Russia trying to unite occupied territories into one quasi state entity
02:48 PMPresident Ram Nath Kovind offers condolences to those who lost their lives in the road accident in Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh.A total of 7 people were killed and 45 people were injured in the bus accident in Chittoor, last night.
08:51 PMNext round of Ukraine-Russia talks will take place in Turkey, Ukrainian negotiator saysThe next round of face to face talks between Ukraine and Russia will take place in Turkey on March 28-30, Ukrainian negotiator David Arakhamia said on social media on Sunday. Ukraine described previous talks with Russia, launched after Russia unleashed an invasion last month, as "very difficult".
12:24 PMAdityanath inaugurates air service from Gorakhpur to VaranasiUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday inaugurated the air service from Gorakhpur to Varanasi, an initiative under the UDAN scheme. According to a spokesperson of the state government, Adityanath joined the virtual event from Lucknow and Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia from Gwalior."At present, 75 destinations can be reached from Uttar Pradesh to different states in the country," the chief minister said in his address.
07:20 PMRussia trying to encircle Ukrainian forces in east, Ukrainian adviser saysUkraine is mounting small counter-offensive actions as Russia's military tries to encircle its forces in eastern Ukraine, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said on Sunday.
04:27 PMPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to address a rally in Islamabad shortly, as he battles to save his post in the wake of a no-confidence motion by the Opposition.
05:11 PMMacron fears 'escalation' after Biden calls Putin a 'butcher'French President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday warned against verbal "escalation" with Moscow, after US President Joe Biden called Russian leader Vladimir Putin a "butcher" over his invasion of Ukraine.
01:39 PMIndigo to resume scheduled international flights from AprilIndiGo on Sunday announced the resumption of its international flight schedule from various destinations in India. "Scheduled operations on more than 150 routes will be restarted in a phased manner through the month of April 2022," the airline said in a statement on Sunday. "Scheduled operations from to destinations in Thailand have already commenced from March 27, 2022." Those cities are Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Amritsar, Kozhikode, Kochi, Chandigarh, Tiruchirappalli, Thiruvananthapuram, and Mangaluru.
07:12 PMShanghai in China to start phased Covid-19 lockdown on Monday March 28, reports AFP News Agency citing government
04:26 PMMany such incidents have taken place in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tripura, and Assam. Our party workers were not allowed to reach the incident site, but in Birbhum, we never stopped any political party: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee
12:26 PMS.Korea, Arab nations to resume free trade talks after 13 yearsSouth Korea and the Gulf Cooperation Council GCC will begin the fourth round of official talks for a bilateral free trade agreement FTA in Seoul on Monday for a four-day run, according to the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy.The GCC involves six countries: the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait, reports Yonhap News Agency. South Korea and the GCC agreed to push for a trade agreement in 2007 and had three rounds of talks between 2008 and 2009.
02:31 PMEngland clinches semifinal place at Women's World CupDefending champion England eased into the semifinals of the Women's Cricket World Cup Sunday with a 100 run win over Bangladesh in its final match of the group stage. Sophia Dunkley made 67 and Nat Sciver 40 as England posted 234-6 as it batted first after winning the toss. Its spinners then shackled Bangladesh who were unable to threaten the total and were bowled out for 134 in the 48th over.
03:03 PM"Wherever there's non-violence, there's unity, integrity  nobility. I congratulate Acharya Mahashraman  all others on completing this Yatra... it's a new Yatra for a new India," said PM Narendra Modi while addressing the 'Ahimsa Yatra Sampannata Samaroh Karyakram'
01:10 PMRussia struck Ukraine's Lviv with cruise missiles, defence ministry saysRussia struck military targets in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv with high-precision cruise missiles, the Russian defence ministry said on Sunday. Russia struck a fuel depot being used by Ukrainian forces near Lviv with long-range missiles and used cruise missiles to strike a plant in the city being used to repair anti-aircraft systems, radar stations and sights for tanks, the ministry said.
05:44 PMGovt considering dropping COVID-19 pre-call announcements from phones after almost two years of raising awareness about disease: Official sources
05:22 PMPolish TV holding global charity telethon for UkraineBritish artists Fatboy Slim and Craig David are among the music stars taking part in an English-language charity telethon for Ukraine being organised on Sunday by Polish state channel TVP, the network said. The "Save Ukraine StopWar" programme, which will also include Ukrainian footballing legend Andriy Shevchenko, is being broadcast to more than 20 countries, TVP World said in a statement.
10:20 PMThousands ordered evacuated as Colorado fights latest fireThousands of Coloradans were placed under evacuation orders for the latest wildfire to tear through parts of the Rocky Mountain US state, where authorities Sunday said the blaze was partially contained. The flames burning some 200 acres 81 hectares near Boulder come just three months after the powerful, fast-moving Marshall fire caused devastation in Boulder County, destroying more than 1,000 homes and leaving two people missing and presumed dead. Boulder fire rescue officials said this weekend's fire was less intense but nevertheless edged within hundreds of yards meters of homes in the city's southern suburbs and a national atmospheric research center, forcing the evacuations of nearly 20,000 residents late Saturday.
06:06 PMUkraine: Russian referendum in occupied territory would have no legal basisUkraine said on Sunday that Russia holding a referendum in occupied Ukrainian territory would have no legal basis and would face a strong response from the international community, deepening its global isolation.
08:24 PMUkraine asks Red Cross not to open office in Russia's Rostov-on-DonUkraine has asked the International Committee of the Red Cross not to open a planned office in Russia's Rostov-on-Don, saying it would legitimise Moscow's "humanitarian corridors" and the abduction and forced deportation of Ukranians. The head of the ICRC said on Thursday after his talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov that agreement between the Russian and Ukrainian armies was needed before civilians could be evacuated properly from war-torn Ukraine.
10:23 PMZelenskyy: West needs more courage in helping Ukraine fightUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused the West of cowardice as his country fights to stave off Russia's invading troops, making an exasperated plea for fighter jets and tanks to sustain a defense as the war ground into a battle of attrition. Speaking after U.S. President Joe Biden said in a lacerating speech that Russian President Vladimir Putin could not stay in power  words the White House immediately sought to downplay  Zelenskyy lashed out Sunday at the West's ping-pong about who and how should hand over jets'' and other weapons while Russian missile attacks kill and trap civilians.
