RussiaUkraine war LIVE updates 1 civilian injured in missile attack on southern Ukraines Mykolaiv
20220621
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-june-22/liveblog/92370359.cms
Ukraine has demanded that Russia be expelled from UNESCO, and the agency has indefinitely postponed a meeting to discuss the status of World Heritage Sites that Russia was to host this month in the city of Kazan.
Kyiv has urged its Western allies to deliver more heavy weapons to counter the Russian edge in firepower. Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov on Thursday announced the arrival of multiple-launch rocket systems supplied by the U.S. and enthusiastically thanked his American counterpart for these powerful tools!
India's Russian oil imports jump 50 times now accounts for 10 of all import: official
1 civilian was injured in missile attack in southern Ukraine's Mykolaiv city on Thursday, Mayor Oleksandr Senkevych said. Residents were immediately urged to take shelter. Meanwhile, senior US officials said on Wednesday leaders from the Group of Seven rich democracies and the Nato alliance will work to increase pressure on Russia, next week, while underscoring their continued concerns about China. Stay with TOI for latest updates ---Read Less
The leaders of the United States, Germany, France, Britain, Italy, Canada and Japan will discuss how to tighten the screws on the Kremlin at the three-day summit at Schloss Elmau, a luxury hotel in a Bavarian mountain valley.
Ukrainian troops may need to retreat from the frontline city of Lysychansk to avoid encirclement after Russian forces captured two settlements to its south, regional governor Serhiy Gaidai said on Thursday. Lysychansk and nearby Sievierodonetsk have become the focus of Russia's offensive in the eastern Donbas region and the battle there is approaching a "fierce climax," a Ukrainian presidential adviser said on Wednesday. The general staff of Ukraine's armed forces on Thursday confirmed the loss of Rai-Oleksandrivka and Loskutivka, which lie around 5 km 3 miles from Lysychansk, and said Russian troops were trying to surround Ukrainian forces there.
The Kremlin on Thursday reiterated its assertion that Russia has not stolen any grain from Ukraine as Turkey said it was probing allegations from Kyiv and would not allow any such grain to be brought to Turkey. Kyiv's ambassador to Ankara said in early June that Turkish buyers were among those receiving grain that Russia had stolen from Ukraine, adding he had sought Turkey's help to identify and capture individuals responsible for the alleged shipments.
These repeated attacks on Ukrainian cultural sites must stop. Cultural heritage, in all its forms, should not be targeted under any circumstances.
The Russian military extended its grip Thursday on territory in eastern Ukraine, capturing two villages and vying for control of a key highway as it seeks to cut supply lines and encircle some frontline Ukrainian forces, British and Ukrainian military officials said. Ukrainian forces withdrew from some areas near the city of Lysychansk to avoid being surrounded as Russians sent in reinforcements and concentrated their firepower in the area, Britains Defense Ministry said. The city is located in Luhansk province, a major battlefield in Russian President Vladimir Putins war against Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Thursday intensified his criticism of Israel's refusal to sanction Russia, during an address by the Jewish leader to the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Zelenskyy's speech four months into Russia's war on Ukraine comes amid a fresh political crisis in Israel that will likely see Naftali Bennett replaced as prime minister by Foreign Minister Yair Lapid within days. Bennett has refrained from criticising Russia's invasion and stressed Israel's close ties with Moscow and Kyiv while his administration has not imposed sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin's government.
UN experts have confirmed the full or partial destruction of 152 cultural and historic heritage sites in Ukraine since Russia invaded the country, its cultural agency said Thursday. Read more
Explosions were heard in Ukraine's southern city of Mykolaiv on Thursday, Mayor Oleksandr Senkevych said, urging residents to take shelter.
The Group of Seven G7 rich democracies will seek to demonstrate its long-term support for Ukraine in its fight against Russian aggression at a summit starting on Sunday even as the war's growing impact on the world economy tests their resolve.
The G7 leaders will launch a new infrastructure initiative aimed at offering low- and middle-income countries high-quality, transparent investments, senior US officials said, a clear response to China's Belt and Road project, which has been criticised for opaque contracts and onerous loan terms.
At least two sunflower oil tanks at a terminal in Ukraine's Black Sea port of Mykolaiv were seriously damaged in a Russian rocket attack, according to photos released on Thursday by the local emergency service.
UN experts have confirmed the full or partial destruction of 152 cultural and historic heritage sites in Ukraine since Russia invaded the country, its cultural agency said Thursday.
As Ukraine battles Russian forces in its East in a war that has killed thousands and flattened cities, the leaders will discuss the need for long-term financial aid to help the country rebuild, German official said.
Germany said Thursday it would raise the alert level under its emergency gas plan to secure supply following the recent reduction of pipeline supplies from Russia.
India's crude oil imports from Russia have jumped over 50 times since April and now make up for 10 per cent of all crude bought from overseas, a senior government official said on Thursday. Russian oil made up for just 0.2 per cent of all oil imported by India prior to the Ukraine war. "Russia oil now makes up 10 per cent of India's oil import basket in April. It is now among the top 10 suppliers," the official told reporters.
Britain introduced a new tranche of trade sanctions against Russia on Thursday, a notice published on the government website said.
