RussiaUkraine war live updates Ukraine launches counteroffensive to retake occupied city of Kherson
20220828
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-august-28/liveblog/93826520.cms
Russia and Ukraine traded claims of rocket and artillery strikes at or near Europe's largest nuclear power plant on Sunday, intensifying fears that the fighting could cause a massive radiation leak.Ukraine's atomic energy agency painted an ominous picture of the threat Sunday by issuing a map forecasting where radiation could spread from the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, which Russian forces have controlled since soon after the war began. Stay with TOI for all updates:Read Less
Russian shelling hit residential areas of the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv on Monday, killing two people and destroying homes, city officials and witnesses said.
Ukraine has been using sophisticated Western-supplied weapons to hit Russian ammunition dumps and wreak havoc with supply lines. Humeniuk told a briefing on Monday that Ukraine had struck more than 10 such ammunition dumps in the past week, adding they had "unquestionably weakened the enemy".
The U.N. nuclear watchdog on Monday injected a ray of hope in the standoff over the Zaporizhzhia atomic power plant at the heart of fighting in Ukraine by announcing that its mission of top experts is now on its way to the facility even as renewed shelling in the area highlighted fears of a catastrophe.
The world's attention remained focused on the fate of a Ukrainian nuclear power plant set uncomfortably on the front lines between Russian invaders and Ukrainian defenders. Fears remained high about the state of the Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant. Both sides have said it is at risk of a nuclear disaster because of the other sides' attacks. Both deny taking action against the facility, and it is not possible to immediately verify information from either side, dpa news agency reported.
The inside story of the CIA v Russia  from cold war conspiracy to black' propaganda in Ukraine
Kherson was the first major city to fall following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
European Union defence and foreign ministers, meeting in Prague this week, will discuss options for setting up an EU military training mission for Ukrainian forces and also look into calls by some members to ban Russian tourists from entering the bloc.
Germany will keep up its support for Kyiv "for as long as it takes", Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Monday, calling for an enlargement of the European Union to eventually include Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia.
Russia's Gazprom said it will ship 42.2 million cubic metres mcm of gas to Europe via Ukraine on Monday, keeping the volume of daily supplies shipped through Ukraine unchanged since last Wednesday.
Russia and Ukraine traded claims of rocket and artillery strikes at or near Europe's largest nuclear power plant on Sunday, intensifying fears that the fighting could cause a massive radiation leak. Ukraine's atomic energy agency painted an ominous picture of the threat Sunday by issuing a map forecasting where radiation could spread from the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, which Russian forces have controlled since soon after the war began.
Bangladesh is set import 500,000 tonnes of wheat at $430 a tonne from Russia in a government-to-government deal as it battles to secure supplies amid surging prices, two government officials with the direct knowledge of matter said. Reuters
The White House said on Monday that Russia should agree to a demilitarized zone around the Ukrainian nuclear plant that has become a dangerous frontline in the ongoing war.
