RussiaUkraine war Russia announces ceasefire at Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol to allow civilian evacuations
20220504
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-may-3/liveblog/91273005.cms
A Russian army helicopter violated Finland's airspace Wednesday, the defence ministry said, as the country mulls a potential NATO membership bid, which it hopes would be speedy.Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin said Wednesday that should Helsinki apply, alone or together with neighbouring Sweden, she hoped the application process would be completed as quickly as possible.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory. Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict. In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions, insisting that we will not accept a frozen conflict, but gave no further details. He warned that Ukraine would be drawn into a diplomatic quagmire like the peace agreement for eastern Ukraine that was brokered by France and Germany in 2015.
German Chancellor Scholz says Putin has miscalculated war against Ukraine, instead he's facing a stronger NATO, EU
A Russian submarine in Black sea had fired two Kalibr cruise missiles at targets in Ukraine, Russia's defence ministry said on Wednesday. "The crew of the Black Sea Fleet submarine launched two Kalibr cruise missiles from the Black Sea at designated ground targets in the territory of Ukraine," it said. Reuters
Today, I am proposing to you that we start working on an ambitious recovery package for our Ukrainian friends. This package should bring massive investment to meet the needs and the necessary reforms. It should address the existing weaknesses of the Ukrainian economy and lay the foundations for sustainable long-term growth.
The European Commission has proposed freezing the assets of Patriarch Kirill, head of the Russian Orthodox Church, a diplomat said on Wednesday.The Patriarch has been added to a draft blacklist that already includes hundreds of military officers and businessmen close to the Kremlin whom the EU accuses of supporting the war in Ukraine.The sanction, which would entail an asset freeze and a travel ban, needs the backing of EU states to be adopted.EU diplomats are set to meet this week to discuss the sanction, which is part of a wider package proposed by the European Commission earlier on Wednesday including an oil embargo and restrictions on Russian banks.
Asked about speculation Putin will declare war on Ukraine on May 9, Kremlin says 'This is nonsense  zero chance of that'
The Kremlin said on Wednesday that no agreement had been reached on a possible meeting between President Vladimir Putin and Pope Francis for talks about Ukraine.Pope Francis said in an interview published on Tuesday that he had asked for a meeting in Moscow with Putin to try to stop the war in Ukraine but had not received a reply.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said Wednesday it has banned entry to several dozen Japanese officials, including Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, after Tokyo joined international sanctions against Moscow over its military campaign in Ukraine."The administration of F. Kishida launched an unprecedented anti-Russian campaign and allows unacceptable rhetoric against the Russian Federation, including slander and direct threats," the foreign ministry said in a statement.
The European Commission will provide a European Commission entailing massive investment to meet the country's needs, President Ursula Von der Leyen said on Wednesday. ANI
Kyiv will be ready if Belarus's armed forces join Russia's war effort in Ukraine, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian State Border Service said on Wednesday.Belarus, a close ally of Russia, said its military had begun large-scale drills on Wednesday to test their combat readiness and that they posed no threat to its neighbours."We do not rule out that the Russian Federation could at some point use the territory of Belarus, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus, against Ukraine," said Andriy Demchenko, spokesperson for Ukraine's State Border Service."Therefore, we are ready," he said, adding that the border with Belarus had been strengthened since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said on Wednesday he was seeking talks to get Ukraine and Russian agriculture and fertilizer production back into world markets to help end a "three-dimensional" crisis the Ukraine invasion is causing for developing nations.
Russian forces unleashed artillery fire on towns in eastern Ukraine, killing and wounding dozens of civilians, and began storming the bombed-out steel mill in Mariupol from where scores were evacuated after enduring weeks of shelling against the citys last pocket of resistance. Russian defence ministry, meanwhile, said it has hit 6 railway stations in Ukraine used to supply Ukrainian forces with foreign weapons. As many as 101 people emerged from the bunkers under Mariupol's Azovstal steelworks after two months, UN humanitarian coordinator for Ukraine stated. Stay with TOI for latest updates:Read Less
Ukraine said Wednesday that EU countries blocking an embargo on imports of Russian oil would be complicit in crimes committed by Russian troops on Ukrainian territory by funding Moscow's military."If there is any country in Europe who will continue to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, there will be good reason to say, this country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in the territory of Ukraine," Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said in a briefing on social media.
US President Joe Biden on Wednesday said he was "open" to imposing more sanctions on Russia and would be discussing measures with allies from the G7 in the next few days."We're always open to additional sanctions," Biden said shortly after the European Union announced plans for banning Russian oil imports and other new measures punishing Moscow for its bloody invasion of Ukraine."I'll be speaking to members of the G7 this week about what we're going to do or not," Biden told reporters.
Ukrainian forces inside Mariupol's Azovstal steel works were fighting "difficult bloody battles" against Russian troops for a second day on Wednesday, the commander of the far-right Azov regiment said. "I am proud of my soldiers who are making superhuman efforts to contain the pressure of the enemy ... the situation is extremely difficult," commander Denis Prokopenko said in a brief video message released on Telegram.
European Council President Charles Michel on Wednesday pledged to increase EU military aid to Moldova, Ukraine's neighbour that has seen a series of attacks in a pro-Moscow separatist region."This year we plan to significantly increase our support to Moldova by providing its armed forces with additional military equipment," Michel told a press conference with Moldova's President Maia Sandu during a visit to the country.
