Russia Ukraine News LIVE Update PM Modi has repeatedly called for urgent ceasefire India at UNSC
20220314
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/newsblogs/russia-ukraine-war-crisis-news-live-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-latest-updates-march-14-2022/liveblog/90191611.cms
09:23 PMUN fund for UkraineThe United Nations will allocate a further $40 million from its central emergency response fund to ramp up humanitarian assistance for Ukraine, where millions of people face hunger and dwindling water and medicine supplies: Secretary-General of the United Nations Antnio Guterres
12:30 PMRussia doesn't want UN peacekeepers in UkraineRussia sees no reason for United Nations peacekeepers to be sent to Ukraine, RIA news agency quoted the Russian foreign ministry as saying. Pyotr Ilyichev, director of the ministry's international organisations department, said there was no need for peacekeepers as Russia was in control, RIA reported.
02:31 PMBudget session of Parliament  Rajya Sabha sitting on March 17 will be cancelled, due to Holika Dahan.
10:32 PMMayor of Ukraine's Kharkiv says Russian forces firing at city non-stopThe mayor of Ukraine's front line city of Kharkiv said the city had been under constant attack by Russian forces, who had fired at central districts causing an unspecified number of casualties.
01:09 PMAustralia, Netherlands start legal action against Russia for downing of MH17MH17 was flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur on July 17, 2014 when it was hit over rebel-held eastern Ukraine by what international investigators and prosecutors say was a Russian-made surface-to-air missile. Moscow has always denied involvement and has promoted a range of alternative theories, which international investigators have rejected as unsupported by evidence.
02:40 PMRajasthan Congress MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma said, "Government should make the film The Kashmir Files tax-free in the state. I will write a letter to Chief Minister on the same."
09:07 PMUkraine economy could contract as much as 35 if war drags on: IMFUkraine's economy could collapse, contracting by as much as 35 percent if the war drags on, and the conflict also could jeopardize global food security, the IMF said.
11:41 AMRussia continues strikes on Kyiv suburbsRussian forces fired artillery strikes on suburbs northwest of Kyiv overnight and targeted points east of the capital, the head of the Kyiv region said Monday. A town councilor for Brovary east of Kyiv was killed in fighting there, regional administration chief Oleksiy Kuleba said on Ukrainian television. He also reported strikes overnight on the northwest towns of Irpin, Bucha and Hostomel, which have seen some of the worst fighting in Russia's stalled attempt to take the capital. The general staff of Ukraine's armed forces said Monday morning that Russian troops have not made major advances over the past 24 hours despite expanding strikes to the west. Ukrainian forces are targeting Russian bases, targeting their logistical abilities, the general staff said in a statement on Facebook marking the 19th day of the war.
10:35 PMRussia says it will attack Ukrainian arms factoriesRussia said it planned to attack Ukrainian arms factories in retaliation for what it said was a Ukrainian strike on the separatist-controlled city of Donetsk, and urged workers and local residents to stay away. The defence ministry noted in a statement that Russia believed Ukraine had used cluster charges on a densely populated area of Donetsk. It said Russian forces would respond by acting to "disable enterprises of the military-industrial complex of Ukraine that manufacture, repair and restore weapons that nationalists use to commit war crimes".
05:59 PMUkraine war 'nothing short of a nightmare': Red Cross chiefThe ongoing Russian war on Ukraine has become 'nothing short of a nightmare' for those living in besieged cities, a top Red Cross official said, calling for safe passage out for civilians and humanitarian aid to be allowed through the front lines.Robert Mardini, the director-general of the International Committee of the Red Cross, also called the war catastrophic for civilians affected by the fighting as people run out of drinking water, food, medical supplies and fuel for heating  particularly in the surrounded Ukrainian city of Mariupol. Medical facilities also continue to be targeted in attacks.
04:00 PMAmerican journalist Brent Renaud killed in Ukraine was working for Time magazine's global refugee crisis project
01:31 PM2500 killed in Mariupol: UkraineUkraine Presidential adviser has claimed that 2,500 residents have been killed so far in the eastern city of Mariupol
02:32 PMNSE co-location case: Chitra Ramkrishna, former CEO of National Stock exchange, remanded to 14 days judicial custody after CBI refuses to seek her further custodial interrogation
09:39 PMUN chief Antonio Guterres on UkraineIn close contact with India, China, France and others on mediation efforts to bring end to war in Ukraine
08:38 PMUkraine-Russia talks to continue on TuesdayTalks between Ukraine and Russia paused on Monday and will continue on Tuesday, one of Ukraine's negotiators said on Twitter
05:28 PMRussian President Vladimir Putin has signed a law allowing foreign planes leased by Russian airlines to be registered as the airlines' property, news agency Tass reported.
12:31 PMRussia warns it may be forced to pay FX debt in roublesRussia's finance ministry said on Monday it had approved a temporary procedure for repaying foreign currency debt, but warned that payments would be made in roubles if sanctions prevent banks from honouring debts in the currency of issue. Western sanctions over events in Ukraine have cut Russia off from key parts of global financial markets, triggering its worst economic crisis since the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union.
06:23 PMUkrainian missile killed 20 in Donetsk, Ukraine denies report: RussiaRussia's defence ministry said that at least 20 people had been killed and 28 wounded when what it said was a Ukrainian missile with a cluster charge exploded in the capital of the Donetsk region, without providing evidence.Ukrainian officials denied the Russian reports. Reuters was unable to independently verify it.
03:42 PMMumbai  Special PMLA court rejects bail application of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, in  money laundering case
12:35 PMMoscow accuses West of wanting to stage an 'artificial default' in RussiaRussia's finance ministry on Monday accused foreign countries of wanting to force Russia into an "artificial default" through unprecedented sanctions over what Moscow calls its "military operation" in Ukraine. "The freezing of foreign currency accounts of the Bank of Russia and of the Russian government can be regarded as the desire of a number of foreign countries to organise an artificial default that has no real economic grounds," finance minister Anton Siluanov said in a statement.
03:24 PMTamil Nadu  Congress MLA from Gujarat, Dr. Anil Joshiyara passes away at a Chennai hospital following prolonged illness.
01:49 PMUK donates power generators to UkraineBritain will donate more than 500 mobile generators to help Ukraine and weaken Russia's attempts to cripple its power supply, Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said on Monday, adding that they would be enough to power 20,000 buildings. "Sending portable electricity generators to Ukraine will help keep essential services running, weaken Russian President Vladimir Putin's attempts to cripple Ukraines power supply, and help support the extraordinarily brave Ukrainian response to the Kremlins war waging," Kwarteng said in a statement.
04:56 PMChernobyl nuclear plant power line damaged by Russian forcesA high-voltage power line to Ukraine's Chernobyl nuclear plant was damaged by Russian forces not long after electricity supplies were restored to the facility, grid operator Ukrenergo said. It did not say if all external power supply to the plant had been lost as a result of the damage, but demanded access to the area to carry out repairs. Ukrenergo did not produce evidence of the damage or the actions of the Russian forces and Reuters was unable to independently verify the extent of the damage or the cause of it. Russian forces occupied the plant soon after invading Ukraine on Feb. 24.
07:27 PMRebuild Ukraine with frozen Russian assets: Polish PMPoland  said frozen assets belonging to the Russian state and oligarchs should be confiscated and used to create a fund to rebuild Ukraine. Russian military action has destroyed Ukrainian infrastructure and homes since President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion on February 24, forcing more than 2.8 million people to flee the country.
02:19 PMIndia considers buying discounted Russian oil, commoditiesIndia is considering taking up a Russian offer to buy its crude oil and other commodities at discounted prices with payment via a rupee-rouble transaction, two Indian officials told Reuters.  India, which imports 80 of its oil needs, usually buys about 2 to 3 of its supplies from Russia. But with oil prices up 40 so far this year, the government is looking at increasing this if it can help reduce its rising energy bill.
06:21 PMCitigroup to expand scope of Russia exitCitigroup Inc said it would exit other lines of business in Russia and cut its exposure to the country, including ceasing to solicit any new business or clients.
04:41 PMThe fourth round of Ukraine-Russia conflict talks underway says Kyiv negotiator, reports News agency AFP
03:05 PMPunjab CM-designate Bhagwant Mann to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla at 3:30 PM to resign from the membership of the House.
07:21 PMUkraine's Zelenskiy to address US Congress on WednesdayUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy will virtually address the US Congress at 9 a.m 1300 GMT on Wednesday, US Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a joint letter to US lawmakers.
02:30 PMComorbidities' clause removed for administering precaution doses to all 60 citizens: Health Minister Mandaviya
01:59 PMLok Sabha members seek education loan waiver for Ukraine returneesCongress member Kodikunnil Suresh wanted the government to waive off education loans taken by students pursuing education in Ukraine by invoking the clause of act of war' to save them from falling in a debt trap. Students rescued from Ukraine face an uncertain future due to their inability to complete their education and also run the risk of falling into a debt trap as they may find it difficult to repay education loans, he said.
03:09 PMASIGD Rajendra Singh of 53rd Battalion ITBP lost his life in an IED blast done by naxals, near Sonpur, Narayanpur, Chhattisgarh today.
12:02 PMEurope's arms imports jump amid tensions with RussiaArms shipments to Europe jumped amid deteriorating relations with Russia in the five years through 2021, even as the global arms trade slowed, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute SIPRI think-tank said
07:52 PMZelenskyy terms ongoing fourth round of Ukraine-Russia talks as 'difficult'As the fourth round of talks between Russia and Ukraine is underway, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy termed the negotiations as 'difficult talks'.
01:12 PMChina slams US claims that Russia asked it for military aid as 'disinformation'A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said on Monday assertions from U.S. officials that Russia asked Beijing for military equipment for its campaign in Ukraine were "disinformation" from the United States. The comments came during a regular Chinese foreign ministry briefing in Beijing.
05:50 PMPfizer to maintain drug supply to RussiaUS drugmaker Pfizer Inc said it would maintain humanitarian supply of medicines to Russia and would donate all profits from its Russian unit to causes that provide direct support to the people of Ukraine.
05:36 PMRussia could take full control of major Ukrainian cities: KremlinThe Kremlin said that Russia could take full control of major Ukrainian cities and cautioned the West that it had sufficient military clout to fulfil all of its aims in Ukraine without any need for help from China.
07:54 PMRussia-Ukraine war: Rupee unlikely to be majorly impactedThe ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia is unlikely to have any major impact on the Indian rupee and the forex volatility in the country USDINR has been much less now as compared to the global financial crisis which took place in 2008, SBI said.
01:44 PMTen humanitarian corridors agreed for MondayUkraine will try to evacuate trapped civilians through 10 "humanitarian corridors" on Monday, including from towns near the capital Kyiv and in the eastern region of Luhansk, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereschuk said. "We will, once again, try to unblock the movement of the humanitarian convoy carrying food and medicine to the port city of Mariupol from Berdiansk in southeastern Ukraine," she said in a video address.
12:54 PMRussia allows residents to get forex salary in foreign banksRussian citizens will be allowed to deposit foreign currency in foreign bank accounts if it was received from non-residents as salary, dividend, coupon or rental payments, the finance ministry said on Monday. Russian residents will also be allowed to send foreign currency to their foreign accounts to finance operations of their companies branches and representative offices abroad provided the amount of cash set does not exceed last year levels, the ministry said.
05:06 PMRussia has not asked China for military help for use in UkraineRussia has not asked China for military assistance and has sufficient military clout to fulfil all of its aims in Ukraine in time and in full, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. US officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, had said that Russia had asked China for military equipment.
03:53 PMThe Kashmir Files movie brings the truth about what happened in Kashmir during the 80s  90s. I hope all Kashmiri Pandits will get back their land, property  settled down there. Declared movie tax-free in the state.- Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai
01:21 PMAir strike kills two in KyivAn air strike on a residential building in Ukraine's capital killed at least two people Monday, the country's emergency service said. The strike, which injured at least a dozen people, came as Russian troops edged closer to the city and kept up their siege of the southern port city of Mariupol, where officials said nearly 2,200 people have been killed.
01:57 PMCOVID19 vaccination of 12-14-year-olds and 'precaution dose' for all those above 60 years to begin from March 16, says Union Health Minister Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya
06:57 PMUN Rights Office confirms at least 636 civilian deaths in Ukraine through to March 13
11:51 AMAt least one dead, three wounded after residential building hit in KyivAt least one person was killed and three injured when a shell hit a residential building in Kyiv on Monday morning, state Ukrainian TV reported. According to Ukrainian Interior Ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko, two people were killed and three were hospitalised.
09:24 PMWhite House officials discussing possibility of Biden traveling to Europe to discuss Russia and Ukraine with allies but it is not finalized yet: Source
05:27 PM'Homes for Ukraine' website to help house refugees in UKA website for Britons interested in housing and sponsoring Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion will go live as the government steps up its efforts to deflect anger over its response to the refugee crisis. The new scheme called "Homes for Ukraine" will let refugees from the war come to Britain even if they do not have family ties, the government said. Britain will pay people 350 pounds $460 a month if they can offer refugees a spare room or property for a minimum period of six months.
02:12 PM'Very unlikely' Russian missiles will land in NATO territory - UK ministerIt is not impossible that Russian missiles could land in NATO territory but it is very unlikely, British health minister Sajid Javid said on Monday, adding that the alliance would respond if it did happen. Asked about the possibility of Russian missiles landing on NATO territory after a weekend attack on a Ukrainian military training base near Poland, Javid told BBC Radio: "It is not impossible ... but I still think at this stage it's very unlikely."
04:03 PMGST reduced from 18 to 5 for domestic Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul MRO services: Ministry of Civil Aviation
09:09 PMRussian gas will continue to flow through Ukraine to Europe: UkraineRussian gas will continue to flow to Europe through Ukraine as long as the operators of Ukraines gas networks are able to function, the head of Ukraine's state energy firm Naftogaz told. Russia is the European Union's top gas supplier and its invasion of Ukraine has led to concerns over possible disruptions, sending prices to record highs.
06:07 PMUkraine calls for boycotts of global firms that stay open in RussiaUkrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said sanctions pressure should be increased on Russia and called for a global boycott of international companies that have kept their operations open in Russia. In a briefing, Kuleba also called for international ports to bar passage to Russian ships and cargo.
01:00 PMWill do everything possible for Ukraine returned medical students: Kerala CMKerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday informed the State Assembly that the state government will get in touch with the Centre and the National Medical Commission NMC to see how best the medical students in the state who have returned from war torn Ukraine can be helped. He also pointed out that consequent to the war in Ukraine for all those students who were doing studies in various courses there, had to return and those who have lost their certificates and concerns of their future studies, the call has to be taken by the Centre."To coordinate all this, a special cell will be set up which will consist of officials from the Health department and the Non resident Keralites Affairs department Norka and an allocation of Rs 10 crore has been set aside in the recently presented budget," added Vijayan.
11:07 PMUnited States in UNSCRussia continues to occupy parts of Georgia and it also maintains its force in Moldova without host govt concern. US reaffirms its strong  unwavering commitment to OSEC's special monitoring mission that is forced to temporarily suspend its work in Ukraine
11:35 AMFourth round of peace talks via video conference between Russia and Ukrainian officials to start at 10.30 Kyiv time: Ukraine
01:44 PMGovt assures LS on future of Indian studentsThe government on Monday assured the Lok Sabha it will look into measures that can be taken so Indian students brought back to the country from Ukraine under Operation Ganga can complete their education. "At present, it is time for getting them out of the shock. We are all engaged in that," Union Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan said.
01:50 PMKyiv seeks support to 'avert a larger war'Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called on the West on Monday to supply Ukraine with weapons and apply more sanctions on Russia to help prevent other countries being dragged into a wider conflict. "To those abroad scared of being dragged into WWIII. Ukraine fights back successfully. We need you to help us fight. Provide us with all necessary weapons," Kuleba wrote on Twitter. "Apply more sanctions on Russia and isolate it fully. Help Ukraine force Putin into failure and you will avert a larger war."
