Russia vs Ukraine A war between pretenders Putin and Biden
20220226
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/foreign-media/russia-vs-ukraine-a-war-between-pretenders-putin-and-biden/
The Ukraine War has exposed the hollowness of American foreign policy, which rotates on the fulcrum of selfishness and avarice. The US intervenes in wars and invades countries and abandons them when they suit its needsthe Vietnam War to defeat the Soviets during the Cold War, not for the Vietnamese the Iran-Contra Affair to overthrow the Sandinista National Liberation Fund by illegally funnelling arms to the Nicaraguan rebels despite an arms embargo Operation Cyclone to decimate the USSR in Afghanistan by creating the Frankensteinian monster Osama bin Laden, Iraq for oil with the fabricated evidence of WMDs and Afghanistan again to eliminate bin Laden, not to emancipate the Afghans from the Taliban.
The Congressional Research Service noted in January that the 2014 sanctions had a negative but relatively modest impact on Russias growth. According to Andrea Kendall-Taylor, a senior fellow at the Centre for a New American Security, The Russian economy has largely adjusted to those sanctions. Russias agriculture sector, including meat and cheese production, is booming.
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Trumps narcissistic and mercurial streak, especially taunting NATO members for their little contribution to the military alliance, had already damaged Americas world standing with devastating effects and alienated strong allies. European nations, led by Germany and France, started relying less on the US.
The massive unprovoked Chinese incursion at five points in eastern Ladakh in 2020, which resulted in the death of 20 Indian Army personnel and the loss of 1,000 sq km of territory, according to a daily newspaper, was the scariest example of the emerging world order.
Bidens initial hesitancy to act against Putin by engaging in fruitless diplomacy and ruling out military action, in case, of an invasion of Ukraine emboldened the megalomaniac, who had the first-mover advantage. An asymmetrical deterrence package comprising economic sanctions and bolstering of NATOs eastern flank was an ineffective and pathetic way to thwart Putins dangerous designs.
The threat is already visible. On the third day of the Ukraine War, Russia warned its Arctic neighbours Finland and Sweden of detrimental consequences and military action if they join NATO. And, on day one of the invasion, China sent eight J-16 fighters and one Y-8 reconnaissance jet into Taiwans air defence identification zone, fuelling fears on the island and among security experts that Beijing could attempt a similar invasion with the US turning a blind eye.
The bloodbath unleashed by Russia on Ukraine is not about the strongest bully bludgeoning a weak nation to submissionneither its the Cold War-era permanent conflict between communism and capitalism. It is a war between Vladimir Putin and Joe Biden, the usurper and the apparent protector of democracy.
One is a fiendish pretender with the festering gash of the collapsed Berlin Wall, the shredded Iron Curtain, the dissolution of the USSR and the loss of superpower statusand like a juggernaut unconstrained in his imperialistic manic ambition to restore the Soviet pride and stature and satisfy his pathetically prodigious ego.
Ukraine was a fast-ticking Father of All Bombs waiting to explode with the deluded Putin dangling the detonator right in front of Biden. The US had only two options: either activate the kill switch of a military option to defuse Putins megaton of delirium or let the totalitarian blast the European peace to smithereens. Biden chose the latter and let Putin butcher Ukrainians.
Bidens predecessor Donald Trump, undeniably the worst American President ever, mollycoddled with dictators like Putin and North Koreas Kim Jong-un under the guise of America First to advance his rapacity. He shut the door on Trans-Pacific Partnership, Paris Agreement, UNESCO, UNHRC, UNRWA and WHO, reneged on JCPOA Iran nuclear deal and withdrew from INF Treaty and Open Skies Treaty with Russia.
The other pretender is the doddering, torpid commander of the rapidly disintegrating unipolar world, still hanging precariously to his nations mutilated superpower stature, and delusional about being the chaperone-in-chief tasked with making mutinous students fall in line.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
As the booming rotor blades of Ka-52 Alligators, shrieking Su-25 Frogfoots and the earth-shaking T-90s and T-72s terrorised the hopeless and hapless Ukrainians on the agonising blood-spattered day of February 24, 2022, it was abundantly clear that the war was between two presumptuous pretenders with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky and his people in the crosshairs.
Bidens loathsome half-hearted response to Putins bloody aggrandisement and his phantomised new world order despite Ukraines repeated requests for intervention is the harbinger of a dreaded new world systemwhere only the dictum absolute power can bulldoze every law, rights and humanity with the barrel of the gun is applicable.
The imperium of the old world order is a mangled remain of its former self. Putin and Chinas Xi Jinping, unbridled in their frenzied quest for power and imperialism, are Americas biggest adversaries, brazenly trying to usurp the Godfathers position like the Barzinis and the Tattaglias in their bloodlust against the Corleones.
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Stephen Biegun, Trumps former deputy secretary of state, who was instrumental in formulating American policy towards another rogue nation North Korea, told an international news website: The tool of sanctions has become a tired tool. It has not seemed to significantly alter the behaviour of any foreign party whose actions are of concern to the United States.
Bidens precipitous withdrawal from Afghanistan and surrender to the very Taliban terrorists the US intended to dislodge 20 years ago is the clearest example of American hypocrisy and the policy of abandonment. The US boasts of its hollow ideal of preservation of democracy and acts only when a militarily and economically weak nation triggers war. The US would have hammered North Korea if Kim attacked its ally South Koreabut not Putin when he attacks Ukraine or China if it invades Taiwan or attacks India.
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
As the Russian onslaught threatened to convulse Kyiv on Friday, Zelensky Facebook video targeting the US for its abysmal response to Russia was erringly haunting: This morning, we are defending our country alone. Just like yesterday, the most powerful country in the world looked on from a distance, he said. The guardian of democracy, the vanguard of world order had washed its hands off and abandoned Ukraine to face the Russian pounding.
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
Several of Bidens own officials were deeply sceptical of the effectiveness of the sanctions, announced in two tranches, according to an international news website. Despite the sanctions imposed on Russia when it captured the Crimean Peninsula and Luhansk and Donetsk in 2014 proving to be futile, Biden believed they would deter Putin.
Zelenskys words portend an apocalypse waiting to devour the international rule of law, with the Ukraine invasion being the latest example, as the US shirks its responsibility to save a world on the edge of a precipice.
The words of US deputy NSA Daleep Singh could prove prophetic. If Russias aggression in the heart of Europe went unchecked, think of the questions that will be asked about which other countries could be bullied by an autocrat looking to exert a sphere of influence, he told reporters on February 18.
Despite losing about $50 billion as a result of the 2014 sanctions, Putin said in March 2020, To hell with those sanctions. According to various estimates, we have lost $50 billion but we have earned the same amount. In an interview with Russian state-owned news agency TASS, he said, The sanctions made us use our brains. Counter-sanctions helped boost the agroindustry. They unshackled our domestic market. We started to produce enough to meet our basic food needs: dairy, poultry, pork, and basic products.
In 2019, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen announced the formation of a European Union defence-cum-space arm to fund, develop and deploy armed forces considering the pressure exerted by Trump.  European Union member states have been told many times that common procurement for their armed forces is of utmost importance, she said.
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
This is the most critical juncture post-Cold War that will define the next world order. It is an ominous signal of the frightening prospect of militarily and economically powerful nations trying to subjugate wavering republics who will desperately beg for assistance from the United States, the self-proclaimed bulwark against autocracy and communism, only to be left in the lurch to fend off such satanic subsuming forces.
Biden entered the Oval Office with the promise of restoring the US as the world leader. However, as Putin was amassing thousands of troops and tanks, artillery, bombers and attack helicopters on Ukraines eastern flank, mobilising his military in the north on the pretext of drills with Belarus and threatening from the south, Crimea, a lethargic Bidens threat of economic sanctions against Russia smacked of hypocrisy and ignorance of the expanding threat. He repeated how the US and its allies will respond swiftly and decisively to a Russian assault ad infinitum.
Bidens threats of imposing crippling economic sanctions, without even listing them despite Zelenskys request, and assuring every possible assistance to Ukraine sounded like flaccid words echoing in the cavernous world of diplomacy.
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
