RussiaUkraine war Dozens of targets hit in Donetsk and Kharkiv Russia says
20220420
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-april-21/liveblog/90966633.cms
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Friday hit back against accusations his centre-left Social Democrats have been too lenient towards Russia, as critics accuse Berlin of dragging its feet on deliveries of heavy weapons to Ukraine.
Russia's defence ministry on Friday said that Russian military has hit dozens of targets in Ukraine's Donetsk and Kharkiv regions. Earlier, Russia claimed that its army has taken control over a large arms depot in Ukraine's Kharkiv region. Stay with TOI for live updates-Read Less
Russia will likely increase its military attacks in eastern Ukraine and along the country's coast, a senior EU official said on Friday, with the next weeks seen as potentially decisive for the war. "This is not a fairy tale with an imminent happy ending. I think we are likely to see a very significant increase in the intensity of Russian military attacks in the east, I think we are likely to see an intensification of Russian military attacks along the coast," the official told reporters.
Mounds of dirt seen in satellite imagery that Ukrainian officials say indicate new mass graves highlighted the savagery of a war that showed no signs of abating on Friday, as Russia pounded targets in eastern Ukraine in a new offensive to take the country's industrial heartland.
Moldova on Friday summoned Moscow's envoy after a senior Russian commander said Moscow sought "control over the south of Ukraine" that could provide access to Moldova's breakaway region of Transnistria.
Russian chief negotiator confirmed a news report that "several long conversations" took place on Friday with the head of Ukraine's delegation at peace talks between the two sides. Vladimir Medinsky gave no details of the conversations. Earlier this week the Kremlin said Russia had submitted a new written proposal, but Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he had neither seen nor heard about it.
Ukraine's national postal service Ukrposhta said it had been hit by a cyberattack on Friday after sales of a postage stamp depicting a Ukrainian soldier making a crude gesture to a Russian warship went online.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday accused Kyiv of refusing to allow Ukrainian troops to surrender in the besieged port city of Mariupol, as he spoke to EU chief Charles Michel.
European Council president Charles Michel said he urged Russian President Vladimir Putin in a phone call Friday to allow humanitarian access to the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol during Orthodox Easter.
Russia's defence ministry says Russian military hit dozens of targets in Ukraine's Donetsk and Kharkiv regions
A Russian court on Friday ordered pre-trial detention for opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza for allegedly spreading false information about the Russian army, his lawyer said.Moscow's Basmanny district court ordered that the 40-year-old Kremlin opponent be held in pre-trial detention until June 12, lawyer Vadim Prokhorov said on Facebook.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Friday there may be no swift end to the conflict in Ukraine because of the stiff resistance to Russia's invasion. Asked if he agreed with defence intelligence assessments that fighting could drag on until the end of next year, he told reporters: "The sad thing is that is a realistic possibility."
Russia said Friday it intended a full-bore assault to carve out a sizeable slice of Ukraine but risked intensified world outrage as the UN documented the killing of dozens of civilians in one town. Ukraine's government, emboldened by a fresh influx of high-grade Western weaponry, said its beleaguered forces were still holding out inside a sprawling, seaside steelworks in the razed city of Mariupol.
Donald Trump says that as US president he threatened not to come to the defense of NATO allies if they were attacked by Russia unless they helped fund the alliance more. Both when campaigning and once in the White House, Trump often sought to publicly undermine NATO, the US-led military alliance at the heart of Western geopolitical power since World War II, but which he described as a group of countries living off US largesse.
Russia's defence ministry says Russian army took over control over large arms depot in Ukraine's Kharkiv region
