RUSSIA UKRAIN WAR RAGES THE EBBING SUPPLY
20220317
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/topic/russia-ukrain-war-rages-the-ebbing-supply/news
In a sign of India's diplomacy coming of age, it has managed to convince the major world powers that its pursuit of self-interest will guide its diplomatic and strategic priorities while it will stick to a principled position that calls for peace. India balanced its need to retain ties with its old ally Russia with the necessity of protecting a growing security partnership with the US and other Western countries due to the threat from China.
With its release, President Xi Jinping's government is reiterating China's claim to being neutral, despite blocking efforts at the United Nations to condemn the invasion. The document echoes Russian complaints that Western governments are to blame for the Feb. 24, 2022 invasion and criticizes sanctions on Russia.
Josep Borrell said he told China's top diplomat Wang Yi at a meeting over the weekend that "for us, it would be a red line in our relationship." "He told me that they are not going to do it, that they don't plan to do it. But we will remain vigilant," Borrell told journalists ahead of a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels.
PKN Orlen said it could fully supply its refineries via sea and that the halt in pipeline supplies would not impact deliveries of gasoline and diesel to clients.
"There are concerns about stagflation, both in the short run and over the medium term. In the short run, there are three negative aggregate supply shocks: Covid-19, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the Zero Covid policy of China. These led to supply-chain bottlenecks and resulted in a rise in inflation and a weakness of economic activity," Roubini said.
In a statement at the end of financial leaders' meet near Bengaluru, India said the statement condemning Russia's war was endorsed by all members except Russia and China.
The vacuum created by the stoppage of Russian supplies has still not been filled. Europe struggled to keep itself warm this winter as Russian gas stopped flowing in. With the fear of an economic collapse looming over the world, let us take a look at some of the economic aspects of the war.
The fighters inside Azovstal withstood attacks by the Russian army for weeks, when the rest of the city had fallen after a devastating siege. The troops, including fighters from the Azov regiment that Moscow describes as a neo-Nazi organisation, took shelter in a warren of tunnels beneath the plant.
A year on since the full-scale invasion, the WTO concluded that trade had proved "remarkably resilient", with importing countries affected by the conflict finding alternative sources of supply.
The decision came after a meeting of the bloc's finance ministers and central bank governors on the eve of the war's first anniversary. The conflict continues to rage despite sanctions by western nations meant to cripple Russia's financing of its "special military operation".
One year on, thousands of Ukrainian civilians are dead, and countless buildings have been destroyed. Tens of thousands of troops have been killed or seriously wounded on each side. Beyond Ukraine's borders, the invasion shattered European security, redrew nations' relations with one another and frayed a tightly woven global economy.
Western fears of China helping to arm Russia come as Moscow's forces struggle to make gains around key objectives in eastern Ukraine, and as Kyiv prepares a counter-offensive with advanced Western weapons including battle tanks. "Beijing will have to make its own decisions about how it proceeds, whether it provides military assistance - but if it goes down that road it will come at real costs to China," White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told CNN's "State of the Union" programme.
The nearly year-long conflict has seen Western leaders step up their support for Kyiv, and on Thursday G7 ministers discussed new sanctions on Russia as the UN General Assembly prepared to vote on a motion calling for "lasting" peace.
Last year, Ukraines overall output plunged by nearly one-third, wrecking the countrys economy and hampering its ability to battle Russian forces.
Russia said members of the Canadian and German delegations launched personal attacks against its delegation in the backdrop of the Ukraine crisis, ET has reliably gathered. Moscow raised the issue and sought New Delhi's support to address the diplomatic spat, ET has learnt.
Over the past few years, disruptions have become so frequent that the network is looking increasingly frayed and torn. The obvious disruptions are the virus, the war and Taiwan. The less obvious ones are Washington's lack of enthusiasm for the multilateral trading system, the legitimacy deficit of the ruling elites of half the developed world, and the rise of a rules-breaking China.
An influx of Chinese weapons would be "a game-changer". Chinese "munitions would make life very difficult for the Ukrainians, whether it's artillery ammunition, whether it's precision munitions or longer-range strike weapons which Russia is running out of".
Taken together, the US comments appeared to be among the clearest warning yet that China might be poised to go beyond rhetorical, political or diplomatic support for Russia and be ready to help arm it in its nearly year-old fight against Ukraine.
These agitators have sought to depict the Ukrainian side as Nazis or suggest that Western support for Kyiv is evaporating. Russian authorities themselves have propagated the idea that some of the worst atrocities -- such as the massacre of civilians in Bucha not far from Kyiv that was discovered in April 2022 -- were staged.
