Russia must withdraw its troops from Ukrainian territory Then we can have peace The coming winter will be difficult but by next year Europes dependency on Russian gas should be over
20220823
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/talkingturkey/russia-must-withdraw-its-troops-from-ukrainian-territory-then-we-can-have-peace-the-coming-winter-will-be-difficult-but-by-next-year-europes-dependency-on-russian-gas-shou/
We are entering a phase where the Russian advance has completely stopped. There was a Russian advance on Kyiv in February, March and April. But they were pushed back by Ukrainian forces. Now we have effectively stopped the advance in the east and the south of Ukraine, and we are preparing for a counterattack, which has already begun in a limited way with attacks on Crimea. True, there hasnt been much by way of ground advance by the Ukrainian side but we will see this in the weeks ahead.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
Today the war in Ukraine completes six months. It is also Ukraines Independence Day. Mychailo Wynnyckyj, non-resident fellow at the Institute of Human Sciences Vienna and associate professor at Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, spoke with Rudroneel Ghosh about the ongoing conflict:
Six months into the Russian invasion, have we reached a stalemate or is the war entering a more dangerous phase?
