RussiaUkraine War News LIVE Updates If West wants to beat us on battlefield let them try says Putin
20220706
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-news-live-updates-july-6/liveblog/92687278.cms
Foreign ministers from the Group of 20 leading rich and developing nations are gathering in Indonesia's resort island of Bali for talks bound to be dominated by the conflict in Ukraine despite an agenda focused on global cooperation and food and energy security.
Russia has redoubled its push for Ukraines eastern Donbas region, with the Ukrainian military claiming to have repelled some advances
Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that if West wants to defeat Russia on battlefield, 'let them try'. AFP
At least one person has been killed, while several others were wounded in a bombing incident reported in Ukraine's Kramatorsk.
Russian lawmakers approved legislation on Wednesday to create a patriotic youth movement in a move reminiscent of Soviet-era youth organisations.President Vladimir Putin will be asked to head the supervisory board of the movement which will seek to streamline and champion government efforts to enhance patriotic and Russian values among children and the youth.
A staggering 71 million more people around the world are experiencing poverty as a result of soaring food and energy prices that climbed in the weeks following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the United Nations Development Program said in a report Thursday. The UNDP estimates that 51.6 million more people fell into poverty in the first three months after the war, living off $1.90 a day or less. This pushed the total number globally at this threshold to 9 of the world's population. An additional 20 million people slipped to the poverty line of $3.20 a day.
A Russian prosecutor on Thursday requested a seven-year prison term for a Moscow city councillor accused of criticising Russia's military intervention in Ukraine. Alexei Gorinov, a 60-year-old lawyer by training, was arrested in late April for spreading "knowingly false information" about the Russian army and is now on trial. Gorinov is the first elected member of the opposition to face jail for criticising Moscow' military campaign in Ukraine.
Viktor Lazar shares his war-side balcony with a pair of opera glasses and a tiny orange snake, his only companion in an apartment that seems to sit at the edge of the world. The opera glasses, more of a joke, are hardly needed  the front line is visible without them. The rumbling of Russian and Ukrainian shelling is audible even now, although Lazar claims not to notice. Below his balcony is a crater, one of many. On the nearby street, a Grad rocket launcher rolls by.
At about 5 a.m., several Ukrainian servicemen landed on the island from a motor boat and took pictures with the flag. An aircraft of the Russian Aerospace Forces immediately launched a strike with high-precision missiles on Snake Island, as a result of which part of the Ukrainian military personnel was destroyed
Russian forces fired missiles at the centre of the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk in an air strike, causing casualties, the city's mayor said. Ukraine expects the city to be among the main targets for Russian forces following their capture of the city of Lysychansk.
Russia's defence ministry said on Thursday that a Russian warplane struck Ukraine's Snake Island in the Black Sea overnight, shortly after Ukrainian troops claimed to have raised their flag over the island. Stay with TOI for latest updates.Read Less
Dressed in military camouflage with an assault rifle at the ready, "Prof" Yeh peers from behind a vehicle in a parking lot outside Taipei, scanning his surroundings and waiting for a signal to advance. Read more
Pavlo Kyrylenko, Governor of the Donetsk region, said a missile had damaged six buildings including a hotel and an apartment bloc in the large industrial hub.
Russian gas producer Gazprom said its supply of gas to Europe through Ukraine via the Sudzha entry point was seen at 41.2 million cubic metres mcm on Thursday, compared with 41.1 mcm on Wednesday. An application to supply gas via the Sokhranovka entry point had again been rejected by Ukraine, Gazprom said.
iktor Lazar shares his war-side balcony with a pair of opera glasses and a tiny orange snake, his only companion in an apartment that seems to sit at the edge of the world. The opera glasses, more of a joke, are hardly needed  the front line is visible without them. The rumbling of Russian and Ukrainian shelling is audible even now, although Lazar claims not to notice. Below his balcony is a crater, one of many. On the nearby street, a Grad rocket launcher rolls by.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has flown into Indonesia's resort island of Bali for a meeting of G20 foreign ministers, which is set to be overshadowed by tensions triggered by the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday that if the West wanted to defeat Russia on the battlefield, it was welcome to try.
President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday that Russia had barely got started in Ukraine and dared the West to try to defeat it on the battlefield. In an ultra-hawkish speech to parliamentary leaders more than four months into the war, Putin said the prospects for any negotiation would grow dimmer the longer the conflict dragged on. "Today we hear that they want to defeat us on the battlefield. What can you say, let them try," he said."We have heard many times that the West wants to fight us to the last Ukrainian. This is a tragedy for the Ukrainian people, but it seems that everything is heading towards this."
Dressed in military camouflage with an assault rifle at the ready, "Prof" Yeh peers from behind a vehicle in a parking lot outside Taipei, scanning his surroundings and waiting for a signal to advance.
Russian shelling killed at least eight civilians in eastern Ukraine over the past 24 hours and wounded 25 more, Ukrainian officials said Wednesday. Pro-Russia separatists said attacks by Ukrainian forces killed four civilians.
US President Joe Biden says Russian President Vladimir Putin is a war criminal and has led the West in arming Ukraine and imposing crippling sanctions on Russia
At least one person was killed and six wounded in a Russian air strike on the heart of the Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk on Thursday, the top regional official said.
