Russia Ukraine News Updates Ukraine says will meet Russia as Putin puts nuclear defences on alert
20220227
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/newsblogs/russia-ukraine-war-crisis-news-live-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-latest-updates/liveblog/89861187.cms
09:38 PMUS, allies to cut off selected Russian banks from SWIFT messaging system to tighten sanctions on MoscowSeeking to cripple Russia's economy for invading Ukraine, the US and its key allies have decided to expel selected Russian banks from the SWIFT financial messaging system and impose restrictive measures on its central bank to limit Moscow's ability to access its overseas reserves.
10:50 PMUNSC to vote on convening emergency special session' of General Assembly on Russia's invasion of UkraineThe UN Security Council will vote to convene a rare "emergency special session" of the 193-member General Assembly on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, two days after Moscow used its veto to block a resolution on its aggression against Kyiv.The 15-nation Security Council will meet on Sunday afternoon to hold a vote on the special session. This will be only the 11th such emergency session of the General Assembly since 1950.
05:08 PMJaishankar dialed Moldova Foreign Minister Nicu Popescu seeking support for facilitating entry of Indian nationals on Ukraine-Moldova borderCalled Foreign Minister nicupopescu of Moldova seeking support for facilitating entry of our nationals on the Ukra https:t.cohCpi6GGoqJmdash Dr. S. Jaishankar DrSJaishankar 1645961341000
12:21 AMAlbania closes its airspace for Russian airlinesAlbania will close its airspace for all Russian aircraft except for humanitarian and emergency flights on Sunday night in line with European Union recommendations, Albania's Foreign Minister Olta Xhackai said in a video address.
03:14 PMRomania to send fuel, ammunition to UkraineRomania will send provisions and equipment worth 3 million euros $3.38 million to Ukraine and has offered to care for the wounded in military and civilian hospitals, government spokesperson Dan Carbunaru said on Sunday. Provisions to be sent include fuel, ammunition, bullet-proof vests, helmets, military equipment, food and water, he added. In cooperation with Ukrainian border authorities, Romanian ambulances will pick up children, pregnant women and the elderly waiting in long queues to cross the border into Romania at the northeastern Siret crossing, speeding up the process, he said.
05:22 PMRussia warns assistance to foreign state can be treasonThe Russian state prosecutor's office said on Sunday that anyone providing financial or other assistance to a foreign state or international organisation aimed against Russia's security could be convicted of treason, facing a maximum sentence of 20 years.
04:41 PMGerman Chancellor says still open for talks with RussiaGerman Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Sunday he was still open for talks with Russia, but warned that Moscow had to be ready for "real dialogue."
06:33 PMRussia demands Google restore access to its media YouTube channels in UkraineRussia's state communications regulator on Sunday said it had written to Alphabet Inc's Google and demanded that access to Russian media's YouTube channels be restored on Ukrainian territory.The regulator, Roskomnadzor, said it wanted all restrictions imposed on the Russian-language YouTube channels of media outlets RBC, TV Zvezda and Sputnik to be removed.
04:02 PMBelgium closes airspace to Russian airlines, says PMBelgium is closing its airspace to Russian flights, the country's prime minister said on Sunday, adding to a growing number of EU countries that have done the same. "Belgium has decided to close its airspace to all Russian airlines," Prime Minister Alexander De Croo tweeted. "Our European skies are open skies. They're open for those who connect people, not for those who seek to brutally aggress."
04:11 PMSpecial UNSC session on UkraineSpecial UNSC session on Ukraine to be held at 3pm New York Time on 27th February 1:30 am IST on February 28.
08:34 PMAirplane carrying Norway NATO troops lands in LithuaniaA military aircraft carrying Norwegian troop reinforcements landed in Lithuania on Sunday, part of a wider NATO buildup in the Baltic region following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
04:37 PMWorld in 'new era' after Russian invasion of Ukraine, says Germany's ScholzGerman Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Sunday that the world stood in a "new era" with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, noting that the question facing Western allies was whether they can muster enough power to set limits for "warmongers" like Vladimir Putin. "In essence, it's a question of whether might can break right," he said in a speech at a special parliamentary sitting.
09:13 PMEstonia urges citizens to return from RussiaEstonia urged its nationals in Russia on Sunday to reconsider whether they need to stay there and to return home if possible. It also called on Estonian nationals to avoid regions in Russia and Belarus bordering Ukraine due to Russia's military invasion of Ukraine.
03:33 PMLebanon's position on Ukraine should not affect ties with Moscow, says Russian envoyLebanon's condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine "will not affect considerably" Moscow's relations with Beirut, the Russian ambassador said on Sunday. "In the difficult times, we can see those who stood with us and those who didn't," Alexander Rudakov told a news conference in Beirut.
05:30 PMGermany to step up plans to cut dependence on Russia gasGermany will make good on plans to build two liquefied natural gas LNG terminals and up its natural gas reserves to cut its dependence on Russian gas after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Sunday.
05:43 PMThose who judge that the situation is not conducive for travel, or are unable to leave due to any reason, may wait until further developments: Embassy of India in Kyiv, Ukraine in an advisory to Indian nationals
04:31 PMIceland says it will close its airspace to Russian air trafficIceland has decided to shut its airspace to Russian air traffic following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Icelandic Foreign Minister Thordis Kolbrun Gylfadottir tweeted on Sunday.
03:41 PMUkraine calls for Russia to lose UN Security Council seatUkraine's president says Russia should be thrown out of the United Nations Security Council following its invasion of his country. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video message Sunday that the Russian invasion of Ukraine amounts to an act of genocide, saying that "Russia has taken the path of evil and the world should come to depriving it of its U.N. Security Council seat." Russia is one of the five permanent members of the Security Council, giving it veto power over resolutions. Zelenskyy said that Russian attacks on Ukrainian cities should be investigated by an international war crimes tribunal and denounced the Russian invasion as "state terrorism."
06:49 PMPutin orders military to put 'deterrence forces' on high alertPresident Vladimir Putin has ordered Russian nuclear deterrent forces on alert amid tensions with the West over Ukraine, reports AP
07:36 PMUkraine and Russia agree to talks without preconditions, Zelenskiy saysUkrainian and Russian officials will meet for talks at a venue on the Belarusian border with Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's office said on Sunday. The talks, the first since Russia unleashed a full scale invasion of Ukraine last week, would be held without preconditions and are the result of a phone call between Zelenskiy and the Belarusian president, Zelenskiy said.
04:02 PMAll the Indians stranded in Ukraine will be brought back to the country at the government's expense. We have decided to increase the number of flights to neighbouring countries of Ukraine with their permission for this purpose, says Defence Minister Rajnath Singh
08:00 PMMore than 100,000 people attended a Ukraine solidarity march in Berlin on Sunday, police said, with many protesters dressed in the blue and yellow colours of the Ukraine flag
03:21 PMEU could ban Russian flights from its airspace, official saysA European Union-wide ban for Russian flights could be part of a fresh package of sanctions on Moscow to be discussed later on Sunday by the bloc's foreign ministers, an EU official said. A vast majority of EU member states have already closed their airspace to these flights, and a more formal decision could be taken shortly, the official added.
03:07 PMChina to arrange chartered flights to evacuate nationals from UkraineChina is preparing to evacuate its about 6,000 stranded nationals in Ukraine amid ongoing tension between Russia and Ukraine. On Thursday, the Chinese embassy in Kyiv issued a notice regarding the evacuation and said that the authorities are preparing charter flights for the process, Global Times has reported. The charter flights will be dispatched according to the safety situation and will be notified in advance, the embassy said. Meanwhile, the embassy in Ukraine has issued two security alerts for Chinese citizens and companies in the country in one day. The embassy said that, although activities have been affected, there was no panic, Global Times added.
03:23 PMUkrainian minister says Russia lost some 4,300 men in invasionRussian forces have lost about 4,300 servicemen during their invasion of Ukraine, Deputy Defence Minister Hanna Malyar said on Sunday, adding however that the number was being clarified. She also said on her Facebook page that Russian troops lost about 146 tanks, 27 aircraft and 26 helicopters.
08:09 PMPutin nuclear alert order part of pattern of made-up threats, U.S. saysPresident Vladimir Putin's order to put Russian nuclear forces on high alert is part of a pattern of Moscow manufacturing threats to justify aggression, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Sunday.
09:54 PMRussia has warned Ukraine its offensive will not stop for talks, says KremlinThe Kremlin on Sunday said it has warned Ukraine that Russia's military operation would be suspended during any potential talks, the Interfax news agency reported.
09:47 PMUkraine International Airlines suspends flights until March 23Ukraine International Airlines said on Sunday it had extended the suspension of its regular and charter flights until March 23 due to the closure of Ukrainian airspace to civilian users.
04:19 PMPortugal to send military equipment to UkrainePortugal is to send military equipment to Ukraine, the defence ministry said on Sunday, joining other Western nations in dispatching help to the eastern European country under Russian attack. Lisbon is to dispatch "vests, helmets, night-vision goggles, grenades and ammunition of various calibres", the ministry said in a statement in the early hours on Twitter. "Portugal supports Ukraine, which is defending itself against an unjustified, illegal and unacceptable invasion," Defence Minister Joao Cravinho said in another tweet. Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva on Saturday told CNN Portugal that was "totally open" to welcoming "thousands of Ukrainians" forced to flee their country.
08:45 PMPutin nuclear alert 'dangerous' and 'irresponsible': NATO chiefPresident Vladimir Putin's decision to place his nuclear forces on alert amounts to "irresponsible" behavior, NATO charged Sunday. "This is dangerous rhetoric. This is a behavior which is irresponsible," the alliance's secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg told CNN.
03:39 PMUkraine invasion puts Russia's elite sports status at riskRussia spent upwards of $50 billion to host the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, then concocted the most elaborate doping scheme in history  all to cement its standing as a global sports superpower. The country's invasion of Ukraine, coming on the heels of yet another drug scandal that consumed the Beijing Olympics earlier this month, could serve to undermine an athletic dynasty tarnished by cheating and deception, and often countered with only tepid pushback from international sports leaders.
08:22 PMUkraine's government raises crypto worth $8 million in crowdfunding appealUkraine's government has raised almost $8 million in cryptocurrencies after posting appeals on social media for donations of bitcoin and other digital tokens, according to blockchain analysis company Elliptic.
07:52 PMCanada to shut its airspace to Russian operators immediatelyCanada has closed its airspace to Russian aircraft operators effective immediately due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Canada's minister of transportation said on Sunday.
07:17 PMUkraine crisis: IndiGo to operate flights to Budapest to bring back IndiansIndiGo will operate two flights to Budapest to bring back Indians who are stranded in Ukraine, according to an official. The flights will be operated on Monday and Tuesday from Delhi. They will first fly to Istanbul and then to Budapest in Hungary. In the return leg, the flights will come to Istanbul and then to Delhi.
07:10 PMUS announces $54 million in humanitarian aid for UkraineThe United States said Sunday it is sending nearly $54 million in new humanitarian aid to Ukraine as it grapples with the Russian invasion.
04:51 PMInternational Judo Federation suspends Vladimir Putin as its honorary president amid 'ongoing war conflict in Ukraine'Russian President Vladimir Putin has been suspended as honorary president and ambassador of the International Judo Federation on Sunday.The sports governing body removed Putin in light of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
04:34 PMUkraine submits application against Russia to ICJ - ZelenskiyUkraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Sunday his nation had submitted an application against Russia to the International Court of Justice ICJ."Russia must be held accountable for manipulating the notion of genocide to justify aggression. We request an urgent decision ordering Russia to cease military activity now and expect trials to start next week," Zelenskiy wrote on his Twitter.
08:53 PMGeorgia stands with UkraineGeorgia has stood with Ukraine and will always do the same. In the end, Ukraine will win. Killing innocent people i https:t.coYFKs6rEEwZmdash ANI ANI 1645975149000
03:16 PMUkraine conflict could last 'number of years': UK FM TrussThe Russia-Ukraine conflict could last a "number of years" and the world needs to be prepared for Moscow "to seek to use even worse weapons", British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss warned Sunday. "I fear this will be a long haul, this could be a number of years. Russia have strong forces and we know the Ukrainians are brave, they are determined to stand up for their sovereignty and territorial integrity and they are determined to fight," Truss told Sky News.
11:05 PMHungary to stay out of Ukraine-Russia conflict, Orban saysHungary's interest is to stay out of the military conflict between Ukraine and Russia, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Sunday, reiterating that Hungary would not send weapons to neighbouring Ukraine but would help all refugees from there.
10:40 PMRussia admits 'killed and injured' troops in UkraineThe Russian army on Sunday admitted that there were "killed and injured" soldiers among its troops in Ukraine on the fourth day of its invasion of the country, without specifying how many Russians had died there.
10:25 PMClosed airspace to Russian airlinesWe are shutting down the EU airspace for Russian-owned, Russian registered or Russian-controlled aircraft including the private jets of oligarchs. Second, we will ban the Kremlins media machine in the EU: President EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen
11:19 PMRussia war on Ukraine has displaced 'over 7 million people'Russia's war on Ukraine has displaced "over seven million people", the EU commissioner for crisis management said Sunday.
04:58 PMGermany, allies must not lose momentum in Russia sanctionsGermany and its Western allies must not run out of steam in sanctioning Russia as President Vladimir Putin has a long-term plan in mind, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Sunday.
08:19 PMU.N. nuclear watchdog to hold emergency meeting on UkraineThe U.N. nuclear watchdog's 35-nation Board of Governors will hold an emergency meeting on Wednesday about Ukraine, where war is raging in a country with four operational nuclear power plants and various waste facilitiesincluding Chernobyl.
06:37 PMUkraine agrees to hold talks with Russia in Belarus, reports Russian State MediaRussia said on Sunday that, after some back-and-forth, Ukraine agreed to dispatch a team to Belarus for talks to end the Russian military campaign in the country. Kiev confirmed the planned talks in Gomel Region, which is close to the borders of both Russia and Ukraine, Russian chief negotiator Vladimir Medinsky told reporters.
08:15 PMSpain says closing airspace to Russian carriersSpain said Sunday it was closing its airspace to Russian carriers, following similar moves by several European nations over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
11:30 PMU.S. banks' Russian investment banking fee income in doubt after Moscow sanctionsWestern sanctions on Moscow could throw the small but lucrative Russian investment banking business that several large U.S. banks have maintained into question, lawyers said, which could deal a hit to tens of millions of dollars in fees.
09:07 PMA dedicated Twitter handle has been set up to assist in the evacuation of Indians from UkraineA dedicated Twitter handle has been set up to assist in the evacuation of Indians from Ukraine: MEA Spokesperson Ar https:t.coQXZ2JMuaHemdash ANI ANI 1645975596000
06:34 PMList of flights for operation GangaList of flights for operation Ganga for Evacuation of Indians from Ukraine via neighboring countries: Foreign Secre https:t.coktbZH7pOEAmdash ANI ANI 1645966120000
05:55 PMPutin accuses Ukraine of wasting 'opportunity' for talksMeanwhile, President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged foreigners to head to Ukrainian embassies worldwide to sign up for an "international brigade" of volunteers to help fight invading Russian forces.
06:22 PMEU ministers to discuss helping Ukraine with weapons, suppliesEU foreign ministers on Sunday will look at helping Ukraine against the Russian offensive by discussing the funding of "lethal material" and supplies such as fuel, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said. Their emergency meeting, by video link, will also examine additional EU sanctions announced overnight by European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen.
06:10 PMAbout 15,000 Indian citizens left in UkraineOur Embassy in Kyiv and our Ministry had issued a number of advisories prior to the situation developing. 4000 of our nationals had left before the conflict, pursuant to these advisories. We estimated that about 15,000 citizens were left in Ukraine: Foreign Secy Harsh V Shringla
06:17 PMAt least 370,000 flee Ukraine after Russian invasionThe United Nations' refugee agency, UNHCR, says at least 370,000 people have fled the fighting so far and it is planning to deal with up to four million if the situation worsens.
05:24 PMPoland, Romania  Hungary to allow Indian students escaping Ukraine to enter without visasPoland, Romana and Hungary are allowing Indian students who escape from Russian aggression in Ukraine to enter Poland without any visa. On behalf of Poland, their ambassador to India, Adam Burakowski, informed this. ET Bureau
11:37 PMPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds a high-level meeting on the Ukraine issueThe PMs meeting lasted for over 2 hours. PM said the ensuring safety of our students and evacuating them is our top priority. It was discussed to further enhance cooperation with neighbouring countries of Ukraine to expedite evacuation.
12:58 AMWrap Up: All you need to knowUkraine and Russia agree to talks without preconditions, Zelenskiy saysRussia admits 'killed and injured' troops in UkraineDenmark says will let volunteers join foreign brigade in Ukraine: PMRussian military gains in Ukraine will not be recognised: G7Over 7 million people' could be displaced if Ukraine war continues: EUSweden breaks with tradition and delivers arms to Ukraine: PMUN Security Council to hold meeting Monday on Ukraine: diplomatsBP says it is pulling its capital out of Russia's RosneftEU to impose new sanctions on Belarus over Ukraine: von der LeyenEU to finance weapons deliveries to UkrainePutin 'manufacturing threats' with nuclear force alert: White House
07:31 PMPutin escalating in unacceptable manner with nuclear high alert - U.S. ambassador to U.N.President Vladimir Putin's order to put Russia's deterrence forces, which include nuclear arms - on high alert is unacceptable escalation, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said on Sunday.
