RussiaUkraine war Zelenskyy compares Russian invasion of Ukraine to Holocaust presses Israel for missile defence help
20220319
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-19-march-2022/liveblog/90312945.cms
You can mediate between two countries, but not between good and evil: Zelenskyy tells Israeli lawmakers
Zelenskyy tells Israeli members of the Knesset that the Russian invasion is an all-out war aimed at destroying the Ukrainian people and this is why it resembles what the Nazis did to the Jewish people during the Holocaust
"I am ready for negotiations with Putin, but if they fail, it could mean World War III," The Kyiv Independent reported, citing Ukrainian President Zelenskyy
"Listen to the words of the Kremlin. They are using Nazi terminology," Zelenskyy tells Israel.
"I want to remind you of the words of Golda Meir that I think you recognize: 'We want to live, and our neighbors want to see us dead. That doesn't leave us a lot of room for compromise.'": Zelenskyy
"I think without negotiations we cannot end this war," the Ukrainian leader said through a translator. "If these attempts fail, that would mean that this is a third world war," he added.
"I'm ready for negotiations with him," Zelenskyy told CNN, referring to Russia's Vladimir Putin, whose deadly invasion of Ukraine is in its fourth week.
Zelenskyy has repeatedly warned of the potential for the Russia-Ukraine conflict to mushroom into an all-out global war.
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights says at least 902 civilians have been killed  1,459 injured believes actual figures are considerably higher. As per Mariupol authorities, over 2,400 people were killed in the city alone: The Kyiv Independent
Zelenskyy criticizes Israel for "indifference", and not providing Ukraine with the Iron Dome - an air defence system.
Ukraine sees a high risk of an attack on western Ukraine's Volyn region being launched from Belarus, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office said on Sunday, citing the military.
Ukrainian President Zelenskyy is currently addressing the Israeli parliament, the Knesset, and the Israeli people.
It was not immediately clear whether Ukraine saw the threat of an attack on Volyn from Russian forces or the Belarusian military, which has so far not publicly committed troops to supporting Russia.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Israeli members of the Knesset Parliament that the Russian invasion is an all-out war aimed at destroying the Ukrainian people and this is why it resembles what the Nazis did to the Jewish people during the Holocaust. Stay with TOI for all updates:Read Less
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday renewed his plea for talks with his Russian counterpart, taking to US television to say negotiations were the only way to "end this war".
Zelenskyys announcement follows the introduction of the martial law that envisages a ban on parties associated with Russia.
The Russian invasion has mostly focused on northern, southern and eastern areas of Ukraine, though missiles also hit the Yavoriv military base last week, close to the Polish border.
Ukraine's President Zelenskyy tells Israeli parliament that both Ukraine and Israel face threat of destruction
He compared the Russian invasion of Ukraine to the events of the Holocaust while speaking to Israel's Knesset.
