RussiaUkraine war Russia strike hit military command centre in central Ukraine Kyiv says
20220324
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-march-24-2022/liveblog/90409970.cms
Russia on Friday announced that it had completed the first phase of its military operation in Ukraine, adding that now its focus will shift to 'liberating' eastern Ukraine's Donbass region . The defence ministry added that Russian-backed separatists now controlled 93 of Ukraine's Luhansk region and 54 of the Donetsk region - the two areas that jointly make up the Donbass.
Ukraine on Friday said that Russia had hit the military command centre in central Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has said that it will not back down on its demands, and added that talks with Russia are very difficult. This as the Russian defence ministry said on Friday that main targets of first phase of Russia's operation in Ukraine had been completed. Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden is in Poland to meet US soldiers and Ukrainian refugees fleeing Russia's invasion. Stay with TOI for the latest developments:Read Less
Russia expects Western buyers of its natural gas to adapt to Moscow's decision to switch payments for its supplies to Russian roubles, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said on Friday. "Settlements in roubles as now more reliable than in foreign currencies," Siluanov said on state TV, adding that the move will have no impact on oil and gas revenues of the budget. Siluanov also said that Russia has a mechanism that allows it to meet external debt liabilities under any circumstances.
About 3.7 million people have left Ukraine since the conflict began, a UN refugee official said on Friday.
Ukrainian forces still control the besieged port city of Mariupol and no one will surrender it, Ukraine's top security official Oleksiy Danilov said on Friday. "Mariupol is holding on, and no one is going to surrender Mariupol," Danilov said in televised comments.
The European Commission will discuss with all the involved parties options to ease the energy market crunch exacerbated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said on Friday, including a proposal to cap gas prices."The European Commission will discuss with stakeholders, the large oil and electricity companies, distribution companies and others," Draghi told a news conference after a summit of the EU leaders in Brussels.
Just 60 miles from Ukraine, President Joe Biden saluted Poland on Friday for welcoming more than 2 million refugees who have fled Russia's invasion. Then he met with humanitarian experts on the ground about what will be needed to mitigate the growing suffering.
The United States assesses that Russia is prioritizing eastern Ukraine's Donbass, as opposed to Kyiv, in what could be an effort to build leverage in negotiations and cut off Ukrainian forces in the east from the rest of the country, a senior U.S. defense official said on Friday. Russia said earlier on Friday that the first phase of its military operation was mostly complete and it would focus on completely "liberating" Ukraine's breakaway eastern Donbass region.
The Ukrainian Air Force said on Telegram that a missile strike by Russia had hit a command center in Vinnytsia, in central Ukraine, and caused "significant damage to infrastructure"
A senior White House official said on Friday India's position at the United Nations over the crisis in Ukraine has been "unsatisfactory" but was also unsurprising given its historical relationship with Russia. Mira Rapp-Hooper, director for the Indo-Pacific on the White House National Security Council, told an online forum hosted by Washington's School of Advanced International Studies India needed alternatives to continued close ties with Russia. "I think we would certainly all acknowledge and agree that when it comes to votes at the U.N., India's position on the current crisis has been unsatisfactory, to say the least. But it's also been totally unsurprising," she said.
Moscow signaled on Friday it was scaling back its ambitions in Ukraine to focus on territory claimed by Russian-backed separatists as Ukrainian forces went on the offensive, recapturing territory on the outskirts of the capital Kyiv. In the first big sign that Western sanctions on Russia were impacting investment from China, sources told Reuters state-run Sinopec Group, Asia's biggest oil refiner, had suspended talks on a petrochemical investment and a venture to market Russian gas. In the month since they launched their invasion of Ukraine, Russian troops have failed to capture any major city. An assault that Western countries believe was aimed at swiftly toppling President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's government was halted at the gates of Kyiv.
Today, US President Joe Biden  European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced a joint Task Force to reduce Europes dependence on Russian fossil fuels  strengthen European energy security as President Putin wages his war of choice against Ukraine: The White House
Ukraine air force says missiles hit several buildings, causing significant damage to infrastructure, consequences still being assessed.
Local authorities in Mariupol said Friday that last week's Russian airstrike on a theater used as bomb shelter killed "about 300" people, citing eyewitnesses. It wasn't immediately clear whether emergency workers had finished excavating the site or how the eyewitnesses had arrived at the horrific death toll
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Friday he had spoken to Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan about the results of a NATO summit a day earlier and the threat of a food supply crisis after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Earlier, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba had pushed back at Turkish media reports, which cited Erdogan, that there had been progress in talks between Ukraine and Russia.
Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on February 24 in what it called a "special operation" to weaken its southern neighbour's military capabilities and root out people it called dangerous nationalists.
Ukrainian authorities said on Friday Russian forces had effectively surrounded the northern city of Chernihiv and were bombarding areas where residents were stuck without electricity, heating and water. Chernihiv's mayor, Vladyslav Atroshenko, said bombing had destroyed a bridge linking the city to Ukraine's capital to the south, severing the main route for humanitarian aid and the evacuation of wounded people. Russia's defence ministry earlier said its forces had "blocked" Ukrainian cities, including Chernihiv, to tie down the Ukrainian military while Russia focused on taking control of the eastern Donbass region.
