S 4 AIR DEFENCE SYSTEM
20220630
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/topic/s-4-air-defence-system/news
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called on the private sector to invest "as much as possible" in the country's defence sector, saying it will open up global business opportunities as India moves towards becoming one of the biggest defence manufacturing nations.
Speaking at the sidelines of AeroIndia, the Army chief said emergency procurements worth Rs 15,000 cr are currently underway, with 80-odd projects identified for immediate purchase from Indian vendors.
The US and India enjoy a good partnership. We look forward to continuing to develop and foster our relationship with the Indian military, Pentagon Press Secretary Air Force Brig Gen Pat Ryder said.
Air Marshal A P Singh is currently serving as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Central Air Command. He will take charge as the Vice Chief on Wednesday, the officials said.
The Round Table will see participation from officials, delegates and global CEOs from 26 countries including global investors such as Boeing, Lockheed, Israel Aerospace Industries, General Atomics, Liebherr Group, Raytheon Technologies, Safran, and General Authority of Military Industries GAMI. Domestic PSUs like HAL, Bharat Electronics Limited BEL, Bharat Dynamics Limited BDL, BEML Limited, and MishraDhatu Nigam Limited will also participate in the Round Table.
Meanwhile, the company's board has approved the sub-division or split of its equity shares in the ratio of 1:10. It means that each share of the company with a face value of Rs 10 will be divided into 10 equity shares with a face value of Re 1 each.
In my 10 years with Rolls Royce, we have done many initiatives with TCS and Tata Advanced Systems. Currently, almost 300 parts of the Trent XWB engine used in A350 aircraft are being manufactured by Tata Advanced Systems. It is an honourable thing for us to partner with Air India , he said.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spelled out India's ambitions to become a major defence hub as global firms flocked to the mega Aero India 2023 in Bengaluru for a slice of the nation's massive import budget.
The Air Launched Unmanned Aerial Vehicle ALUAV program is taking place under the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative DTTI and a critical factor is that the intellectual property IP rights for the new system will be jointly shared by the two sides.
According to a release from the company, the kit is part of the MRSAM Air Defence Missile jointly developed by Rafael Advanced Defence Systems Ltd and DRDO and manufactured in collaboration with Indian industry comprising both private and public sector players including MSMEs.
Germany is keen to pursue the government-to-government route for jointly manufacturing advanced conventional submarines for an Indian Navy requirement, with the matter likely to be taken up at high-level bilateral meetings later this week during Chancellor Olaf Scholz's visit.
The Russian envoy to India was replying to a question on the missile system supplies at a conference on India-Russia ties. Russia has already completed supplies of the first two regiments of the missile systems. Asked whether he sees any role for India in ending the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, Alipov said Moscow is open to any serious talks on ending it diplomatically.
Aerobatics performed by the metal birds enthralled the onlookers who had gathered in huge numbers on the last day at the Yelahanka Air Force Station in the city. India's indigenously developed Light Combat Aircraft Tejas, light combat helicopters and light utility helicopters developed by the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited were part of the show.
"Karnataka became the first State to host this mega national event for the first time outside Delhi because the first Army Chief Major General K M Cariappa took command of the Indian Army from General Sir Francis Roy Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief in 1949, thus becoming the first Indian Commander-in-Chief post-independence," Parade Commander Major General Ravi Murugan told reporters here.
The France-based plane maker on Thursday reported a record overall 2022 profit of 4.25 billion euros USD 4.55 billion, up from 4.21 billion euros the year before, despite inflation challenges and supply chain disruptions that slowed efforts to ramp up aircraft production.
The Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO is working on developing a precision guidance kit, a seat ejection system for the pilots and pyrotechnic cartridges, DRDO Chairman Samir V Kamat said here on Tuesday. The DRDO is also coming up with an engine for its Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV Tapas.
The proposals include VSHORAD IR Homing missile system, Brahmos Launcher and Fire Control System FCS, the Shivalik class of ships and Next Generation Missile Vessels NGMVs, a Defence Ministry statement said.
India wants to raise its annual defence exports to $5 billion by 202425 from $1.5 billion currently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday while inaugurating the Aero India show. "Aero India is a wonderful platform to showcase the unlimited potential our country has in defence and aerospace sectors," he said.
India is likely to pitch for four 'high-level principles' at the G20 Anti-Corruption Working Group's first meeting this week, focussing on sharing of information on economic offences, strengthening law enforcement and recovery of stolen assets from fugitives, ET has learnt.
