Saturday evening news brief May 7
20220507
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/brief/saturday-evening-news-brief-may-7/liveblog/91401020.cms
They added the ideal face covering was the all-encompassing blue burqa, which became a global symbol of the Taliban's previous hardline regime from 1996 until 2001. In recent months the administration has increased its restrictions on women including rules limiting their travel without a male chaperone and banning men and women from visiting parks at the same time.
The Enforcement Directorate has rebutted alleged claims of 'physical violence threats' on top executives of Chinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi.
Russian forces unleased new bombardments across Ukraine ahead of Victory Day festivities. Ukraine's defence minister said Russian forces had resumed their assault on the site of Azovstal steel plant, despite earlier talk of a truce to allow trapped civilians to flee the complex. Meanwhile, Al Qaeda leader Al-Zawahri said in a video that US weakness was the reason that its ally Ukraine became prey for the Russian invasion. Read full story
The central investigation agency said that all such statements are baseless and untrue. "It is reiterated that ED is a professional agency with strong work ethics and there was no coercion or threat to the officers of the company at any point of time," the ED said in a statement. Read full story
Health ministers of different states have said WHO's Covid death report was 'baseless', and an attempt to tarnish India's image.
They added the ideal face covering was the all-encompassing blue burqa, which became a global symbol of the Taliban's previous hardline regime from 1996 until 2001. In recent months the administration has increased its restrictions on women including rules limiting their travel without a male chaperone and banning men and women from visiting parks at the same time. Read full story
The Union health ministry on Thursday strongly objected to the mathematical models used by WHO for projecting excess mortality estimates linked to the pandemic given the availability of authentic data. It had also said that the validity and robustness of the models used and methodology of data collection were questionable.
The central investigation agency said that all such statements are baseless and untrue. "It is reiterated that ED is a professional agency with strong work ethics and there was no coercion or threat to the officers of the company at any point of time," the ED said in a statement.
The court further instructed the police to arrest him and produce him before court. Meanwhile, in the wake of him expressing fear about his safety, the Delhi Police said it will make necessary security arrangements for him. On Friday, the Punjab police had arrested Bagga from his residence in Delhi's Janakpuri, but the city police here brought him back to the capital from Haryana, saying its Punjab counterpart did not inform it about the arrest. Read full story
The Union health ministry on Thursday strongly objected to the mathematical models used by WHO for projecting excess mortality estimates linked to the pandemic given the availability of authentic data. It had also said that the validity and robustness of the models used and methodology of data collection were questionable. Read full story
Russian forces unleased new bombardments across Ukraine ahead of Victory Day festivities. Ukraine's defence minister said Russian forces had resumed their assault on the site of Azovstal steel plant, despite earlier talk of a truce to allow trapped civilians to flee the complex. Meanwhile, Al Qaeda leader Al-Zawahri said in a video that US weakness was the reason that its ally Ukraine became prey for the Russian invasion.
The court further instructed the police to arrest him and produce him before court. Meanwhile, in the wake of him expressing fear about his safety, the Delhi Police said it will make necessary security arrangements for him. On Friday, the Punjab police had arrested Bagga from his residence in Delhi's Janakpuri, but the city police here brought him back to the capital from Haryana, saying its Punjab counterpart did not inform it about the arrest.
