Stop raping us Woman painted in Ukraine flag colours rips off her gown on Cannes red carpet to protest against Russias invasion
20220521
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/stop-raping-us-woman-painted-in-ukraine-flag-colours-rips-off-her-gown-on-cannes-red-carpet-to-protest-against-russias-invasion/articleshow/91704974.cms
The Ukraine crisis is at the center stage at the Cannes Film Festival 2022. After an emotional video message from the country's president Volodymyr Zelenskyy on the opening ceremony of the film festival, a woman protesting Russia's invasion of Ukraine held a protest at the red carpet on Day 4 at Cannes. An unidentified woman appeared on the red carpet and seconds later, ripped off her gown, revealing the Ukraine flag painted on her bare chest with the words "stop raping us" written on her abdomen while other parts of her body flashed red handprints. The woman yelled "Don't rape us!" as security quickly encircled her and took her off the red carpet.Security officials then quickly wrapped her in a jacket, removing her from the event. Guests looked bemused and the swinging festival music played on. Getty ImagesSecurity remove a protester from the red carpet during the 'Three Thousand Years Of Longing' at the 75th annual Cannes film festival.The incident happened at the red carpet which was laid out for the premiere of film-maker George Miller's 'Three Thousand Years of Longing' on Friday which stars Tilda Swinton and Idris Elba in lead roles.RECOMMENDEDSTORIES FOR YOUDeepika Padukone opts for casual look as she attends Louis Vuitton dinner party, Aditi Rao Hydari makes her Cannes debut on Day 4Cannes diary: IB Minister Anurag Thakur, AR Rahman shower R Madhavan with praise for 'Rocketry' Hina Khan pens emotional note Kamal Haasan suits upHina Khan disheartened that she wasn't invited to opening ceremony of Indian pavilion at Cannes, says elitist system' still existsGetting inside the Cannes' Lumiere theater in the Palais requires one to go through multiple security checks with many guards posted outside of the carpet. There are also stations that require attendees to walk through a metal detector.Follow this link for our complete coverage on Cannes 2022Once an attendee gets through the check point, they meet more guards at the start of the carpet that alert them when once they are allowed to enter the theater. Russia's war in Ukraine has often been in the spotlight at this year's Cannes festival, which is screening several films from Ukrainian filmmakers. The festival barred Russians with ties to the Kremlin from attending. Ukrainian President Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy delivered a surprise address Tuesday to open the festival.From Teary-Eyed Tom Cruise To Mame Khan's Folk Song: Memorable Moments From Cannes 2022Autoplay1 of 17From Teary-Eyed Tom Cruise To Mame Khan's Folk Song: Memorable Moments From Cannes 2022The 75th edition of Cannes Film Festival kick-started on May 17 and will go on till May 28. This year, the prestigious film festival has chosen India as the 'country of honour'. With two days of the festival already in, let's take a look at the best moments from Cannes so far.Tom Cruise Makes A Perfect LandingAfter three decades, Hollywood star Tom Cruise arrived at the Cannes Film Festival for the screening of his film 'Top Gun: Maverick'. With the sky filled in red, white and blue colours, and the air ringing with loud applause and screams of 'Tom', the star made a spectacular entry. At the screening, the star also received an honorary Palme d'Or and a heart-touching 6-minute-long standing ovation.A Graceful DebutFor her first red carpet appearance at the Cannes, Tamannaah Bhatia opted for a bubble hem Gauri and Nainika gown with a trail. The actress looked graceful as she completed her look with dramatic eye make-up and heavy shinny jewellery. The star's red carpet look was styled by Shaleena Nathani.Dazzling In GucciEnglish actress Rebecca Hall, who is on the jury at Cannes this year, debuted her short hair in a pink and orange sequin Gucci dress.Colouring Cannes RedOn her first day at Cannes, Hina Khan rocked a red attire from the label Rami Al Ali by as Syrian fashion designer. The actress made her Cannes red carpet debut in 2019.
