Ukraine President Zelenskyy speaks with PM Modi seeks Indias support at UNSC
20220226
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/ukraine-president-zelenskyy-speaks-with-pm-modi-seeks-indias-support-at-unsc/articleshow/89853197.cms
NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and expressed "deep anguish" about the loss of life and property following Russia's invasion of the country. According to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office, President Zelenskyy briefed PM Modi about the ongoing conflict in the war-hit nation. The Prime Minister, meanwhile, reiterated his call for an immediate cessation of violence and a return to dialogue. He also expressed Indias willingness to contribute in any way towards peace efforts. "Prime Minister Modi also conveyed Indias deep concern for the safety and security of Indian citizens, including students, present in Ukraine," it said.President Zelenskyy also tweeted about his conversation with PM Modi, saying that he has sought India's help at the United Nations Security Council.Spoke with  Prime Minister narendramodi. Informed of the course of  repulsing  aggression. More than 100,000 https:t.cobLVRoiVYtQ   ZelenskyyUa 1645880135000"Spoke with Prime Minister narendramodi. Informed of the course of ???? repulsing ???? aggression. More than 100,000 invaders are on our land. They insidiously fire on residential buildings. Urged ???? to give us political support in???? Security Council. Stop the aggressor together!" he tweeted.Earlier today, India had abstained on a UN Security Council resolution by the US that "deplores in the strongest terms" Russia's "aggression" against Ukraine.While abstaining from voting on the resolution, India issued an 'Explanation of Vote' EoV after the vote in which it called for "return to the path of diplomacy" and sought immediate cessation of "violence and hostilities".The draft resolution demanded Russia to immediately stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all its troops.On Thursday, PM Modi had spoken to President Vladimir Putin and called for an immediate end to violence in Ukraine.
