Ukraine Tensions Nato must not lose sight of the fact that China not Russia remains the main global challenge
20220124
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/talkingturkey/ukraine-tensions-nato-must-not-lose-sight-of-the-fact-that-china-not-russia-remains-the-main-global-challenge/
That said, I dont think Russia will actually invade Ukraine. Such a course of action could be disastrous for Moscow. After all, Ukraine has enough military capacity to inflict considerable costs on Russian troops inside that country. And with Nato support and training, and new shipments of lethal aid for Kiev, invading Russian troops would be stuck in a quagmire. I suspect Moscow already knows this and its manoeuvres are only meant to pin down Nato military assets in the region. As I said before, regime change through pro-Moscow elements in Ukraine may be what Russia is realistically looking at. But an invasion will only unite Ukrainians and diminish Moscows stakeholders inside Ukraine.
But as things stand, China and Russia today have formed an economic and strategic compact. And this alliance presents a formidable challenge to open democracies. However, Russia has been somewhat forced into this tie-up. Under sanctions since 2014 for its seizure of Crimea and increasingly viewed as a disruptor and meddler in other nations affairs, Russias strategic and economic space has been progressively constrained. This has pushed Moscow towards Beijing, and it is this axis that is an issue for the world.
Theres no denying this is a really sticky situation. Russia has substantial military presence in the area and Moscow could precipitate a regime change in Kiev even if it doesnt actually invade Ukraine. It could achieve this by ratcheting up tensions in Donbas, or through psychological and informational warfare. And a pro-Russia puppet regime in Kiev would certainly be a headache for Nato.
In fact, tensions over Ukraine are heating up just as international coordination is gaining momentum to push back against China. If Nato, particularly the US, gets bogged down in a conflict with Russia, it will only provide breathing space to China and ease some of the pressure it has been facing. Actually, I wouldnt be surprised if the Russian military build-up along Ukraine was coordinated at some level with Beijing.
There are no easy answers here but the democratic-liberal camp needs to think strategically. Of course, Nato cant stand by if Russia does mount an invasion. Therefore, arming Ukraine to raise the costs of a Russian invasion is logical. But other measures need to be undertaken to dial down tensions and somewhat pacify Russia. Both Nato and Russia have security concerns about each other. But focussing too much energy on Russia can be counterproductive. This is because the biggest challenge to the democratic-liberal order today is China. In fact, this was recognised by the Nato communique of June 2021 where China was acknowledged as presenting systemic challenges to the rules-based international order.
That, of course, is not acceptable to Ukraine which not only saw Russia seize its Crimea region in 2014 but also back rebels in Donbas sparking off war. Donbas is still under control of Russia-backed separatists. Nato too hasnt ruled out bloc membership for Ukraine and has warned Russia of multiple punitive actions if it launches an invasion. In fact, the US has begun supplying 200,000 pounds of lethal aid to Ukraine in recent days so that it can defend its borders.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
As tensions ramp up between Russia and the West over Ukraine, the democratic-liberal order faces yet another major challenge. According to reports, Russia has amassed around 100,000 troops backed by heavy weaponry on its border with Ukraine. There are differing accounts of what precipitated this situation. Moscow says that the troop build-up is part of its routine winter military exercises. At the same time, it has raised objections about Nato members increasingly supplying Ukraine with offensive weapons and other military support. It has also pointed to Ukraine boosting its troop numbers in possible preparation for taking back the rebel Donbas region. Moscow now wants legal guarantees that Nato wont co-opt Ukraine into the bloc.
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
Taken together, there is a substantial link between what is happening in Ukraine and what is happening in East Asia with China. The China-Russia axis is simply trying to weaken US-led efforts to counteract Beijing. Lets face it, Russia today doesnt have the economic heft to seriously rewrite the global order. China does. It is a revisionist, aggressive Beijing that is the real threat to the liberal-democratic order. It would be best if Nato keeps this in mind. True, Ukraine must be made capable of defending its borders. But that can be done without provoking an actual conflict with Russia or committing too many assets to eastern Europe. The main focus should remain on China.
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
