Ukraine invasion Technology workers leave Russia as sanctions begin to bite
20220321
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/ukraine-invasion-technology-workers-leave-russia-as-sanctions-begin-to-bite/articleshow/90359225.cms
While millions of Ukrainians have fled from Ukraine, Russians have also started moving away from Russia. Many people did not expect a complete invasion of Ukraine. Eugene Konash, a businessman, started getting worried in February as Russia collected troops at the Ukrainian border. Eugene had his workers working remotely in Russia for his gaming studio Dc1ab in London.Several businesses felt the impact of the Western sanctions as Russia waged a full-scale attack on Ukraine. International transfers were banned in one of Eugene's employee banks. Many people amassed outside the banks in Russia to convert their hard-earned money into dollars. It came as a subsequent reaction to the Ruble falling. These people were faced with restrictions on foreign currency access and heft fees by the government. Eugene's investors informed him that his business would become uninvestable if it continued having its presence in Russia. His team in Russia decided that it would be best to leave. There are quality and affordable programmers across Eastern Europe, and Eugene's startup hires them like many other international tech firms. Keeping the sanctions on finances aside, it became impossible to operate an IT company in a country where tech services from foreign countries are under threat or banned. Russia decided to block Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook, and Microsoft and Google have suspended their sales in Russia. Twitter and Facebook are trying to resume services in Russia. Russia does not have robust censorship like China, and people might still find ways to access these platforms. There is a lot of anguish in the difference of opinion in the latest developments amongst the Russian citizens. They have mixed perceptions, and the people that leave the country have to face being away from friends and family. The educated technology workers seek freedom and are unlikely ever to look back. The people who were leaving Russia were somewhat calm as they had already prepared themselves mentally for this step. Disclaimer: This content is authored by an external agency. The views expressed here are that of the respective authors entities and do not represent the views of Economic Times ET. ET does not guarantee, vouch for or endorse any of its contents nor is responsible for them in any manner whatsoever. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that any information and content provided is correct, updated and verified. ET hereby disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, relating to the report and any content therein.
