Ukraine playing western card  vice versa Russian Envoy
20220223
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/ukraine-playing-western-card-vice-versa-russian-envoy/articleshow/89782567.cms
Ukraine was playing the Western card and West was playing Ukrainian card to achieve its geopolitical ambitions in the region compelling Moscow to take steps to safeguard its national interests, Russian CdA to India Roman Babushkin has told ET days after President Vladimir Putin recognised breakaway regions of Ukraine."Ukraine is under complete grip of the Americans and the US is guiding Ukrainian policy. Today it is a well-known fact that the US spent $ five billion for regime change in Kyiv in 2014. Ukraine was playing the Western card and the West was playing Ukrainian card to achieve its geopolitical ambitions in the region. Russia has its own national interests and it acted accordingly," Babushkin told ET in a free-wheeling interview. He further alleged that NATO was supplying massive arms to Ukraine to destabilise Russian interests. The Ukrainian rebel regions which were recognised by Russia were witnessing genocide and attempts were made by Kyiv to undermine Russian culture in these regions, claimed Babushkin."The West was following double standards and Russian legitimate security interests were ignored. Moscow was engaged with the West through dialogue for years but this did not yield result," the acting envoy said when asked the rationale behind Putin's move even as Europe was engaged with Moscow in dialogue. Watch: Ukraines ambassador counters Russian counterpart at UNSC emergency meet"Russian President on record declared war. It's the responsibility of this body to stop this war. I call on everyone to stop the war. Should I play the video of your president calling the war," Ukraine Representative to Russian Representative at UN emergency meeting.However, Babushkin, a seasoned India hand, noted that unlike India which has a balanced position as evident in the UN and through Foreign Minister S Jaishankar's statements, Europe has lost independence in its foreign policy thinking.When asked about the impact of the crisis and sanctions on India-Russia ties the diplomat pointed out that India-Russia ties have stood the test of time. "Neither of the countries pose a threat to the other. Neither country interferes in the internal affairs of the other country. The depth of the partnership has been amplified through the last annual Summit and both sides have several other projects to conclude."
