US is closely monitor the situation says White House on IndiaChina border dispute
20220110
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/usa-news-live-january-10/liveblog/88814109.cms
US and European stock markets fell Monday as investors already fretting over a looming interest rate hike await all-important US inflation numbers later in the week.
Rising Covid-19 infections among US workers have forced meat plants to slow production and the government to replace slaughterhouse inspectors, meat companies and union officials said
China's sanctions against four members of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom are another affront against universal rights, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Monday.
US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman on Monday said that the United States was firm in pushing back on security proposals that are "non-starters" during talks with her Russian counterpart in Geneva, and added Washington won't allow anyone to slam shut NATO's open door policy.
The leader of the Chicago Teachers Union on Monday blamed the city's mayor for a continued standoff over Covid-19 protocols as classes for hundreds of thousands of students were canceled for a fourth day.
A top Russian diplomat pressed the United States on Monday to ease a post-Cold War chill over Ukraine, ratcheting up Moscow's demands that NATO pledge to stop giving membership to former Soviet states and halt weapons shipments to them that have led to what he called a precarious'' standoff.
Senior US diplomat says warned Russia on 'costs' of Ukraine invasion, ready to meet again
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Monday advised against travel to Canada because of a rising number of Covid-19 cases
We continue to closely monitor the situation. We continue to support dialoguepeaceful resolution of these border disputes. We've been pretty clear how we view Beijing's behavior in region  around the world: White House Press Secy Jen Psaki on India-China border dispute
A Wisconsin judge on Monday rejected an attempt by the state's Democratic attorney general to block a subpoena issued by a Republican-hired attorney seeking to interview the state's chief elections administrator and obtain election-related documents and data as part of a GOP-ordered investigation.
The US Supreme Court on Monday turned away an industry group's bid to revive a decision made by the Environmental Protection Agency under former President Donald Trump to allow expanded sales of gasoline that has a higher ethanol blend, called E15
US school closures reached a record high for the academic year last week, but the shutdowns are about to ease as more schools are set to reopen in-person
The man who bought an AR-15-style rifle for Kyle Rittenhouse pleaded no contest Monday to a reduced charge of contributing to the delinquency of a minor in a deal with prosecutors to avoid prison. Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder accepted Dominick Black's plea during a six-minute hearing. Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger dropped two felony counts of intent to deliver a dangerous weapon to a minor as part of the deal.
The Biden administration is expected to release more details on Monday on how Americans with health insurance can get reimbursed for Covid tests, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said
Robert Durst, the wealthy New York real estate heir and failed fugitive who was dogged for decades with suspicion in the disappearance and deaths of those around him before he was convicted of killing his best friend and sentenced to life in prison, has died. He was 78.
US President Joe Biden on Monday welcomed the release of opposition leaders in Ethiopia and promised support for resolving the Tigray war in a call with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, the White House said.
