US President Joe Biden sanctions Russia and its elites cutting off western financing and access to markets
20220222
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/us-president-joe-biden-sanctions-russia-and-its-elites-cutting-off-western-financing-and-access-to-markets/articleshow/89758235.cms
WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Tuesday cut off Moscow from western financing and imposed unspecified sanctions on Russian elites in the first tranche of punitive measures in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Speaking at the White House, Biden said there would be more sanctions if Russia moved further into Ukraine, as he expected it would. "If they move further, we have further sanctions ready," he warned, saying everything Russia was doing pointed to a fuller invasion of Ukraine.Russia-Ukraine crisis live updatesBiden said Russia's actions constituted a flagrant violation of international law and it demanded a firm response from the US and its allies. He also accused Putin of historic revisionism for questioning the very existence of Ukraine. "There is no question Russia is the aggressor," the US President said.Read AlsoUkraine, crude price surge seen as risks to financial stabilityThe Financial Stability Development Council FSDC headed by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday discussed the possible impact of the situation in Ukraine and rising global crude prices, which were seen as a risk to financial stability. Besides this, the council also took stock of theBiden also said he had directed a marginal movement of US troops already in Europe into the three Baltic republic adjoining Russia, while asserting that the US did not want to go to war with Russia but would defend every inch of NATO territory. THe US would also provide defensive equipment to Ukraine, he said.Read AlsoPutin gets green light to deploy troops to eastern Ukraine: Key developmentsNEW DELHI: The Ukraine crisis further deepened with Russian President Vladimir Putin recognising the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic as independent states and getting permission from his lawmakers to use military force outside the country. He acted inDespite the precipitous events of the past 24-48 hours, Biden held out hope for talks with Russia if it is serious. :"There is still time to avert a worst care scenario. We are open to diplomacy if it is serious," he said. On its part, Russia has said the US and its allies have not responded seriously to its security concerns.
