What does resettlement mean for exportersimporters
20220808
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/voices/what-does-re-settlement-mean-for-exporters-importers/
As per experts, these benefits can be availed by the Indian traders primarily dealing with Russia which is Indias second-biggest oil supplier and has signed numerous defence deals with India. Russia is likely to be interested in trading in Rupee since other modes of payment may not be available at present given the sanctions and the restrictions imposed on it post its invasion of Ukraine. The mechanism may also be useful for trade with Iran, Sri Lanka, neighbouring countries sharing common currency, and certain African and South American countries facing forex shortages if they find this mechanism attractive.
The Reserve Bank of India RBI has recently announced a mechanism to settle cross-border international trade in Rupee INR under FEMA Act 1999 wherein all exports and imports under this arrangement may be invoiced and settled in Indian currency INR based on market demand and supply determined exchange rate between currencies of trading partner countries.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
For settlement purposes, the bank of the partner country may approach an AD bank in India for opening of Special Rupee Vostro account. The AD bank will seek approval from RBI with details of the arrangement. Through this mechanism, Indian importers shall make payments in INR against the import invoices from the overseas seller which shall be credited to the Special Rupee Vostro Accounts of the corresponding bank of the partner trading country. On a similar basis, Indian exporters shall be paid the export proceeds in INR from the balances in the Special Rupee Vostro Accounts of the corresponding bank of the partner trading country. The exports and imports to be undertaken and executed under this mechanism shall be subject to usual documentation and reporting requirements like a Letter of Credit LC etc.
This new mechanism is likely to extend multiple advantages to traders across India and partner nations. The Indian exporters may receive advance payments against exports from overseas importers in INR through this settlement mechanism subject to assurance by Indian banks that available funds in these Vostro accounts are first used towards existing export payment obligations or executed export orders. The surplus INR balance may be used for other permissible capital and current account transactions in accordance with a mutual agreement like Payment for projects and investments, ExportImport advance flow management, Investment in Government securities bonds, T-bills, etc. The opportunity to set-off export receivables against import payables with regard to the same overseas buyer and supplier can also be availed through the Rupee payment mechanism following the regulations.
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
From the broader perspective, trade settlement in Rupee may help slow down the rupee depreciation to an extent leading to massive annual savings of hard currency. This will further be beneficial for traders dealing with other nationscurrencies. Since this mechanism does not provide a free exit to countries and clarity on certain points like export incentives as received for trading in freely convertible currencies, time will tell whether its benefits would be reaped in short term or long term. Its success will be accustomed to future conditions and adaptability by countries trading with India.
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
