White Wars
20220306
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/strategic-insights/white-wars/
Coverage of the war in western media is wide angle and extensive. Every single Ukrainian casualty is shown and discussed at length. That was not the case in the Nato assault on Afghanistan or the US invasion of Iraq. There American media never showed a wide angle lens of what was going on. Civilian Afghani or Iraqi casualties were neither shown nor discussed.
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
It would be instructive to note the attitude of western people to these wars. The Afghanistan campaign was in response to 911, so there was very little opposition to it in the West. Just before the Iraqi war started, there were large-scale protests in the West, but they quickly died down once the war got underway.
Imran Khan of Pakistan calls Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi all sorts of things, but the latter chooses to never respond. Saddam Hussein so got under George W. Bushs skin that the latter devastated an entire country. Now, Vladimir Putin has apparently been so miffed at Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that he has thought fit to destroy his country. Perhaps the eastern civilization is superior to the western one after all.
White wars devastated the twentieth century. But so have they the beginning of the twenty first century. White civilizations act as masters of the universe, as symbols of human civilization and modernity. But white people always seem to be at war.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Now consider Syria. There a white country like Russia is supporting the tyrannical regime of Bashar al-Assad. The US too has got involved in that war, but by proxy, supporting Sunni elements like the Al Nusra front. And now we have the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Consider the war that Nato waged in Afghanistan. It had two main aims. The capture or killing of Bin Laden was one. To remove the Taliban from power was another. The second aim Nato effected easily and quickly. Bin Laden escaped in the early days of the war to Pakistan.
Nato could have easily brought its campaign against Afghanistan to a halt at this point. They could have caught Bin Laden the same way US Navy Seals did ten years later. Still the slugfest in Afghanistan continued, until the US had to make one of the most shameful exits in military history from there.
Now turn to the Russian assault on Ukraine. It is a strange situation really. The Russians and the Ukrainians are both white Slavic people. They are cousins actually, just like the Indians and Pakistanis are. For historical reasons, the Russians and the Ukrainians dont like each other, just like the Indians and the Pakistanis do not. But Indians and Pakistanis have mostly kept quiet for over half a century.
What is it about white people who act as the fountainheads of knowledge, civilization, art and culture, but who perennially seem to find themselves at war? Nuclear deterrence keeps India and Pakistan as well as China and India at bay from one another. But in the Russian-Ukrainian war, nuclear weapons are being freely brandished.
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
The white world must examine why it finds itself constantly at war.Unlike the Iraq and Afghan wars, the Ukraine-Russia war is a white on white war.Nato is crying hoarse, but it has no intention of interceding in a war between Slavic people.
But George W. Bush had a personal bugbear against Saddam, and launched a shock and awe campaign against him, which was approved by the US Congress. The shock and awe campaign devastated Iraq, leading to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Iraqi civilians and millions more getting displaced. Neither have Afghanistan nor Iraq recovered so far from the brutality that Nato and the US in particular inflicted upon them.
Bill Clinton visited India in 2000, where in an official dinner hosted for him by the Indian President KR Narayanan, he called South Asia the most dangerous place on earth. Narayanan publicly objected to Clintons assessment. The Atal Behari Vajpayee government didnt take kindly to Narayanans objection.
The White Anglo-Saxon Protestant WASP nations, principally the US, the UK, and Germany and the Catholic Latin nations, principally France and Spain have traditionally looked down upon white Slavic people as inferior. The Russian-Ukrainian war is a Slav on Slav war. Note that Nato, which is principally WASP and Catholic Latin is just barely looking on at the war.
Vladimir Putin has pledged to take Nato to the nuclear sword if the need arises. In response, Frances foreign minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, has reminded Putin that Nato too has nuclear weapons. Ukraine is not a Nato member, at least as yet. So Putin has got away with attacking it, for an attack on one Nato member means that all Nato members have to defend it.
But the spectre of a third world war, with nuclear dimensions, looms. Ukraine has asked Nato to close its air space. But the British do not want to do that. They say that their fighter planes will come in conflict with Russian fighter planes, which would result in a war between Britain and Nato and Russia.
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
The Taliban and Saddam Hussein, in each case, were demonized. Note that Saddam Hussein had posed no threat to the US. He did not have any weapons of mass destruction, as Ahmed ElBaradei, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, had certified. Before the war, Saddam was willing to give the US all sorts of oil concessions and even hold elections in Iraq, as the New York Times reported.
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
Third world countries like India and Pakistan have a lot to achieve when it comes to achieving living standards, but they behave more responsibly when it comes to war than the white world. Pulwama led to Balakot, which led to Rajouri and there the matter ended. There was no further escalation.
