Why Modis supporting Putin
20220305
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/strategic-insights/why-modis-supporting-putin/
The whole world is surprised by Indias actions in apparently supporting Russias invasion of Ukraine. But there are reasonsrooted in distant as well as near historywhy Modi is behaving so.
Modis contention has been that talks between Ukraine and Russia were given up. He has repeatedly urged Putin to the table, and Putin seems to have complied. But what does Modi mean by saying that talks were given up? Well, firstly Zelenskyy has been sticking it to Putin ever since he became Ukrainian president. He was in advanced stages of joining Nato.
But in eight years in office as PM, Modi has not proved to be an autocrat. He has proved himself to be a strong leader. Sure, he panders to his base, but which democratic leader in the world doesnt? The thing with Modi is that he has the ability to get along with starkly different personalities like Putin, Biden, Trump, Angela Merkel, Boris Johnson, Obama, et al. He doesnt seem to judge them, hence his success with all of them.
It could be argued that it is none of Putins business whether Zelenskyy joins Nato or the European Union or the West in general. But then it could also be argued that Putin reserves the right to respond. Certainly the US would act if it found belligerents to it controlling Mexico or Canada.
Fasten your seatbelt, India: Air Indias huge order has multiple implications, for the airline, for civil aviation, for policy and for manufacturing. Heres a deep dive
Rain, come again: Cereals get pricier. Buffer stocks are low. Some monsoon forecasts arent good. GoI should get ready
Now what is the way out for Modi? The US is threatening sanctions over Indias purchase of the S-400 system from Russia, but if the US sanctions India, India will not buy weaponry such as drones from the US. The military-industrial complex in the US will not tolerate this, so it seems that even with Indias recent support of Russia, its arms purchases from the latter will go through unscathed.
Firstly, there are about 20,000 Indians in Ukraine, most of them students. Reports are coming of them being beaten and harassed by Ukrainians and being forced off evacuee trains by them. Chinese people too are bearing the brunt of the ire of Ukrainians. The mistreatment of the Indians and the Chinese one can perhaps ascribe to their governments pro stance vis--vis Russia.
Let the Brits keep the damn bauble: Indians should be thoroughly unimpressed with Camillas crown minus Kohinoor
Each and every time they have been rebuffed and have come up empty-handed. Each PM has realized that the Russians are a much safer bet for India. Our relationship with them goes back 70 years and the Russians have never let us down.
That is just not the case. The Quad lies in tatters. Joe Biden murdered it by supplying nuclear subs to his white anglo-saxon protestant friend, Australia, but not to brown, mostly-Hindu India. Modi realized that the Americans simply cannot be trusted. For the last thirty years, Indian PMs, including Modi, have made a lunge towards a strategic partnership with the US.
Zelenskyy perhaps underestimated Putins resolve in being encircled by Nato, in what Putin has described as an existential threat for his country. Somewhere Modi seems to blame the giving up on talks on Zelenskyy. This could be true, for Zelenskyy has always been a kind of agent provocateur. It seems that he went a bit too far this time in provoking Putin.
Perhaps the biggest, and the most guarded, reason for Indias support of Russia is that about 70 percent of Indias arms come from Russia. Russia makes some of the best weaponry in the world at a cost-effective price. India tried to forge a military alliance with the US called the Quad. People like Indian Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar will argue that all is well with the Quad.
Maharajah of deals: How AI plane orders can increase Indias strategic leverage and manufacturing prowess
Wrong answer, govts: Repeated exam paper leaks should tell authorities that technology not punishment is the cure
Americas wild balloon chase: Is expending $4,00,000 missiles on $400 or $4,000 Chinese pop-ups the best use of Americas resources? Its vigilance has failed to check a far more insidious Chinese incursion
Was Adani stock rise really a con? GoIs ex-CEA  IMFs Executive Director, India, argues a plausible explanation for the high market valuation was a combination of public capital spending and irrational exuberance
Modi, like many others, perhaps calculated that Russia would take over Ukraine in a jiffy. Putin has reportedly urged Modi to ask Indians to plant the Indian flag near them, so then the Russian troops would give them safe passage. It has come to notice that a bunch of Pakistanis donned the Indian flag on their cars and evacuated themselves to safety this way. It is not the first time in the world though that Pakistanis have donned an Indian identity to get themselves out of trouble.
Whichever way the cookies crumbledwhether Indian support of Ukraine would have led to better treatment of Indians or a faster Russian stranglehold would have done the sameit is all debatable in hindsight. The prime minister has publicly grieved over the killing of the Indian student in Ukraine, Naveen SG. Modis detractors would ascribe his behavior to show-shaa baazi, but it is also a wonder how the PM can reach down into the minutiae of lives of so many Indians.
So why then would Modi jeopardize his friendship with a stable Putin than one with a fickle Biden? The above are all the reasons why Modi has taken Putins side on Ukraine. Every country has to protect its interests and Modi is only protecting Indias.
If Modi had supported Ukraine, would Ukrainians have treated Indians better? Perhaps, but Indians could still have been at the receiving end of the Ukrainians stick. When a large portion of the population is planning to flee, foreigners, perhaps inevitably, can find themselves trampled in the crush.
Africans too are facing trouble in Ukraine. This can only be ascribed to the color prejudice of the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians by many accounts are fighting a handsome battle against the Russians, but this is no way to treat foreigners living in their country. Perhaps their hyperactive president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, should issue an appeal to his compatriots to stop bashing foreigners. He hasnt done so far as yet, thereby giving Ukraine a bad name.
More Minnus, Droupadis: Every tribal success story is a reminder how much govts need to do for genuine Adivasi empowerment
Union of 100 states: Why India must have many small states. It will make for better economy and better politics
Other than Xi Jinping of China, Modi has the most influence over Putin. Perhaps even more so, because India is a democratic country. Thats why western newspapers like the New York Times and the Washington Post, and the Indian journalists embedded therein, leave no stone unturned to prove that Modi is an autocratic leader. They hark back to his time in Gujarat.
