India watches Ukraine crisis closely calls for peaceful resolution MEA
20220128
https://www.business-standard.com/article/current-affairs/india-watches-ukraine-crisis-closely-calls-for-peaceful-resolution-mea-122012801560_1.html
"India and US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership, India has a special and privileged partnership with Russia. We pursue an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies which are guided by our national interest," he said.Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
Russia has demanded that there should be no presence of NATO forces in Ukraine and other former territories of the erstwhile Soviet Union. Moscow, which shares friendly and very close ties with India, has denied that it is planning a war on Ukraine. However, US and NATO allies believe that Russia is preparing for an assault.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
"We call for a peaceful resolution of the situation through sustained diplomatic efforts for long term peace and stability in the region and beyond," he said.
"India and US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership, India has a special and privileged partnership with Russia. We pursue an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies which are guided by our national interest," he said.
"We have been closely following the developments relating to Ukraine including ongoing high-level discussions between Russia and the US. Our Embassy in Kyiv is also monitoring local developments," Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Aridnam Bagchi said at the regular media briefing.
As the Russian troop build-up around the borders of Ukraine continues and tension in the region and beyond peaks, India has said it is following the developments closely and called for peaceful resolution of the situation.
Bagchi said there should be a peaceful resolution to the situation through sustained diplomatic efforts.
The US has said there will be no change in its policy vis-a-vis the NATO alliance and is standing by Ukraine. Experts have said that the current crisis reminds them of the cold war era.
Asked whether amid escalating tensions India fears that the US may impose CAATSA Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act as India is procuring the S-400 missile system from Russia, the spokesperson referred to India's partnership with both countries.
