Japan will double financial aid for Ukraine to 600 million PM Kishida
20220519
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/japan-will-double-financial-aid-for-ukraine-to-600-million-pm-kishida-122051900737_1.html
KYIV, Ukraine A regional governor in Ukraine says four civilians have been killed by the latest Russian shelling.
Haidai said the Russian shelling continued early Thursday. Sievierodonetsk is in the epicenter of the fighting in the east where the Russian forces have been trying to press their offensive amid staunch Ukrainian resistance.
Japan has quickly joined the United States and other Group of Seven countries and Europe in their sanctions against Moscow over its war in Ukraine, due to fear that Russia's move may embolden China in the region.
Kursk Gov. Roman Starovoit said the Ukrainian shelling early Thursday hit a driver who drove his truck to a distillery in the village of Tetkino.
Japan will provide the additional USD 300 million through the World Bank to help Ukraine's financial difficulties because of the Russian invasion, Kishida said.
The announcement comes just before Japan hosts U.S. President Joe Biden and two other leaders for a regional strategic framework known as the Quad summit and bilateral meetings next week when Kishida is expected to emphasize Japanese support for Ukraine.
Russian authorities have repeatedly reported damage and casualties from the Ukrainian shelling of areas on the border.
Separatist authorities in the Donetsk region bordering Luhansk in eastern Ukraine said two civilians were killed and another five were wounded in the Ukrainian shelling over the last 24 hours.
KYIV, Ukraine The military administration for the region that includes Melitopol reported more actions of resistance on Wednesday against the Russian troops who have occupied the southern city since early in the war.
The veteran foreign service officer, who has spent most of her career in the shadow of the former Soviet Union, was nominated to the position last month by President Joe Biden.
It said a grenade exploded near a Russian command post, followed by an exchange of fire. No casualties were reported.
MOSCOW A provincial governor in western Russia says a civilian has been killed by cross-border shelling from Ukraine.
It said the Russian military does not maintain the tracks while overloading the trains, and as a result of the negligence and with help from resistance fighters, the armoured train derailed.
The new pledge, combined with the USD 300 million Japan promised last month, brings Tokyo's total contribution to USD 600 million.
WASHINGTON The Senate confirmed Bridget Brink late Wednesday as U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, filling the post as officials plan to return American diplomats to Kyiv during the nation's continuing battle against the Russian invasion.
American diplomats evacuated Kyiv when the war began three months ago, but Brink told senators during her confirmation hearing earlier this month that she would work to reopen the embassy.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Thursday his country will double its financial aid for Ukraine to USD 600 million in support of the country badly damaged by Russia's aggression.
Also on Wednesday, a Russian armored train carrying troops and ammunition overturned in Melitopol, causing the ammunition to detonate, the regional administration said on Telegram.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said they died Wednesday when Russian troops bombarded the town of Sievierodonetsk. He said another three residents were wounded.
On Tuesday, the regional administration said Ukrainian resistance fighters killed several high-ranking Russian officers in the occupied city. The report could not be independently confirmed.
