Oil extends gains on RussiaEurope tension China stimulus hopes
20220427
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/oil-extends-gains-on-russia-europe-tension-china-stimulus-hopes-122042700130_1.html
In supply, U.S. government data on crude inventories is due later on Wednesday. Industry data on Tuesday showed U.S. crude and distillate stocks rose last week while gasoline inventories fell. APIS EIAS
"Oil is supported via the escalation of geopolitical tensions," Stephen Innes of SPI Asset Management said in a note.
The news sent NYMEX ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures up more than 9 on Tuesday to settle at $4.47 a gallon, a record close.
The International Monetary Fund IMF warned on Tuesday that Asia faces a "stagflationary" outlook with the Ukraine war, spike in commodity costs and a slowdown in China creating significant uncertainty.
Despite extended lockdowns in Asia's biggest aviation market, China's domestic flight demand has rebounded, pushing global airline capacity to its highest level in 2022 this week, travel data firm OAG said on Tuesday.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
Brent crude futures rose $1.27, or 1.2, to $106.26 a barrel by 0143 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures rose $1.11, or 1.1, to $102.81 a barrel.
"Cutting gas flows is not new news, but it's the timing of Russia plugging the gas flows when stagflationary fears are running rampant again."
Oil prices extended gains in early Asian trade on Wednesday as geopolitical tensions simmered with Russia warning of gas supply cuts to Poland and Bulgaria while hopes of Chinese economic stimulus buoyed oil demand outlook.
Crude prices settled about 3 higher on Tuesday in volatile trade as the market is torn between supply and demand concerns over Russian oil and gas disruption and a worsening global economic outlook.
China's central bank said on Tuesday it will step up prudent monetary policy support to its economy as Beijing races to stamp out a nascent COVID-19 outbreak in the capital and avert the same debilitating city-wide lockdown that has shrouded Shanghai for a month. Any stimulus would boost oil demand.
Russia's Gazprom has told Poland and Bulgaria it will halt gas supplies from Wednesday, in a major escalation of Russia's broader row with the West over its invasion of Ukraine, which Moscow calls a "military operation".
