Russia does not hinder export of Ukrainian grain says Vladimir Putin
20220604
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/russia-does-not-hinder-export-of-ukrainian-grain-says-vladimir-putin-122060400845_1.html
"It was not us who mined the approach to the port. Ukraine mined it. I have already told all our colleagues many times: let them clear mines, and please let ships with grain leave the ports. We guarantee a peaceful passage without any problems. But no problems, please. They must clear mines and take ships from the floor of the Black Sea there, which were sunk in order to make it difficult to approach these ports in southern Ukraine," he said.Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
"We didn't mine the approaches to the ports. It was Ukraine who mined it," the president stressed.
"No conditions. Please, we will ensure peaceful passage, guarantee the safety of approaches to these ports, ensure the entry of foreign ships and their movement in the Azov and Black Seas in any direction," he said.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
"It was not us who mined the approach to the port. Ukraine mined it. I have already told all our colleagues many times: let them clear mines, and please let ships with grain leave the ports. We guarantee a peaceful passage without any problems. But no problems, please. They must clear mines and take ships from the floor of the Black Sea there, which were sunk in order to make it difficult to approach these ports in southern Ukraine," he said.
"As for the export of Ukrainian grain. We do not interfere with this. And there are several ways to export grain," Putin said in an interview with the Rossiya 24 broadcaster.
"We will not take advantage of the demining situation in order to launch, so to speak, attacks from the sea. I have already said this," Putin said.
Russia is ready to ensure the peaceful transportation of grain and the safe entry of ships to the Azov and Black Seas, he said.
If Ukraine clears the ports of mines, ships with grain will be able to leave without any problems, Putin said.
The first way, according to him, is that "you can export through the ports that are under the control of Ukraine, first of all in the Black Sea basin -- Odessa and nearby ports."
Russia will not launch any attacks from the sea while Ukraine is demining ports, Putin said.
