Russia attacks Ukraine after months of tensions What should we know
20220224
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/russia-attacks-ukraine-after-months-of-tensions-what-should-we-know-122022401118_1.html
The two governments announced an agreement Feb. 8 for China to import Russian wheat and barley after Putin became the highest-profile foreign guest to attend the Beijing Winter Olympics.
The economic woes include restaurants that dare not keep more than a few days of food on hand, stalled plans for a hydrogen production plant that could help wean Europe off Russian gas and uncertain conditions for shipping in the Black Sea, where container ships must carefully edge their way around Russian military vessels.
Here are the things to know about the conflict over Ukraine and the security crisis in Eastern Europe:
Ukraine's border guard agency said the Russian military has attacked from neighbouring Belarus, unleashing a barrage of artillery.
The agency said Ukrainian border guards fired back, adding that there was no immediate report of casualties. Russian troops have been in Belarus for military drills.
Brent crude oil jumped to over $100 per barrel Thursday on unease about possible disruption of Russian supplies.
Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering, Biden said in a statement.
You paid with your blood for these eight years of torment and anticipation, anchor Olga Skabeyeva said during a popular political talk show Tuesday morning.
It was Ukraine, not Russia, where the economy was eroding the fastest under the threat of war.
Residents of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, could be heard shouting in the streets when the first explosions sounded. But some kind of normalcy quickly returned, with cars circulating in the streets in the early morning commute.
Ukraine's foreign ministry said Russia's intent was to destroy the state of Ukraine, a Westward-looking democracy intent on moving out of Moscow's orbit.
China's customs agency on Thursday approved imports of wheat from all regions of Russia, a move that could help to reduce the impact of possible Western sanctions.
Soon after his address, explosions were heard in the cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odesa. Russia said it was attacking military targets.
A major nuclear power has attacked a neighbour country and is threatening reprisals of any other states that may come to the rescue, Borrell said.
Now they have confidence in the future and that the years-long war will finally come to an end, she said. Whether ordinary Russians were buying it is another question.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued a video statement declaring martial law. He told Ukrainians that the United States was gathering international support to respond to Russia. He urged residents to remain calm and stay at home.
In the buildup to the attack, Russian state media portrayed Moscow as coming to the rescue of war-torn areas of eastern Ukraine where residents were tormented by Ukraine's aggression.
The websites of Ukraine's defense, foreign and interior ministries were unreachable or painfully slow to load Thursday morning after a punishing wave of distributed-denial-of-service attacks as Russia struck at its neighbour.
Biden waived sanctions last year when the project was almost completed, in return for an agreement from Germany to take action against Russia if it used gas as a weapon or attacked Ukraine.
The squeezing of Ukraine's economy is a key destabilizing tactic in what the government describes as hybrid warfare intended to eat away at the country from within.
China's populous market is a growth area for other farm goods suppliers, but Beijing had barred imports until now from Russia's main wheat-growing areas due to concern about possible fungus and other contamination.
Russia is one of the biggest wheat producers but its exports would be vulnerable if its foreign markets block shipments in response to its attack on Ukraine.
In a televised address as the attack began, Russian President Vladimir Putin warned other countries that any attempt to interfere would lead to consequences you have never seen in history.
Meanwhile, the European Union planned the strongest, the harshest package ever, to be considered at a summit on Thursday, according to EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell.
Biden on Wednesday allowed sanctions to move forward against the company that built the Russia-to-Germany Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and against the company's CEO.
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said: This Russian invasion stands to put at risk the basic principle of international order that forbids one-sided action of force in an attempt to change the status quo."
Ukraine's forces are no match for Moscow's military might, so Kyiv is counting on other countries to hit Russia hard with sanctions.
The Biden administration had made clear it was holding tough financial penalties in reserve in case of just such a Russian invasion.
Thursday's announcement said Russia would take all measures to prevent contamination by wheat smut fungus and would suspend exports to China if it was found.
At an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council called by Ukraine that opened just before Putin's announcement, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told Putin: Stop your troops from attacking Ukraine. Give peace a chance. Too many people have already died.
This is not only the greatest violation of international law, it's a violation of the basic principles of human co-existence. It's costing many lives with unknown consequences ahead of us. The European Union will respond in the strongest possible terms.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg condemned Russia's action as a violation of international law and a threat to European security.
Putin accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russia's demands to block Ukraine from ever joining NATO and offer Moscow security guarantees.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Western allies will not stand by as Russia attacks Ukraine, and told Zelenskyy in an early morning call that he was appalled by events.
The US hasn't specified just what measures it will take now, although administration officials have made clear that all-out sanctions against Russia's major banks are among the likely options. So are export limits that would deny Russia US high tech for its industries and military.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
The ruble sank 7.5 to more than $87 to the US dollar. Earlier, Wall Street's benchmark SP 500 index fell 1.8 to an eight-month low after the Kremlin said rebels in eastern Ukraine asked for military assistance.
Guterres later pleaded with Putin, In the name of humanity, bring your troops back to Russia.
Another tough measure under consideration would effectively shut Russia out of much of the global financial system.
In addition to DDoS attacks on Wednesday, cybersecurity researchers said unidentified attackers had infected hundreds of computers with destructive malware, some in neighbouring Latvia and Lithuania.
Ukrainians started fleeing some cities, and the Russian military claimed to have incapacitated all of Ukraine's air defenses and air bases within hours.
One by one, embassies and international offices in Kyiv closed. Flight after flight was cancelled when insurance companies balked at covering planes arriving in Ukraine. Hundreds of millions of dollars in investment dried up within weeks.
World stock markets have plunged and oil prices surged by nearly $6 per barrel after Putin launched Russian military action in Ukraine.
World leaders decried the start of an invasion that could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraine's democratically elected government and threaten the post-Cold War balance on the continent.
Russian troops launched a broad assault on Ukraine from three sides on Thursday, an attack that began with explosions before dawn in the capital Kyiv and other cities.
Ukraine's leadership said at least 40 people had been killed so far in what it called a full-scale war targeting the country from the east, north and south.
Channel One struck a more festive tone, with its correspondent in Donetsk asserting that local residents say it is the best news over the past years of war.
Putin said the military operation was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine a claim the US had predicted he would falsely make to justify an invasion.
