UK boosts military support to Ukraine with hightech missile system
20220606
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/uk-boosts-military-support-to-ukraine-with-high-tech-missile-system-122060600613_1.html
Before Sunday's early morning attack, Kyiv hadn't faced any such Russian airstrikes since the April 28 visit of U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres.
The British government described the M270 weapon system as a cutting edge military asset which can strike targets up to 80 kilometers 50 miles away with pinpoint accuracy. The United Kingdom pledged last week to send the weapons. It gave no details about delivery dates.
Russian warplanes fired long-range missiles to destroy a plant on the edge of the town of Lozova in the northeastern Kharkiv region that was repairing armored vehicles, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said.
If the international community continues its support, I believe Ukraine can win its war against Russia, British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said in a statement.
Western military intelligence reports say Ukrainian counterattacks in Sieverodonetsk are probably halting the operational momentum Russian forces previously gained by concentrating their combat units and firepower in the area.
On Monday, Serbia confirmed that a planned visit by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to the Balkan country won't take place after reports that Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Montenegro refused to allow his plane to fly over its airspace to reach Serbia.
They are unlikely to have an immediate impact, however. The Pentagon said last week that it will take at least three weeks to get the U.S. weapons onto the battlefield. Russia-backed separatists have fought the Ukrainian government since 2014 in the Donbas.
Washington and London hope the deliveries will help Ukraine turn the tide of the war in its eastern Donbas region which Russia appears minded to capture entirely.
Asked about his feelings regarding the war being waged on the European continent, Shay told The Associated Press it is a very sad situation.
Ukraine's struggle on the 103rd day of war was heartfelt for veterans of D-Day who gathered in northern France on Monday.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Monday that fierce fighting was continuing in the city of Sievierodonetsk, which is at the epicenter of the Russian offensive.
Russian aircraft hit 73 areas of concentration of Ukrainian troops and equipment, while the Russian artillery struck 431 military targets, Konashenkov said. His claims couldn't be independently verified.
Ukraine's General Staff said Russian forces fired five X-22 cruise missiles from the Caspian Sea toward Kyiv, and one was destroyed by air defenses. Four other missiles hit infrastructure facilities, but Ukraine said there were no casualties.
West of those cities, in the towns of Sloviansk and Bakhmut, cars and military vehicles have been speeding into town from the direction of the front line. Dozens of military doctors and paramedic ambulances worked Sunday to evacuate civilians and Ukrainian servicemen, many of whom had been hurt by artillery shelling.
Russia's own use of missiles in Ukraine, meanwhile, continued to pummel targets, with the Russian military claiming Monday it had struck a Ukrainian factory that was repairing armor.
The British government said Monday that the multiple-launch rocket systems it is offering to Ukraine will bring a significant boost in capability for the country's efforts to resist Russia's invasion.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday visited command posts and the frontline positions of Ukrainian troops in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which make up the Donbas.
The statement came after comments Sunday by Russian President Vladimir Putin, who warned the West against sending longer-range rocket systems to Ukraine.
On Monday, Serbia confirmed that a planned visit by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to the Balkan country won't take place after reports that Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Montenegro refused to allow his plane to fly over its airspace to reach Serbia.Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
A Ukrainian regional governor said Monday that the situation in a key eastern town has worsened for defending troops.
American D-Day veteran Charles Shay, 97, was at Omaha Beach in Normandy morning to mark the 78th anniversary of June 6, 1944 landings and pay tribute to those who fell that day.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
The U.S. last week announced plans to deliver USD 700 million of security assistance for Ukraine, including four precision-guided, medium-range rocket systems, as well as helicopters, Javelin anti-tank systems, radars, tactical vehicles and more.
Putin vowed to strike deeper into the heart of Ukraine if the West sends Kyiv longer-range missile systems. In a show of force, Russian missiles struck Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, on Sunday.
In 1944 I landed on these beaches and we thought we'd bring peace to the world. But it's not possible, he added with regret.
He described the combat situation as quite dynamic, adding that the Ukrainian forces had lost some of the gains they made over the weekend but are holding their positions in the city's industrial zone.
The U.S. has stopped short of offering Ukraine longer-range weapons that could fire deep into Russia and could inflame tensions with Moscow.
