US intel predicted Russias invasion plans for Ukraine war Did it matter
20220225
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/us-intel-predicted-russia-s-invasion-plans-for-ukraine-war-did-it-matter-122022500228_1.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday recognized Ukraine's breakaway regions - Donetsk and Luhansk - as independent entities. Later, Putin ordered special military operations "to protect" the people in the Donbas region.
Shringla said it is an evolving situation both on the ground and in the United Nations.
He also warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to "consequences".
"There is a possibility of UNSC resolution that would be tabled on the evolving situation. We have seen a draft resolution. I am told that would undergo considerable changes. We will wait to see the shape that this resolution takes before we can pronounce ourselves in the position that we will take on this issue," Shringla said in a media briefing in response to a media query.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
Amid Russia's ongoing military operation in Ukraine, a United Nations Security Council UNSC vote on a resolution has been listed on a UN schedule for Friday.
Leaders from a number of countries including the UK, the US, Canada, and the European Union have condemned Russia's military operations in the Donbas region.
Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Thursday said India will wait to see the final shape of the Security Council resolution on the Ukraine situation before taking a position.
Leaders from a number of countries including the UK, the US, Canada, and the European Union have condemned Russia's military operations in the Donbas region.Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
Earlier, reports had emerged that the US is preparing a resolution against Moscow at the UN following the Russian military action in Ukraine.
However, the proposal could be vetoed by Moscow, CNN reported. The meeting is scheduled for 3 pm eastern time under the Russian presidency.
