Zelenskyy slams NATOs decision not to implement nofly zone over Ukraine
20220305
https://www.business-standard.com/article/international/zelenskyy-slams-nato-s-decision-not-to-implement-no-fly-zone-over-ukraine-122030500136_1.html
He said that NATO countries have created a narrative that closing the skies over Ukraine would provoke Russia's direct aggression against NATO. "This is the self-hypnosis of those who are weak, insecure inside, despite the fact they possess weapons many times stronger than we have," the Ukrainian President was quoted as saying by CNN.
Stoltenberg made clear that NATO would not impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine saying, allies have agreed NATO should not have planes operating over Ukraine.
Earlier in a video message, Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba had called for NATO to act before it's too late.
Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
This reaction comes after NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on Friday outrightly rejected to police a no-fly zone over Ukraine, and warned that such a move could provoke widespread war in Europe with Russia.
"If you don't help us, I am afraid you NATO will have to share responsibility for the lives and suffering of the Ukrainian civilians who die because of ruthless Russian pilots dropping bombs on them," said Kuleba.Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
Zelenskyy accused the members of the military alliance of giving Russia "the green light to start shelling Ukrainian cities and villages."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has slammed NATO's decision not to implement a no-fly zone over Ukraine amid the ongoing conflict with Russia.
The remarks came during the extraordinary meeting of the NATO Foreign Ministers in Brussels on Friday.
"A NATO summit took place today. It was a weak summit, a confused summit, a summit that shows that not everyone considers the fight for freedom in Europe the number one goal," Zelenskyy said in a video message, as quoted by Russia's Sputnik.
"If you don't help us, I am afraid you NATO will have to share responsibility for the lives and suffering of the Ukrainian civilians who die because of ruthless Russian pilots dropping bombs on them," said Kuleba.
