Pakistan open to buying Russian oil if no threat of US sanctions Minister
20220601
https://asianews.network/pakistan-open-to-buying-russian-oil-if-no-threat-of-us-sanctions-minister/
A senior official toldDawnthat except two large corporations  Pakistan State Oil and Pak-Arab Refinery Limited  all OMCs and refineries were struggling to arrange the import of petroleum products and crude.
Indias oil imports from Russia have been rising since February, as Asias third-largest economy and the worlds third-biggest oil importer, turned to deeply discounted Russian oil, mostly Urals crude, to cut its imports bill.
The previous government talked about buying oil from Russia but I think Russia is under sanctions and they havent responded to the letter written by the previous government, he told theCNNanchor.
The country received more than 24m barrels of Russian crude this month, up from 7.2m barrels in April and about 3m in March, and is set to receive about 28m barrels in June, according to Refinitiv Eikon oil flows.
Meanwhile, India has received34 million barrelsof discounted Russian oil since Moscow invaded Ukraine on Feb 24, according to Refinitiv Eikon data, more than trebling the value of total imports from Russia, including other products, compared with the same period of 2021.
A day after the EU imposed a 90 ban on Russian oil, Pakistans Finance Minister MiftahIsmail tells me if Russia were to offer Pakistan oil at a cheaper rate without incurring sanctions, he would consider it. pic.twitter.comzlVY3qKdEs
Pakistans oil industry isfacing challengesin arranging international finances for the import of crude and oil products.
Informed sources toldDawnthat the Petroleum Division had told the prime minister and finance minister that arrangements for oil imports were getting tough by the day as foreign banks were not providing financing against letters of credit opened by oil marketing companies OMCs and refineries with the local banks.
ISLAMABAD  Finance Minister Miftah Ismail on Tuesday said Pakistan would be open to buying Russian oil at cheaper rates if it was offered and if no sanctions were to be levied over such a deal.
PTI leader Shireen Mazari disagreed with Ismails remarks, labelling him ignorant and saying: There are no sanctions on purchasing oil from Russia. Ask India. So whats actually stopping him from buying other than fear of US.
It is pertinent to mention that according to aReutersreport, current US sanctions against Russia do not prevent other countries from buying Russian oil, although Biden administration officials have considered secondary sanctions that could restrict those purchases in future.
Meanwhile, on the subject of imported wheat, Ismail, in theCNNinterview, said Pakistan had asked both Ukraine and Russia and would be happy to buy from whichever country was ready to sell.
When questioned in an interview with CNNs Becky Anderson if Pakistan was open to procuring cheap Russian oil just as India was doing, the finance minister said he would surely consider it.
Ismail said that with Russia being under sanctions, it was very difficult for him to imagine buying oil from there.
However, Ismail remarked that he did not think it was possible for Pakistani banks to make arrangements to buy Russian oil, also claiming that Moscow had not offered any such discounted deals to Pakistan anyway.
