Ukraine proposes negotiations with Russia in besieged Mariupol
20220421
https://asianews.network/ukraine-proposes-negotiations-with-russia-in-besieged-mariupol/
We are ready to be evacuated with the help of a third party from the city of Mariupol with our small arms, Cmdr Palamar said in a video posted on Telegram.
Earlier in the day, another Azov commander in the besieged Azovstal steel plant, Serhiy Volyna, issued a desperate plea for help, saying his marines were maybe facing our last days, if not hours.
SINGAPORE  Ukraine on Wednesday April 20 proposed to hold a special round of negotiations with Russia in the besieged city of Mariupol, a top Kyiv official said.
Another key Ukrainian negotiator, Mr David Arakhamia, said on Telegram that he and Mr Podolyak are ready to arrive in Mariupol to hold talks with the Russian side on the evacuation of our military garrison and civilians.
As yet another desperate attempt to evacuate civilians from Mariupol failed Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned that the situation in Mariupol is deteriorating with thousands of troops and civilians stuck in the city.
Cmdr Palamar called on the whole civilised world to be the guarantors of our safety at these negotiations.
At the same time, Cmdr Palamar said his unit would not heed Russias demands for the troops to surrender fully with their weapons.
Earlier Wednesday, Commander Svyatoslav Palamar with the nationalist Azov regiment that has been defending the city against Russias siege, said his forces were ready to be evacuated together with civilians from the strategic southern port.
He added that the goal was To evacuate the wounded, get the bodies of the dead out and to bury them with honours on territory not controlled by the Russian Federation.
Yes. Without any conditions. Were ready to hold a special round of negotiations right in Mariupol, top Ukraine negotiator and presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak said on Twitter.
One on one. Two on two. To save our guys, Azov, military, civilians, children, the living  the wounded. Everyone. Because they are ours. Because they are in my heart. Forever.
