Sound Off March 8 2022
20220308
https://www.thedailystar.com/opinion/sound_off/sound-off-march-8-2022/article_9444c8eb-dade-5764-b537-8b284739e991.html
Kudos to Diane Earl and the union representatives for letting the public know about the denial of bonuses for Fox-affiliated RNs. I am well aware of the politics involved with union vs. nonunion employees. However, we are in the middle of a pandemic, there is a severe nursing shortage and those who are working are very stressed. The Fox RNs deserved the same gratitude bonuses regardless of their union status. We need to keep and reward these nurses for all of their dedication and hard work. I fear for us in the community who are protentional patients if these RNs decided to go elsewhere because they dont feel appreciated and valued at Fox due to the initial denial of the bonuses.
This is your chance to blow off some steam about whatevers on your mind. If youre upset about the state of the roads in your town, angry at the government, frustrated by local politics or worried about your local school, Sound Off gives you a way to have your say anonymously.
Regarding the comment of the Feb. 22 Sound Off: Our volunteer system is made up of reliable, well-trained firefighting forces. You should move to the biggest city where it is a paid force. That is your right. When you choose the country life, take it as it is. The luck of the draw. Our town and counties cant afford to pay for a paid service. You never needed help, but I have and its the fastest help you can get by calling the fire department. New York makes the requirements and classes almost impossible to achieve. Why dont you waste your complaining time at that level? I am very proud of our volunteer services upstate. If you want to help, join. Your life is not at risk because of our firefighters.
Send your comments to us at The Daily Star, Attn: Editor, 102 Chestnut St., Oneonta, NY 13820, or email lettersthedailystar.com. And no, we dont need your name or your phone number.
I am so disgusted with fake news and liberal agendas. Your paper is the same! Our office gets the Star from a neighbor and we are now refusing it! Not once any mention of the Durham report and Hillarys latest lies! How about Hunter Bidens connections to China? Joe Bidens disastrous neglect at our border, and his botched Afghan crisis? Maybe you should report both sides of the aisle! And yes, I am a proud Conservative! Sad to see how many are fleeing New York as well. Bail reform laws, taxes and corrupt leadership in Albany.
I must applaud the Ukrainians for giving Russia a very good fight even though they are outnumbered. Its impressive. This Russian Army looks foolish with their tactics. Vehicles lined up all together and so forth. Military 101 is you do not do that. Maybe Russia does not have a great fighting force as we for years were led to believe. They have tons of equipment but its the soldier behind the trigger that will make you a good army. Their will to really fight is not there. Just like Saddams Iraqi Army. We were told for years how big and powerful it was and we rolled right over them in Desert Storm. The same could happen now with a build up of coalition forces but Putin would then revert to his nukes as he would not have any other choice. He is a very dangerous, deranged man right now. He is now a war criminal and will be held responsible.
Well print some or all of what you have to say, up to 150 words, provided it meets our basic standards. We wont print profanity or vulgar language, and we try to avoid name-calling, so we encourage you to find other ways of expressing your disapproval. We wont print unfounded accusations about specific people or businesses  stick to opinions, rather than facts that may be in dispute.
