Intelligence suggests environmental factor sickened Russian billionaire Abramovich Ukrainian negotiators
20220328
https://ottawasun.com/news/world/billionaire-abramovich-ukrainian-peace-negotiators-hit-by-suspected-poisoning-reports/wcm/c7a10c36-fa25-4101-ba82-141faeec8cfd
WASHINGTON  A U.S. official said on Monday that intelligence suggests the sickening of Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich and Ukrainian peace negotiators was due to an environmental factor, not poisoning.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Ottawa SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Citing people familiar with the matter, the Wall Street Journal and investigative outlet Bellingcat reported that Abramovich and the negotiators had suffered symptoms of suspecting poisoning earlier this month after a meeting in Kyiv.
Russian forces invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what President Vladimir Putin calls a special military operation to demilitarize Ukraine. Ukraine and the West say Putin launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
A person familiar with the matter confirmed the incident to Reuters but said Abramovich had not allowed it to stop him working.
The Kremlin has said Abramovich played an early role in peace talks between Russia and Ukraine but the process was now in the hands of the two sides negotiating teams. The two sides are due to meet in Istanbul on Tuesday for the first face-to-face peace talks in more than two weeks.
The West has imposed heavy sanctions on Russian billionaires such as Abramovich, Russian companies and Russian officials, in an attempt to force Putin to withdraw from Ukraine.
The U.S. official told Reuters: The intelligence highly suggests this was environmental, adding: E.g., not poisoning. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, declined to elaborate.
Abramovich and the Ukrainian negotiators, including Crimean Tatar lawmaker Umerov, have since improved and their lives are not in danger, WSJ reported.
Citing the experts, Bellingcat said the dosage and type of toxin used was not enough to be life-threatening, and most likely was intended to scare the victims as opposed to cause permanent damage. The victims said they were not aware of who might have had an interest in an attack.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Abramovich, who accepted a Ukrainian request to help negotiate an end to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and at least two senior members of the Ukrainian team, were affected, the WSJ report said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Bellingcat said experts who examined the incident concluded poisoning with an undefined chemical weapon was the most likely cause.
According to the WSJ report, Abramovich and the negotiators showed symptoms that included red eyes, constant and painful tearing, and peeling skin on their faces and hands.
Ukrainian officials poured cold water on the report. Asked about the suspected poisoning, Ukrainian negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak said there is a lot of speculation, various conspiracy theories. Rustem Umerov, another member of the negotiating team, urged people not to trust unverified information.
The next issue of The Ottawa Sun Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
