Russian execution squads hunting demoralized deserters defectors
20220323
https://ottawasun.com/news/world/russian-execution-squads-hunting-demoralized-deserters-defectors/wcm/e9cbb2ca-2661-401c-b4fa-3c8b2cf331f4
As morale among Russian soldiers plummets with each new body bag, intelligence sources are claiming that execution squads have been ordered to kill deserters and defectors.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Ottawa SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
The defector will be paid $10,000 and spend the remainder of the war in comfortable conditions with amenities like TV, showers, a phone and a kitchen.
Numerous reports have suggested that Russian morale has plummeted and thats stalling its advance and military aims. The military is suffering massively higher casualties than anticipated.
Ukrainian intelligence services have also been bombarding Russian phone numbers since the conflict began instructing soldiers  many of whom are young conscripts  how to surrender.
He didnt see the point of war, said Ukraine official Victor Andrusiv, adding the other members of the tank crew had already returned to Russia.
In another instance, one official said off the record that 220 members of a Russian marines unit refused to fight.
They dont want to be killed and see this war as having a very high risk of dying.
Britains The Daily Mail reports that this week a Russian tank commander pulled the plug on fighting and texted back he wanted to defect. A rendez-vous was arranged and he surrendered.
These are indications that even in the lead military units, many of the soldiers do not want to be sent to Ukraine or fighting in Ukraine, said Olexandr Danylyuk, director of the Centre for Defence Reform think-tank.
He could not return home because his commander told him he would shoot him dead and say he died in battle. Misha told us that he had barely any food left, the command structure was chaotic and almost absent, morale is very low.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
We are seeing cases of surrender when Russian troops voluntarily contact our military and declare that they want to surrender, that they do not take part in active hostilities, said Denys Monastyrsky, the minister for internal affairs.
So far, Ukraine claims 15,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in the fighting while a Kremlin-backed tabloid, Komsomolskaya Pravda, said so far about 10,000 have died with more than 16,000 wounded. Thenewspaper later claimed their website was hacked and removed the numbers.
According to Ukrainian intelligence officials, captured Russian soldiers have said that the Chechen death units are now following invading forces.
Since the beginning of the war in February, Kyiv has released videos of captured  and often bewildered  Russian soldiers explaining they had no idea they were invading Ukraine. Some have said they chose to surrender rather than fight.
The next issue of The Ottawa Sun Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
