Sievierodonetsk falls to Russia after one of wars bloodiest fights in Ukraine
20220626
https://ottawasun.com/news/world/sievierodonetsk-falls-to-russia-after-one-of-wars-bloodiest-fights-in-ukraine/wcm/e196b615-b00f-4e82-8c21-103948bfb0a8
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Ottawa SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Seeking to further tighten the screws on Russia, U.S. President Joe Biden and other Group of Seven leaders attending a summit in Germany starting on Sunday will agree on an import ban on new gold from Russia, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters.
As Europes biggest land conflict since the Second World War entered its fifth month, Russian missiles also rained down on western, northern and southern parts of the country.
The governor of Lviv region in western Ukraine said six missiles were fired from the Black Sea at a base near the border with Poland. Four hit the target but two were destroyed.
Since Russias forces were defeated in an assault on the capital Kyiv in March, it has shifted focus to the Donbas, an eastern territory made up of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces. Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk were the last major Ukrainian bastions in Luhansk.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Russias Interfax news agency cited a representative of pro-Russian separatist fighters saying Russian and pro-Russian forces had entered Lysychansk across the river and were fighting in urban areas there.
Russia will now seek to press on and seize more ground on the opposite bank, while Ukraine will hope that the price Moscow paid to capture the ruins of the small city will leave Russias forces vulnerable to counterattack.
Russia denies targeting civilians. Kyiv and the West say Russian forces have committed war crimes against civilians.
Russian missiles also struck elsewhere overnight. 48 cruise missiles. At night. Throughout whole Ukraine, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said on Twitter. Russia is still trying to intimidate Ukraine, cause panic.
The city is now under the full occupation of Russia, Sievierodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk said on national television. They are trying to establish their own order, as far as I know they have appointed some kind of commandant.
Russia also launched missile strikes across Ukraine on Saturday. At least three people were killed and others may have been buried in rubble in the town of Sarny, some 300 km west of Kyiv, after rockets hit a carwash and a car repair facility, said the head of the local regional military administration.
In the Ukrainian-held Donbas town of Pokrovsk, Elena, an elderly woman in a wheelchair from Lysychansk, was among dozens of evacuees who arrived by bus from frontline areas.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed in a video address that Ukraine would win back the cities it lost, including Sievierodonetsk. But acknowledging the wars emotional toll, he said: We dont have a sense of how long it will last, how many more blows, losses and efforts will be needed before we see victory is on the horizon.
Moscow says Luhansk and Donetsk, where it has backed uprisings since 2014, are independent countries. It demands Ukraine cede the entire territory of the two provinces to separatist administrations.
The next issue of The Ottawa Sun Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
The war has had a huge impact on the global economy and European security, driving up gas, oil and food prices, pushing the European Union to reduce reliance on Russian energy and prompting Finland and Sweden to seek NATO membership.
Kyrylo Budanov, Ukraines military intelligence chief, told Reuters that Ukraine was carrying out a tactical regrouping by pulling its forces out of Sievierodonetsk.
Russia is using the tactic  it used in Mariupol: wiping the city from the face of the earth, he said. Given the conditions, holding the defence in the ruins and open fields is no longer possible. So the Ukrainian forces are leaving for higher ground to continue the defence operations.
Lysychansk, it was a horror, the last week. Yesterday we could not take it any more, she said. I already told my husband if I die, please bury me behind the house.
The Russians crossed the river in force in recent days and have been advancing towards Lysychansk, threatening to encircle Ukrainians in the area.
Russian President Vladimir Putin sent tens of thousands of troops over the border on Feb. 24, unleashing a conflict that has killed thousands and uprooted millions. It has also stoked an energy and food crisis which is shaking the global economy.
Ukrainian officials had never held out much hope of holding Sievierodonetsk but have sought to exact a high enough price to exhaust the Russian army.
Ukraines top general Valeriy Zaluzhnyi wrote on the Telegram app that newly arrived, U.S.-supplied advanced HIMARS rocket systems were now deployed and hitting targets in Russian-occupied parts of Ukraine.
Ukraine called its retreat from the city a tactical withdrawal to fight from higher ground in Lysychansk on the opposite bank of the Siverskyi Donets river. Pro-Russian separatists said Moscows forces were now attacking Lysychansk.
The fall of Sievierodonetsk  once home to more than 100,000 people but now a wasteland  was Russias biggest victory since capturing the port of Mariupol last month. It transforms the battlefield in the east after weeks in which Moscows huge advantage in firepower had yielded only slow gains.
Russias defence ministry said as a result of successful offensive operations Russian forces had established full control over Sievierodonetsk and the nearby town of Borivske.
The capture of Sievierodonetsk is likely to seen by Russia as vindication for its switch from its early, failed attempt at lightning warfare to a relentless, grinding offensive using massive artillery in the east.
Asked about a potential counterattack in the south, Budanov, the Ukrainian military intelligence chief, told Reuters that Ukraine should begin to see results from August.
KYIVPOKROVSK  Russian forces seized full control of the eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk on Saturday, both sides said, confirming Kyivs biggest battlefield setback for more than a month following weeks of some of the wars bloodiest fighting.
