I dont want to believe this is happening people in Kyiv seek shelter from air attacks
20220225
https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1626383/i-don-t-want-to-believe-this-is-happening-people-in-kyiv-find-shelter-from-air-attacks-in-metros
The escalator down the worlds deepest underground station at Kyivs Arsenalna is filled with people carrying sleeping bags, mats, and supplies. As the steps even out at the bottom, the train platforms reveal families, seniors, and couples settling in to hide from Russias air attacks against the Ukrainian capital.
As Ilchuk speaks, a train pulls into the station. The doors open, and a man starts singing Putin Khuylo, a derogatory song about the Russian president, which is greeted by smiles and laughs of the people settling in for the night. After the curfew kicks in, the metro trains will stop running.
Its very strange that such things happen in the 21st century. Of course, we have a war for eight years, but to hit the whole country, this is shocking, says Christina Ilchuk. We are also thinking of leaving, but for now, we dont know how. We dont know if the buses will work or what will happen tomorrow.
Of course, its scary, pitiful, says Oksana, a doctor sheltering at the station. Her daughter sits on the floor, hugging a plush toy.
I have a sister who works in police she said that this night will likely be very difficult. We decided to come to the metro  here is the safest location, she adds.
I will go work at the hospital, Im too old for the frontline, she adds.
I dont want to believe this is happening, says Liubova, an elderly woman outside the station on her way home.
Russias war against Ukraine has taken upon a scale not seen in Europe since at least the 1990s Balkan crisis, according to UN chief Antonio Guterres. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky likened the shelling to the opening of attacks by Nazi Germany in 1941.
Just a few hours later, the ballistic missiles would again strike targets across the Ukrainian capital.
I work in events, culture. My neighbourhood is a place with parties and many events. Tonight, there will be no parties but discussions. I cannot be useless. I want to join the army, he explains his decision.
On the other train platform, two families engage in a friendly conversation, discussing what supplies they have brought. We also have food  sweet and not sweet, says one of the women. In the arching tunnels, others hug, kiss, and watch news and movies on their phones.
Unfortunately, I have no experience in war but tonight I went to the recruiting office to register as a volunteer, says Boris Medvedev, standing alone on the platform with Territorial Defence Force recruitment papers in his hands.
But I have hope, she adds. Everything will be okay. With your help, with your country.  Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, I really respect that.
Already last year, the Kyiv metro was flagged as a potential location for bomb shelters. But few had illusions that it would actually have to be used that way.
