Lithuanian PM meets UKs Johnson agrees on security assistance but no details yet
20220209
https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1610921/lithuanian-pm-meets-uk-s-johnson-agrees-on-security-assistance-but-no-details-yet
Still, the Lithuanian prime minister said that we need to wait for specific information from the meeting and specific contents.
Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida imonyt says that during her visit to London she discussed the United Kingdom's readiness to bolster the Baltic states' defence amid tensions in the region over Russia's action.
The United Kingdom has made a number of decisions to provide assistance to Ukraine. So as like-minded countries, we had things to talk about, the prime minister said. We agreed to coordinate initiatives. Of course, states' abilities to provide assistance depend on circumstances, ... but the general attitude is that we need to help Ukraine to boost its resilience.
imonyt also said she and Johnson discussed French President Emmanuel Macron's Monday meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin after which the latter admitted the possibility of a compromise.
We discussed different things, including the United Kingdom's practical preparation to help bolster the Baltic states' defence, the prime minister told BNS by phone from London. I cannot disclose any details yet.
Earlier this week, London decided to join consultations as part of the EU's complaints with the World Trade Organization against China.
On Tuesday, she met with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Defence Secretary Ben Wallace. However, she did not mention any specific measures.
I see that our attitudes are very similar and that we live in a world were some countries should not dictate to others and should not employ measures that are not in line with international agreements, imonyt said.
The British government said Johnson reiterated the UKs disappointment in Chinas use of coercive trading practices against Lithuania.
We would not want to speculate on the basis of words said in public, imonyt said.
In a press release issued after the meeting, the British government said the two prime ministers agreed that any invasion by Russia into Ukraine would be a disastrous mistake and that it was important to continue providing practical economic and defence support to Ukraine.
The US and Western Europe are concerned over Russia's possible intentions to attack Ukraine, although Moscow denies having such plans.
Lithuania maintains that China imposed trade restrictions in retaliation for Vilnius' developing ties with Taiwan.
