Lithuanian leaders not optimistic about Russias announcement of troop withdrawal
20220215
https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1616709/lithuanian-leaders-not-optimistic-about-russia-s-announcement-of-troop-withdrawal
Lithuania's Defence Minister Arvydas Anuauskas says announcements that Russia is withdrawing some of its troops from Ukraine's borders do not give him much optimism.
I would not jump into any assessments, since the massive military buildup near Ukraine's borders remains, and we have only those few indications that the forces might be redeployed. That, I am afraid, does not give me much optimism in this situation, but if it happens that Russia withdraws its troops, that, of course, it will be very good, Anuauskas told BNS on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, MP Laurynas Kasinas, chairman of the Lithuanian parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence, said there was no confirmation yet of Russia's withdrawal.
Those goals have not gone away. ... Everything is very dynamic and multi-dimensional, Kasinas said. We definitely cannot draw any long-reaching conclusions. That uncertain situation remains the way it has been so far.
As tensions remain in Europe over a potential military conflict, Russia's parliament on Tuesday called on President Vladimir Putin to recognise the independence of Ukraine's separatist people's republics of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Defence Minister Anuauskas says this would mean Russia's continued denial of Ukraine's sovereignty and the factual collapse of the Normandy Format.
His comment came in response to Moscow's reports of partial withdrawal from Ukraine's borders to military bases, and to Kyiv's statements about a prevented military invasion.
After such a recognition, which would be just another violation of Ukraine's sovereignty, that would bury the Normandy Format, the defense minister said.
Still, Russia's withdrawal of troops could give more space for diplomatic talks to de-escalate the situation, Anuauskas said.
Western leaders are making every effort to avoid Russia's invasion into its pro-Western neighbour as German Chancellor Olaf Scholz pays a visit to Moscow on Tuesday.
There's no confirmation of that today. We cannot rule out these could be tactical maneuvers, a withdrawal of some forces and deployment of others. One exercise is over and the other one begins, he told BNS.
He believes Russia's goals of preventing NATO from expanding eastwards might turn former Soviet countries into second-rate members and entrench Ukraine's division.
That military buildup near the border might become a new reality. The forces might shrink, they might expand, but that might become a new reality as a means of pressure on the West and, of course, on Ukraine as it pursues certain goals, Kasinas said.
Russia has more than 100,000 of its troops near Ukraine, stoking fears of an imminent invasion.
