No radiation change in Lithuania after attack on Ukraines Zaporizhzhia NPP  authorities
20220304
https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1634871/no-radiation-change-in-lithuania-after-attack-on-ukraine-s-zaporizhzhia-npp-authorities
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of posing threat to the whole of Europe and vowed to seek that an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council be held over Russias actions in Zaporizhzhia.
According to the RPC, there is no need for people in Lithuania to consume potassium iodide pills.
Earlier on Friday, Ukrainian emergency services said Russian forces attacked Europes largest nuclear facility where a fire broke out. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Moscow of resorting to nuclear terrorism and trying to repeat the Chernobyl disaster.
Lithuanian President Gitanas Nausda echoed Zelenskys words by calling the attack nuclear terrorism and a crime against humanity, adding that Belarus Astravyets NPP, some 30 kilometres from Lithuania, could also be turned into a weapon by Russia.
Russia's attacks on civil nuclear facilities in Ukraine is an act of nuclear terrorism a crime against humanity. Ostrovets NPP in Belarus,on the border of ,can be turned into a weapon by  too.I call on immediate international response to Russia's nuclear crimes. iaeaorg
Based on the information we have, the fire broke out outside the reactors in the nearby training centre. Therefore, what we know today is that the reactors are not damaged, she told LRT TV.
Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida imonyt told reporters on Friday that the situation was being closely monitored.
No change in radiation level has been recorded in Lithuania after Russia attacked Ukraines Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe, Lithuanias Radiation Protection Centre RPC has said.
The RPC is receiving information from the International Atomic Energy Agency, Stasinaitien said, adding that based on the latest information, the fire at the nuclear facility has been localised and some reactors are switched off and are not in operation.
The fire broke out outside the reactors of the Zaporizhzhia NPP, and they were not damaged, according to Ramun Marija Stasinaitien, acting director at the RPC.
Theres no change in radiation in Lithuania due to the military action in the territory of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, and the weather conditions are favourable, as the wind blows away from Lithuania, the centre said in a statement on Friday morning.
