Riga authorities topple largest Soviet monument in Baltics
20220826
https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1767043/riga-authorities-topple-largest-soviet-monument-in-baltics
A World War Two memorial has been recently dismantled in the centre of Lithuanias third biggest city Klaipda. A memorial for Red Army soldiers in Antakalnis Cemetery in Vilnius is slated for demolition in autumn.
In 1997, a group of activists tried to demolish the monument with dynamite, but the explosives detonated prematurely and killed two people.
The removal of the obelisk reopened the previously closed traffic on the surrounding streets. However, pedestrians were still not allowed to approach the dismantled monument and police were on duty in the surrounding area.
The dismantling of the memorial came a week after the removal of a Soviet-era monument Estonias city of Narva, which has a large Russian-speaking community.
In another controversy, one of the sculptors, Lev Bukovsky, had served in a Waffen SS division during the war.
Thousands of Russian speakers used to gather at the monument every year on May 9 to commemorate the victory over Nazi Germany in 1945.
Latvias ethnic Russian community, which makes up a third of the countrys population, protested against the removal of the monument.
According to an AFP news agency, demolition equipment was used to tear down the World War Two memorial. Latvian authorities argued that it had become a rallying point for Kremlin supporters.
The memorial has been controversial from the start. The original idea was to depict a woman with a baby in her arms waiting for her husband to return from war. However, the project did not pass the censors and a theme closer to traditional Soviet WW2 iconography was chosen instead.
The authorities of the Latvian capital Riga dismantled the largest Soviet-era monument in the Baltic states on Thursday, despite protests from the local Russian-speaking community demanding that the monument be preserved.
odien, 25. august, situcija Uzvaras park eso obeliska demontas laik vrtjama k mierga un bez btiskiem starpgadjumiem. Ir fiksti atsevii prkpumi, kuri tri novrsti. Aizturtas etras personas. Plak lasiet: https:t.coIZCZsHH3UOVP video no notikuma vietas: pic.twitter.comZvDNqfJ3h0
The local authorities had to demolish the monument after the countrys parliament voted in favour of removing all remaining statues, plaques and bas-reliefs commemorating the Soviet era by mid-November.
For many ethnic Latvians, however, this date marked the beginning of the Soviet occupation, which lasted until 1991.
This time, neither explosives nor a wrecking ball were used to dismantle the monument. The work, which took three days, cost around 2.1 million euros.
On Thursday, the last element of the memorial, the obelisk, was dismantled. It was taken down amid loud cheers from the people watching the demolition.
After Estonia took down the monument  a replica of a T-34 tank with a red Soviet star  the Russian hacker group Killnet launched a wave of cyber-attacks against Estonian public institutions and private organisations.
The Monument to the Liberators of Soviet Latvia and Riga from the German Fascist Invaders, as the edifice is officially known, was erected in 1985 in Rigas Pardaugava district. It included statues of soldiers and a woman, with a 79-metre obelisk between them.
