We were melting snow to have water LithuanianUkrainian woman escaped from Mariupol
20220414
https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1672886/we-were-melting-snow-to-have-water-lithuanian-ukrainian-woman-escaped-from-mariupol
According to Ahejenkova, it is a miracle that the city is still not occupied by the invaders. However, not much is left of her beloved Mariupol.
We filled everything we had with water. There were two rainy days, so we could also get water. Later, it got cold, and it snowed, so we collected snow and melted it, Ahejenkova said.
Our city is Ukrainian. It is not yet occupied by Russians. When we left, there were still at least two or three places where Ukrainian soldiers were permanently stationed. They are protecting our city, which has been surrounded since the beginning of March, she said.
To be honest, I didnt expect the enemy to enter our city because there were so many soldiers there, and I thought the city was sufficiently protected. I never thought that there would be fighting of such scale there, Ahejenkova said.
Around 90 percent of the city is destroyed. All the infrastructure is ruined. Absolutely everything, she said.
I had to leave my home. I chose Lithuania because my father was Lithuanian, and I have many relatives here. I have a place to live in this country, Ahejenkova told LRT Radio.
The woman, who lived in a small house in Mariupol, said she was grateful to the local people who warned her to stock up on water when the bombing started. Although she managed to fill up her water supply, it later became scarce.
Ahejenkova decided to leave on March 24 when the Russians started bombing her neighbourhood in Mariupol. Artillery shells also hit her family house. The woman then crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border with her daughters, but her husband, son, and son-in-law remained in Ukraine.
She was born in a Lithuanian-Ukrainian family and first came to Lithuania when she was 10 years old. Ahejenkova lived here until she finished school in 1986.
Later, I went to Mariupol, which was then called Zhdanov, to study. I got married there. My children were born there, the woman said.
Sometime after the Russian army started bombing Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine, Albina Ahejenkova managed to escape to Lithuania. At the beginning of the war, however, she had to melt snow to have water.
But despite Russias bombings, the city is still under Ukrainian control, according to the woman.
According to her, her home city has grown and become more beautiful over the last eight years. But everything turned upside down on February 24, when Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine.
