Bradfords Ukrainians speak of concerns over Russian invasion
20220125
https://www.thetelegraphandargus.co.uk/news/19871370.bradfords-ukrainians-speak-concerns-russian-invasion/
"This is an opportunity for us as a community to say we are here, Ukraine does matter to people in the UK.
The Prime Minister warned President Vladimir Putin that an invasion would be a disastrous stepwhich could see Russia bogged down in a bloody and protracted conflict.
My brother is married to a girl from Sumy, which is 60km away from the boarder. They were over there at Christmas and the suggestion was they could effectively see Russian tanks from the flats in the city centre.
Yesterday, Boris Johnson warned that gloomy intelligence suggested Russia was planning a lightning raid on Kyivas British staff and their families began leaving the Ukrainian capital.
The Bradford Ukrainian Club, on Legrams Lane, are encouraging others to join a peace rally in support of their people this Saturday 1pm at Leeds Town Hall.
"Friends in Kyivare getting on with their lives but discussing the what ifs. They are making those contiguous plans that you cant fathom in the modern world.
He said: At Christmas time, I contacted one of my cousins in Lviv. They are obviously concerned about what is happening there.
My wifes family still live in a village just outside Lviv. They told us how grim Christmas was because everyone was fearing an invasion.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
MEMBERS of Bradfords Ukrainian community arenaturally concerned with the potential threat of Russia invading their homeland.
"The Ukrainian people are hard working and want to build their country and preserve their independence.
Every day there seems to be a new drama. It almost seems inevitable that Putin is going to send in troops.
"There are no winners if Russia invade Ukraine. There is going to be bloodshed on both sides.
"Places that we have been to will be the first places the tanks will go to if the order comes.
Russian forces have massed at the border with Ukraine and intense diplomatic activity has failed to ease tensions.
"They are already gearing up for a potential war, putting in place bomb shelters and evacuation coordinates. People are fearful and anxious."
Mr Johnson said he did not believe war was inevitable and there was a chance that sense can still prevail.
One member of the club, Slawko Gumeniuk, 68, has lived in Bradford all his life after his parents moved over from Ukraine post World War Two.
