Macron holding talks in Kyiv after fivehour meeting with Putin
20220208
https://www.thetelegraphandargus.co.uk/news/19906939.macron-hold-talks-kyiv-five-hour-meeting-putin/
He added that it is Europes duty to find a solution to try to rebuild neighbourly ties with Russia.
Britain said on Monday it is sending 350 troops to Poland as part of efforts to bolster Nato forces in eastern Europe. It has already sent anti-tank weapons to Ukraine.
Mr Macron said he had a substantial, deep discussion with Mr Putin, with a focus on conditions that could help de-escalation.
Western leaders in recent weeks have engaged in high-level diplomacy in the hope of de-escalating the tensions and preventing an attack.
He also warned that Ukraines accession to Nato could trigger a war between Russia and the alliance.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter tug-of-war since 2014, when, following the ousting of Ukraines Kremlin-friendly president, Moscow annexed Crimea and threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in the east of the country.
Mr Macron sat down with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday for talks that lasted more than five hours.
After the long meeting, the two leaders emphasised the need for more talks while also registering their disagreements.
He said the UK is ready to bolster Nato forces in Latvia and Estonia as he prepared to meet the Lithuanian prime minister in London to show support for the Baltic nations.
Meanwhile, Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Russia that invading Ukraine will only make Nato stronger, but said he still believes principled and determined diplomacy could defuse the crisis.
Mr Putin noted that the US and Nato have ignored Moscows demands but signalled his readiness to continue the negotiations.
US officials have painted the threat of an offensive on Ukraine as imminent  warnings Moscow has scoffed at, accusing Washington of fuelling the tensions around Ukraine.
Mr Biden vowed that the Nord Stream 2 Russia-to-Germany gas pipeline, which has been completed but is not yet operating, will be blocked if Russia invades, that means tanks and troops crossing the border of Ukraine again.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
High-level talks have taken place against the backdrop of military drills under way in Russia and about to start in Belarus. On Tuesday, Russias defence ministry said six large landing ships were moving from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea, where they will take part in the exercises.
Mr Scholz warned Moscow that a lot more could happen than theyve perhaps calculated with themselves in case of an invasion.
In Washington, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz met US President Joe Biden on Monday. Mr Scholz will also travel to Kyiv and Moscow on February 14-15.
The fighting between Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the east has since killed over 14,000 people.
Diplomatic efforts to defuse the tensions around Ukraine have continued with French President Emmanuel Macron arriving in Kyiv the day after hours of talks with the Russian leader in Moscow yielded no apparent breakthroughs.
The Kremlin has repeatedly accused Kyiv of sabotaging implementation of the agreements, and Ukrainian officials in recent weeks said that implementing them would be detrimental for the country.
We tried to build converging elements, he said. The upcoming days will be crucial and deep discussions together will be needed.
Moscow has massed more than 100,000 troops near Ukraines borders but insists it has no plans to attack.
Mr Macron met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as fears of a possible Russian invasion mount.
If Ukraine becomes a Nato member and moves to reclaim Crimea, European countries will automatically be drawn into a military conflict with Russia, Mr Putin said, noting that there will be no winners.
France and Germany in 2015 helped broker a peace deal, known as the Minsk agreements, that ended large-scale hostilities in the region but failed to bring about a political settlement of the conflict.
The Kremlin has demanded guarantees from the West that Nato will not accept Ukraine and other former Soviet nations as members, halt weapon deployments there and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe  demands the US and Nato reject as non-starters.
After his meeting with Mr Macron on Monday, Mr Putin said without elaboration that some of the French presidents proposals could serve as a basis for a settlement of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, adding that they agreed to have a call after Mr Macrons visit to Kyiv on Tuesday.
Mr Johnson said he was considering dispatching RAF Typhoon fighters and Royal Navy warships to south-eastern Europe.
Writing in The Times, Mr Johnson urged allies to finalise plans for heavy economic sanctions that would come into effect if Russia crosses the border into Ukraine.
