Visa Mastercard and PayPal pull services in Russia
20220307
https://www.siliconrepublic.com/business/visa-mastercard-paypal-payment-services-russia
Elsewhere, professional services giants KPMG and PwC said on Sunday that they will no longer have a member firm in Russia.
A number of Russian banks have suggested they could issue cards using Chinas UnionPay system, along with the Mir payment network.
While these decisions could cause disruption for Russian consumers, the countrys state-backed payments network clarified that people will still be able to use Mastercard and Visa cards for domestic transactions in Russia.
Visa said on Saturday 5 March that it was working to cease all Visa transactions, specifying that Visa cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside the country and Visa cards issued outside of Russia will no longer work within the country.
Mir, which began operating in 2015, said cards issued already will continue to work until they expire, and Russian consumers will be able to access funds, make withdrawals and domestic transfers. The shutdowns will impact foreign transactions, and cards issued by these companies abroad wont work in Russian shops or ATMs.
Visa,             fintech,             Mastercard,             PayPal,             Ukraine,             Russia,             PwC,             payments,             KPMG
KPMGs firms in Russia and Belarus will leave its network, affecting more than 4,500 partners and staff, while PwC Russia is leaving that companys network, affecting 3,700 partners and staff in the country.
Dont miss out on the knowledge you need to succeed. Sign up for theDaily Brief, Silicon Republics digest of need-to-know sci-tech news.
American Express went on to announce a similar shutdown on Sunday, adding that it is also suspending business operations in Belarus.
With international payment giants suspending their services, banks in Russia may turn to Chinas UnionPay system.
Mastercard made a similar announcement that day, saying that cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by the Mastercard network and cards issued outside the country will no longer work at Russian merchants or ATMs.
We received a letter from DanSchulman, CEO PayPal. So now its official: PayPal shuts down its services in Russia citing Ukraine aggression. Thank you PayPal for your supporting! Hope that soon you will open it in for  pic.twitter.comRaJxEMSLQe
Susannah Streeter, senior markets analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown,told BBC News that UnionPay is likely to be the alternative system of choice for Russian banks as it is already accepted around the world.
On a call with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday, US president Joe Biden welcomed the decision by Visa and Mastercard, according to the White House.
Over the weekend, Visa, Mastercard, American Express and PayPal all announced plans to pull services in Russia over the countrys invasion of Ukraine.
Meanwhile, PayPal joined the growing number of financial and tech companies taking action on Saturday, saying it was shutting down services in Russia due to the current circumstances.
The payments company stopped accepting new customers in Russia last week, and will now continue to process customer withdrawals for a period of time to ensure that account balances are dispersed in line with applicable laws and regulations.
The companys chief executive, Al Kelly, said it was compelled to act following Russias unprovoked invasion ofUkraine and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed.
But there are concerns that these moves, along with economic sanctions such as blocking Russian banks from international transaction system SWIFT, will simply push the country towards alternatives.
Ukrainian vice prime minister Mykhailo Fedorov, who has been using Twitter to reach out to tech companies, tweeted a letter from PayPal CEO Dan Schulman about the decision on Saturday.
But it will take significant time to reissue millions of cards, and will add to the financial turmoil in the country, she added.
