Germany rebuilds its military Is the age of postwar pacifism over
20220312
http://roarnews.co.uk/2022/germany-rebuilds-its-military-is-the-age-of-post-war-pacifism-over/
The Soviet Union viewed this move as a threat to their own power, and subsequentlyinaugurated the Warsaw Pact, which included East Germany. The East-West German sunder was now characterised by antagonisms between NATO and the Warsaw Pact, with the latter fundamentally designed to forestall the burgeoning power of the former. All of a sudden, Germany found itself at the heart of the augmenting Cold War conflict, with intensified militarism on both sides ultimately threatening nuclear war. It therefore comes as no surprise that much of the German population remained distinctly pacifist, with West German activism throughout the 1960s, 70s and 80s becoming synonymous with anti-war peace movements.
Staff writer Jana Bazeed takes a look at the arguments on either side of the proposal for mandatory Maths in schools until the age...
With the disintegration of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, and its most grave military threats relinquished, a now-reunited Germanys innate pacifism rumbled on. Despite incrementations in army size and connivance in military conflicts abroad, Germanys military commitment has always been heavily questioned by its allies. A vast array of American presidents have come and gone, all having impatiently harangued Germany to commit to more substantial military strength, particularly given its nature as the largest country firmly within the European continent.
With Germanys decision increasingly looking like the right one within the current climate, the broader existential questions remain for the pacifist movement. What is the future of pacifism? Is it simply too idealistic a position to take? From a purely theoretical point of view, pacifism must be considered an entirely laudable movement, with the ultimate goal of eliminating all military conflict providing what should be the default human position. To some, Germanys pacifism is something to greatly admire, to others, its facilitated greater Russian power. Whilst the fight for a non-military and non-nuclear future must go on, recent news has unfortunately provided the movement with a great setback.
Staff writer James Westmacott on how Russian aggression has finally forced Germany to rebuild its military for the first time since World War II.
What do the fans think? This is the second part of a two part article looking at the takeover of Newcastle United, in part...
Haunted by its past, a cavernous trauma remains embedded within the German collective psyche, which has inevitably led to a sense of great squeamishness and taboo within the realm of global affairs and military action. Its impassioned reluctance to sufficiently fund and equip its military is evidenced by decades ofpersistent political neglect, highlighting just how ineradicable the nations hangover of imperious Nazi rule is. Burdened by this immense level of guilt, Germany has long felt that reigning in its own military power has been key to ensuring peace on the European continent, which is why anti-militarism and pacifism in Germany has often been worn as a badge of honour. The ghosts of Germanys Nazi past will never be truly shaken off, but perhaps the nation is no longer disposed to let it blind them. Chancellor Scholz, backed up by unwavering public support, has therefore announced not only the prodigious military budget increase, but also that miliary gear, missiles and anti-tank weapons are to besent to Ukraine. Germany has for decades soaked up the pressure from its eastern NATO neighbours over the Russian threat, yet it would appear that following Russias invasion of Ukraine, a great power has finally awoken.
Staffwriter Fred Taylor examines the state of the British economy and questions the narrative that the war in Ukraine is fully to blame The...
And its exactly this crisis that has provided a deeply vexatious sucker-punch to German politicians. The uncomfortable realisation that their nation has greatly underestimated the security threat posed by Russia now corrodes the minds of those accountable. This sinking feeling of regret is now settling in, combined with the cognizance that such inaction has likely allowed the current Ukraine debacle to fester and vastly worsen. Angela Merkels legacy as German chancellor has thus been brought under the microscope, ready for revisionist scrutiny.
Following the collapse of Nazi Germany in 1945, and the nations division into the communist east and capitalist west, a brake on militarism was applied given the calamitous bloodshed caused by German military expansion. Despite the Federal Republic of Germanyscreation in 1949, it was not until 1955 that it possessed an army, with theBundeswehrcreated only as a civilian body tasked with defending the state, proscribed from entering into conflicts abroad. Whilst the Western powers were initially reluctant to permit German remilitarisation, the looming Soviet threat forced their hand. As a result, theBundeswehrwas established, and West Germany was admitted into the NATO alliance.
On February 27th, anemergency parliamentary session was calledin theBundestagin order to discuss the savage Russian bombardment of Ukraine. After over 75 years of German pacifism, recently elected Chancellor OlafScholz took the decisionto remilitarise his nation in what comes as one of the greatest shifts in the history of European foreign policy. Scholz announced that100 billion 84 billion would be injectedinto theBundeswehr,the German army, essentially reneging his countrys long-standing commitment to demilitarisation. As Scholz stood down from his speech, an audible ripple of applause cascaded the parliament building, mired amidst meagre boos while some were left stunned in silence. What makes thismove particularly extraordinary is that just two weeks ago it would have been politically unimaginable, and socially and culturally impermissible. Germans unfortunately know too well the dangers of heightened militarism, thanks to a remorseless, shameful history. But thats also exactly why Germany feels such great responsibility at a highly pressing time. Russias invasion of Ukraine has rescinded terrible memories. Putin has ultimately brought war back to Europe.
Staff writerAneela Aslam examines the democratic fragility of Brazil. New Years Day 2023 marked the inauguration of President Lula of Brazil, the first elected...
Merkel was one of thekey proponents of continuing diplomatic relationswith Russia, particularly after the invasion of Crimea in 2014, never mind of Georgia in 2008. Under Merkels stewardship, Germany becamemore reliant on Russian gas, withNord Stream 1 assented to, as well as the controversial Nord Stream 2blissfully given the green light only until Ukraine came under siege just weeks ago. With Merkels legacy undoubtedly tainted, she risks going from being seen as the great stabiliser of Europe, to one of the great facilitators of Putin, his power, and his regime. Perhaps, after all, waking up to Europes security threats is the least Germany can now do.
Staff writer Hokyung Jung discusses the historical importance of national identity and looks at contemporary issues brought about by aresurgencein nationalism today. What is...
Sports Editor Laurence Key gives an insight into life within the Events Team at KCL Lions During the KCL Boxing event, I met up...
Orchestrating Germanys commitment to meeting NATOs 2 spending target has proved to be incredibly strenuous, with the German leadership over recent decades remaining entirely obstinate. Germanys eastern neighbours  countries whove historically held more extensive ties to Russia -have long grumbled over Germanys disinclination, and have indisputably alerted Germany of the menacing Russian threat. And for too long, those cries have been ignored. But the switch has flicked. Such pacifism has unfortunately become incredibly difficult to justify as Europe faces its biggest crisis in decades, with Putin having therefore accomplished what no US president could: rebuilding the German military.
As the refugee-filled trains roll into BerlinHauptbahnhof, hundreds of locals have gathered to welcome them to safety. Arriving at the very location once pummelled by Allied bombers during World War II, this time its Germany able to return the favour to those escaping the war. How times have changed. Though, in more ways than one has the Russian invasion of Ukraine hit home for Germany. A country  unfortunately too familiar with war  has recognised the need for action.
Comment Editor FintanHogansits down with Kings alumni and Member of Parliament Bob Seely, as part of Roars ongoing alumni interview series. Kings College London...
Staff writer Fred Taylor addresses the politicalimpermanence of Labour Party policies under leader Keir Starmer. It is only nine years since Sir Keir Starmer...
