Vladimir Putin authoritarian dictator or just misunderstood
20220219
http://roarnews.co.uk/2022/vladimir-putin-authoritarian-dictator-or-just-misunderstood/
This is the unfortunate truth. Ukraine, a territory home to many different cultures, is a divided nation, at the heart of which are not questions of geography, but questions of identity. Eastern Ukraine considers itself part of the Russian people and supports anti-western Ukrainian politics. Western Ukraine opposes and sees itself as separate from Russia. This has caused the politics to shift back and forth, ultimately resulting in the conflict and risk of invasion present today.
Putins reputation precedes him. Most western leaders deeply distrust him. He has presided over Russias backsliding into authoritarianism with elections mired inallegations of voter intimidation and ballot stuffing and the quashing of political opposition.US President Joe Biden announced that there would be swift and severe consequences should Putin continue to advance troops towards Ukraine, a stance that was followed by French President Emmanuel Macron, Prime Minister Boris Johnson and other European leaders. Of course, they all hope to maintain peace in Europe and avoid any conflict that would likely damage a global economy already weakened by the Covid-19 pandemic. The consequences would be similar for Russias already dismal economic situation. Surely, Putin would not risk making it worse and losing the support of the Russian people.
Staff writer Jana Bazeed takes a look at the arguments on either side of the proposal for mandatory Maths in schools until the age...
Nevertheless, to understand the conflict in Ukraine, it is of vital importance that the West especially, but not exclusively the US isnt portrayed in the way they pose. It is simple and easy, to make Mr Biden seem like John Wayne and Mr Putin seem like the native, however as everyone knows, those stories have completely inverted values of the good, the bad and the ugly. America too has responsibility in causing the nation to be torn and on the brink of invasion and needs to acknowledge it in order to prevent the conflict. For example, Ukraine is already a partner country to NATO. Considering the consequences, is it really Ukraines ambition to become a member of NATO, or the USs?
Then there is the National Endowment for Democracy NED,an organisation funded by the US Government and founded during Ronald Reagans presidency in 1983. The NED promotes democracy internationally by funding and supporting political groups, activists and media distributors, similar to the operations the CIA undertook during the Cold War in countries such as Guatemala and Cuba. During the unrest in Ukraine in the winter of 2013, the NED supported President Yanukovychs opposition those behind the revolution. Anti-Russian media companies appeared out of thin air and would propagate the protests, turning them violent. There was also a phone call between newly appointed Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland and US ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt that was leaked. During the call, the two extensively discussed the structuring of a government led by Yanukovychs opposition, evidence to Moscow that the US has been plotting a coup all along.
What do the fans think? This is the second part of a two part article looking at the takeover of Newcastle United, in part...
Throughout history, Russia has always had an issue with the security of its western border as there is no geographical barrier between Moscow and Europe. Multiple times, Poland and Ukraine have been pathways for European powers to advance into and invade the east. It is no coincidence that in the early stages of the Cold War, the Soviet Union established the well-known Iron Curtain.Everyone knows that Russia is impossible to invade, yet lest she want perilous leaders such as Napoleon or Hitler to try, she had better not find herself naked to the eyes of the west. This is not strictly meant in a militaristic way. In the modern world, Russias primary threat is not a military occupation, but an economic and ideological one. Over the past decades, NATO, the organisation established during the early Cold War to recruit US allies and undermine communist influence, has expanded across eastern Europe. Many ex-USSR countries are now member states, and although Russia declared itself a partner nation in 1991, its always had a frosty relationship with the group. However, this is not the only concern.
Staffwriter Fred Taylor examines the state of the British economy and questions the narrative that the war in Ukraine is fully to blame The...
However, in the fog of war, it is perhaps unclear for the west to see a different meaning. Based on the assumption that Putins motives dont serve a plan of domination or control, and that war would provide significant damage to Russias economy, it is plausible that the Kremlin never intended to start a war. Taking on from former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, he could simply be flexing his power to send a warning message to NATO and the US, for if there is anything we have learnt from the Cold War history, it is that heavy militarisation and impending threat of war is not necessarily a sign of aggression. For Ukraines sake, hopefully this is true.
Or would he? The military mass along the border is said to be the largest mobilisation since the Cold War. Overall, some experts have speculated a concentration of as high as 130,000 encircling Ukraine. There have also been reports of Naval fleets and landing crafts in the Black Sea, suggesting a potential amphibious assault. The Kremlin still denies planning an invasion Russian officials have instead justified the accumulation of soldiers with military drills and training but that seems like a laughable excuse. This leaves many wondering if Putin may be planning a full scale invasion.
Further articles written in collaboration with the Boston Political Review can be found on ourwebsite.
Staff writerAneela Aslam examines the democratic fragility of Brazil. New Years Day 2023 marked the inauguration of President Lula of Brazil, the first elected...
Mud and snow dress the bleak countryside of the Donbass region, as soldiers pile up along the border between Russia and Ukraine. Tension is rising in eastern Europe. When Russian troops emerged along the region, western leaders arguably downplayed the risk of invasion. After all, following the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the Russia-backed militia uprising, parts of the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk Donbass have been disputed territory for some time so news of military activity in the area isnt abnormal. Nevertheless, as Russian President Vladimir Putins troops accumulated on the Byelorussian border of Ukraine, diplomats began fearing the worst, now threatening to impose trade embargos and other sanctions should Russia decide to continue its actions.
Russia has used these examples, amongst many, to show itself not as an offender but a defender in Ukraine. In Putins eyes, the military build-up along Ukraines border isnt a sign of invasion and imperialism, its a liberation of the Ukrainian people from American and western influence. It is the strong belief of many Ukrainians and Russians, that the US has systematically taken control of Ukraine to advance its foreign policy and undermine Russia. Putin has many times openly expressed his desire for Ukraine to be an independent and sovereign nation that has good relations with Russia. This is of course to a large extent propaganda designed to mask not only the corrupt relations many pro-Russian Ukrainian politicians have with Russia, but also to maintain the paternal role Russia likes to have over surrounding Slavic nations.
More important is the political crisis that has been occurring in Ukraine since the start of the century. Both the 2004 Orange Revolution and the 2014 Maidan Revolution, upon closer, unbiased examination, bring to light US foreign policy tactics that remind one of the immemorial days of ideological warfare. In late 2013, when peaceful protests in favour of the EU turned into violent riots, the US seemed very keen on voicing their support for the revolution. Former US Senator John McCain gave a speech in Independence Square, Kyiv in December of 2013 in which he proclaimed that America stood by the protesters and supported the uprising.
Staff writer Hokyung Jung discusses the historical importance of national identity and looks at contemporary issues brought about by aresurgencein nationalism today. What is...
Sports Editor Laurence Key gives an insight into life within the Events Team at KCL Lions During the KCL Boxing event, I met up...
Roarwriter GuillaumeAntignac on Vladimir Putins plans for Ukraine and if the country is headed to war
Comment Editor FintanHogansits down with Kings alumni and Member of Parliament Bob Seely, as part of Roars ongoing alumni interview series. Kings College London...
Staff writer Fred Taylor addresses the politicalimpermanence of Labour Party policies under leader Keir Starmer. It is only nine years since Sir Keir Starmer...
