Is NY Suddenly More Scared of Nuclear Attack Fallout Shelter Near Me Searches Boom
20220811
https://www.nbcnewyork.com/news/local/why-is-fallout-shelter-near-me-trending-in-new-york/3820836/
"I'm extremely concerned by the shelling at Europe's largest nuclear power plant, which underlines the very real risk of a nuclear disaster that could threaten public health and the environment in Ukraine and beyond,"Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said in a statement.
The video highlights the three steps New Yorkers can take should they find themselves within the midst of nuclear fallout "as the threat landscape continues to evolve."
Ukrainian state nuclear agency, Energoatom, quoted a Russian major-general saying that the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant had been mined and that "there will be either Russian land or a scorched desert."
International fear of nuclear catastrophe grew on Monday after shelling over the weekend of a Russian-controlled Ukrainian power plant, Zaporizhzhia, that is almost twice Chornobyl's size, NBC News reports.
Searches for "fallout shelter near me" in New York have dramatically increased in the last 24 hours, according to Google Trends Thursday afternoon.
Ukraine, who claims Russian shelling hit the power plant on Friday and Saturday, has called for the site to be demilitarized, NBC News reports.
New York City Emergency Management shared a criticized video in July on steps to follow in the case of a nuclear attack.
So, why are New Yorkers feverishly googling where they can find a nuclear fallout shelter? There may be more than one reason.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has made dozens of nuclear threats since the start of the war in Ukraine. After Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February, Putin put his nuclear forces on high alert, alarming the West.
The corresponding press release for the video did make clear that "the likelihood of a nuclear weapon incident occurring innear New York City is very low," which had people questioning the necessity of the PSA.
The 1986 disaster at the Chornobyl nuclear power plant near the northern Ukrainian city of Pripyat is considered the worst on record given the evacuation of more than 100,000 people living within nearly 19 miles, and resulting radiation detected across Europe, according to NBC News. Although, officially, fewer than 50 people died as a direct result of Chornobyl, a figure that scientists and environmental groups contest this number.
The Russian Defense Ministry alleges that it was Ukrainian artillery launched from a nearby town that damaged the plant.
"So there's been a nuclear attack. Don't ask me how or why. Just know that the big one has hit," says a woman entering the screen once the PSA begins.
Meanwhile, a serious incident involving the Zaporizhzhia plant could mean the death of as many as 3 million people and affect 51 million through radiation, according to Ukrainian lawmakers, NBC News reports.
These statements have caused growing international fear that a nuclear disaster may be imminent as Ukraine's fight against Russia continues.
Fear of nuclear disaster has lingered in the back of Americans' minds since it was first threatened decades ago, yet recent fears seem to lack a credible backbone.
Viewers questioned the timing of the video release as Russian nuclear threats loom around the world, which has sparked international fear.
