Attacks across Ukraine as scores die in Russian invasion
20220225
https://dailytimes.com.pk/891665/attacks-across-ukraine-as-scores-die-in-russian-invasion/
Zelensky said there was now a new iron curtain between Russia and the rest of the world, like in the Cold War, adding in a later speech that his nation had been left alone.
UkrainesaidRussianforces had seized the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, an area still heavily contaminated with radioactive material after a devastating 1986 accident, prompting the IAEA nuclear watchdog to call for restraint.
Weeks of diplomacy failed to deter Putin, who massed over 150,000 troops onUkraines borders in what the West said was Europes biggest military build-up since World War II.
AcrossUkraine, at least 137 heroes were killed after the first day of fighting, President Volodymyr Zelensky said, calling up conscripts and reservists nationwide to fight in a general mobilisation.
The fighting spooked global financial markets, with stocks plunging and oil prices soaring past $100.
USPresident Joe Biden announced export controls against Russia to cut off more than half of the countrys high-tech imports, alongsidesanctionsonRussianelites he called corrupt billionaires, and banks.
The firstUkrainianrefugees have begun to trickle into Hungary and Romania while the UN said 100,000 had been displaced by the fighting.
In the Ukrainian village of Starognativka near the frontline where separatists have faced off against Kyivs forces, official Vladimir Vesyelkin said missiles had rained down since the morning and power was out.
Today, I authorized a new round of sanctions and limitations in response to Putins war of choice against Ukraine.
Moscows defence ministry said its forces had successfully completed their objectives for the day, earlier claiming to have destroyed over 70 Ukrainian military targets, including 11 airfields.
Ukrainian forces said they had killed around 50Russianoccupiers while repulsing an attack on a town on the frontline with Moscow-backed rebels, which could not immediately be confirmed by AFP.
IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva said the unrest carried significant economic risk for the world, but Putin insisted he did not seek to undermine the global economic system.
Talking after an emergency summit with European Union leaders, Macron said he was accelerating the dispatch of forces.
Witnesses told AFP thatRussianparatroopers wrested control of the strategic Gostomel airfield, on the northwestern outskirts of Kyiv, after swooping in with helicopters and jets from the direction of Belarus.
France was speeding up its deployment of troops to bolsterNATOs eastern flank in Romania after RussiasinvasionofUkraine, French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday.
Never, under any conditions will I submit to Putin. It is better to die, the 52-year-old teacher said, her face covered in bandages.
Demonstrators took to the streets of European capitals to condemn Russia but a small anti-war protest in Moscow was quickly shut down by police. Monitors said over 1,700 people were detained at protests across the country.
The Kremlin earlier said the leaders of the two separatist territories had asked Moscow for military help against Kyiv after Putin recognised their independence on Monday.
Anyone who can is fleeing, said Krisztian Szavla, one of the first refugees who arrived in Hungary Thursday fromUkraines western Transcarpathia region.
TheEUmoved to impose massivesanctionson Russias energy and finance sectors, while French President Emmanuel Macron called Putin to demand immediate halt to the offensive.
He earlier said the G7 group of wealthy nations had agreed to impose devastating economicsanctions.
The Ukrainian capital declared an overnight curfew but said underground stations would remain open throughout to serve as bomb shelters.
Ukrainealso said a military plane with 14 people on board crashed south of Kyiv and that officials were determining how many people died, while a transport plane crashed in Russia killing the crew.
They are trying to wipe the village off the face of the earth, he said.
InvadingRussianforces pressed deep intoUkraineas deadly battles reached the outskirts of Kyiv and the West responded with punishingsanctions.
Olena Kurilo was among 20 people wounded by flying shards of glass following a blast in the eastern Ukrainian town of Chuguiv.
The United States moved to imposesanctionsonRussian elites and banks but stressed thatUSforces would not head to eastern Europe to fight inUkraine, but would instead defend every inch ofNATOterritory.
Russia has long demanded thatUkrainebe forbidden from ever joiningNATOand thatUStroops pull out from Eastern Europe.
The helicopters came in and then the battles started. They were firing machine guns, grenade launchers, resident Sergiy Storozhuk said.
Elsewhere,Russianground forces moved intoUkrainefrom the north, south and east, forcing many Ukrainians to flee their homes as the sound of bombing reverberated.
NATOis looking to establish battle groups in the southeast of the alliance, including in Romania.
We have purposefully designed these sanctions to maximize the long-term impact on Russia  and to minimize the impact on the United States. pic.twitter.comwM0kEBcZba
Russianmissiles and shelling rained down on Ukrainian cities Thursday after President Vladimir Putin unleashed a full-scale groundinvasionand air assault, forcing civilians to shelter on metro systems, with 100,000 people displaced.
NATOsaid it had activated defence plans for allied countries but alliance chief Jens Stoltenberg said there was no plan to sendNATOforces intoUkraine.
It is part of a broader push byNATOallies to reinforce their strength in the eastern members, with thousands of troops mobilised.
Zelensky called the attack on Chernobyl a declaration of war on all of Europe while 18 people were killed at a military base near the Black Sea port of Odessa in the deadliest single strike reported by Kyiv.
Western intelligence has said that Russia is seeking to mass overwhelming force around the Ukrainian capital and that Moscow has established complete air superiority overUkraine.
In a televised address, Putin justified the assault as a defence of the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk republics in easternUkraine.
In the Baltics, Lithuania declared a national emergency and Latvia banned threeRussianTV channels that were broadcasting in the country, saying they posed a threat to national security. The two along with the Czech Republic, also stopped issuing visas to Russians.
A conflict between the separatists and government forces has dragged on since 2014, killing more than 14,000 people on both sides.
Biden once again said additionalUSforces were not heading to eastern Europe to fight inUkraine, but would defend every inch ofNATOterritory.
