Fighting across southern front as Ukraine wages counteroffensive
20220831
https://dailytimes.com.pk/989945/fighting-across-southern-front-as-ukraine-wages-counter-offensive/
Meanwhile, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said the nation  which along with the EU bloc has pledged to wean itself off Russian gas  is well prepared for curbs on supply. Germany is set to meet an October target to replenish stocks early, Scholz said Tuesday, a day before Moscow is due to cut off gas supplies for three days. He said Germany is in a much better position in terms of security of supply than was foreseeable a couple of months ago.
With the war in the eastern Donbas region largely stalled, analysts have said for weeks that combat is likely to shift south to break the stalemate before winter comes. Also on Tuesday, fresh Russian strikes in the northeast city of Kharkiv killed at least five people, prompting officials to urge people to stay indoors. But much of the attention remained on the counter-offensive in the south.
But it is not yet possible to confirm the extent of Ukrainian advances, the ministry said on Tuesday. In Ukraines second city Kharkiv, at least five people were killed Tuesday as Russian shelling hit the centre of town, the mayor Igor Terekhov said. Seven people were also wounded, and regional governor, Oleg Synegubov, gave a slightly lower death toll of four and said another four were injured.
The Russian occupiers shelled the central districts of Kharkiv, Synegubov said on Telegram, as he warned residents to stay inside the shelters. The war has contributed to a global food and energy price crisis. Russia blockaded Ukraines ports on the Black Sea at the start of the war, choking off the major harvest exporter from world markets and punishing poorer nations. On Tuesday, the first UN-chartered vessel transporting grain to relieve the food crisis made port in Djibouti, after Turkey and the UN brokered a deal to relax the embargo last month. Some 23,000 tonnes of wheat aboard the MV Brave Commander is bound for Ethiopia, where millions are at risk of starvation.
Russias defence ministry claimed Ukraine suffered large-scale losses of more than 1,200 soldiers and dozens of pieces of equipment during the defeat of its southern attack. Britains defence ministry warned that since the start of August, Russia has made significant efforts to reinforce troops on the western bank of the Dnipro River which splits Kherson city. But the Ukrainian presidency claimed its forces had destroyed almost all large bridges and that only pedestrian crossings remain in Kherson region. The British ministry said most of the units around Kherson are likely under-manned and are reliant upon fragile supply lines by ferry and pontoon bridges across the Dnipro.
In the town of Bereznehuvate  near the frontlines 70 kilometres 43 miles north of Kherson city  AFP reporters saw soldiers resting by the roadside and heard artillery fire. We forced them well back, said infantryman Victor, in his 60s, who declined to give a surname. But his commander Oleksandr  a veteran of the war in Afghanistan  predicted the fight to retake Kherson will be long and complicated. In his nightly address on Monday, President Volodymyr Zelensky was coy about Ukraines overarching strategy whilst striking a bullish tone. You wont hear the specifics from any person in charge because this is war. But the occupiers should know that we will push them to our borderline, he added. If they want to survive, it is time for the Russian military to flee. Go home.
In its morning update, the presidents office in Kyiv said heavy fighting is taking place in almost the entire territory of the Kherson region. Powerful explosions continued throughout the day and throughout the night and the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched offensive actions in various directions, it added.
Intense fighting was raging on Tuesday across the southern Ukrainian region of Kherson occupied by Russia, Kyivs presidency said, as its troops pressed counter-offensives in various directions. Most of the region of Kherson bordering the Black Sea  and its provincial capital of the same name  were seized by Moscows military at the start of the invasion six months ago.
