Putin chose this war Biden says as he imposes new sanctions against Russia
20220225
https://dailytimes.com.pk/891751/putin-chose-this-war-biden-says-as-he-imposes-new-sanctions-against-russia/
Oil prices have surged amid Moscows invasion of Ukraine and the prospect that supply from Russia will be impacted.
Any nation that countenances Russias naked aggression against Ukraine will be stained by association, Biden said in a White House appearance where he announced new sanctions on Moscow.
Russias invasion was never about genuine security concerns on their part, Biden added. It was always about naked aggression, about Putins desire for empire, by any means necessary.
Russias Vladimir Putin will become a pariah on the international stage following his countrys invasion of Ukraine, US President Joe Biden said, revealing he had no plans to talk with his counterpart.
He said the steps imposed in coordination with Europe will block top Russian banks from the US financial system and cut off more than half of Russias high-tech imports.
Joe Biden vowed to defend every inch of NATO territory after Russia sent forces into Ukraine  but reaffirmed that no American troops would be deployed to Washingtons ally.
US President Joe Biden has announced severe new sanctions on Russia in response to the invasion of Ukraine, including freezing assets of major banks and cutting off high-tech exports to the country.
Joe Biden also pledged to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve if needed to shield consumers from the impact of rising prices.
Washington will release additional barrels of oil as conditions warrant, Biden said, noting that Americans are already hurting.
As I made crystal clear, the United States will defend every inch of NATO territory with a full force of American power, Biden said in an address to the nation from the White House.
The president added, however: Our forces will not be engaged in a conflict with Russia in Ukraine.
This is going to impose a severe cost on the Russian economy, both immediately and over time, Biden said.
And he said the US is working with allies on a collective release from the strategic petroleum reserves of major energy-consuming countries.
