Russia steps up Ukraine assaults ahead of Victory Day parades
20220508
https://dailytimes.com.pk/931204/russia-steps-up-ukraine-assaults-ahead-of-victory-day-parades/
Fighting continues on many fronts, and Ukraines defence ministry said it had destroyed another Russian warship  a Serna-class landing craft  in the Black Sea.
The Ukrainian rescue service said a missile hit a technical college in Kostiantynivka, in the eastern region of Donetsk, causing a fire and at least two deaths. Donetsk regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said there had been massive bombardments along the frontline.
Strikes were also reported in the north of Ukraine near the city of Kharkiv and in the southern city of Mikoleyev, a key Russian target.
The conflict in Ukraine is taking a heavy toll on some of Russias most capable units and most advanced capabilities, UK Defence Intelligence said.
Ukraine tried to evacuate more civilians from a besieged Mariupol steel plant on Saturday as Russian forces unleashed new bombardments across the country ahead of Victory Day festivities in Moscow.
On Monday, President Vladimir Putin will celebrate the World War II Soviet victory over Nazi Germany with a traditional Victory Day parade. According to Russias defence ministry, 77 aircraft will conduct a flypast, including the rarely-seen Il-80 Doomsday plane that can withstand a nuclear attack.
It will take considerable time and expense for Russia to reconstitute its armed forces following this conflict, it said, warning sanctions on advanced components would make it harder for Russia to re-arm.
The traditional parade of the Russian Black Sea fleet on May 9 this year will be held near Snake Island  at the bottom of the sea, the ministry added. Russia did not immediately confirm the incident.
The Azovstal steel mill is the last pocket of Ukrainian resistance in the devastated port city and its fate has taken on a symbolic value in the broader battle since Russias invasion.
Ukrainian forces have launched a counter-offensive of their own. According to the defence ministry, Russian troops were forced to demolish three road bridges near Tsyrkuny and Ruski Tyshky outside Kharkiv, to slow the Ukrainian advance. According to British intelligence, Ukrainian forces equipped with high-end weaponry by the western allies, have been able to destroy at least one of Russias most advanced tanks, the T-90M.
Eight Mig-29 fighter jets will fly over Moscows Red Square forming the letter Z  the mark of Russias military assault in Ukraine. The campaign has run into tough resistance  and provoked Kyivs western allies into slapping massive economic sanctions on the Russian economy and Putins inner circle. But with Victory Day fast approaching, Ukrainian officials fear more intense missile and artillery bombardments and renewed assaults as Moscow scrambles for symbolic wins.
Ukraines defence ministry had earlier said Russian forces had resumed their assault on the Azovstal site, despite talk of a truce to allow trapped civilians to flee the complex. Vice Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said rescuers would try to evacuate more civilians on Saturday.
