Russia and Ukraine to hold talks as troops edge closer to Kyiv
20220314
https://dailytimes.com.pk/900649/russia-and-ukraine-to-hold-talks-as-troops-edge-closer-to-kyiv/
But in a sign Moscow may have underestimated the challenge it would face, US officials told media Russia had asked China for military and economic aid for the war.
Talks between Kyiv and Moscow have yet to yield a ceasefire and Russian forces have shown no sign of easing their onslaught.
The discussions come as Russian troops edge closer to Kyiv and keep up their relentless bombardment of the besieged southern port city of Mariupol, where nearly 2,200 people have been killed in the onslaught, according to local officials.
Washington and its EU allies have sent funds and military aid to Ukraine and imposed unprecedented economic sanctions on Russia. But the United States has ruled out any direct intervention, with President Joe Biden warning that NATO fighting Russia is World War III.
We see significant progress, Leonid Slutsky, a senior member of Russias negotiating team, told state-run television network RT Sunday.
In its latest intelligence update Sunday, Britains defence ministry said Russia had established a naval blockade on the Black Sea coast, effectively isolating Ukraine from international maritime trade.
Moscow also asked Beijing for economic assistance against the crippling sanctions imposed against it, the New York Times said, citing anonymous officials.
And our goal is that in this struggle, in this difficult negotiating work, Ukraine will get the necessary result for peace and for security, President Volodymyr Zelensky said early Monday, adding that both sides speak every day.
Russian naval forces are also continuing to conduct missile strikes against targets throughout Ukraine, it said.
If you do not close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian missiles fall on your territory, on NATO territory, on the homes of NATO citizens, Zelensky said in a video address.
Lviv, Ukraine: Russia and Ukraine were set for a third round of talks Monday as Moscows invading forces maintain their devastating assaults across the former Soviet state.
Biden spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron Sunday and the two leaders underscored their commitment to hold Russia accountable for its actions and support the government and people of Ukraine, the White House said.
He said the aim was to do everything to ensure a meeting of presidents. A meeting that I am sure people are waiting for.
Ukrainian and Russian representatives will meet via video conference Monday, a Ukrainian presidential adviser and a Kremlin spokesman both said.
In an attack dangerously close to NATO member Poland, Russian air strikes Sunday on a Ukrainian military training ground near the border killed at least 35 people and wounded more than 130.
Zelensky on Monday renewed his call for NATO to impose a no-fly zone following the attack near the western city of Lviv.
