Ukraine killed Putin allys daughter Russia says
20220823
https://dailytimes.com.pk/986152/ukraine-killed-putin-allys-daughter-russia-says/
The attack could have been directed at her famed ultra-nationalist father, Alexander Dugin, who is thought to be close to Mr. Putin.
The FSB told Russian media that a Ukrainian woman and her young daughter had arrived in Russia in July, but that she was actually a Ukrainian special services contractor.
However, Russias Federal Security Service FSB announced on Monday that the case had been solved and that Ukraine was directly responsible.
President Putin personally paid tribute to Ms. Dugina in a Kremlin statement on Monday, calling her death a vile, terrible crime. He also bestowed the Order of Courage on Ms. Dugina posthumously, noting her dedication exhibited in the fulfillment of professional responsibility.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraines President Zelensky, said the FSBs version of events was Russian propaganda from a fantasy world.
The FSB then released a video purportedly showing the suspects automobile entering Russia, as well as surveillance footage of her entering and leaving Ms. Duginas building.
Konstantin Malofeev, a family friend, issued a statement on Mr. Dugins behalf, calling his daughters death a terrorist act by the Ukrainian Nazi dictatorship.
According to investigators, explosives were concealed beneath the Toyota Land Cruiser Ms. Dugina was driving. A video shared online from the site appeared to show a distressed Mr. Dugin watching emergency personnel care for the flaming vehicle.
My daughter Darya Dugina was cruelly killed in front of me, stated the Telegram statement. She was a beautiful Orthodox woman, a patriot, a war reporter, a central TV specialist, and a philosopher.
Ms. Dugina worked as a political pundit for her fathers International Eurasian Movement and routinely wrote for pro-Kremlin media sites.
He was referring to the false but frequently repeated claim by the Russian leadership of a strong Nazi presence within Ukraine, which was one of the key grounds given for Russias invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
Ukraine killed Putin allys daughter: Russia has accused Ukrainian special forces of murdering the daughter of one of President Vladimir Putins cronies in a weekend vehicle bombing.
On Saturday evening, Ms. Dugina and her father attended a festival near Moscow where Mr. Dugin, a philosopher, gave a lecture. They were supposed to go in the same automobile but changed their minds at the last minute.
According to the report, the woman rented an apartment in the same building as Ms. Dugina for a month to prepare for the attack. She allegedly followed Ms. Dugina around Moscow in a Mini Cooper with three different license plates at the time.
Darya Dugina, 29, died on Saturday when the vehicle she was driving detonated outside Moscow.
We only require victory. My daughter offered up her young womans life on its altar. So, please, do it!
