Ukrainians flee besieged cities as US oil ban looms
20220309
https://dailytimes.com.pk/897859/ukrainians-flee-besieged-cities-as-us-oil-ban-looms/
Dozens of buses had already left in the direction of Lokhvytsia, to the southwest, said the interim chief of the Poltava region, Dmitry Lunin. The corridor is designed to evacuate civilians, including Chinese, Indians and other foreigners, officials said. The evacuation came after 21 people, including two children, were killed in Sumy when enemy planes insidiously attacked apartment buildings, Ukrainian rescue services said. Three people were killed and three children wounded by landmine in Chernihiv, north of Kiev, officials said.
Ukraines defence ministry has also accused Russia on Tuesday of violating a ceasefire to ease a days-long blockade of Mariupol, describing it as genocide. A six-year-old girl identified only as Tanya has died from dehydration under the rubble of her destroyed home in Mariupol, the city council said In the last minutes of her life she was alone, exhausted, frightened and terribly thirsty, Mayor Vadym Boychenko said.
Despite the sound of nearby shelling in Irpin, seen as a critical point for the advance on the capital, civilians fled in icy wind and a thick snowfall, AFP reporters saw.
Global outrage mounted over the invasion and the plight of civilians caught up in the bloodshed.
But Ukraine accused Russia of attacking another of the corridors leading from the beleaguered southern port city of Mariupol, where aid workers said tens of thousands were living in apocalyptic conditions.
Long queues of cars snaked out of the southern city of Mykolaiv, where sporadic shell fire could be heard. Were leaving as soon as possible. There are attacks every day, its terrifying, said Sabrina, 19, who had a dog on a lead and a cat in her jacket. She said she had no news from her husband who was on the frontline. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky denounced what he called unkept promises by the West to protect his country, and renewed calls for a no-fly zone that leaders have so far dismissed. Its been 13 days weve been hearing promises, 13 days weve been told well be helped in the air, that there will be planes, Zelensky said on a video broadcast on Telegram.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said Mariupol residents faced atrocious conditions and were running out of food, water and medical supplies. The bottom line today is that this situation is really apocalyptic for people, ICRC head of media Ewan Watson said in Geneva. At least 474 civilians have been killed since the start of Russias assault on its ex-Soviet neighbour, according to the UN, although it believes the real figures to be considerably higher.
Russia had refused calls for a humanitarian corridor in Irpin and the nearby suburbs of Bucha and Gostomel although we had everything ready for this, Ukrainian interior ministry official Anton Gerashchenko said.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine has sparked fears of a wider European or even global conflict, and unleashed the continents fastest growing refugee crisis since World War II.
Kyiv has branded the corridors from four cities a publicity stunt as many of the exit routes lead into Russia or its ally Belarus. Both sides accuse each other of ceasefire violations.
People waited in a long line to cross over the Irpin river on makeshift walkways of planks and mangled metal, after the Ukrainians blew up the bridge leading into the capital to hamper any Russian advance.
I didnt want to leave, but theres nobody left in the homes around us, no water, no gas and no electricity, Larissa Prokopets, 43, told AFP.
Crude prices surged after the White House said Biden would speak at 1545 GMT to announce actions to continue to hold Russia accountable for its unprovoked and unjustified war on Ukraine. Russian troops are slowly encroaching on Kyiv despite intense efforts by outgunned Ukrainian forces, and moving faster through the east and north of the country.
Evacuations had however begun in Sumy, near the Russian border and 350 kilometres 218 miles east of Kyiv, where Russia had formally declared a humanitarian corridor, officials said.
Desperate civilians fled besieged Ukrainian cities on Tuesday as US President Joe Biden looked set to announce a ban on Russian oil imports to punish Moscow for the invasion.
Sweeping international sanctions have failed to persuade Putin to back down, leading Western nations to consider an energy embargo despite the likely pain to their own economies.
She said she was leaving after several days spent hiding in the basement of her home, which kept shaking due to bombardment nearby.
The expected announcement by Biden would further tighten unprecedented sanctions on Russia, targeting the economic lifeline that is bankrolling President Vladimir Putins war. Russia agreed to set up humanitarian corridors from four cities on the 13th day of the war, even as the UN said the number of refugees flooding across Ukraines borders had passed two million. Buses streamed out through an evacuation corridor from the north-eastern city of Sumy  where 21 people were killed in air strikes overnight  while civilians on foot took an unofficial escape route out of the bombarded Kyiv suburb of Irpin.
