Ukraine denies Russian military buildup on border
20211102
https://dailytimes.com.pk/836582/ukraine-denies-russian-military-build-up-on-border/
The Ukrainian army is locked in a simmering conflict with pro-Russian separatists that erupted after Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014. After an uptick in violence at the beginning of this year, Russia in March amassed around 100,000 troops on Ukraines borders, sparking fears of a major escalation in the conflict.
The conflict, which has claimed more than 13,000 lives, has seen at least 59 Ukrainian soldiers killed since the start of the year, compared with 50 in all of 2020. The separatists say some 40 of their fighters have died. Ukraine and its Western allies accuse Russia of sending troops and arms across the border to support the separatists, claims denied by Moscow.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Tuesday he had discussed the conflict with US President Joe Biden on the sidelines of the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow. The US continues to support territorial integrity and reforms in Ukraine, Zelensky wrote on Twitter.
But Ukraines defence ministry said in a statement late Monday that no additional deployment of Russian forces had been observed near the border. It said the published videos could be an element of special informational and psychological actions and showed a planned movement of troops after a Russian military exercise.
Under pressure from Kievs Western allies, Moscow later announced a pullback, but both Ukraine and the United States said at the time the withdrawal was limited. Ukraines military said Tuesday that one of its soldiers had been killed in an attack by the separatists.
Ukraine has denied reports of a Russian military build-up near its eastern border that raised fears of a new escalation in fighting with pro-Moscow separatists.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday also dismissed the reports of a potential build-up, saying there was no need to waste time on low-quality claims. The movement of our military equipment and army units is exclusively our business, he told reporters. Russia has never threatened anyone.
