Ukraine wars impact on wheat threatens hunger in Sudan aid group
20220322
https://dailytimes.com.pk/905232/ukraine-wars-impact-on-wheat-threatens-hunger-in-sudan-aid-group/
Families may also resort to negative coping strategies including forcing children out of school or marrying off young girls, said Wright.
Exports from Russia have meanwhile been frozen by sweeping international sanctions, constraining global supplies of food staples such as wheat, barley and corn as well as fertiliser and sharply raising their prices.
More than 80 percent of Sudans wheat imports are at risk after Russias invasion of Ukraine, an aid group warns, exacerbating economic and humanitarian crises that deepened after last years military takeover.
The northeast African country was already reeling from international aid cuts and economic turmoil which saw the local currency plummet and prices of food, fuel and electricity skyrocket.
Sudan  a country where a rise in bread prices sparked the turmoil and mass rallies that led to the 2019 ouster of veteran president Omar al-Bashir  has already seen a 10-fold increase in bread prices in recent months.
Sudans confluence of events  political turmoil, violent unrest in far-flung regions and the deep economic crisis  are causing a real exacerbation of what was already a bad situation, said Wright.
By the end of the year, he said in a Khartoum interview with AFP, UN data is warning of almost 20 million people, or almost half the country, being food insecure.
The impact will be especially severe in Sudan, one of the worlds poorest countries, where a military coup in October led by army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan brought fresh turmoil and saw Western donor countries cut aid.
In December, the United Nations estimated that nearly one third of Sudans population, or more than 14 million people, would need humanitarian assistance in 2022.
Now, the almost month-old Ukraine conflict has turned farmland there into battlefields and agricultural workers into soldiers while freezing shipments abroad through port cities that have become combat zones.
Sudan is in a particularly vulnerable position because 86-87 percent of its wheat imports is coming from Russia and Ukraine combined, said David Wright, chief operating officer at charity Save the Children.
Fighting and sanctions have disrupted grain shipments from Russia and Ukraine, which between them account for nearly 30 percent of global wheat exports, threatening hunger and social upheaval in many countries.
