Oshkosh Brewery Serves Up Support for Ukraine
20220310
https://wtaq.com/2022/03/10/oshkosh-brewery-serves-up-support-for-ukraine/
You can find it at the brewery in Oshkosh, their Menasha taproom, Dublins Irish Pub in Oshkosh, or Wagner Market.
So they came up with this idea of  if we put our recipes out there and you guys brew our beer for us, because were making molotov cocktails instead to fight this war, and if you could donate that money that would help us out,' Dringoli told WTAQ News. We decided to pick one of those brands that we dont typically brew, which is a golden strong ale. That was the Putin Huylo. And were going to send proceeds from that over to Ukraine.
We couldnt get our hands on this beer if we wanted to, but you certainly can get it at Bare Bones, Dringoli said. Our promise is to do a $12 six pack, and $6 of that is going to be donated. Thats basically our cost, is $6, and the profits are all going over to Ukraine.
Breweries like to help each other! said Bare Bones Brewery Owner, Dan Dringoli. I didnt even know if there was a Ukrainian-style beer. The only thing I know is that they grow a lot of wheat over there, so Im assuming they have a lot of wheat beers.
Cleveland says hes had a similar beer in the past, but Dringoli points out  you cant typically find Pravda beer in the states.
All the profits from the beer will go to the people of Ukraine as Russia continues to wreak havoc on the country.
Well the tricky part was translating the Ukrainian on the recipe sheet but once I got that done, luckily I had most of the ingredients so I was able to pull it together real quick and get it made. The process really is universal, he explained.
Bare Bones head brewer, Jody Cleveland, says when war broke out, Pravda Brewery switched from brewing beer to making Molotov cocktails.
The recipes are from one of Ukraines only microbreweries,Pravda in Lviv, which is offering five different beer recipes for brewers to make.
OSHKOSH, WI WTAQ-WLUK  A local beer company is brewing up support forthe people of Ukraine.
