Ukraine retakes key Kyiv suburb battle for port city Mariupol rages
20220323
https://www.qatar-tribune.com/news-details/id/231608/ukraine-retakes-key-kyiv-suburb-battle-for-port-city-mariupol-rages
Agencies KYIV Ukraine said it retook a strategically important suburb of Kyiv on Tuesday, while its forces battled Russian attempts to occupy the encircled southern port city of Mariupol.Civilians fleeing Mariupol said the city was under relentless bombardment, with block after block of destroyed buildings and corpses in the streets. But the Kremlins ground offensive in other parts of the country advanced slowly or not at all, knocked back by lethal Ukrainian hit-and-run attacks.The hands of one exhausted Mariupol survivor were shaking as she arrived by train in the western city of Lviv.Theres no connection with the world. We couldnt ask for help, said Julia Krytska, who made it out with her husband and son with the help of volunteers. People dont even have water there. Explosions and bursts of gunfire shook Kyiv, and heavy artillery fire could be heard from the northwest, where Russia has sought to encircle and capture several suburban areas of the capital, a crucial target.Early Tuesday, Ukrainian troops drove Russian forces from the Kyiv suburb of Makariv after a fierce battle, Ukraines Defense Ministry said. The regained territory allowed Ukrainian forces to retake control of a key highway and block Russian troops from surrounding Kyiv from the northwest.Still, the Defense Ministry said Russian forces partially took other northwest suburbs, Bucha, Hostomel and Irpin, some of which had been under attack almost since Russias military invaded nearly a month ago.ratio Russias invasion has driven more than 10 million people from their homes, almost a quarter of the population, according to the United Nations.Thousands of civilians are believed to have died, though the total remains unclear. Estimates of Russian military casualties vary widely, but even conservative figures by Western officials are in the low thousands.On Monday, Russias pro-Kremlin Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper, citing the Defense Ministry, reported that almost 10,000 Russian soldiers had been killed. The report was quickly removed, and the newspaper blamed hackers. The Kremlin refused to comment.Beyond the terrible human toll, the war has shaken the post-Cold War global security consensus, imperiled the world supply of key crops, and raised worries it could set off a nuclear accident.Wildfires broke out near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant, but Ukraines natural resources minister said they had been extinguished and radiation was within normal levels. Chernobyl in 1986 was the scene of the worlds worst nuclear disaster.Facing unexpectedly stiff resistance that has left the bulk of Moscows ground forces miles from the center of Kyiv, Russian President Vladimir Putins troops are increasingly concentrating their air power and artillery on Ukraines cities and civilians.U.S. President Joe Biden, who is heading to Europe later in the week to meet with allies, suggested that worse may lie ahead.Putins back is against the wall, Biden said. He wasnt anticipating the extent or the strength of our unity. And the more his back is against the wall, the greater the severity of the tactics he may employ. Biden reiterated accusations that Putin is considering resorting to using chemical or biological weapons, though Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Tuesday that the U.S. has seen no evidence to suggest that use of such weapons is imminent.Talks to end the fighting have continued by video. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Ukrainian television late Monday that he would be prepared to consider waiving any bid by Ukraine to join NATO  a key Russian demand  in exchange for a cease-fire, the withdrawal of Russian troops and a guarantee of Ukraines security.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he saw progress in talks to end the fighting.From my outreach with various actors, elements of diplomatic progress are coming into view on several key issues, he said, enough to end hostilities now. But he gave no further details.As part of a series of addresses to foreign legislatures, Zelenskyy told Italian lawmakers Tuesday that Mariupol had been destroyed and urged them to strengthen sanctions against Russia, noting many wealthy Russians have homes in the country.Dont be a resort for murderers, he said in a link from Kyiv. Block all their real estate, accounts and yachts. In the last update from Mariupol officials, they said March 15 that at least 2,300 people had died in the siege. Zelenskyy said 117 children have been killed in the war.Thousands have managed to flee Mariupol, where the bombardment has cut off electricity, water and food supplies and severed communication with the outside world. The city council said Tuesday that more than 1,100 people who had escaped the siege were in a convoy of buses heading to a city northwest of Mariupol.But the Red Cross said a humanitarian aid convoy trying to reach the city with desperately needed supplies still had not been able to enter.Perched on the Sea of Azov, Mariupol is a crucial port for Ukraine and lies along a stretch of territory between Russia and Crimea. The siege has cut the city off from the sea and allowed Russia to establish a land corridor to Crimea.But its not clear how much of the city Russia holds, with fleeing residents saying fighting continues street by street.Ukraines Defense Ministry said Tuesday that their forces were still defending the city and had destroyed a Russian patrol boat and electronic warfare complex. Britains Defense Ministry said Ukrainian forces continue to repulse Russian attempts to occupy Mariupol.Those who have made it out of Mariupol told of a devastated city.They bombed us for the past 20 days, said 39-year-old Viktoria Totsen, who fled into Poland.
