US SC nominee Jackson vows to defend equal justice for all
20220323
https://www.qatar-tribune.com/news-details/id/231610/us-sc-nominee-jackson-vows-to-defend-equal-justice-for-all
dpa WashingtonJudge Ketanji Brown Jackson, President Joe Bidens historic nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court, promised Monday that if confirmed, she would seek to make the words equal justice under law a reality for all Americans.She called herself an independent jurist who follows the law and pledged to defend the Constitution and the grand experiment of American democracy that has endured over these past 246 years. Backed by her family and a roomful of supporters, she spoke at the end of the first day of her confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee, whose Democrats said they were filled with hope by the nomination of the first Black woman for the post of Supreme Court justice.This is a day of joy, said Democrat Senator Cory Booker. This has never happened before. It shows the world the promise of a true democracy. After describing himself as the proud son of immigrants from Mexico, Democrat Senator Alex Padilla said the men who wrote our founding documents never imagined you could be here. He added that Jacksons appearance here begins a new chapter in American history. The Republicans for the most part avoided attacking her directly, but instead faulted Democrats for their harsh treatment of past GOP nominees.Senator Charles Grassley said the Republicans wont turn this into a spectacle. We will ask tough questions. Senator Lindsey Graham repeated his disappointment that Biden did not select U.S. District Judge J. Michelle Childs from his home state of South Carolina, the candidate Graham said he would have preferred.The committee is evenly split between 11 Democrats and 11 Republicans, but the tenor of Mondays hearing suggested her confirmation will not turn into a fierce partisan fight akin to the 2018 battle over now-Justice Brett Kavanaugh.Jacksons confirmation would not change the ideological balance on the Supreme Court. She would replace liberal Justice Stephen Breyer, but conservatives would maintain a 6-3 majority.Jacksons friends and supporters described her as smart, open-minded and collegial, and not a partisan ideologue.Nonetheless, several Republicans served notice that they planned to grill her on Tuesday, when the hearings resume with questioning.
