Russian attack on Ukraine prompts massive traffic jams as people flee Kyiv
20220224
https://www.foxla.com/news/russian-attack-on-ukraine-prompts-massive-traffic-jams-as-people-flee-kyiv
Sirens rang out in Kyiv and people massed in train stations and took to roads, as Ukraine's government said it was seeing a long-anticipated invasion from the east, north and south and reported more than 40 soldiers had been killed and dozens wounded.
World leaders decried the attack, which could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraines democratically elected government, upend the post-Cold War security order and result in severe economic impact around the world from soaring heating bills to spikes in food prices.
"A full-scale war in Europe has begun," Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said. "Russia is not only attacking Ukraine, but the rules of normal life in the modern world."
NATO's chief said the "brutal act of war" shattered peace on the European continent, as the U.S.-led alliance mobilized more troops to move toward Eastern Europe.
Video showed residents sitting in gridlock traffic along the main Kyiv-Odessa highway as people tried to leave the capital. Other footage showed long lines of vehicles waiting to fill up at a gas station in northwest Ukraine.
In announcing a major military operation, Russian President Vladimir Putin deflected global condemnation and cascading new sanctions  and chillingly referred to his countrys nuclear arsenal as he threatened any foreign country attempting to interfere with "consequences you have never seen."
"We woke up in a different world today," Germanys foreign minister said, as NATO agreed to beef up air, land and sea forces on its eastern flank near Ukraine and Russia.
Residents of the Ukrainian capital began to flee Kyiv along congested highways on Feb. 24, 2022, following the start of announced Russian military operations in Ukraine. Credit: vidanablonska via Storyful
New video obtained by storyful shows explosions in Ukraine after Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a "military operation" in Ukraine, essentially announcing an invasion is underway. Explosions have been heard in multiple cities across Ukraine just hours after Putin issued the order.
KYIV, Ukraine - Photos and videos showed long lines of traffic heading out of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on Thursday after Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on the country, a move condemned by leaders around the world.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
A long line of cars was seen at a gas station in Lutsk, a city in the Volyn region of Ukraine, on Feb. 24, 2022. Credit: malla14 via Storyful
U.S. President Joe Biden declared that the world will "hold Russia accountable." NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg condemned Russias action as a violation of international law and a threat to European security.
KYIV, UKRAINE - FEBRUARY 23: Traffic jam on February 23, 2022 in Kyiv, Ukraine. The country prepared to declare a state of emergency and called upon reservists to return to active duty in response to a looming threat of Russian invasion. On Monday, R
