US revokes Russias most favored nation status bans seafood alcohol diamond imports
20220311
https://www.foxla.com/news/us-eu-g7-countries-plan-to-revoke-most-favored-nation-status-for-russia
Biden said there would be further retaliation if Ukraine is targeted with chemical weapons, a possibility that administration officials have warned about in recent days.
On Monday, Democrats on the powerful House Ways  Means Committee posted, then removed, an announcement on a bipartisan bill to ban Russian oil imports and slap further trade sanctions on the country, according to an aide, because of pushback from the White House against acting before Biden had coordinated with allies and reached a decision on both matters. The House voted Wednesday on a narrower bill to ban Russian energy imports after Biden instituted the ban by executive order.
Instead of the current tariff rate, buyers of Russian goods would pay rates established under the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930, which disrupted trade during the Great Depression. This would still be zero for uranium, rhodium, palladium, silver bullion and king crabs. But the import tax would shoot up for unwrought aluminum, plywood, semi-finished steel and diamonds, among other products.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
Biden's changes on Russia's trade status come as bipartisan pressure has been building in Washington to revoke what is formally known as "permanent normal trade relations" with Russia. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pressed the U.S. and allies to take the action against Russia in remarks to Congress over the weekend. It follows days after the Biden moved to ban imports of Russian oil and gas products.
Because Russian imports into the U.S. are primarily natural resources, they would generally face little to no increase in their tariffs because of the lost status, Ed Gresser of the Progressive Policy Institute in Washington, said in an online post.
Stripping most favored nation status from Russia would allow the U.S. and allies to impose higher tariffs on some Russian imports, increasing the isolation of the Russian economy.
President Joe Biden announced the U.S. is banning Russian oil imports, saying Americans will not be part of subsidizing Putin's war with Ukraine. Biden, who noted many allies may not be in a position to join the U.S. in the ban, said this is part of an ongoing effort to cripple Russia's economy.
The broad trade shift, which revokes the "most favored nation" status for Russia, is being taken in coordination with the European Union and Group of Seven countries.
Most favored nation status has been a baseline for global trade, ensuring that countries within the World Trade Organization are treated similarly. Some countries in the WTO have special privileges due to their status as developing economies. Russia would join the ranks of Cuba and North Korea by not having MFN status from the U.S.
"Putins premeditated, unprovoked war is an attack on the Ukrainian people and an attack on democracy  and the House remains steadfast in our commitment to partnering with President Biden and our allies to level swift, severe punishment and stand with the Ukrainian people," she said.
Russia provided less than 1 of U.S. vodka imports in December, according to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, and less than 2 of U.S. seafood imports by volume, according to federal statistics.
The revocation carries mostly symbolic weight. The earlier sanctions on imports of Russian oil, gas and coal already cut off about 60 of U.S. imports from the country, and the new import bans announced Friday add up to only about $1 billion in revenue, according to White House figures.
Canada was the first major U.S. ally to remove most favored nation status for Russia last week.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said lawmakers would pass legislation to formalize the trade downgrade.
President Joe Biden announced new sanctions against Russia for the invasion of Ukraine including revoking permanent normal trade relations, which will make it harder for Russia to do business with the U.S. overall. The president also announced new bans on imports from Russia that include seafood, vodka and diamonds.
WASHINGTON - President Joe Biden announced Friday the U.S. will dramatically downgrade its trade status with Russia as punishment for its invasion of Ukraine and also ban imports of Russian seafood, alcohol and diamonds.
This week's moves are the latest in a series of sanctions aimed at crippling the Russian economy and a sign that the U.S. and its allies will continue to use their financial heft to retaliate against Russian President Vladimir Putin. The other measures include the freezing of central bank assets, limits on exports and sanctions against Russian oligarchs and their families. These financial tools have led to the Russian ruble losing about half of its value against the U.S. dollar over the past month, which has caused destructive inflation that could erode Putins ability to wage a prolonged war in Ukraine.
U.S. President Joe Biden speaks in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, March 11, 2022. Photographer: Al DragoBloomberg via Getty Images
"The free world is coming together to confront Putin," Biden said from the Roosevelt Room of the White House. He also said countries were adding new names to a list of Russian oligarchs who are facing sanctions, and the U.S. is cutting the flow of high-end American products such as expensive watches, cars and clothing.
