Canada pulls troops out of Ukraine in strong signal of imminent Russian invasion
20220214
https://leaderpost.com/news/canada-pulls-troops-out-of-ukraine-in-strong-signal-of-imminent-russian-invasion/wcm/602184a9-13a2-4dff-b162-a253823fca12
Lviv is home to a Ukrainian military base that served as the main hub for Canadas 200-soldier training mission in the former Soviet country.
On Saturday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau sought to reassure Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that Canada stands with his country.
Instead, the department says the move allows the military time to refocus efforts in the face of Russias unwarranted aggression against Ukraine.
Defence Minister Anita Anand says Canada remains committed to supporting the people of Ukraine and helping its security forces improve their capabilities.
She adds that the security of Canadian Armed Forces troops is a top priority, and this temporary repositioning will ensure the safety of Canadian personnel.
Defence Department says soldiers who have been in Ukraine as part of a training mission are being temporarily relocated elsewhere in Europe
The announcement that troops were moved out of Ukraine comes one day after Canada shuttered its embassy in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and relocated its diplomatic staff to a temporary office in Lviv in the western part of the country.
Russia has mobilized 100,000 troops on its border with Ukraine and is demanding a series of concessions from the NATO military alliance, which includes Canada.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The department wont say where the soldiers have gone, nor how many of them have been moved for security reasons.
A summary of Trudeaus conversation with Zelenskyy provided by the Prime Ministers Office indicated the Canadian leader had once again committed to imposing economic sanctions on Russia in response to an invasion of Ukraine.
The Defence Department says soldiers who have been in Ukraine as part of a training mission are being temporarily relocated to elsewhere in Europe.
OTTAWA  The military is moving troops out of Ukraine in one of the strongest signals yet that a Russian invasion is imminent.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
While Russia has denied wanting a war, diplomatic talks between Moscow and the West have failed to resolve the standoff and NATO leaders have started warning of a conflict in Ukraine.
A statement from the department says the movement of troops out of Ukraine doesnt signal the end of the training mission meant to bolster that countrys security forces.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
