Mandryk Serious responses to tough issues fleeting at the legislature
20220309
https://leaderpost.com/opinion/columnists/mandryk-serious-responses-to-tough-issues-fleeting-at-the-legislature
But this paled in comparison with Energy Minister Bronwyn Eyres phoney, scripted and partisan tirade in response to a serious question from the NDPs Aleana Young about a company that cant get its pulpforestry products to market because of a lack of rail cars.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
It was a grown-up response thats better than the easycheesy political hit from Albertas Jason Kenney and especially the Saskatchewan NDP here, who love nothing better than to complain about Saskatchewan Party government debt, insufficient spending on health and social programs and the need for a greener economy and discouraging fossil fuel consumption.
Following questions by the NDPs Trent Wotherspoon about suspending our 15-cent-a-litre provincial tax with pump prices hovering around $1.60 a litre, Moe acknowledged support for hard-hit consumers may be needed. However, he noted people need significant investment in health care with surgical waiting lists lengthened by the pandemic. That means government revenue, and gas tax is bringing in $478 million for this years budget.
And kudos to Moe for  at least initially  recognizing that whats happening 8,000 kilometres to the east requires a serious premier who understands the profound effect the conflict is having on life here at home.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
For an ever-so-fleeting time, it suspended the silly, dumb and dishonest stuff that far too often dominates the Legislative Chamber.
With the desks of each of the 61 MLAs adorned with the blue and yellow of the Ukrainian flag, now representing courage and grace most of us cant even imagine, the sitting started with a sense of unity and purpose. Sometimes politicians can rise to the occasion.
Was this really the right day and place to trot out your obnoxious political line to entertain caucus colleagues? Is there no ability to read the room? To be a grown-up?
And if politicians were more willing to demonstrate this kind of leadership that speaks to a need for all of us to make our little contributions to this world, wed all be a little farther ahead in the big battles like climate change or ending this pandemic.
This is a very important conversation to have surrounding our energy security  so we dont find ourselves in the perplexing situation other countries find themselves in today, Moe told reporters on the need for Canadian oil and gas here and abroad.
It began with Health Minister Paul Merriman and then Moe telling us its the provinces top doctor now insisting we cant have a daily accounting of how many of our neighbours died of COVID-19. Really? We are to believe the provinces chief medical health officer sees daily reporting of critical statistical information as a public health risk?
No, Mondays emergency debate, in which this small province officially condemned Russia, wasnt all that meaningful. Removing Russian-made vodka from liquor store shelves or the initial $100,000 for humanitarian aid also wont do much. But its a start. Every little gesture contributes to the much bigger, more important global cause.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
For Goldilocks and the rest of the squad over there, jobs are never green enough, theyre never woke enough, theyre never subsidized enough, theyre never transitioned enough, theyre never just right, Eyre said, mustering all the condescension she could.
Kudos to Trade and Export Development Minister Jeremy Harrison for committing to resettle thousands of Ukrainian refuges regardless of their skill set or economic status. We think it all adds up to the fact we take very, very large numbers of refugees right now, Harrison said.
Thoughtful. Intelligent. Reasoned. And thenwe slipped back into the sorry way business is usually conducted in the Legislative Chamber.
The war in Ukraine quickly proved to be a brutal awakening for politicians returning to the Saskatchewan legislature for the first day of the spring sitting on Monday.
Why couldnt it have lasted longer? It was really nice  refreshing for us all.
Whats sad, though, is that for a brief time on Monday, Saskatchewan politicians showed they could be better.
A cold splash of reality seems a good thing for Saskatchewan politicians  or at least, it was for awhile.
