Opinion How does Canada measure up in welcoming Ukrainians
20220411
https://leaderpost.com/opinion/george-melnyk-how-does-canada-measure-up-to-other-countries-in-welcoming-ukrainians/wcm/e84eac6e-4fc0-43f0-8864-9c0c857d0355
Canada is an important player in dealing with a tragedy involving millions. Uncertainty for the visa holders and potential complications for Canadas already stressed refugee-adjudication process means the current program is incomplete. Its time to change that.
And there is the issue of whether provincial governments will help with medical care. Newfoundland and Labrador, Ontario and Saskatchewan have said that those with the new emergency visa will get medical care. B.C. has announced that anyone in the CUAET program who has a six-month or longer work permit is eligible to apply.
The Canada Ukraine Authorization for Emergency Travel CUAET program was announced on March 17. The program let Ukrainians who had fled the war currently over four million to apply for a special visa that allows them to stay in Canada for up to three years. They can work or study if they wish and children can attend school immediately. The number of such visas is unlimited and there is no fee. As of April 6 Canada has received 112,000 applications and approved more than 26,500, approximately 1,300 approvals per day. .
The directive was a way of encouraging them to move beyond the countries that border Ukraine. The EUs temporary concept surfaced two weeks later in Canadas special visa program. It recognizes that women and children make up 90 per cent of these refugees and that there is a well-founded hope that most of them will return to their homeland and their families once the war ends. This is already happening. The Ukrainian government reported that in the last week in March 144,000 people left Ukraine, while 88,000 returned. Considering the recent withdrawal of Russian forces from Kyiv and other areas the number of returnees will likely only increase.
On this side of the pond the United States has announced a quota of one hundred thousand Ukrainian refugees. The announcement came a week after Canadas and included over $1 billion in humanitarian aid. Ukrainians will enter the country through various visa programs plus the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program. The Americans will recognize them as genuine refugees, which means that they will not be temporary visitors unless they want to be.
In early March the United Kingdom announced a Ukraine family visa scheme for Ukrainians who have family in the U.K. As of March 29, the U.K. had issued 22,800 visas under this scheme. A bit later, the U.K. government announced a new scheme called Homes for Ukraine that let people in the U.K. host Ukrainians refugees. On the first day 100,000 people and organizations registered. The program gives Ukrainians rent-free space for six months. The hosts will be paid a monthly stipend for this. The U.K. government says that it expects hundreds of thousands to apply. As of March 31 the UK had issued 29,200 visas for both the family visa and the home stay schemes. There have been only 65,000 applications.
There are issues with the current temporary residency visas. Will Canada face a spate of in-country refugee claims once the visas expire? What about the cost of getting to Canada? Who pays for that? In the past refugees granted permanent residency in Canada had their flights paid by the government. This was a loan that required repayment. No such program exists at the moment for Ukrainians. Nor is there any program, like that of the U.K.s, that subsidizes those who are sheltering Ukrainians in Canada.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
What are other countries doing? The first offer of specific help came from the European Union. On March 3 the EU invoked its Temporary Protection Directive TPD. This directive gives Ukrainians the right to stay from one to three years in an EU member state. They can get residency and work permits, access to education and assistance with medical and housing needs. The TPD was a way of dealing with the unprecedented influx of millions of people into the EU in a matter o f a few weeks.
Letters to the editor shouldbe sent tosunlettersvancouversun.com.The editorial pages editor is Hardip Johal, who can be reached athjohalpostmedia.com.
How does Canadas program measure up to the initiatives from these other countries? Canada has made a speedy start in processing visa applications and it is planning to announce a family reunification program for Ukrainians as well. Those approved for family reunification should be able to enter Canada as permanent residents. Of course, processing for this status will take longer than temporary residence visas.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Is there more to this story? Wed like to hear from you about this or any other stories you think we should know about. Emailvantipspostmedia.com.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
