Russia strikes Kyiv for first time in weeks Ukraine touts counterattack in east
20220605
https://leaderpost.com:443/news/world/russia-strikes-kyiv-for-first-time-in-weeks-ukraine-touts-counterattack-in-east/wcm/8377b52d-1e85-4e24-8ac2-326f346012db
Britains defence ministry said on Sunday that Ukrainian counterattacks in Sievierodonetsk over the past 24 hours were likely to blunt any operational momentum Russia had gained. Moscow was deploying poorly equipped separatist fighters in the city to limit the risk to its regular forces, it said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
In another sign Ukraine has held off the Russian advance, Gaidai said evacuations resumed from the Ukrainian-held part of Luhansk province on Sunday, and 98 people had escaped. Russian forces have been trying for weeks to cut off the main road out to encircle Ukrainian troops there, and evacuations were halted last week after a journalist was killed by shelling.
Ukraine said Russia had carried out the strike using long-range air-launched missiles fired from heavy bombers as far away as the Caspian Sea  a weapon far more valuable than the tanks Russia claimed to have hit.
Ukraines nuclear power operator said a Russian cruise missile had flown critically low over the countrys second largest nuclear power plant.
Sundays attack was the first big strike on Kyiv since late April, when a missile killed a journalist. Recent weeks have seen Russia focus its destructive might mainly on front lines in the east and south, although Moscow occasionally strikes elsewhere in what it calls a campaign to degrade Ukraines military infrastructure and block Western arms shipments.
The United States said last week it would send new, advanced medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine, which Kyiv hopes will help tip the balance in the conflict. Washington has ruled out sending longer-range munitions and says Kyiv has promised not to strike inside Russia.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
In a Sunday address in Rome, Pope Francis noted that more than 100 days had passed since the start of the armed aggression against Ukraine, and called the war the negation of Gods dream.
They will simply try to level everything. They have no other tactics, Gaidai said of the Russians.
A Russian state media journalist on Sunday said that Russian Major General Roman Kutuzov had been killed in eastern Ukraine, adding to the string of high-ranking military casualties sustained by Moscow.
The claims could not be independently verified. Both sides say they have inflicted huge casualties in Sievierodonetsk, in a battle that could determine which side carries the momentum into a protracted war of attrition in coming months.
Russia has concentrated its forces in recent weeks on the small eastern industrial city of Sievierodonetsk, pursuing one of the biggest ground battles of the war in a bid to capture one of two eastern provinces  Luhansk and Donetsk  it claims on behalf of separatist proxies.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
In an interview with Russian state television, President Vladimir Putin played down the impact of the new rockets, although he warned Washington not to send longer range ones.
The rockets Washington had promised so far were comparable to Soviet-era weapons Ukraine already had, Putin said.
Dark smoke could be seen from many miles away after the attack on two outlying districts of Kyiv. Ukraine said the strike hit a rail car repair works Moscow said it had destroyed tanks sent by Eastern European countries to Ukraine.
After retreating steadily in the city in recent days, Ukraine mounted a counter-attack there, which it said took the Russians by surprise. After recapturing a swathe of the city, Ukrainian forces were now in control of half of it and continuing to push the Russians back, said Serhiy Gaidai, governor of Luhansk province that includes Sievierodonetsk.
Ukraines military reported that its forces repelled seven attacks in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions on Sunday, destroying four tanks and shooting down a combat helicopter.
KYIV  Russia struck Ukraines capital Kyiv with missiles early on Sunday for the first time in more than a month, while Ukrainian officials said a counter-attack on the main battlefield in the east had retaken half of the city of Sievierodonetsk.
This is nothing new. It doesnt change anything in essence, Putin said. If Washington were to deliver longer range rockets, we will strike at those targets which we have not yet been hitting, he said. He also dismissed the impact of Western drones, saying Russia had been cracking them like nuts.
At least one person was hospitalized though there were no immediate reports of deaths. The strike was a sudden reminder of war in a capital where normal life has largely returned since Russian forces were driven from its outskirts in March.
In neighbouring Donetsk province, Russian forces have been advancing in recent days in territory north of the Siverskiy Donets river, in advance of what Ukraine anticipates could be a push on the major city of Sloviansk.
The Kremlin resorts to new insidious attacks. Todays missile strikes at Kyiv have only one goal  kill as many as possible, tweeted Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited front-line troops in the southeastern region of Zaporizhzhia, his office said on Sunday.
