Russia accuses Ukraine of poisoning some of their soldiers
20220820
https://leaderpost.com:443/news/world/russia-accuses-ukraine-of-poisoning-some-of-their-soldiers/wcm/90d70b5e-67fe-434b-a93e-7c119da6f983
The department Russian defense ministry does not clarify whether the poisoning could have been caused by expired canned meat, in which botulinum toxin is often found. Overdue rations have been massively complained about by the occupying forces since the first days of the invasion of Ukraine, he said.
Ukraines defense ministry did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment, but interior ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko commented on the Russian allegation on the Telegram messaging app.
Botulinum toxin type B is a neurotoxin that can cause botulism when ingested in previously contaminated food products, but it can also have medical uses.
The Russian defense ministry said it was conducting an additional investigation into an incident in which Volodymyr Saldo, the Russian-installed administration in Ukraines occupied Kherson region, was taken ill.
The Russian defense ministry said a number of Russian servicemen had been taken to a military hospital with signs of serious poisoning on July 31. Tests showed a toxic substance, botulinum toxin type B, in their bodies, it said.
An adviser to Ukraines interior ministry said in response that the alleged poisoning could have been caused by Russian forces eating expired canned meat.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
It did not say how many servicemen had suffered or what their condition was now. It did not say what the supporting evidence was.
On the fact of chemical terrorism sanctioned by the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy regime, Russia is preparing supporting evidence with the results of all the analyzes, the ministry said in a statement.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Saldo, a former mayor of the city of Kherson who was appointed to head the region of the same name when Russian troops overran it in early March, fell ill in early August. Reporting by Reuters editing by Timothy Heritage
MOSCOW  Russias defense ministry accused Ukraine on Saturday of poisoning some of its servicemen in the Russian-controlled part of Ukraines southeastern region of Zaporizhzhia in late July.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
