SLGA Saskatoon Coop pulling Russian products from store shelves
20220301
https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/slga-saskatoon-co-op-pulling-russian-products-from-store-shelves
Canadians in need of emergency consular assistance can contact the embassy by email atKYIV-Consularinternational.gc.ca At any time, Canadians can also contact Global Affairs Canadas 247 Emergency Watch and Response Centre by phone at 1 613 996 8885 by email atsosinternational.gc.caor by SMS at 1 613 686 3658.
Meanwhile, Access Communications announced on Monday that it would remove the Russia Today network from its AccessNexTV Stream lineup.
In recent days, in addition to delisting Russian products at SLGA and encouraging private retailers to do the same, the province said its efforts include:
At Saskatoon Co-op we denounce the actions of Russia and stand with Ukraine. We have taken action to remove Russian origin products from our shelves, read the post.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
SLGA will delist Russian products from its distribution centre and retail stores effective immediately and encourage private retailers to do the same, said an SLGA spokesperson in a statement on Monday.
Saskatoon Co-op declined to comment further, but a spokesperson said the Russian products were mainly liquor.
Russia Today is a state-run Russian television network. The channel launched on AccessNexTV Stream on Dec.r 20, 2021, along with several new multicultural offerings.
The provincial governments release notes Ukrainian culture and traditions are deeply embedded in Saskatchewan, as approximately 15 per cent of our provinces residents trace all or part of their ancestry to Ukraine.
In a news release issued on Monday, the provincial government said it continues to work with ministries, crowns and agencies, as well as with partners in the Saskatchewan Ukrainian community to offer supports.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
We share the concerns of many Canadians with the current events in Ukraine, said Jim Deane, CEO of Access Communications, in a news release. Access Communications stands with Ukraine, and were committed to supporting the Ukrainian-Canadian members of our community.
Russian vodka will be no longer be found at Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority SLGA retail stores.
For any Saskatchewan individuals who may be out of the country, the following resources from the Government of Canada should be used:
Russia should be met with severe and immediate trade sanctions and the Government of Saskatchewan supports the sanctions imposed by the federal government and other nations across the world. The government also continues to call for the immediate end to the importation of Russian oil and natural gas, the release adds.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
The Saskatoon Co-op has done the same. In a Facebook post published on Saturday, the Co-op said it was also removing Russian products.
Donations from the public in support of humanitarian efforts can be made to the Ukrainian Canadian Congress athttps:www.cufoundation.cadonateor through the Canadian Red Cross in which the Government of Canada will match donations made between February 24, 2022, and March 18, 2022, up to a maximum of $10 million.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
As well, the Government of Canada is encouraging people to sign up for the Registration of Canadians Abroad, so that critical information and updates can be directly communicated to those individuals. Individuals can register athttps:travel.gc.catravellingregistration.
The news seems to be flying at us faster all the time. From COVID-19 updates to politics and crime and everything in between, it can be hard to keep up. With that in mind, the Regina Leader-Post has created an Afternoon Headlines newsletter that can be delivered daily to your inbox to help make sure you are up to date with the most vital news of the day. Click here to subscribe.
