Swift Current resident headed to Europe to assist Ukrainians
20220312
https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/swift-current-resident-headed-to-europe-to-assist-ukrainians
His son, he said, will need to make a connection with a wholesale water supplier and make a purchase on behalf of the charity.
The news seems to be flying at us faster all the time. From COVID-19 updates to politics and crime and everything in between, it can be hard to keep up. With that in mind, the Saskatoon StarPhoenix has created anAfternoon Headlinesnewsletter that can be delivered daily to your inbox to help make sure you are up to date with the most vital news of the day.Click here to subscribe.
Assisting with water well drilling and hand pump installation in developing nations is the normal type of work the charity takes on, Dan said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
In part, he said his work will involve trying to facilitate water supplies to be sent into Ukraine. His father Dan Nickol is the vice-president of the registered charity Lifewater Canada.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Knowing he is able, Coleton Nickol felt a moral imperative to book a ticket to Europe, where he plans to assist those affected by the war in Ukraine.
His charitys connection in Poland comprises a group of Ukrainian refugees, he said, who have relationships with other Canadian and international NGOs, though he did not specify these entities by name.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
It does come down to helping people, he said, noting that he will be joined by a group of around five other Canadians from across the country.
His trip is planned for just under two weeks, and he will be based out of the city of Krakow, he said.
After finding theres a need in the area for bottled water, the charity decided to pitch in. He said Lifewater Canada plans to cap its donation at around $75,000, and right now its working to set up the supply line.
His family has a history of travelling and helping where we can, he said, but noted his respect for his son not wanting to assist in only the easy places.
Lifewater Canada is a charity with Christian influences, and Coleton believes the group of Canadians hes going with are all Christians, but he noted ministry isnt the aim of the trip.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
However, with conflict raging in Ukraine, Dan says his organization heard a strong desire for something to be done there, from one of its regular donors.
The 22-year-old Swift Current man said hell depart Monday for Poland. There, he plans to relieve pressure on local volunteers, working to deliver supplies into Ukraine and ferry refugees out.
When asked how he felt, as a father, about his sons trip, he took a moment to collect himself.
While Coleton doesnt plan to cross the border into a conflict zone, Dan said he and his wife are still concerned, given the evolving situation in the region.
