Trudeau condemns egregious attack on Ukraine says Russia will suffer consequences
20220224
https://leaderpost.com/news/national/trudeau-condemns-egregious-attack-on-ukraine-says-russia-will-suffer-consequences/wcm/42757a7d-8996-4854-9f7b-4839b5390f93
The Ukrainian Canadian Congress Alberta Provincial Council issued a statement saying more than 330 000 people in Alberta claim Ukrainian ancestry, and called for Albertans to support Ukraine militarily, politically, economically and financially.
Unprovoked, evil, aggression. From a permanent member of the Security Council, during a meeting of the Security Council of the United Nations.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is condemning Russias attack on Ukraine and calling on Russian President Vladimir Putin to withdraw all military forces from the country.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Putin warned other countries Wednesday that any attempt to interfere with the Russian military action would lead to consequences they have never seen.
As Putin spoke, big explosions were heard in Kyiv, Kharkiv and other areas of Ukraine.
Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity must be respected and the Ukrainian people must be free to determine their own future.
Unprovoked, evil, aggression. From a permanent member of the Security Council, during a meeting of the Security Council of the United Nations. Sheet, brutal thuggery. Time to get out of that meeting.
Those who choose to remain should monitor trustworthy news sources to stay informed on the evolving situation and follow instructions from local authorities, it said.
He said the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a claim the U.S. had predicted he would falsely make to justify an invasion.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Alberta Premier Jason Kenney called the invasion devastating, tweeting Weakness invites aggression. The democratic world must be united in standing with Ukraine. That should begin with a hard global embargo of all Russian oil  gas exports.
Canada condemns in the strongest possible terms Russias egregious attack on Ukraine, Trudeau said in a statement late Wednesday.
Calling for NATO allies to stand ready to honour their full treaty commitments, Harper wrote Putin and his gang must be treated like the full global pariahs they have chosen to become. They must be sanctioned, excluded and punished at every turn.
Foreign Affairs Minister Melanie Joly said she has spoken with Canadas ambassador to Ukraine, Larisa Galadza.
These unprovoked actions are a clear further violation of Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity. They are also in violation of Russias obligations under international law and the Charter of the United Nations.
Former Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper issued a statement on Twitter, saying he prays for the people of Ukraine, and that the invasion is a long time coming.
The team is safe and the embassy will offer consular services to Canadians from Lviv as long as possible, Joly said on Twitter. If you need consular help in Ukraine, please reach us at sosinternational.gc.ca.
Bob Rae, Canadas ambassador to the United Nations, called the attack a grotesque war crime.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
In a televised address, Putin accused the U.S. and its allies of ignoring Russias demand to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and offer Moscow security guarantees. He said Russias goal was not to occupy Ukraine.
Updated travel advice for Canadians in Ukraine warned, however, that the governments ability to provide consular services in Ukraine could become severely limited, and that Canadians should not rely on the government to help them leave the country.
Putins war on Ukraine began in 2014, the statement reads. This full scale attack, unleashing death and horror on a mass scale, merely makes explicit what he has long planned.
Manitoba Premier Heather Stefanson tweeted that her province joined the federal government in calling on Russia to end its invasion, writing Its hard to imagine how difficult watching the news must be for so many Manitobans who have loved ones in Ukraine.
Former Conservative MP James Moore called on the federal government to table a motion in Parliament to expel Russian Ambassador Oleg V. Stepanov.
Trudeau said he would be meeting Thursday with G7 partners and would work quickly with NATO and Canadas allies to collectively respond to these reckless and dangerous acts, including by imposing significant sanctions in addition to those already announced.
If you are in Ukraine, you should shelter in place unless it is safe for you to leave the country, the updated guidance said.
Putin is the cause of all this. We cannot let him win, Rae said on Twitter. Cmon people, stop pretending. War has started.
Canada calls on Russia to immediately cease all hostile and provocative actions against Ukraine, and withdraw all military and proxy forces from the country. Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity must be respected.
