Ukraines Hedgehogs are a prickly problem for Putin
20220611
https://leaderpost.com:443/news/world/ukraines-hedgehogs-are-a-prickly-problem-for-putin/wcm/d7197801-f106-45b2-b348-1f6dab4077d8
Neighbours have banded together and are calling their ad hoc unit the Hedgehogs as a nod to their strategy of making their neighbourhood too difficult for the Russians to touch.
There was no sign of the dossiers pessimism among the Hedgehogs: men who survived the Russians laying waste to their hometown in March and who are now prepared to face another hellscape in Donbas.
This was not a war effort that had been forced to embrace recruits with a vastly different range of experience, he said.
The mens patrols are voluntary but foreshadow what may still come for citizens of Irpin  a once idyllic commuter town on the outskirts of Kyiv  who could be called up at any time to serve in the devastating war of attrition on the eastern front with Russia.
When Moscow unexpectedly launched a barbaric assault on the towns surrounding the Ukrainian capital in February, neighbours banded together and picked up hunting rifles, shotguns and literally any weapons they could find to fight Russian soldiers back from their families doorsteps.
It was here, early in the war, that Russian shelling killed dozens of fleeing civilians, turning the crossing into a symbol of human suffering.
Matthew Robinson, 39, from Yorkshire, is one of about 40 international ex-military trainers working with the Georgian Legion in Kyiv to teach recruits the basics of battle tactics and weapons handling.
On Thursday, a Ukrainian and western intelligence dossier suggested there was a growing risk of demoralised Ukrainian soldiers deserting their ranks, The Independent reported. The Ministry of Defence refuted the report as untrue and likened it to Russian propaganda.
Mykhailo Podolyak, a senior presidential adviser, said soldiers did receive proper training and refuted claims that front-line soldiers do not have body armour, although he has repeatedly stressed the terrible death toll inflicted by Russian artillery.
The Russian professional army is losing to all of these people, he said, pointing to the deaths of multiple high-ranking Russian officers, including 12 generals.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
It has engaged a network of military commanders to donate nine busses and 155 tons of supplies including bulletproof vests, ballistic helmets and first aid kits to Ukraines forces, transported invisibly in vans and cars to where it is most needed.
Official recruitment statistics are hard to nail down, but reports suggest Ukrainians are still lining up to join the fight  many motivated by a higher cause of defeating the advance of an authoritarian aggressor.
They have big shopping lists of everything they need. Its horrifying. I look at these men and think a third of you are not going to live, he said.
Matt Dimmick, SOAs regional programme manager for Europe and previous director for Russia and Eastern Europe on the US National Security Council, said that while the Russians were bleeding the Ukrainians with artillery, Moscow, too, was being worn down by battle.
The men, who did not wish to reveal their full names, called their ad hoc unit the Hedgehogs as a nod to their strategy of making their neighbourhood too difficult for the Russians to touch.
He said a training session this week was abruptly called off by the military, with the message that they are already being sent to the front, so we are cancelling the exercises.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
If our guys in the East need back-up and support, we are ready to do that, said Hulk, 35, who in peacetime managed nightclubs and a furniture business. We are defending our land. Its important that we didnt go to anyone elses country. They came here and they are killing our women and children. So we are ready to fight and defend to the last one of us.
He still guards the street next to the blackened, charred remains of their flat in a once child-friendly cul-de-sac now pockmarked by shell craters.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
The Russians have put everything they have into the fight, he said. They dont have a renewable resource when it comes to their own troops and capabilities.
Russians dont understand how bees operate. It looks like chaos but, in the end, they get the job done, he said.
The fight is very personal. Doberman, 33, a former salesman, said he cried after he lost his dream to hold his first child, William, who was born last week in Canada rather than at home in Irpin.
Armed with AK-74s and clad in mismatched uniforms, the husbands and fathers of Irpin still patrol near the towns shattered bridge.
Peace has returned to Irpin, but their families have not returned to the ruins from their scattered refuges. The Hedgehogs, who have since forged links to the local Territorial Defence Forces, say they are training to go to the eastern front and see the war through to its bitter end.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy, Ukraines president, has warned the fate of the entire Donbas region hangs on victory in the fight over the embattled city.
Their determination defies the horrific admission this week by Ukrainian government officials that the brutal battle over the strategic industrial town of Severodonetsk is costing Ukraine up to 200 military casualties every day, as Russia pummels defending forces with superior long-range weaponry.
Mr Robinson, who said he had trained some 2,000 completely inexperienced volunteers, including the Hedgehogs, expressed frustration that so many were being deployed ill-trained and ill-equipped with a hodge-podge of body armour, firearms with no optics, and sub-optimal ammunition.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
You do not have enough time to thoroughly drill these guys on the basic principles. You have to go through the motions and hope that they live and learn but its horrifying to see they are sending these men out to the front with these issues.
It seems that we were underestimated, and they were overestimated, said Ruslan Kavatsiuk, a Ukrainian adviser for Spirit of America SOA, a US non-profit that is one of several groups distributing non-lethal military gear to Ukrainian front lines.
Experts also present a more complex overview of the state of Ukraines forces, stating that despite wartime chaos, the country has held off an overwhelmingly powerful enemy.
Beard, 36, a truck driver, also forced his wife to flee to safety with their seven-year-old son and two-month-old daughter after their apartment building was hit by a mortar.
At of the end of May, President Zelenskyy said some 700,000 military personnel were defending the country.
The more pressing challenges appear to be a lack of experience and training, and, in recent months, some shortfalls in protective gear like flak jackets, helmets, ear and eye protection.
Hulk, Doberman, Beard and Armenian became the nicknames of one Dads Army who forged a dogged camaraderie in the ashes of their homes.
They could make limited gains in some areas where they focused artillery power but would probably suffer equal or more losses where they did not have similar resources.
While they could become entrenched and hard to root out, they may have reached their limits of advancing, he added.
Konrad Muzyka, founder of Rochan Consulting, an independent defence consulting firm, told The Economist the number of would-be recruits for the armed forces is so high that there is a month-long waiting list to be inducted.
