Ukraine offers extra 15 mcmday of gas transit capacity for Oct
20210819
https://leaderpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/ukraine-offers-extra-15-mcm-day-of-gas-transit-capacity-for-oct
Russias Gazprom has the right to book extra guaranteed transit capacity in addition to already agreed volumes.
Ukraine, whose gas pipelines are capable of providing an annual transit of about 146 bcm of gas to Europe, regularly offers additional capacities at auctions to speed up filling storage facilities in Europe and reduce the gas deficit, but Gazprom has declined such offers.
Gazprom booked only 650,000 mcm from a proposed volume of 15 mcm for September, and Makogon said the Ukrainian operator would continue to offer the remaining 14.35 mcm for September at daily auctions.
Sergiy Makogon said that Ukraine is ready to provide an additional 9.8 mcm per day in extra capacity at the Sudzha crossing point and another 5.2 mcmday at Sokhranivka point on the Russian-Ukrainian border.
KYIV  Ukraine is offering guaranteed extra transit capacity for Russian gas to Europe at 15 million cubic meters mcm per day for October, the head of the countrys gas pipelines operator told Reuters on Thursday.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
If all 100 of the guaranteed capacity is distributed, it will be possible to book additional intermittent capacity for the same period, said Makogon.
Analysts have said that Gazprom has not booked larger volumes in a move to push for the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which is almost complete. Reporting by Natalia Zinets Editing by Susan Fenton
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Russian and Ukrainian gas companies signed a five-year deal at the end of 2019 to safeguard the transit of Russian gas to Europe via Ukraine. The agreement assumes an annual volume of transit at 40 bcm in 2021-2024, which is about 110 mcm per day.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
