Ukraines Naftogaz RWE Sign Memo of Understanding on Hydrogen
20210822
https://leaderpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/ukraines-naftogaz-rwe-sign-memo-of-understanding-on-hydrogen
NJSC Naftogaz of Ukraine and German energy trading company RWE Supply  Trading have signed a memorandum of understanding on hydrogen, according to a statement.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
On Friday, Russias President Vladimir Putin raised the stakes in energy tensions between Russia and Europe, laying out conditions for extending an economic lifeline to Ukraine after talks with Germanys Chancellor Angela Merkel.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Both companies agree to explore mutually beneficial cooperation opportunities along the full value chain of green hydrogen and its derivatives like ammonia produced in Ukraine, according to the statement, which is dated Aug. 22.
The announcement comes after the U.S. and Germany completed a deal in July approving completion of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. The two countries also agreed to seek to promote investments of at least $1 billion in a so-called Green Fund to help Ukraines transition to cleaner sources of energy.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
This includes the development of green hydrogen and ammonia production and storage in Ukraine and its export to Germany. Furthermore, Naftogaz and RWE intend to jointly explore commercial opportunities for the sale of Ukrainian green hydrogen in European markets, with a focus on RWEs core markets.
