Your letters for March 17 2022
20220317
https://leaderpost.com/opinion/letters/your-letters-for-march-17-2022
All councillors should to vote for ambitious framework making Regina a leader and seizes opportunities in front of us, writes Jared Clarke.
I began to learn about climate change during my science degree at the University of Regina back in 2005. The threat of rising sea levels, of increasingly severe droughts here on the prairies and the stark loss of biodiversity were all things that scared me as a young scientist. But it wasnt until I became a parent 10 years ago, that the reality of what the future holds if we fail to act, really hit me. Now, I often think about what life will be like on the Prairies we call home, for our children, grand-children or great grand-children, if we cannot heed the dire warnings of the thousands of scientists around the globe.
As we face months of uncertainty while waiting for our under five year olds to be vaccinated, while masks and safe practices blow in the wind, do not think for a second that the premiers lack of support for our scientific and health care community will be forgotten.
Submissions will be verified and edited before publication. We publish the names and community of all letter writers. Emailed letters are preferred but do not send letters as attachments. Writing more than one letter a month is discouraged and open letters are not accepted.
Therefore, I am calling on all Regina city councillors to once again vote unanimously, this time to pass an ambitious and bold framework that positions Regina as a leader and seizes the amazing opportunities in front of us. Now is the time to contact your city councillor to let them now you want to see bold climate action!
The Leader-Post welcomes letters, which should run approximately 250 words and must include the writers name and phone number.
However, this month I am feeling very hopeful. We are at a pivotal moment in our citys history, as Regina city council votes on the recently released Energy and Sustainability Framework. This framework comes as a result of the 100 per cent renewable city motion that passed unanimously by council in 2018 and sets the course for how we fight climate change!
As long as there are nations that dont respect the rule of law there will always be a need for a military deterrent. Its unfortunate but also reality.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
In fact, I can find no letter from him that lays out his support and respect for all their efforts  no encouragement to keep up the good work.
In his letter of March 15, Ed Lehman makes some good points. However, I would like to add that demilitarization only works if all parties conform.
The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Ukraine gave up all of its nuclear weapons in 1994 with assurances from Russia that its sovereignty would be respected. As we can see now Russia, as usual, didnt keep its word.
Sometimes I feel hopeless  that no matter how hard we fight things keep getting worse.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Want to know how we decide what to cover and how editorial decisions are made at the Regina Leader-Post and Saskatoon StarPhoenix? Get the weekly Letter From the Editor newsletter from the Editor in Chief Russell Wangersky and join the discussion on what goes into covering news and delivering commentary, both in print and online. Click here to subscribe.
