Putin signals compromise over Ukraine after Macron talks
20220208
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/02/08/putin-signals-compromise-over-ukraine-after-macron-talks
Macron heads to Kyiv on Tuesday after offering Russia "concrete security guarantees" in an effort to dissuade Moscow from invading its neighbour Ukraine, with Russia's leader vowing to find compromise in response.
With tensions soaring between Moscow and Ukraine and its allies, Macron was the first top Western leader to meet Putin since the crisis began in December.
"There is no security for the Europeans if there is no security for Russia," he added.
The French presidency said the proposals include an engagement from both sides not to take any new military action, the launching of a new strategic dialogue and efforts to revive the peace process in Kyiv's conflict with Moscow-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
The coming days will be crucial in the Ukraine standoff, French President Emmanuel Macron said after the meeting, while still blaming the West for raising tensions over Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin says he is ready for compromise and will look at proposals put forward by French leader Emmanuel Macron after some progress had been made in the talks.
Russia, jostling for influence in post-Cold War Europe, wants security guarantees that include a promise of no missile deployments near its borders and a scaling back of NATO's military infrastructure.
He did not provide any details but said the two leaders would speak by phone after Macron meets with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
"President Putin assured me of his readiness to engage in this sense and his desire to maintain stability and the territorial integrity of Ukraine," Macron said.
Putin said the first Moscow summit he has held with a Western leader since the Kremlin began massing troops near its neighbor had been substantive, but also repeated warnings about the threat of war were Ukraine to join NATO.
Macron's visit comes during a week of intense Western diplomacy amid a major Russian military buildup on its southwestern frontier that has raised fears it could soon march into Ukraine.
Emmanuel Macron speaks during a joint press conference with Vladimir Putin after their talks in Moscow. AP
Putin said several proposals put forward by Macron at talks on Monday could form a basis for moving forward on the crisis over Ukraine.
Putin told Macron Moscow would "do everything to find compromises that suit everyone", raising the prospect of a path to de-escalating the volatile situation.
"A number of his ideas, proposals... are possible as a basis for further steps," Putin said after more than five hours of talks in the Kremlin.
