Russian soldiers raping Ukrainian women says MP
20220329
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/03/29/russian-soldiers-raping-ukrainian-women-says-mp
The MP added: Thats why you know, when weve been talking to Boris Johnson, when we will be talking to your Home Office, when weve been talking to MPs of UK, weve also raised this issue that this aftermath, which we are dealing with right now, the aftermath of war, has to be taken very cautiously, very seriously, and to take into account the UK experience and experience of other countries, which can help us in dealing with psychologists, and how to help these people to actually live over these cases, to keep going afterwards, to keep living.
Ms Mezentseva said there had also been two incidents reported in the past week where Russian soldiers are accused of shooting at civilians queuing for humanitarian aid.
She told Skys Sophy Ridge On Sunday programme: There is one case which was very widely discussed recently because its been recorded and proceeded with by the prosecutors office, and were not going into details, but its quite a scary scene when a civilian was shot dead in his house in a small town next to Kyiv.
And of course, we are expecting many more of them, which will be public once victims will be ready to talk about that.
She described war as violence, but added that this particular incident is horror, questioning how a child will cope after seeing something so distressing.
The Ukrainian MP said while one particularly shocking case had been publicly talked about, there are many more victims who will need support in the future.
His wife was  Im sorry but I have to say it  raped several times in front of her underage child.
She referred to a case which Ukraines prosecutor is investigating, where a woman was allegedly sexually assaulted in front of her child.
This is definitely not soldiers against soldiers. This is something which is going beyond the normal understanding of war conduct.
She said: There are many more victims rather than just this one case which has been made public by the prosecutor general.
Mezentseva, who was speaking to Sky from western Ukraine, said the country could benefit from the experience of other countries, such as the UK, in how to help victims in the aftermath of war.
Mezentseva, who is head of the permanent delegation of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, said details of incidents must be recorded as they happen because justice has to prevail.
Ukraine will not be silent about the horror of rapes being committed against women during the Russian invasion, Maria Mezentseva said.
She said: This is just an absolute fact of a war crime against the Ukrainian civilian population.
She added: Of course justice has to prevail, thats why these cases are taken very seriously.
