Russians down Ukrainian drones in Crimea
20220821
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/08/21/russians-down-ukrainian-drones-in-crimea
In Crimea, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014, Russian authorities said local air defenses shot down a drone above the headquarters of the Russian Black Sea Fleet in Sevastopol. It was the second drone incident at the headquarters in three weeks and followed explosions at a Russian airfield and ammunition depot on the peninsula this month.
But the incident underlined Russian forces vulnerability in Crimea. A drone attack on Russia's Black Sea naval headquarters on July 31 injured five people and forced the cancellation of observances of Russias Navy Day.
Meanwhile, fighting in southern Ukrainian areas just north of Crimea has stepped up in recent weeks as Ukrainian forces try to drive Russian forces out of cities they have occupied since early in the six-month-old war.
A Ukrainian airstrike, meanwhile, hit targets in Melitopol, the largest Russian-controlled city in the Zaporizhzhia region, 100 kilometers 65 miles north of Crimea, according to Ukrainian and Russia-installed local officials.
The Ukrainian military on Saturday said it had destroyed a prized Russian radar system and other equipment stationed in occupied areas in the southern Zaporizhzhia region. It was not clear if this was the strike on Melitopol.
Russia considers Crimea to be Russian territory now, especially after building a huge bridge to the peninsula from the Russian mainland, but Ukrainian officials have never accepted its annexation by Russia.
"Tonight, there were powerful explosions in Melitopol, which the whole city heard, the Ukrainian mayor of Melitopol, Ivan Ferodov, said. "According to preliminary data, it was a precise hit on one of the Russian military bases, which the Russian fascists are trying to restore for the umpteenth time in the airfield area.
Mikhail Razvozhaev, the governor of Sevastopol, said the drone that was shot down there fell on the roof of the fleet's headquarters and did not cause casualties or major damage.
Local air defences shot down a drone above the headquarters of the Russian Black Sea Fleet in Sevastopol.
This week, a Russian ammunition depot in Crimea was hit by an explosion. Last week, nine Russian warplanes were reported destroyed at an airbase on Crimea.
Oleg Kryuchkov, an aide to Crimeas governor, also said Saturday that "attacks by small drones triggered air-defense systems in western Crimea.
A Russian missile attack wounded 12 people, including three children, and damaged houses and an apartment block Saturday in the town of Voznesensk in the Mykolaiv region, the Ukrainian prosecutor's office said. Two of the children were in serious condition and the governor said one had lost an eye.
This photo shows the satellite view of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine. FileReuters
"Air defense systems successfully hit all targets over the territory over Crimea on Saturday morning. There are no casualties or material damage, his boss, Sergei Aksyonov, said on Telegram.
In the east, Ukraines military General Staff said Saturday that intensified combat took place around Bakhmut, a small city whose capture would enable Russia to threaten the two largest remaining Ukrainian-held cities in the eastern Donbas region.
Ukrainian authorities have stopped short of publicly claiming responsibility. But President Volodymyr Zelensky alluded to Ukrainian attacks behind enemy lines after the blasts in Crimea.
