Russia draws closer to capture of Ukraines Donbas region
20220608
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/06/08/russia-draws-closer-to-capture-of-ukraine-s-donbas-region
Early in the war, Russian troops also took control of the entire Kherson region and a large part of the Zaporizhzhia region, both in the south. Russian officials and their local appointees have talked about plans for those regions to either declare their independence or be folded into Russia.
But in what may be the latest instance of anti-Russian sabotage inside Ukraine, Russian state media said Tuesday that an explosion at a cafe in the city of Kherson wounded four people. Tass called the apparent bombing in the Russian-occupied city a "terror act.
After abandoning its bungled attempt to storm Kyiv two months ago, Russia declared that taking the entire Donbas is its main objective. Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian government forces in the Donbas since 2014, and the region has borne the brunt of the Russian onslaught in recent weeks.
Shoigu added that Russian troops were pressing their offensive toward the town of Popasna and have taken control of Lyman and Sviatohirsk and 15 other towns in the region.
"The absolutely heroic defense of the Donbas continues, he said late Tuesday in his nightly video address.
Speaking earlier to a Financial Times conference, Zelensky insisted on Ukraines need to defeat Russia on the battlefield but also said he is still open to peace talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Zelensky said the Russians clearly did not expect to meet so much resistance and are now trying to bring in additional troops and equipment. He said the same was true in the Kherson region.
"Youre not going to get to the negotiating table until neither side feels they have an advantage that they could push, said Andrea Kendall-Taylor of the Washington-based Center for a New American Security.
Zelensky said Russian forces made no significant advances in the eastern Donbas region over the past day.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said Tuesday that Moscows forces hold nearly all of Luhansk province. And it appears that Russia now occupies roughly half of Donetsk province, according to Ukrainian officials and military analysts.
"Dont let the news that weve ceded something scare you, he said in a video address. "It is clear that tactical maneuvers are ongoing. We cede something, we take something back."
This photograph shows a rocket nailed in front of a destroyed house in Lysychansk, Donbas region, on Tuesday. AFP
Before the Feb. 24 invasion, Ukrainian officials said Russia controlled some 7 of the country, including the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014, and areas held by the separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk. Last week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russian forces hold 20 of the country.
An apartment building destroyed in a missile strike is seen, amid Russias invasion of Ukraine, in Sloviansk. Reuters
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak urged his people not to be downhearted about the battlefield reverses.
A police expert works near an apartment building destroyed in a military strike in Kurakhove, Ukraine. Reuters
While Russia has superior firepower, the Ukrainian defenders are entrenched and have shown the ability to counterattack.
Shoigu, the Russian defense minister, said Moscow's forces have seized the residential quarters of Sievierodonetsk and are fighting to take control of an industrial zone on the city's outskirts and nearby towns.
The Russians "think they will be able to take the whole of the Donbas and then might use that as the opportunity to call for negotiations, Kendall-Taylor said at an online seminar organized by Columbia and New York universities.
Sievierodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk have seen heavy fighting in recent weeks. They are among a few cities and towns in the Luhansk region still holding out against the Russian invasion, which is being helped by local pro-Kremlin forces.
