Russian offensive turns to key Donbas city heavy shelling
20220523
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/05/23/russian-offensive-turns-to-key-donbas-city-heavy-shelling
It was Dudas second visit to Kyiv since April. Poland has become an important ally of Ukraine, welcoming millions of Ukrainian refugees and becoming a gateway for Western humanitarian aid and weapons. It is also a transit point for some foreign fighters who have volunteered to fight the Russian forces.
He said the Russians had occupied several towns and cities in Luhansk after indiscriminate, 24-hour shelling. Haidai said Moscow was concentrating forces and weaponry there, bringing in forces from Kharkiv to the northwest, Mariupol to the south, and from inside Russia.
Sievierodonetsk is the main city under Ukrainian control in Luhansk province, which together with Donetsk province make up the Donbas.
President Andrzej Duda received a standing ovation when he thanked the lawmakers for letting him speak where "the heart of a free, independent and democratic Ukraine beats. Duda said Ukraine need not submit to conditions given by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
While Russian and Ukrainian forces battled along a 551-kilometre 342-mile wedge of Ukraine's eastern industrial heartland, Polands president traveled to Kyiv on Sunday to support Ukraine's European Union aspirations, becoming the first foreign leader to address the Ukrainian parliament since the start of the war.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called the visit "a historic opportunity not to lose such strong relations, built through blood, through Russian aggression. All this not to lose our state, not to lose our people.
"Kyiv is the place from which one clearly sees that we need more America in Europe, both in the military and in this economic dimension, said Duda, a right-wing populist leader who clearly preferred the former US president, Donald Trump, over Biden in the 2020 election.
Smoke rises from an oil refinery after an attack outside the city of Lysychansk, Donbas, Ukraine, on Sunday. AFP
A man stands in front of a missile crater at the yard of his house in Bakhmut, Donbass Ukraine, on Sunday. AFP
"Unfortunately, in Europe there have also been disturbing voices in recent times demanding that Ukraine yield to Putins demands, he said. "I want to say clearly: Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future. Only Ukraine has the right to decide for itself.
Luhansk's governor, Serhii Haidai, said Sunday that the Russians were "simply intentionally trying to destroy the city ... engaging in a scorched-earth approach.
Poland is ramping up efforts to win over EU members who are more hesitant about accepting Ukraine into the bloc. Zelensky has urged the 27-member EU to expedite his countrys request to join, and it is to be discussed at a Brussels summit in late June.
The sole working hospital in Sievierodonetck has only three doctors and supplies for 10 days, he said.
An elderly woman stands outside her heavily damaged house in Bakhmut, Donbass region, Ukraine. AFP
Duda credited the US and President Joe Biden for unifying the West in supporting Ukraine and imposing sanctions against Moscow.
The Ukrainian military said Russian forces had mounted an unsuccessful attack on Oleksandrivka, a village outside of the city.
