Ukraine to hold first war crimes trial as Moscow says Kyiv shelled Russian city
20220512
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/05/12/ukraine-to-hold-first-war-crimes-trial-as-moscow-says-kyiv-shelled-russian-city
Ukraine's forces were boosted by what Kyiv described as the recapture of four villages around the northeastern city of Kharkiv, close to the border with Russia.
In April, Gladkov said Ukrainian helicopters carried out a strike on a fuel storage facility in Belgorod.
Moscow has focused on eastern and southern Ukraine since it failed to take Kyiv in the first weeks of its campaign.
Venediktova's office has said it has received reports of more than 10,000 alleged war crimes, with 622 suspects identified.
Civilians cross a destroyed bridge, amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in Kyiv region, Ukraine. Reuters
"The man died on the spot just a few dozen metres from his home," said a statement from prosecutor Iryna Venediktova's office.
The prosecutor general's office said Vadim Shishimarin, a 21-year-old Russian service member, is accused of killing an unarmed 62-year-old civilian as he fled with four other soldiers in a stolen car.
Firefighters are seen inside the Retroville shopping mall after a Russian attack in Kyiv. AFP
The conflict has devastated cities and displaced millions, with fears also growing of its broader international impact as gas supplies to Europe were disrupted by a halt in Russian flows through Ukraine.
The UN Human Rights Council is due to hold a special session on Ukraine on Thursday.
Belgorod governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said it was "the most difficult situation" facing the border region since Russia sent its troops into Ukraine 11 weeks ago.
Kyiv has repeatedly accused Russian troops of committing atrocities since the invasion began on February 24, and Ukrainian authorities said on Wednesday they would launch the first war crimes trial of the conflict.
The Russian invasion has sparked an exodus of nearly six million civilians, many of whom bear accounts of torture, sexual violence and indiscriminate destruction.
In the Russian city of Belgorod, around 70 kilometres 43 miles from Kharkiv, authorities said one person was killed and six injured by Ukrainian shelling.
