Ukraine prepares for new Russian assault
20220411
https://www.gulftoday.ae/news/2022/04/11/ukraine-prepares-for-new-russian-assault
"Russian troops will move to even larger operations in the east of our state. They may use even more missiles against us, even more air bombs. But we are preparing for their actions. We will answer."
"He has the list, Zelensky said. "President Biden can enter history as the person who stood shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian people who won and chose the right to have their own country. This also depends on him.
Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said he would meet Putin on Monday in Moscow for the Russian leader's first face-to-face meeting with a European Union counterpart since Russia's invasion began on Feb. 24.
Experts have said that the next phase of the battle may begin with a full-scale offensive. The outcome could determine the course of the conflict, which has flattened cities, killed untold thousands and isolated Moscow economically and politically.
Russian forces were continuing their offensive to establish full control over the southern city of Mariupol, seeking to storm an iron and steel plant and the seaport, it added.
A resident looks on near a building destroyed in the course of the Ukraine-Russia conflict, in Mariupol. Reuters
Residents walk near a building destroyed in the course of the Ukraine-Russia conflict in Mariupol. Reuters
A showdown looms in Ukraine as Russia appointed a new military commander and looked to concentrate its attacks on the eastern part of the country, while Ukraines president said his troops will hold their ground, and urged Western leaders, in particular President Joe Biden, to do more.
Zelensky said he was grateful to Biden for US military aid to date but added that he "long ago forwarded a list of specific items Ukraine desperately needed and that history would judge Bidens response.
Ukraine's armed forces braced on Monday for a new Russian offensive as powerful explosions rocked cities in the south and east, while Austria's leader planned to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin and call for an end to the conflict.
"It is likely that the enemy, in order to disrupt the supply of goods to the places of hostilities, will continue to strike at transport infrastructure facilities in Ukraine in order to destroy or disable them, the general staff of Ukraine's armed forces said.
"Russia will be even more afraid. It will be afraid to lose. It will fear that the truth will have to be acknowledged," Zelensky said in a late night video address.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned on Sunday in his nightly address to the nation that the coming week would be as crucial as any during the war, saying "Russian troops will move to even larger operations in the east of our state.
Zelensky also said that Ukraines fate as the war shifts south and east depends on whether the United States will help match a surge in Russian weaponry in the regions.
Zelensky kept up his tireless campaign to generate international support and rally his countrymen, warning the coming week would be important and tense.
In his Sunday night address, Zelensky also accused Russia of trying to evade responsibility for war crimes in Ukraine.
Service members of pro-Russian troops drive armoured vehicles on a road outside Mariupol, Ukraine. Reuters
"The day will come when they will have to admit everything. Accept the truth, he added.
"To be honest, whether we will be able to survive depends on this, said Zelensky said in a "60 Minutes interview that aired Sunday night, speaking through a translator. "Unfortunately, I dont have the confidence that we will be receiving everything we need.
"When people lack the courage to admit their mistakes, apologize, adapt to reality and learn, they turn into monsters. And when the world ignores it, the monsters decide that it is the world that has to adapt to them, Zelensky said.
Cemetery workers remove a body from a mass grave, for identification in a morgue, in Bucha on Sunday. AP
Questions remain about the ability of Russias depleted and demoralized forces to conquer much ground after their advance on the capital, Kyiv, was repelled by determined Ukrainian defenders. Britains Defense Ministry reported Sunday that the Russian forces were trying to compensate for mounting casualties by recalling veterans discharged in the past decade.
"We are militarily neutral, but have a clear position on the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine," Nehammer wrote of Austria on Twitter. "It must stop! It needs humanitarian corridors, ceasefire  full investigation of war crimes."
