Governor Coal industry will benefit from sanctions on Russia
20220305
https://www.register-herald.com/news/state_region/governor-coal-industry-will-benefit-from-sanctions-on-russia/article_558d7227-708e-5951-9db1-b6d6af0429a5.html
Sanctions are being used as a possible way to stop the invasion, but that leaves European nations needing energy resources.
What are we going to do? he said. What are we going to combat him with?
One unintended consequence of the sanctions imposed on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine could give West Virginia coal a huge boost.
Last night, it dropped to $100, he added, but those radical swings will be expected. There is opportunity within our state for helping our coal companies and miners
Gov. Jim Justice said during his pandemic briefing Friday that coal is already in more demand in Europe to help backfill energy needs but we would gladly give that up in a second if things would stop and the Ukrainian people would be free.
Justice said thermal steam coal used in power plants is needed to export to areas in Europe that will feel the impact of those sanctions against Russia, including those banning coal from that country.
FILE - A view of the decommissioned Moorburg coal-fueled power plant, in Hamburg, Germany, on Feb. 28, 2022. The operator Vattenfall is now halting preparations for dismantling the power plantbecause of the energy crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. European governments are scrambling to reduce their energy dependency on Russia and bracing for potential disruption to critical natural gas supplies as the war in Ukraine sends prices to record highs. Natural gas prices hit a new record high Thursday as restrictions on oil and gas supplies either through Western sanctions or Russian retaliation was increasingly treated as a possibility on the eighth day of the war. Markus Scholzdpa via AP
Ships are loaded and unloaded at the port of Brunsbuettel, Germany, Tuesday, March 1, 2022. The immediate neighborhood is under consideration as a site for a new LNG terminal. Wind turbines stand in front of a coal storage facility on the Elbe dike at the Port of Brunsbuettel. The area is under discussion as a site for a new LNG Liquefied Natural Gas terminal. Europe is scrambling to reduce its natural gas dependence on Russia, and it won't be easy. Governments are rolling out plans for new gas imports and pipelines. But that's going to take time. For now they're rounding up more liquid gas that can come by ship instead of by pipeline from Russia. Frank Molterdpa via AP
It is an opportunity, though, that is coming with a price no one wants to pay, or should pay, he said.
Justice said fossil fuel energy is going to be here for a while and we have to have our fossil fuels today.
According to a 2018 study by West Virginia University, each coal mining job has a multiplier effect of 2.25, based on the 13,200 coal mining jobs in 2017 generating an additional 16,500 jobs in the state economy.
Justice said Russian President Vladimir Putin is attacking Ukraine, killing civilians, including babies and women indiscriminately, Justice said. Putins military also attacked a nuclear plant, which could have caused a catastrophe all across Europe.
I have said all along we dont want to forget coal, Justice said. We want to embrace all alternatives  Renewables just cant take over. I am an all-encompassing energy guy because I really believe it is frivolous to think that these alternatives can control the day today. They cant. There is no way they can.
No one wants the invasion, but I am happy we will have coal miners working and they will work with the highest wages, he said. We should be proud of our natural resources. That will help the world.
Steam coal prices are usually between $35 to $60 a metric ton, he said, but the cost of a metric ton headed to our ports and then to Europe two days ago hit $450.
There is nothing better than coal mining jobs, Justice said. The multiplier effect is enormous in what it brings to the state of West Virginia.
A strong coal market will get people back to work, he said, but we would all trade it in a second to free Ukraine from the clutches of Putin.
Energy has been weaponized and Putin is standing there with a tank, loaded and ready to go, and threatening a nuclear attack as well.
