South Africa is going to be hit hard by RussiaUkraine war  Political economist
20220302
https://www.702.co.za/articles/440008/south-africa-is-going-to-be-hit-hard-by-russia-ukraine-war-political-economist
It's not just at the fuel pump that we are going to feel immediately, there is also a huge range of knock-on effects, it goes across the board and it hits the consumer very hard.
"I cannot understand why he's Ramaphosa delaying for so long," says Prof Zwelinzima Ndevu of Stellenbosch University.
"They sent me to prison for crimes I didn't commit so that I'll stop reporting these matters," says whistleblower Mandla Bothman.
Stats SA released the results of the Quarterly Labour Force Survey in Pretoria on Tuesday.
We are dependent largely on oil imports, fossil fuels and like many other countries in the world when there is volatility in the market which of course the Ukraine-Russia war has created the prices are going to go up.
The Eastern Cape premier announced plans to expunge the criminal records of cannabis farmers in his State of the Province Address.
Well-placed sources have told Eyewitness News that this is to make way for the president to appoint a non-MP minister.
'The language of cannabis needs to change. We absolutely need to do that,' says Lawrence, Co-founder of Tubbys Kitchen.
Motorists rushed to the fuel pump last night to fill up as the record high of more than one rand kicked in.
South Africa is facing its worst measles outbreak in a decade as people are being infected across the country.
The community of Westbury has been struck with violence as 9 people have reportedly been shot and one killed in the last 24 hours.
It seems like we are far away from this political war in Europe, economically it's a global issue and particularly for South Africa it's going to hit us very hard and it's going to hit most obviously those who are at least unable to afford it.
The parastatal commended Sikonathi Mantshantsha for spearheading its efforts to increase its accountability and transparency to South Africans.
Both grades of petrol increased by R1.46 a litre, with Diesel going up by between R1.44 and R1.48 a litre.
Bongani Bingwa speaks to political economist Dr Dale McKinley about how the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia has a direct hit on South Africa.
