AE consultant from Cardiff buying ambulance to send to Ukraine
20220309
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/wales-news/ae-consultant-cardiff-buying-ambulance-23337483
It takes just seconds to sign up - simply click here, enter your email address and follow the instructions.
The WHO warned on Wednesday that attacks on Ukrainian hospitals and ambulances were "increasing rapidly", as reported by Reuters.
"But the biggest issue is if the conflict escalates its going to be much harder to get aid over there," he said.
He said the health board had collected personal items from across its hospitals, such as clothes, and added that "seven big crates of medical supplies" had just been sent to Ukraine.
"We already have contacts in Ukraine," Dr Szmidt said. "We've arranged to meet them at the border and hand over the keys and paperwork."
Dr Mateo Szmidt, an emergency medicine consultant at Prince Charles Hospital in Merthyr Tydfil, launched a GoFundMe campaign on Monday to raise 15,000 to purchase the vehicle.
The cost of an ambulance varies from 6,000 to 7,000 but he is hoping there will be an "element of negotiation" as it's for a good cause.
An AE consultant from Cardiff is buying an ambulance to send it to Ukraine to help administer vital emergency healthcare amid the Russian invasion.
He added that if he manages to get more funding it would be "amazing" send two or three ambulances.
He said volunteers from the health board had come forward, including a doctor and paramedic, offering to drive the ambulance to the Ukrainian border.
Meanwhile the United Nation's refugee agency said on Wednesday that up to 2.2m people had fled Ukraine since the start of the war.
"I thought that if they're in need of these ambulances to transport patients the ambulances we use in the NHS and that get decommissioned are very good," said Dr Szmidt.
"The nurses, doctors, communications teams  theyve all been doing anything they can to send it far and wide," he said.
Dr Mateo Szmidt said the ambulance will be packed full of medical aid before it's driven to the Ukrainian border.
His initiative comes as part of a wider effort by Cwm Taf Morgannwg health board, which manages Prince Charles Hospital.
It will be packed full of medical aid before it's driven to the Ukrainian border.
"Once the money is raised we're going to be looking at the best one for the best deal," he said. "Ideally we want hopefully any extra funds cover to the fuel and the passage in the Channel tunnel."
"I did try to get an ambulance donated by the health board, but unfortunately, with the current crisis with ambulances, there are no ambulances being decommissioned from the two sites I spoke to," he said.
"We're going to pack in as much as we can into the ambulance. We're waiting if we can get any decommissioned medical equipment from the health board, like defibrillators, that could be donated."
Dr Szmidt explained that NHS ambulances get sold on once they have been withdrawn from service and that he intends to buy one that has been decommissioned from a private motor company.
With the help of colleagues from Prince Charles Hospital to promote Dr Szmidt's campaign within just two days the response has been "amazing" and the target has almost been reached.
Dr Szmidt explained that he came up with the idea after hearing of a similar initiative in Poland.
Sign up to the CardiffOnline newsletter to receive our top stories straight to your inbox.
