BBC presenter Huw Edwards banned from Russia
20220801
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/huw-edwards-bbc-banned-russia-24644081
Welsh newsreader Huw Edwards is among the latest batch of UK politicians and journalists to be banned from Russia. The BBC presenter joked on Twitter about having finally made "the Kremlin cut," alongside the likes of former Prime Minister David Cameron and Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer.
Among other names mentioned are shadow cabinet ministers Lisa Nandy, David Lammy and Nick Thomas-Symonds, along with Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, a former Nato secretary-general. Also mentioned are SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford, Scottish Government Economy Secretary Kate Forbes and transport minister Wendy Morton, previously in the Foreign Office.
READ MORE: Welshman who went to Ukraine to help with war effort plans to return
TalkTVs Piers Morgan, ITVs Robert Peston and head of Sky News, John Ryley are also featured. Mr Morgan, writing on social media, responded: "It Russia wasn't on my immediate vacation to-do list."
The Russian foreign ministry claimed those individuals sanctioned have contributed to "Londons hostile course aimed at the demonisation of our country and its international isolation." "Huw've been banned - I made the Kremlin cut," tweeted Edwards in response, who wasn't the only presenter to be blacklisted.
The Welshman was accused by Putin's foreign ministry of "spreading false information" over Russia's role in the Ukrainian conflict
Earlier this year, Russia said it was taking action against 287 MPs in retaliation for sanctions against Russian politicians. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in April that MPs should regard their inclusion on the list as a "badge of honour."
The Russian foreign ministry said in a statement: "As has been noted more than once, the pernicious actions of the UK in planting Russophobia, spreading false information about our country and supporting the Kyiv neo-Nazi regime will receive an adequate and decisive response from the Russian side.
The 60-year-old from Bridgend's name cropped up on the Russian foreign ministry's latest roll call of 39 newly sanctioned individuals it said are no longer allowed to enter the Russian Federation. It added that the action was retaliation to UK sanctions issued against Russian ministers, officials and members of influential families linked to the Kremlin following Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine.
The choice in favour of confrontation is a conscious decision of the British political establishment, which bears all responsibility for the consequences." The statement also said it will continue work to expand the list.
