Does Russia have nuclear weapons and would Putin use them
20220224
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/uk-news/russia-nuclear-weapons-ukraine-war-23200892
Russia invaded Ukraine on Thursday, ignoring international condemnation from many Western countries and warnings of sanctions.
One of the central fears is the possibility of nuclear attacks which have the potential to cause widespread destruction and threaten years of global nuclear disarmament efforts and there is much speculation over whether Russia possesses nuclear weapons and if it would use them in its attacks on Ukraine.
Around 1,456 of Russia's warheads are active, meaning they can be used on targets. Only this week, the country showed off its nuclear capabilities with a series of tests of massive practice missiles.
The consequences of a nuclear attack in Europe would not just affect Russia and the Ukraine - it would draw in dozens of nations.
While not confirming anything, this gives a clear indication of the power the Russian government possesses in terms of its nuclear abilities.
Russia has launched strikes on the Ukraine - and has been conducting frightening nuclear missile tests
When the United States detonated two nuclear weapons over the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on August 6 and 9, 1945, between 129,000 and 226,000 people, most of whom were civilians, were killed.
According to Politico, there is no health care or emergency response capacity to deal with such consequences, either in any of the nuclear-armed states nor any international organisation. This is why so many nations have been expressing concern over any use of nuclear weapons, which could result in millions of deaths if they target densely populated areas.
While the likes of US president Joe Biden have suggested they don't believe Mr Putin is currently considering a nuclear attack against the Ukraine, Russia's recent nuclear tests and its launching of attacks on Ukraine present a grave concern for world leaders.
According to the NPT, eight states have publicly announced successful detonation of nuclear weapons, five of which are considered to be nuclear weapon states - USA, Russia, the UK, France and China.
Russia is thought to have around 20 known missile bases in total, including a test centre at Yapustin Yar, not far from the west coast, and an intercontinental missile base ICBM base Dambarovksiy, one of the nearest to Ukraine.
Russia has not said it would consider using nuclear weapons in its conflict with the Ukraine. However, following its tests this week Dmitry Peskov confirmed "all the missiles hit their targets, confirming their performance objectives."
It follows years of power struggles between Russia and the Ukraine which have ramped up in recent months, prompting fears over mass casualties on a scale not seen in decades.
"The thousands of nuclear weapons possessed by the US and Russia could bring about a nuclear winter, destroying the essential ecosystems on which all life depends."
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons NPT which came into effect in 1970 marked the start of a coordinated effort from countries to commit to reducing their nuclear arsenals following the Cold War.
Perhaps more frighteningly, he added: Such test launches, of course, are impossible without the head of state. You know about the famous black suitcase and the red button."
Explosions have been heard in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odesa as President Vladimir Putin warned that attempts from other nations to interfere could result in consequences you have never seen.
There are further consequences than direct deaths, too. According to the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, ICANW, "Less than one percent of the nuclear weapons in the world could disrupt the global climate and threaten as many as two billion people with starvation in a nuclear famine.
Russia is estimated to have 6,257 nuclear warheads, the majority of which are thought to be located towards the countrys west. This includes 527 intercontinental ballistic missiles ICBMs, submarine-launched ballistic missiles and strategic bombers. ICBMs can get up to a top speed of four miles per second in about ten minutes after being launched, meaning the weapons could potentially reach the UK from Russia within 20 minutes.
