Live Ukraine updates Boris Johnson holds talks with Zelensky
20220224
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/uk-news/live-ukraine-russia-invasion-war-23200468
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has held talks with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who told him the next 24 hours would be crucial for the defence of his country against the Russian invasion.
Mr Zelenskyy made the comments in a phone call with the the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday evening, reports the BBC.
But Section 4 of the British Government's Foreign Enlistment Act states that "it is an offence for a British subject to enlist in the military of a foreign state at war with another foreign state with which the UK is at peace".
Russia must play international matches in neutral countries without supporters, world governing body FIFA has announced.
"Reports from Ukraine are alarming. We have seen an orphanage bombed. A Neonatal Unit in Dnipro, eastern Ukraine, was forced to move their patients to a basement bomb shelter. One of the largest childrens hospitals has been directly hit by rocket fire. Children are being traumatised and separated from their families.
The FAW expresses its condemnation for the use of force and the atrocities being committed by Russia in its invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has reportedly told Boris Johnson that the next 24 hours will be crucial as he leads the defence of his country against the invasion by Russia.
Boris Johnson has suggested that the UK will seize cash from Russian oligarchs based in the UK - and use it to help rebuild Ukraine.
In a statement late on Sunday, International Atomic Energy Agency director general Rafael Grossi said Ukrainian authorities informed his office about the overnight strike, but there are no reports of damage to the buildings or indications of a release of radioactive material.
And he also vowed that the UK will be "as generous as we possibly can" when it comes to offering sanctuary to refugees.
This was the worlds largest aircraft, AN-225 Mriya Dream in Ukrainian. Russia may have destroyed our Mriya. But they will never be able to destroy our dream of a strong, free and democratic European state. We shall prevail! pic.twitter.comTdnBFlj3N8
He said: "Our Central Banks will have to work overtime to try to cushion the blow on Western banks and firms.
Those that fail to comply will have restrictions placed on selling the property, while those who are found to have broken the rules will face up to five years in prison.
"On behalf of paediatricians and the child health workforce in the UK and globally, we are sending a message of solidarity to our colleagues and friends in Ukraine. We know you are continuing to help those in your care and we stand with you.
The claims, which are yet to be independently verified, were shared on the official Facebook Page of the Ukrainian Ground Forces, shortly after 5am UK time, or 7am in Ukraine.
She said the European Union would close its airspace to Russian aircraft, including the private jets of Russian oligarchs, and ban Russian state-owned television network Russia Today and news agency Sputnik, to render them unable to "spread their lies to justify Putin's war and to sow division in our Union".
On his official Twitter account, Mr Zelenskyy said that he and Mr Johnson had agreed on "further joint steps to counter the aggressor" in reference to Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
The UNs two major bodies  the 193-nation General Assembly and the more powerful 15-member Security Council  will hold separate meetings on Monday on Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Mr Johnson added the UK would do all it can to make sure defensive aid from the UK and its allies reaches Ukraine.
Reports from Kyiv, meanwhile, suggested that troops from Belarus were going to join the Russians in their invasion of Ukraine.
Mr Johnson suggested that the UK will look to seize cash from Russian oligarchs based in the UK too and use it to help rebuild Ukraine.
The move is "the first time ever" the EU will "finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and other equipment to a country that is under attack", said European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
"We condemn the attacks on Ukraine. We appeal to the international community asking for swift action to come together to stop the violence and suffering of the Ukrainian people, and provide immediate aid and support to those in need, recognising the specific and life-long impact this violence will have on Ukrainian children and young people."
"Russia may have destroyed our Mriya. But they will never be able to destroy our dream of a strong, free and democratic European state. We shall prevail!"
The Prime Minister spoke to the Ukrainian president again on Sunday, praising the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people in the face of the Russian attack, according to the No 10 readout of the call.
In Asian trading, the dollarrouble rate is up to 41.5 at a record 119 per dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar exchange rate in the Forex market reached 113 roubles.
The emergency session of the General Assembly will meet in New York at 10am 3pm GMT, while the Security Council will meet at 5pm 10pm GMT.
Western economies are being warned that they will feel the effects of an unprecedented financial attack launched against Russia.
Russian president Vladimir Putin put his nuclear forces on increased alert in an unprecedented escalation of tensions with the West.
Nations in the West announced over the weekend crippling sanctions against Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine.
The Foreign Secretary is facing questions over whether she endorses Britons breaking the law following comments made about British citizens fighting in Ukraine.
The law states that any British subject found guilty of this offence "shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted".
French ambassador Nicolas De Riviere announced that the Security Council will hold a meeting on the humanitarian impact of Russias invasion, a session sought by French President Emmanuel Macron to ensure the delivery of aid to growing numbers of those in need in Ukraine.
He added: I think that when it comes to the rebuilding of Ukraine after this nightmare, this disaster caused entirely by President Putin and his cronies, I cant think of a better use for that cash.
The country will also have to play under the name Football Union of Russia and not as Russia under new measures issued in response to the Ukraine crisis.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says that UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has agreed on "further joint steps to counter the aggressor".
Russia is due to participate in the World Cup qualifying play-offs next month but first opponents Poland and the sides they could face in the following round, Sweden and the Czech Republic, are refusing to play against them.
"Europe has already provided a temporary shelter to tens of thousands of those we want to save the most - our little ones and their mothers.
The world's largest cargo plane has been destroyed by Russian troops at an airport near Kyiv, it's been reported.
"Let me be clear: This is no free lunch. Economic and financial war will be painful for us as well. But it will be devastating for Putin."
"The circle of states that provide real help has increased significantly. The scale of it has increased.
But on Sunday February 27 Ukraines Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba tweeted that the aircraft - called Mriya, or 'dream' - had been destroyed.
He also vowed to be "as generous as we possibly can" as a country when it comes to offering sanctuary to refugees.
It will give all UN members an opportunity to speak about the war and vote on a resolution later in the week that US ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said would hold Russia to account for its indefensible actions and for its violations of the UN Charter.
The Football Association of Wales became the latest to announce its teams would refuse to play against Russia.
Yesterday saw Belarus formally renounce its non-nuclear and neutral status - allowing Russia to place nuclear weapons on its territory.
The FAW has decided that Cymru will not play any international fixtures against Russia for the foreseeable future, at any level of the game.
"We really don't have a border in the west now. But support is both in the south and in the Far East and beyond the Atlantic."
Colonel General Alexander Syrsky, Commander of Defense of Kiev, said: "The opponent suffered significant losses of the personnel team.
Downing Street has confirmed that Mr Johnson told Mr Zelenskyy he will do all he could to ensure further military aid reaches Ukrainian forces.
The legislation will establish a new register of overseas entities requiring foreign owners of property in the UK to declare their true identity, in a move intended to ensure criminals cannot hide behind secretive webs of shell companies.
When asked how soon can he impose sanctions, the Prime Minister said that if a link with the Putin regime can be proven, then the Government will be in a position to distrain those assets, to seize them, to take them.
The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health RCPCH, which has 20,000 members in the UK and internationally, issued a statement on Sunday, standing in solidarity with health workers in Ukraine and calling for the protection of children and young people
In an impassioned rallying cry shared on Facebook this morning, Oleksii Reznikov said: "The war has become European. It has finally been realised that way. Half of Europe is already collecting, packing, carrying weapons and armour equipment.
"Russian troops are demoralized and exhausted. We showed that we can protect our home from uninvited guests."
Mr Johnson, meanwhile, promised that the UK would do all it could to make sure defensive aid from the UK and its allies reaches Ukraine.
The United Nations nuclear watchdog says missiles have hit a radioactive waste disposal site in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.
The Antonov AN-225, which has appeared at air shows in the UK, was reported to have been hit at Hostomel Airport around 20 miles from the Ukrainian capital three days ago, however at the time the reports were unconfirmed.
Economist and politician Luis Garicano said the unprecedented financial attack against Russian President Vladimir Putin would cause "financial and economic history".
Ukraine's Minister of Defence has said that Russia's invasion of his country has become a European war.
The moves, which include sanctions on Russia's currency reserves, have sent the rouble tumbling to a record low against the US dollar.
Liz Truss told the BBC's Sophie Raworth on Sunday that she "absolutely" supports British citizens going to fight in Ukraine "if that's what they want to do".
It comes after Ukrainian officials rejected Belarus as a venue for potential peace talks, because its neighbour had allowed its territory to be used by Russian troops as a staging ground for the invasion.
Russia suffered significant losses overnight during repeated failed attempts to storm Kyiv, the Colonel General leading the defence of the Ukraine's capital city has claimed.
Belarus will join forces with Russia and take part in its invasion of Ukraine 'within hours', according to reports in Kyiv.
Mr Zelenskyy said, in turn, that the next 24 hours will be a crucial period for his country.
The Government is fast-tracking plans to tackle dirty money and expose foreign oligarchs who launder their wealth through the UKs property market in the wake of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Follow the link below to find out what those actions could mean and for a round up of the news from Ukraine.
The European Union will tighten sanctions on Russia, target Russian ally Belarus with measures and fund weapons for Ukraine to help it defend itself against Russia's invasion, top EU officials said on Sunday, reports Reuters.
Mr Kuleba tweeted at 2.50pm UK time: "This was the worlds largest aircraft, AN-225 Mriya Dream in Ukrainian.
A statement read: The Football Association of Wales FAW stands in solidarity with Ukraine and feels an extreme amount of sadness and shock to the recent developments in the country.
Its president Dr Camilla Kingdon said: "We are deeply disturbed by the many reports from Ukraine describing attacks on hospitals, healthcare workers and on children and young people. These actions are in defiance of the Geneva Convention and international humanitarian law and will devastate a generation.
Following the package of sanctions announced by Boris Johnson last week, ministers will table the Economic Crime Transparency and Enforcement Bill  previously expected later in the session  in Parliament on Tuesday.
FIFA has also ruled that no Russian flag or national anthem can be used at matches.
A UK government spokesperson said that, during the call, Mr Johnson praised Mr Zelenskyy's leadership since Russia's invasion.
The Security Council gave a green light on Sunday for the first emergency session of the General Assembly in decades.
