The newborn twins born in an underground Kiyv bomb shelter which has become the citys makeshift maternity ward
20220302
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/world-news/newborn-twins-born-underground-kiyv-23259352
The hospital wrote on Facebook: Three danger warnings a day. In the morning, shelling of a residential area next to the hospital. Now, somewhere very close to the heavy fire  in the waiting room  the wounded 
The oxygen supply situation, meanwhile, is also at a very dangerous point in Ukraine. Trucks are unable to transport oxygen shipments from plants to hospitals across the country, including in the capital Kyiv.
Meanwhile, in the basement of the maternity hospital, in conditions far from those that a new life deserves  a loud cry of a newborn  Boy!
We will continue to deliver care and support people across Ukraine affected by this military offensive, concludes Dr Habicht. Health for all, in all circumstances, lies at the heart of our mission and mandate.
And one of the most devastating images of this new life underground is the picture of newborn twins sleeping in the bomb shelter of one of the city's main hospitals.
Earlier this week former Ukranian MP Hanna Hopko shared an image of a newborn child wrapped in blankets in a shelter.
But he said Russia would face "years of resistance" if it sought to occupy Ukraine.
Their plight is being highlighted around the world as pictures of the defenceless newborns are shared around the world.
Ukrainian mothers are now giving birth in shelters and metro stations during air raids, she wrote on Twitter. The blitz of London 1940 is being repeated by Russia in Ukraine in 2022. Nato must make UA no-fly zone.
As a 40-mile convoy of Russian tanks heads towards the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, residents have been seeking safety underground.
In the city of Luhansk, hospital staff rushed to make an underground makeshift ward in the basement of Starobilsk Multidisciplinary hospital while Russian forces fired outside.
She said that baby Mia had been born in a stressful environment. But she said that despite the challenging experience, Mias mother was happy, adding: We defend lives and humanity!
He told BBC Radio 4's Today: "What you have seen is the Russian pause on the outskirts and then ruthlessly pummel these cities with artillery and then hope to break the city."
The babies are among more than 80 born in bomb shelters in the past week, according to Kyivs city authorities, amid scenes that have been compared to what it was like during the World War Two Blitz on London.
Still receiving medical treatment, the tiny brothers lie side-by-side on a makeshift mattress, covered in blankets that have been grabbed to keep them warm.
The Okhmadet childrens' hospital in central Kyiv has been moved underground with sick children and women with their newborn babies being treated in a basement. You can follow developments from Ukraine throughout the day here.
At the Novovolynsk Hospital in western Ukraine, patients must move from a modern facility above ground to a 1950s-era underground bomb shelter with a rudimentary set-up that can fit up to 300 people when the air raid signal sounds.
The World Health Organization's Director-General has announced the release of a further US$ 3.5 million from a Contingency Fund for Emergencies CFE to purchase and deliver urgent medical supplies.
"In one day, the air raid sirens went off at 5 separate times. Our patients are mostly the elderly and some are on crutches and facing acute health needs. They cannot keep travelling down to the bunker," says Oleh Shypelyk, head of the hospital.
