Theres lots of confusion Ukrainian deli owners abused after being mistaken as Russian
20220309
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/uk-news/theres-lots-confusion-ukrainian-deli-23334913
Borys explains the couple have been in constant contact with their family back home: We want to know they are safe, we talk all the time. We try and be in touch, help them send money. Ive got relatives in Kyiv, relatives fighting on the front line. People are dying everyday and its civilians, everyone is in shock. he added.
He explained since the start of the conflict over a week ago, there has been a knock on effect on business which he fears could continue. What's going on doesnt help us and doesnt help business, he said. "This area lots of Russian people live and here support Ukraine but still they might not feel comfortable to come.
However, the idea of punishing Russia for the violence has recently begun to be directed towards those citizens who are actually outside of Russia. Ssome Conservative MPs last week called for the children of Russian oligarchs to be banned from studying at private schools in the UK. There have been calls on social media for all Russian students to be expelled from universities in the UK and the US.
The couple, who are from Ukraine, speak Russian and cater for the Eastern European community with food products from Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Moldova and Georgia. All these products are the same stock, the shop is Eastern European, Borys explains. To be honest Im just going to change the sign because theres lots of confusion going on," he added. "Its going on and on. The products and recipes are all the same."
In one instance, a shop assistant at the store said a woman came in and questioned if they were a Russian shop and interrogated them as to why they had a Ukrainian flag displayed in the window. Borys said a confrontational exchange then took place before she eventually.
Worryingly, the impact has also begun to affect people who aren't even Russian - but are mistaken to be. For example, many people of Eastern European heritage have shared stories of mis-guided outrage being directed at them by people who think they are Russian.
All my friends don't want to come here. They want to stay there, they say its our country," he said.
Its like a bad dream, you just want to wake up, part of me still doesnt believe this could be happening, Viktoriya said.
While another added I must say people are very narrow minded if they think they can abuse others for their nationality. Even if they were Russian in the shop it shouldn't matter. Its hard for all of us to take and the fact that Im Russian doesnt make me a bad person."
One person said Even if they were Russian, people are not responsible for what Putin is doing. I feel sad for both the Russians and Ukrainians at this time.
Describing the support they have received in recent days he said the community has been welcoming and really supportive: Lots of people have come in, English people supporting Ukraine, some support Russia, Ukrainians and Russians and we are in between all this. We just want to live our lives, we have been collecting donations to support Ukraine, Russian people have also come to support. Im Ukranian and Im supporting our country."
A third added This is completely unnecessary and Im surprised this happened in East Finchley where the community is diverse and one of the reasons I love living here.
A fourth commented: Im sorry theyre getting abuse, Russian or no Russia. Hope they can get stock with all these sanctions
The couple do not know when they will be able to return to Ukraine, but are continuing to send support from London and are rallying together with the Eastern European community. In recent days there has been an outpouring of support from the local community with many taking to local Facebook groups.
Borys, 52, also said he has noticed some customers in recent days panic buying some items and stocking up for fears supplies of some goods might run out. "Im not worried about supplies, but people are not shopping as they used to," he explained.
Another said: We are against war, we are supporting the people of Ukraine, helping as much as possible. I received so many negative comments and even threats its unbelievable.
This attitude has begun to take a toll on many Russians within the UK, with some taking to social media to explain how they and their families are against the war. They have also shared instances where they have been threatened or harassed by people due to their nationality.
Borys and his wife, came to London 20 years ago and also run another shop in Stratford catering for the Romanian community there. The couple, who have family and friends in the country, described the unfolding situation and news coming in from Ukraine in recent days.
One such example comes from Borys and Viktoriya Shevchenko, who opened their shop, Gurman, by East Finchley station just four weeks ago before the start of the Russian invasion. Since then, they have told MyLondon that they have received abuse from customers who have assumed the shop is Russian as a result of the produce they sell and their signs.
Since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine, almost two weeks ago, countries have began issuing sanctions in an effort to penalise the country. These have included business refusing to continue trade in Russia, preventing Russia's central bank from accessing foreign currency reserves, as well as preventing teams from competing in major competitions such as Eurovision and the FIFA.
