UK issues Ukraine warning to Russias Vladimir Putin
20211130
https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-issues-ukraine-warning-russias-22317289
The Foreign Secretary also indicated that Russian influence was stirring up tensions in the Balkans.
Ms Truss said: We want a world where freedom and democracy dont just survive, they thrive.
Were not trying to encircle Russia, were not trying to prevent it from pursuing its legitimate interest.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned Russias Vladimir Putin against making a strategic mistake by launching an invasion of Ukraine.
Nato is an alliance forged on the principle of defence, not provocation. Any suggestion that Nato is provoking the Russians is clearly false.
And, at the same time, frankly, being very clear that again theres not an adversarial sort of agenda here.
We will support Ukraine and stability in the western Balkans, to safeguard their security and build their economic resilience.
The comments from the Foreign Secretary came after MI6 chief Richard Moore said there was a chronic problem with Russia and Ukraine.
Ms Truss was speaking as Nato foreign ministers gathered in Latvia to consider how to respond to Russias military build-up near the Ukrainian border and the tensions on the frontier between Belarus and Poland.
We have seen this playbook from the Kremlin before when Russia falsely claimed its illegal annexation of Crimea was a response to Nato aggression.
She will use the summit in Riga to call for the alliance to present a united front in standing up to Moscow while also keeping open channels of communication with the Kremlin.
He told BBC Radio 4s Today programme: From time to time we get sort of crises around Ukraine as we worry about build-up of troops and what President Putins intentions might be, and therefore it bears very careful watching and it bears very careful signalling to the Russians about, you know, the price that they would have to pay if they intervened, as they did in 2014.
Any action by Russia to undermine the freedom and democracy that our partners enjoy would be a strategic mistake.
Ahead of the summit in Latvia, the Foreign Secretary met British troops deployed in Estonia as part of Natos enhanced forward presence in the alliances eastern members.
