Georgia Chamber Increase business cybersecurity
20220228
https://www.rockdalenewtoncitizen.com/news/georgia-chamber-increase-business-cybersecurity/article_88f1f523-c3dd-545f-b1bb-ea871032b21e.html
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
A rare opportunity awaits with this stunning custom-built home in sought after Waterside at Lanier Springs community.  Click for more.ON THE MARKET: This 'rare opportunity' home is available now in Buford
If a business is experiencing suspicious and unusual activity, it should report such activity to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or a local law enforcement entity.
Protect Expensive Infrastructure and Back Up Pre-existing Data: Ensure that all critical information is protected through regularly backing up your firms data. It is recommended that data should be back up both locally, and online, with advanced protections.
Reduce Lateral Activity Across Your Systems: It is suggested that companies ensure that movement across departments, within systems, is limited. Recommendations also suggest that businesses should decrease the usage of remote desktop protocols that allow for broad access within systems.
Protect the Credentials of Your Users: Businesses should increase efforts that limit the access to privileged credentials by malicious and unauthorized parties. It is also suggested that businesses adjust permissions to an as-needed fashion, reducing the propensity for malicious and impermissible activity. Lastly, it is recommended that companies utlize protected user groups to prevent unwarranted exposure of user credentials.
Strengthen Externally Facing Assets: Regularly scan for weaknesses in your externally facing cybersecurity infrastructure, and work to repair such weaknesses. Implement andor utilize two-factor authentication to protect the confidentiality of passwords and other forms of system credentials.
Over the months, geopolitical tensions between the United States and Russia have heightened, due to varying interests in Ukraine. Now that Russia has advanced into Ukrainian territory, the United States, its businesses, and their respective cybersecurity infrastructures are at an even greater threat. Georgia businesses should begin to effectively adopt andor utilize internal best practices to ensure the integrity of their cybersecurity infrastructures. Here are some useful steps:
ATLANTA  The Georgia Chamber Foundation, as a service to its member investors, recommends the following steps to help inform and increase business cybersecurity in the days to come.
