IAEA Chief No Immediate Threat to Nuclear Safety at Ukrainian Site
20220811
https://www.voanews.com/a/un-chief-fighting-around-ukrainian-nuclear-plant-could-lead-to-disaster/6697492.html
"To achieve that, I ask that both sides cooperate with the IAEA and allow for a mission to Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant to proceed as soon as possible, he said.
Russia took over the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on March 4, stationing troops there and keeping the Ukrainian staff in place to run it.
We certainly can all agree that any nuclear catastrophe would be unacceptable, and therefore, preventing it should be our overarching goal, IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi told the U.N. Security Council in a video briefing.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres appealed to the parties to use common sense and reason and to not target Zaporizhzhia. In a statement Thursday, he called on them to immediately cease military activities near the nuclear plant, as well as withdraw any military personnel and equipment from the site.
The United States called on Russia to cease all military operations at or near Ukrainian nuclear facilities and to return full control of Zaporizhzhia to Ukraine.
He said the parties should urgently agree on a perimeter of demilitarization to ensure the safety of the area.
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency said Thursday that a preliminary assessment from his agencys experts concluded there was no immediate threat to nuclear safety following shelling around a major nuclear plant in southern Ukraine, but he cautioned that could change at any moment.
Bonnie Jenkins, the U.S. undersecretary of state for arms control and international security, also expressed support for Ukraines proposal to create a demilitarized zone around the plant and for the IAEA mission.
Grossi said that recently the situation at Ukraines nuclear facilities, and in particular at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear site, has been deteriorating rapidly, to the point of becoming very alarming.
But unfortunately, due to political factors and other considerations, it was not possible, he said. We have seen what has happened over the past two months we cannot allow such factors to delay us any longer.
A team from the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency has been trying since June to send a technical mission to check the Zaporizhzhia site. It is the largest nuclear power plant in Europe.
The mission to the site would also allow us to perform urgent safeguards activities  verifying the status of the reactors and the inventories of nuclear material, including fresh and spent fuel storage, where we currently have no remote data transfer of surveillance, he said.
Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said his government hoped the IAEA mission to Zaporizhzhia would happen soon.
Ukraine and Russia blame each other for shelling around the site since August 6, including reports of new shelling earlier Thursday.
Russia is not using civilian infrastructure, without mentioning nuclear facilities, for that purpose, Nebenzia told the Security Council, dismissing the U.N. chiefs proposal. This is a tactic of Ukrainian armed forces.
IAEA chief Grossi said it was urgent for him and his experts to go to Zaporizhzhia to assess physical damage to the facilities, evaluate working conditions of the control room staff, and perform maintenance on all IAEA safeguard equipment.
The IAEA needs both Ukrainian and Russian authorization and assistance to reach Zaporizhzhia because it is held in territory Russian troops currently hold.
We stand ready to provide the mission with all necessary assistance and facilitate its travel through Ukrainian-controlled territory, Ukrainian Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya told the council.
Russian plans regarding the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant aim at disconnecting it from the energy system of Ukraine and cutting off electricity in the south of the country, Kyslytsya said.
