Latest Developments in Ukraine May 13
20220513
https://www.voanews.com/a/latest-developments-in-ukraine-may-13/6569729.html
This will depend, unfortunately, not only on our people, who are already giving their maximum, he said. This will depend on our partners, on European countries, on the entire free world.
Eurovision is the world's longest-running televised music contest, the Post says. This year it's being held in Italy, and the grand finale is Saturday. The favorite to win this year is Ukrainian contestant Kalush Orchestra, whose song Stefania has become a tribute to Ukraine.
Satellite imagery from Maxar, a private U.S.-based company, showed the aftermath of what it called probable missile attacks on a Russian landing craft near the island, which became famous for its Ukrainian defenders' expletive-filled defiance early in the war.
3:02p.m.: Russia ports have been busy since the Russian troops invaded Ukraine, as companies rush to fulfill orders before the international sanctions put in place to punish Russia go into full effects, according to the New York Times. Many of those sanctions included exceptions for energy products and consumer goods that might otherwise have created more pain for consumers amid global supply chain problems. But while a possible EU ban could further reduce Russian exports, data shows that, so far, commerce with Russia has been reduced but not crippled, the Times said.
Ukraine has proposed evacuating 38 of the most severely wounded defenders in exchange for a number of Russian prisoners of war.
South Ossetia was at the center of the Russian-Georgian war in 2008 after which the Kremlin recognized the territory, along with another separatist region, Abkhazia, as an independent state and stationed military bases there.
5:10 p.m.: The leader of Georgia's breakaway region of South Ossetia on Friday set July 17 as a date for a referendum on joining Russia, Agence France-Presse reports.
Several hundred bodies were being stored at a facility on the outskirts of Kyiv filmed by Reuters.
The announcement came on the 79th day of Russia's military campaign in Ukraine, where the regions of Donetsk and Lugansk have also expressed interest in joining Russia.
12:43 p.m.: U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke by telephone to his Russian counterpart Sergei Shoigu on Friday, Reuters reported. It was the first time the two defense chiefs have talked since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to the Pentagon. The report said Austin has tried multiple times to try and talk with Shoigu since the invasion started nearly three months ago, but officials said Moscow had appeared uninterested.
The Pentagon said Austin called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine during the call. Russia's TAS news agency reported the call covered "Topical issues of international security were discussed, including the situation in Ukraine," quoting the Russian defense ministry.
6:05 p.m.: Renewed fighting in recent days around Snake Island, an outpost that Ukrainian military intelligence said allows control of civilian shipping, could help Ukraine resume grain exports vital to world supplies, some of which are now being shipped by rail, according to Reuters.
1:30 p.m.: Nine-year-old Sofia Hurmaza is in hospital in Lviv, western Ukraine, after sustaining a shrapnel wound to the head that her doctor says would normally leave her in a "vegetative state." But after two days in a coma and a complex operation, her doctor says she's making a "miracle" recovery.
"Whoever controls the island can block the movement of civilian vessels in all directions to the south of Ukraine at any time," Budanov added. CNN has the full report.
6:42 p.m.: Ukraines Snake Island, made famous on the first day of Russias invasion, has a very important strategic significance: Without it, Ukraine cannot guarantee the freedom of the shipping lanes between Odesa and the world.
"Conducting river crossings in a contested environment is a highly risky manoeuvre and speaks to the pressure the Russian commanders are under to make progress in their operations in eastern Ukraine," the update says.
Prosecutors say Shyshimarin shot a Ukrainian civilian in the head, killing him. If convicted, he could get life in prison.
U.S. deputy ambassador Richard Mills called the Russian claims of alleged U.S. involvement in a biological weapons program categorically false and ludicrous.
8:50 a.m.: Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Friday asked the G7 foreign ministers to seize Russian assets and turn them over to Ukraine help cover the costs of repairing the destruction caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reports.
9:55 a.m.: Russia suffered heavy losses when Ukrainian forces destroyed the pontoon bridge enemy troops were using to try to cross a river in the east, the Associated Press reports, citing Ukrainian and British officials. Ukraine's military released photos and video of what it said was a damaged Russian pontoon bridge over the Siversky Donets River and several destroyed or damaged Russian military vehicles nearby.
Lyamzin said there were several refrigerator trains stationed in different regions across Ukraine where the bodies of Russian soldiers were being kept.
7:18 p.m.: Talks with Russia to bring wounded defenders out of the Azovstal plant in Mariupol are ongoing and very complex, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday said, Reuters reported.
"According to the norms of international humanitarian law, and Ukraine is strictly following them, after the active phase of the conflict is over, sides have to return the bodies of the military of another country, Volodymr Lyamzin, the head of Ukraines civil-military cooperation, said. "Ukraine is ready to return the bodies to the aggressor.
Sgt. Vadim Shyshimarin, 21, is the first Russian to be tried for war crimes since Russia invaded Ukraine.
1 a.m.: The World Bank says that money transfers to Ukraine, the largest recipient in Europe and Central Asia, are expected to rise by more than 20 this year. That's because refugees and others are sending money to people still in the country.
7:33 a.m.: The top four clubs in the Russian soccer league say they have filed an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport against being banned from next seasons European competitions over Russias invasion of Ukraine, The Associated Press reported Friday. Zenit St. Petersburg, Dynamo Moscow, FC Sochi and CSKA Moscow would all qualify for mens European competitions based on their current league positions. They said they have asked for the case to be heard in an expedited procedure.
3:04 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing the U.S. think tank the Institute for the Study of War, reports that Russia likely controls the Ukrainian city of Rubizhne and probably the town of Voevodivka as well.
Annual inflation could reach 23 this year before slowing next year and returning to the target of 4 in 2024, according to the Central Bank.
8:50 p.m.: The United States again accused Russia of using the U.N. Security Council to spout disinformation and conspiracy theories about biological weapons in Ukraine, The Associated Press reported.
12:02 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing the U.S. think tank the Institute for the Study of War, reports that Russia likely controls the Ukrainian city of Rubizhne and probably the town of Voevodivka as well.
This is the only recipe for protecting freedom in the face of the Russian invasion. And for Western countries, this is not simply an expense. This is not about accounting, its about the future.
10:12 a.m.: Russia has reportedly lost more than 650 tanks and about 3,000 other armored vehicles and heavy equipment so far in its invasion of Ukraine. According to RFERL, advanced anti-tank weapons given to Ukraine by Western countries, poor strategy, low morale, and important design flaws in Russian equipment have all contributed to the losses.
9:20 p.m.: In his nightly video address to his country, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said although Ukrainians are doing everything they can to drive out the Russians, no one today can predict how long this war will last.
Michel is currently in Japan, visiting Hiroshima, the city that was the target of the first atomic bombing.
In Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, lessons are being given in a subway station that has become home for many families. Children joined their teacher Valeriy Leiko around a table to learn about history and art, with youngsters' drawings lining the walls.
Inflation of food prices, a huge concern for Russians on low incomes, has reached 20.5 year-on-year, according to Rosstat.
9:03 a.m.: Sweden on Friday issued a report criticizing Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "Russias actions give rise to a structural, long-term and significant deterioration of the security environment in Europe and globally, and raise questions about how Sweden can best guarantee its national security," the report said. The majority of the report analyzes Sweden's potential answer to those security questions: joining NATO.
5:07 a.m.: TV presenter Timur Miroshnychenko, who hosted the wildly popular Eurovision Song Contest in Ukraine in 2019, will be chiming in on this year's competition -- from a bomb shelter, The Washington Post reports.
Pasta has gone up by 29.6, butter by 26.1, and fruit and vegetables by 33.
4:08 a.m.: The BBC reports that European Council President Charles Michel says that global security is "under threat."
Whoever controls Snake Island controls "the surface and to some extent the air situation in southern Ukraine," Ukraine's defense intelligence chief, Kyrylo Budanov, said Friday.
"There are 25 million metric tons of grain currently blocked in the Ukrainian port of Odesa, which means food for millions of people in the world that is urgently needed," German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said.
10:06 a.m.: Ukraine on Friday accused Russia forcibly deporting more than 210,000 children since its invasion on Feb. 24, Reuters reports. Ukraine's human rights ombudswoman, Lyudmyla Denisova, said the children were among 1.2 million Ukrainians who Kyiv says have been deported against their will. Reuters said it could not independently verify the figure.
"Russia, a nuclear armed state... is attacking the sovereign nation of Ukraine, while making shameful and unacceptable references to the use of nuclear weapons," he said.
Russia almost completely controls Mariupol and its forces have been bombarding the steelworks, where the last bastion of Ukrainian defenders remains.
More children have been injured and faced grave violations of their rights, millions more have been displaced, said Omar Abdi, UNICEF's deputy director.
"It helps to support them mentally. Because now there is a war, and many lost their homes. ... Some people's parents are fighting now," Leiko said. In part because of the lessons, he said, "they feel that someone loves them."
5:43 a.m.: Nearly 100 children were killed in Ukraine last month, The Washington Post reports, citing UNICEF.
8:15 p.m.: Russia's annual inflation jumped to a two-decade high of 17.8 in April, fueled by Western sanctions over Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine, the statistics agency said on Friday, Agence France-Presse reported.
4:20 p.m.: As the war grinds on, teachers are trying to restore some sense of normalcy after the fighting shuttered Ukraine's schools and upended the lives of millions of children, The Associated Press reports.
"At the moment very complex negotiations are under way on the next phase of the evacuation mission  the removal of the badly wounded, medics. We are talking about a large number of people," Zelenskyy said in a late-night address.
Kuleba also said that there has been an improvement on weapons supplies coming into Ukraine, but more are needed, especially multiple rocket launch systems.
7:40 a.m.: EU foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell said Friday the bloc will provide an additional 500 million euros worth of military aid to Ukraine, RFERL reports. Borrell said the military support would be for heavy weapons such as tanks and artillery, and takes EU aid for Ukraine to about 2 billion euros.
The new case joins legal bids by Russian teams and federations in a multitude of different sports.
11:23 a.m.: A Ukrainian band is the oddsmakers favorite to win the Eurovision Song Contest, according to the Associated Press. Kalush Orchestra is one of 25 bands that will compete Saturday final of the annual songwriting contest in Turin, Italy. The band's song, "Stefania," was written as the frontmans tribute to his mother but has become an anthem to the motherland since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. The song is a mashup of traditional Ukrainian folk music and contemporary hip hop elements.
He said he was thankful to all those who are working to strengthen the sanctions on Russia and increase military and financial support to Ukraine, according to excerpts of the video by The Associated Press.
U.N. deputy disarmament chief Thomas Markram reiterated what his boss said at council meetings on March 11 and March 18: The United Nations is not aware of any biological weapons program in Ukraine.
2:04 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says Russia is attempting a breakthrough toward Sloviansk and Kramatorsk. Its aim is to isolate Ukrainian forces from support or reinforcement. The Ukrainians, for their part, blocked a Russian attempt to cross the Donbas river.
He warned the council Friday that Moscows actions follow a pattern of accusing others of violations it has perpetrated or intends to perpetrate.
7:50 p.m.: Ukrainians loaded the bodies of Russian soldiers collected after fighting in the Kyiv and Chernihiv regions onto refrigerated rail cars on Friday, Reuters reported
