Polish President Only Ukraine Should Decide Its Future
20220522
https://www.voanews.com/a/poland-s-president-to-speak-to-ukraine-s-parliament-/6584143.html
Duda, the first foreign leader to give a speech in person to parliament since Russia's February 24 invasion, said the international community must demand that Moscow completely withdraw its troops from Ukrainian territory.
The Ukrainians said they had turned back nine attacks, destroying five tanks and 10 armored vehicles, according to the Facebook post.
"Worrying voices have appeared, saying that Ukraine should give in to Putin's demands, Duda told Ukrainian lawmakers, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin. "Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future... nothing about you without you," he added, to a standing ovation in the chamber.
"I want to emphasize that our European integration path is not just about politics," Zelenskyy said. "It's about quality of life. And about the fact that Ukrainians perceive the values of life in the same way as the vast majority of Europeans."
He said the 27-nation EU should consider Ukraine's desire to join the bloc as soon as possible within the context of Russia's invasion.
Podolyak said, "The war will not stop after concessions to Russia. It will just be put on pause for some time. They'll start a new offensive, even more bloody and large scale.
Russia destroyed a Ukrainian special operations base near Odesa, Ukraine's main Black Sea port, Saturday, as well as a significant cache of Western-supplied weapons in northern Ukraine's Zhytomyr region, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said. There was no confirmation from the Ukrainian side.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a Saturday night address to his nation that the situation in Donbas is extremely difficult, but that his country's ability to withstand nearly three months of full-scale war against Russia "is good news."
The port city is the scene of the war's bloodiest siege, with Russian forces bombarding it for nearly three months. Much of Mariupol has been reduced to rubble, and more than 20,000 civilians are feared dead.
As Duda spoke, more fighting erupted in Ukraines eastern Donbas region after Russia declared that it had full control of the sprawling Azovstal steel plant in the port city of Mariupol. Russia launched artillery and missile attacks in Ukraine's industrial heartland, where Russia-backed separatists have clashed with Kyivs forces since Moscows 2014 seizure of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula.
Ukrainian forces said via Facebook that at least seven people had been killed in Donetsk in the previous 24 hours when Russians, using aircraft, artillery, tanks, rockets, mortars and missiles, pummeled civilian structures and residential areas.
Mariupols capture, Russias most significant conquest of the war, adds to Moscows goal of a land route from Russia to the Crimea and perhaps beyond.
Concern for the treatment of fighters who surrendered to Russian forces after weeks of fighting at the Azovstal steel plant in the southern port city of Mariupol increased Saturday when Denis Pushilin, the pro-Kremlin head of an area of eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed separatists, said they would face tribunals.
In another development Saturday, Russia published a list of nearly 1,000 Americans who are permanently banned from entry into Russia because of their support for Ukraine. U.S. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris are among those on the list that includes members of the presidents Cabinet.
Polish President Andrzej Duda addressed the Ukrainian parliament Sunday, rebuffing suggestions that Kyiv should cede part of its territory to Russia to end Moscows three-month invasion.
Mykhailo Podolyak, Ukraines lead negotiator with Russia and an adviser to Zelenskyy, said there will be no cease-fire or concessions to Moscow.
"If Ukraine is sacrificed for... economic reasons or political ambitions  even a centimeter of its territory  it will be a huge blow not only for the Ukrainian nation, but for the entire Western world, Duda said.
The Polish leader, whose country has accepted more than 2 million Ukrainian refugees fleeing the war, said he will not rest until Ukraine becomes a member of the European Union.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Saturday that Ukraine would fight for the return of every soldier.
"Every day that our defenders take away from these offensive plans of Russia, disrupting them, is a concrete contribution to the approach of the main day. The desired day that we are all looking forward to and fighting for: Victory Day," Zelenskyy said.
