Red Cross to Facilitate Evacuation of Civilians from Ukraines Port City of Mariupol
20220331
https://www.voanews.com/a/ukrainian-president-says-defense-is-at-a-turning-point-/6509143.html
Newly declassified U.S. intelligence suggests that Russias invasion of Ukraine, now in its sixth week, is causing rifts between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his senior military advisers.
We believe that Putin is being misinformed by his advisers about how badly the Russian military is performing and how the Russian economy is being crippled by sanctions, because his senior advisers are too afraid to tell him the truth, Bedingfield said. So, it is increasingly clear that Putin's war has been a strategic blunder that has left Russia weaker over the long term, and increasingly isolated on the world stage.
In a video address Wednesday, Zelenskyy said, I've thanked the U.S. for the new package of humanitarian aid worth $1 billion dollars and an additional $500 million in direct budgetary aid. I've also underlined that now is the turning point.
For logistics and security reasons, well be ready to lead the safe passage operation tomorrow, Friday, provided all the parties agree to the exact terms, including the route, the start time and the duration, the ICRC said in a statement.
Teams from the International Committee of the Red Cross are poised to facilitate the safe passage of civilians from Ukraines strategic port city of Mariupol, the aid agency said Thursday, after a local temporary cease-fire agreement was reached.
U.S. President Joe Biden spoke Wednesday with Zelenskyy about U.S. fulfillment of the main security assistance requests by Ukraine, the White House said in a statement.
Turkey's top diplomat, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said in a televised interview Thursday that Turkey is working to bring the two sides back to the bargaining table within two weeks. But the head of the Ukrainian delegation, David Arakhamia, said Thursday that talks would resume Friday by video conference.
One day after Ukrainian officials said Russia has violated its promise to scale back military operations on the outskirts of the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and the northern city of Chernihiv, Britains defense ministry said Thursday that significant Russian shelling and missile strikes have continued in Chernihiv.
Heavy fighting continued in Mariupol but Ukrainian forces remained in control of the citys center, the ministry said.
In an early Thursday morning video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his countrys forces are preparing for more Russian attacks in southeastern Ukraine after Russias attacks on Kyiv were repelled.
Britains defense ministry also said Russian forces continue to hold positions to the east and west of Kyiv, despite the withdrawal of a limited number of units.
Russian forces also damaged a Red Cross warehouse in Mariupol, the Ukrainian government and the ICRC said Wednesday. The agency said it distributed all the supplies from the warehouse earlier in March and that no staff members have been at the site since March 15.
Its desperately important that this operation takes place, the ICRC said. The lives of tens of thousands of people in Mariupol depend on it.
There is now persistent tension between Putin and the MOD Ministry of Defense a U.S. official confirmed to VOA on Wednesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss the information.
Similar evacuation plans collapsed over accusations of fighting along the corridor to Mariupol, where tens of thousands of people have been trapped for weeks without food, water and heat while under attack.
VOA national security correspondent Jeff Seldin, Pentagon correspondent Carla Babb, United Nations correspondent Margaret Besheer and White House correspondent Anita Powell contributed to this report.
Vereshchuk said Wednesday the two sides had agreed to open three evacuation corridors and that one corridor would be used for the evacuation of Mariupol and delivery of humanitarian aid to Berdyansk, about 85 kilometers southwest of Mariupol.
On the diplomatic front, Russia said Wednesday there was no sign of a breakthrough in in-person peace talks with Ukraine hosted earlier this week by Turkey in Istanbul.
The two leaders also discussed continued efforts by the United States with allies and partners to identify additional capabilities to help the Ukrainian military defend its country, according to the statement.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Thursday several dozen Ukrainian buses would transport civilians from the besieged city after Russia's military pledged a cease-fire from the southern Black Sea port city to the Ukrainian-held city of Zaporizhzhia beginning Friday morning.
There is a build-up of Russian forces for new strikes on the Donbas and we are preparing for that," Zelenskyy said of the southeastern region that Russia has demanded from Ukraine.
President Biden informed President Zelenskyy that the United States intends to provide the Ukrainian government with $500 million in direct budgetary aid, the White House added, noting the Ukrainian leader updated Biden on the status of negotiations.
