Russia a Noshow at Court Hearing on Ukraine Conflict
20220307
https://www.voanews.com/a/russia-a-no-show-at-court-hearing-on-ukraine-conflict-/6473828.html
"The fact that Russia's seats are empty speaks loudly. They are not here in this court of law: they are on a battlefield waging an aggressive war against my country, he said.
President Vladimir Putin claims he invaded Ukraine to protect people facing bullying and genocide in the eastern part of the country. Both Russia and Ukraine have signed onto an international genocide treaty. Genocide scholars say Putin's claim is baseless. And a French member of Russias legal team has resigned, accusing Moscow of "cynically abusing the law.
The empty seats allocated to Russias legal team at the International Court of Justice were telling. They gave ammunition to Ukraines envoy, Anton Korynevych, as he laid out his countrys arguments against Moscow to The Hague-based body.
Members of the court, in less than two weeks this case has become much bigger than Ukraine versus Russia. It has become a test of who will prevail  Russia, or the post-war international legal order, said a member of Ukraines legal team.
The ICJ is the worlds highest court for resolving legal disputes between states. Russia was supposed to present arguments Tuesday, but that wont be happening.
Predicting horrific and long-term human and environmental consequences from the conflict, Ukraines legal team also warned that the courts ruling carried broader repercussions.
Russia did not show up to a key international court hearing aimed at putting a legal stop to fighting in Ukraine that is creating Europes biggest refugee crisis in years. At issue is Russian President Vladimir Putins claim of "genocide to justify his invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine wants the ICJ to use so-called "provisional measures at its disposal as a way to end the fighting. The measures aim to prevent a situation from becoming worse.
Russia must be stopped and the court has a role to play in stopping it. That is why the people of Ukraine, the government of Ukraine, the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, ask you respectfully but urgently to grant our request for provisional measures," said Korynevych.
Besides the ICJ, other international bodies are weighing in on the conflict. The International Criminal Court is investigating Putin for possible war crimes. The Council of Europe, the regions largest rights body based in Strasbourg France, has suspended Russias membership.
