Ukraine Accuses Russia of Again Shelling Nuclear Plant
20220807
https://www.voanews.com/a/ukraine-accuses-russia-of-again-shelling-nuclear-plant-/6690766.html
Amnesty International released a report last week saying that Ukrainian forces have put civilians in harms way by establishing bases and operating weapons systems in populated residential areas, including in schools and hospitals, as they repelled the Russian invasion that began in February.
Zelenskyy, in his daily address Saturday, denounced Amnesty International for its eloquent silence in failing to address the Russian shelling of Zaporizhzhia. The silence, Zelenskyy said, indicates the manipulative selectivity of this organization.
The ships moving out of Ukrainian ports are headed to China, Italy and two locations in Turkey.
Ukraine accused Russia again Sunday of bombing Europe's largest nuclear power station, the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, and alleged that Moscow was engaging in "nuclear terror."
The Joint Coordination Center, the body set up under the Black Sea Grain Initiative to monitor its implementation, authorized the departures through the maritime humanitarian corridor.
Ukraine is one of the worlds breadbaskets and the blockage of its ports has resulted in rising global food prices and the threat of famine.
Ukraine's state nuclear power firm said Russian forces damaged three radiation sensors at the facility in the attack Saturday night and wounded a worker with shrapnel.
Oksana Pokalchuk, the head of Amnesty International Ukraine, also took issue with the global organizations report and resigned from her post in protest.
Russia captured the Zaporizhzhia plant in early March in the opening stages of its invasion of Ukraine, but the facility is still run by Ukrainian technicians.
The Ukrainian nuclear company Energoatom said Russian rocket attacks Saturday hit a storage facility, where 174 containers with spent nuclear fuel were kept in the open.
The Russian-installed administration of occupied Enerhodar, where the plant's employees live, said Ukraine had struck using a 220-mm Uragan multiple rocket launcher system.
After the first attack Friday, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency said the shelling showed the risk of a nuclear disaster. Those shells hit a high-voltage power line, prompting the plant's operators to disconnect a reactor despite no radioactive leak being detected.
"The administrative buildings and the adjacent territory of the storage facility were damaged," it said.
"Consequently, timely detection and response in the event of a deterioration in the radiation situation or leakage of radiation from containers of spent nuclear fuel are not yet possible," it said.
The plant, in Russian-controlled territory, was also attacked Friday. Moscow has blamed Ukrainian forces for the strikes.
In response, Zelenskyy said, There cannot be, even hypothetically, any condition under which any Russian attack on Ukraine becomes justified. Aggression against our state is unprovoked, invasive and openly terroristic.
"Russian nuclear terror requires a stronger response from the international community  sanctions on the Russian nuclear industry and nuclear fuel," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy wrote on Twitter.
