Ukraine Says Russia Started Large Attack on Donbas Region
20220420
https://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/ukraine-says-russia-starts-large-attack-on-donbas-region/6536346.html
If Russia takes over control of the region, it will connect Russia with the Crimean Peninsula, an area it took in 2014.
Zelenskyy, however, said his nations soldiers will keep fighting. We will defend ourselves, he said.
Ukraine says Russia sent thousands of new soldiers into its eastern Donbas region on Tuesday. Regional leaders say they are trying to evacuate civilians and hold on to key cities.
Dan Friedell adapted this story for VOA Learning English based on reports by Reuters, AFP, and The Associated Press.
liberate  v. to free a person or a group who is being controlled by someone else
In a video speech Monday, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia has been preparing to take over the region for a long time.
In addition to the fighting in the east, Ukrainian regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy said three missiles hit military targets in the western city of Lviv. Another missile, he said, hit a car repair shop. Lviv is only 60 kilometers from Poland and has not been hit as hard as other parts of Ukraine in the war, which started in late February.
region  n. a part of a country that is separate from another part of a country in some way
Russias foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, confirmed another stage of this operation is beginning. Defense minister Sergei Shoigu said Russias plan is to liberate the provinces in the border area.
Nearly 25 percent of Ukraines 44 million residents have been forced from their homes due to the fighting.
In a recent call, Russian president Vladimir Putin said economic restrictions put in place by Western nations have failed.
Lviv is an important target as it is one of Ukraines main transportation centers. Western nations are sending aid into Ukraine through the city.
Western officials, however, said the restrictions on business with Russia, known as sanctions, have deeply hurt the economy.
Zelenskyy continued, saying a large part of the Russian army is centering its efforts on an attack in the region. The Donbas includes two provinces, Luhansk and Donetsk along with the coastal city of Mariupol.
In Mariupol, Russian soldiers told the last Ukrainian fighters remaining in the area to give up their fight or be killed.
United States President Joe Biden spoke with allies Tuesday to discuss what the White House called continued support for Ukraine and efforts to hold Russia accountable for the war.
