Ukrainian First Lady Pleads to US Lawmakers for AntiMissile Systems
20220720
https://www.voanews.com/a/ukrainian-first-lady-to-address-us-lawmakers/6666146.html
The two first ladies last saw each other during Bidens unannounced visit to western Ukraine in May, when they visited a school and joined children who were making Mothers Day gifts.
The White House said Zelenska is visiting Washington to highlight the human cost of Russias aggression against Ukraine, with the first ladies discussing the United States continued support for the government of Ukraine and its people as they defend their democracy and cope with the significant human impacts of Russias war, which will be felt for years to come.
I want to address you not as first lady, but as a daughter and as a mother, Zelenska said in Ukrainian, as a woman translated her speech to English. No matter what positions and titles we reach in our lives, first of all, we always remain part of our family.
But how can I talk about peaceful affairs when an unprovoked invasive terrorist war is being waged against my country? Russia is destroying our people, she said.
I am asking for weaponsweapons that will not be used to wage a war on somebody elses land, but to protect ones home and the right to make up a life in that home, Zelenska said. I am asking for air-defense systems in order for rockets not to kill children in their strollers  and kill entire families.
Zelenska was in her third day of a visit to Washington, after meeting Tuesday with U.S. first lady Jill Biden at the White House and Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Monday.
Ukrainian first lady Olena Zelenska on Wednesday showed pictures of casualties of Russias war on her country to U.S. lawmakers, delivering an emotional appeal for a supply of more air defense systems to fight off Moscows missile attacks.
Zelenska showed the faces of Liza, a toddler killed in a missile attack earlier this month in Vinnytsia, 5-year-old Eva, left in the rubble of a destroyed building, and a Holocaust survivor killed in Kyiv.
