Ukraine 9 Russian Warplanes Destroyed at Crimean Air Base
20220711
https://www.voanews.com/a/ukraine-nine-russian-warplanes-destroyed-at-crimean-air-base/6696043.html
Reznichenko said the Russian forces fired at the city of Marganets and a nearby village, damaging dozens of residential buildings, two schools and several administrative buildings.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych, said Tuesday that the blasts either were caused by a Ukrainian-made long-range weapon or were the work of guerrillas operating in Crimea. The site, at least 200 kilometers from the nearest Ukrainian position, is out of range of the missiles the U.S. has supplied to Kyiv.
In a Tuesday night video address, Zelenskyy pledged that Ukraine would retake Crimea, saying, "This Russian war against Ukraine and against all of free Europe began with Crimea and must end with Crimea  its liberation."
Key U.S. news outlets  The New York Times and The Washington Post  quoted unnamed Ukrainian officials as saying that Kyivs forces were responsible for carrying out an attack on the base on the western coast of Crimea but gave no details. The Times report said its source would not disclose what type of weapon caused the explosions but added, A device exclusively of Ukrainian manufacture was used.
If Ukrainian forces were, in fact, responsible for the blasts, it would be the first known major attack on a Russian military site in Crimea. Ukrainian saboteurs last month carried out a small drone attack on the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Fleet in the Crimean port of Sevastopol.
The attack inside Crimea would mark a significant escalation of hostilities in Russias offensive against the one-time Soviet republic, now in its sixth month. Moscow has used the Saki air base as a launch site for attacks on southern Ukraine.
"It was a terrible night," Reznichenko said. "It's very hard to take bodies from under debris. We are facing a cruel enemy who engages in daily terror against our cities and villages."
The Security Council is to address the shelling near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling the power station, the biggest nuclear plant in Europe, and officials have been worrying about a nuclear catastrophe.
Meanwhile, Russia shelled Ukraines central region of Dnipropetrovsk, where 13 people were killed and 11 others wounded, according to the region's governor, Valentyn Reznichenko.
And Crimeas regional leader said dozens of apartment buildings were damaged and about 250 residents were moved to temporary housing.
The U.N.s atomic energy watchdog has sounded the alarm and the Group of Seven leading industrialized countries on Wednesday told Russia to hand back the plant to Ukraine.
Russian authorities sought Wednesday to downplay the explosions at the air base, saying they had not affected hotels and beaches on the peninsula, which is a popular summertime tourist destination for many Russians. However social media images showed people a nearby beach fleeing to safety as plumes of smoke towered overhead.
On Crimea, Ukraine stopped short of publicly claiming responsibility for the explosions at the Saki air base, even while ridiculing Russias denial of an attack. Moscow claimed that munitions caught fire and exploded, killing one person and injuring at least 13 others. It denied any aircraft were damaged, but satellite photos show at least seven fighter jets blown up and more damaged.
The Ukrainian air force says nine Russian warplanes were destroyed in massive explosions Tuesday at an air base in Crimea, the peninsula that Moscow seized in 2014. And shelling around a Ukrainian nuclear power plant has prompted an emergency meeting Thursday of the U.N. Security Council.
