UN Council Establishes Commission of Inquiry on Russian Invasion of Ukraine
20220304
https://www.voanews.com/a/un-council-establishes-commission-of-inquiry-on-russian-invasion-of-ukraine/6470489.html
The U.N. Human Rights Council adopted the resolution by a vote of 32 in favor, 13 abstentions and two against. Only Russia and Eritrea voted no to condemning Russias invasion of Ukraine.
A number of Western countries condemned Belarus for, as they put it, supporting the aggression against Ukraine. But let us be honest with ourselves. Who is fueling the flames of conflict in Ukraine? Unlike the co-sponsors of the resolution, Belarus is not sending weapons or mercenaries to the conflict zone. And there are no Belarusian soldiers on Ukrainian soil, said Taranda, speaking through an interpreter.
The Belarusian statement had little traction in the council. Country after country from all regions of the world  Europe, Africa, Asia, South America  rose to condemn Russias aggression in Ukraine.
Ambassador Sheba Crocker, U.S. representative to the U.N. and other international organizations in Geneva, said Russia must be held to account for its senseless, premeditated and unprovoked military attack on Ukraine.
With millions of civilian lives at stake, Ukrainian and non-Ukrainian alike  as Russian troops open fire on the streets of Kyiv, as they drop bombs on residential buildings in populated areas, as they shell kindergarten students in their schools  Russia must be held to account by this council, Crocker said.
Conversely, Taranda said, Poland reportedly already has let 200 mercenaries into Ukraine, without citing evidence of this claim.
While Belarus is not a member of the council, it took the floor in defense of its Russian ally. Belarus Counselor Andrei Taranda also took the occasion to deflect criticism against his countrys alliance with Moscow.
The 47-member U.N. Human Rights Council overwhelmingly condemned Russias invasion of Ukraine. It voted Friday to establish a Commission of Inquiry to investigate violations of human rights and international humanitarian law resulting from Russias aggression against Ukraine.
In an indication of how isolated Russia has become, even stalwart allies  China, Cuba, and Venezuela  chose to abstain rather than stand shoulder to shoulder with Moscow in rejecting the resolution.
The Human Rights Council resolution calls on the commission of inquiry to investigate all alleged violations and abuses of human rights stemming from Russias invasion of Ukraine. It charges the commission to collect, analyze, and safeguard all evidence to be used in any future legal proceedings that may result from its probe.
