Biden Putin set video call Tuesday as Ukraine tensions grow
20211204
https://apnews.com/83e399de3cd43eee751553aafb543052
When Putin and Biden met in Geneva in June, Biden warned that if Russia crossed certain red lines  including going after major American infrastructure  his administration would respond and the consequences of that would be devastating.
Psaki said in a brief statement Saturday that Biden and Putin will discuss a range of topics in the U.S.-Russia relationship, including strategic stability, cyber, and regional issues.
Biden is also expected to speak with Zelenskyy in the coming week, according to a person close to the Ukrainian leader. This person was not authorized to comment publicly before the announcement of the call and spoke on the condition of anonymity.
U.S. officials and former American diplomats say while the Russian president is clearly laying the groundwork for a possible invasion, Ukraines military is better armed and prepared today than in the past, and that sanctions threatened by the West  would do serious damage to the Russian economy.
Ransomware attacks have continued since then, though perhaps none has been as alarming as the one from May that targeted a major fuel pipeline and resulted in days of gas shortages in parts of the U.S.
Ukrainian officials have said Russia could invade next month. Ukraines defense minister, Oleksii Reznikov, said the number of Russian troops near Ukraine and in Russia-annexed Crimea is estimated at 94,300, and warned that a large-scale escalation is possible in January.
Putin will come to the call with concerns of his own and intends to express Russias opposition to any move to admit Ukraine into the NATO military alliance. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the presidents will decide themselves how long their talk will last.
Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, recently charged that a group of Russians and Ukrainians planned to attempt a coup in his country and that the plotters tried to enlist the help of Ukraines richest man, Rinat Akhmetov.
Biden will press U.S. concerns about Russian military activities on the border and reaffirm the United States support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Saturday, confirming the planned call after first word came from Moscow.
Russia and Akhmetov have denied that any plot is underway, but the Russians have become more explicit recently in their warnings to Ukraine and the United States.
We know what President Putin has done in the past, Psaki said. We see that he is putting in place the capacity to take action in short order.
Madhani and Long reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Ellen Knickmeyer and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report.
U.S. intelligence officials, meanwhile, have determined that Russia has massed about 70,000 troops near its border with Ukraine and has begun planning for a possible invasion as soon as early next year, according to a Biden administration official who was not authorized to discuss that finding publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The last known call between the leaders was in July, when Biden pressed Putin to rein in Russia-based criminal hacking gangs launching ransomware attacks against the United States. Biden said the U.S. would take any necessary steps to protect critical infrastructure from such attacks.
She said Friday that the administration would coordinate with European allies if it moved forward with sanctions. She alluded to Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that had been under Ukraines control since 1954. Russia has also backed separatists in eastern Ukraine in a 7-year conflict that has cost over 14,000 lives.
Russia is more adamant than ever that the U.S. guarantees that Ukraine will not be admitted to the NATO military alliance. But NATOs secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg, said this past week that Russia has no say in expansion plans by other countries or the alliance. Numerous former U.S. and NATO diplomats say any such Russian demand to Biden would be a nonstarter.
MOSCOW AP  Presidents Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin will speak in a video call Tuesday, the White House and Kremlin said, as tensions between the United States and Russia escalate over a Russian troop buildup on the Ukrainian border  thats seen as a sign of a potential invasion.
The Kremlin said Friday that Putin, during his call with Biden, would seek binding guarantees precluding NATOs expansion to Ukraine. Biden tried to head off the demand in comments to reporters Friday before leaving for a weekend stay at Camp David.
His administration has imposed sanctions against Russian targets and called out Putin for the Kremlins interference in U.S. elections, cyberactivity against American companies and the treatment of opposition figure Alexei Navalny, who was poisoned last year and later imprisoned.
What I am doing is putting together what I believe to be, will be, the most comprehensive and meaningful set of initiatives to make it very, very difficult for Mr. Putin to go ahead and do what people are worried he may do, Biden said Friday.
