Iran seeks creative ways to nuke deal after Russian demand
20220307
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-middle-east-iran-iran-nuclear-united-nations-7e06d6ff6ca62e11c0865d7d44bf2459
He added Iran and the U.S. continued to negotiate on a possible prisoner swap, like one that accompanied the earlier nuclear deal.
Vienna participants act  react based on interests and its understandable, Shamkhani wrote. Our interactions ... are also solely driven by our peoples interests. Thus, were assessing new elements that bear on the negotiations and will accordingly seek creative ways to expedite a solution.
So far Russia had shown a constructive approach for reaching a collective agreement in Vienna and we interpret what they say in this framework, he said. We will wait for them to give us more details in Vienna.
Its a form of inherent guarantee to make sure that its nuclear program is fully reversible if the U.S. reneged on its commitments again, the newspaper said, without providing a source for the information.
Inspector have to make sure everything is perfectly accounted for to the gram, Grossi said.
Speaking from Vienna, IAEA Director-General Rafael Mariano Grossi said any possible renewed nuclear deal would be a very complex agreement with a number of steps and sequences. He also acknowledged his inspectors faced a challenging task filling in the gaps left by Iran holding IAEA surveillance tapes and limiting access amid the tensions.
The tweet by Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of Irans powerful Supreme National Security Council, offers the first high-level acknowledgment of the demands of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
TEHRAN, Iran AP  A top Iranian official said Monday that his country is seeking creative ways to restore its nuclear deal with world powers after Russias foreign minister linked sanctions on Moscow over its war on Ukraine to the ongoing negotiations.
The remaining differences are less than fingers of a hand  if no one adds a new issue, Khatibzadeh said.
But Lavrov on Saturday said he wanted guarantees at least at the level of the secretary of state that the U.S. sanctions would not affect Moscows relationship with Tehran. That threw into question the months of negotiations held so far on restoring the 2015 deal, which saw Iran agree to drastically limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions.
Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian also weighed in, vowing that Tehran will not allow any foreign factor to affect the national interests of the country in the Vienna talks, according to the state-run IRNA news agency. Russias Foreign Ministry said Amirabdollahian and Lavrov spoke by phone later Monday about the nuclear deal negotiations.
The 2015 nuclear deal saw Iran put advanced centrifuges into storage under the watch of the International Atomic Energy Agency, while keeping its enrichment at 3.67 purity and its stockpile at only 300 kilograms 661 pounds of uranium.
Meanwhile, the state-owned, English-language Tehran Times newspaper on Monday published an article suggesting the draft nuclear deal in Vienna would allow Iran to keep its advanced centrifuges and nuclear materials inside the country.
Getting out of the deal was one of the worst mistakes thats been made in recent years. It let the entire Iranian nuclear program that we put in a box out of the box, Blinken told CBS Face the Nation talk show. And so if theres a way of getting back to reimplementing that deal effectively, its in our interest to do it and were working on that as we speak. Its also in Russias interest.
Speaking on Monday in Tehran, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said that peaceful nuclear cooperation between China, Iran and Russia shouldnt be limited by sanctions. China and Russia are part of the deal, which also includes Germany, Britain and France. The U.S. has sat out of the talks since its withdrawal.
On Sunday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken called Lavrovs demand irrelevant as the nuclear deal and sanctions on Moscow over the Ukraine war were totally different. The United States under then-President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew from the accord in 2018, setting off years of tensions and attacks across the Mideast.
As of Feb. 19, the IAEA says Irans stockpile of all enriched uranium was nearly 3200 kilograms 7,055 pounds. Some has been enriched up to 60 purity  a short technical step from weapons-grade levels of 90.
In recent days, negotiators on all sides in Vienna had signaled that a potential deal was close as the head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog agreed to a timetable with Iran for it to answer the watchdogs long-standing questions about Tehrans program.
