Large explosions rock Russian military air base in Crimea
20220710
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-zelenskyy-kyiv-dnipropetrovsk-58070c83ccd66b46f6f9bdfbb18a1fec
During the war, Russia has reported numerous fires and explosions at munitions storage sites on its territory near the Ukrainian border, blaming some of them on Ukrainian strikes. Ukrainian authorities have mostly remained mum about the incidents.
Ukraines Defense Ministry said sarcastically on Facebook: The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine cannot establish the cause of the fire, but once again recalls the rules of fire safety and the prohibition of smoking in unspecified places.
The White House released satellite images in mid-July indicating that Russians had visited an Iranian airbase to see weapons-capable drones. But U.S. officials said later that month that they had seen no evidence yet of Iran supplying Russia with the drones.
Ukrainian officials this month said Iran has transferred drones to Russia and some have been used in combat.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Powerful explosions rocked a Russian air base in Crimea and sent towering clouds of smoke over the landscape Tuesday in what may mark an escalation of the war in Ukraine. At least one person was killed and several others were wounded, authorities said.
The Ukrainians in recent weeks have been mounting counterattacks in Russian-occupied areas of southern Ukraine while trying to hold off the Kremlins forces in the industrial Donbas region in the east.
Russian warplanes have used the Saki base to strike areas in Ukraines south on short notice.
If Ukrainian forces were, in fact, responsible for the blasts at the air base, it would be the first known major attack on a Russian military site on the Crimean Peninsula, which the Kremlin annexed in 2014. A smaller explosion last month at the headquarters of Russias Black Sea Fleet in the Crimean port of Sevastopol was blamed on Ukrainian saboteurs using a makeshift drone.
A presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych, said cryptically in his regular online interview that the blasts were caused either by a Ukrainian-made long-range weapon or were the work of partisans operating in Crimea.
Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling the power station, Europes biggest nuclear plant, stoking international fears of a catastrophe.
One person was killed, said Crimeas regional leader, Sergei Aksyonov. Crimean health authorities said nine people were wounded, one of whom remained hospitalized. Others were treated for cuts from shards of glass and released.
The governor of the region where the plant is situated, Oleksandr Starukh, said Tuesday that radiation levels were normal. But he warned that an accident could spread radiation whichever way the wind blows, carrying it to Moscow and other Russian cities.
Russias state news agency Tass quoted an unidentified ministry source as saying the explosions primary cause appeared to be a violation of fire safety requirements. The ministry said no warplanes were damaged.
Russias Defense Ministry denied the Saki base on the Black Sea had been shelled and said instead that munitions had blown up there. But Ukrainian social networks were abuzz with speculation that it was hit by Ukrainian-fired long-range missiles.
Officials in Moscow have long warned Ukraine that any attack on Crimea would trigger massive retaliation, including strikes on decision-making centers in Kyiv.
Videos posted on social networks showed sunbathers on nearby beaches fleeing as huge flames and pillars of smoke rose over the horizon from multiple points, accompanied by loud booms. Crimea Today News said on Telegram that witnesses reported fire on a runway and damage to nearby homes as a result of what it said were dozens of blasts.
This Russian war against Ukraine and against all of free Europe began with Crimea and must end with Crimea  its liberation, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Tuesday in his nightly video address. Today it is impossible to say when this will happen. But we are constantly adding the necessary components to the formula for the liberation of Crimea.
Also Tuesday, a U.S. official said Iran has agreed to supply Russia with drones for use in the war in Ukraine. The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive information, said during the last several weeks, Russian officials conducted training in Iran as part of the agreement for UAV transfers from Iran to Russia.
A Russian-installed official in the partially occupied Zaporizhzhia region said an air defense system at the plant would be reinforced in the aftermath of last weeks shelling. Evgeny Balitsky, head of the Kremlin-backed administration, told Russian state TV that power lines and other damaged portions of the plant were restored.
Earlier Tuesday, Ukrainian officials reported at least three Ukrainian civilians were killed and 23 wounded by Russian shelling in 24 hours, including an attack not far from the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
The Russians fired over 120 rockets at the town of Nikopol, across the Dnieper River from the plant, Dnipropetrovsk Gov. Valentyn Reznichenko said. Several apartment buildings and industrial sites were damaged, he said.
