Live updates Ukrainian paramedic remembered for bravery
20220305
https://apnews.com/42fc449b3e3336d09660c273aa0d9f19
NEW YORK  Hundreds of people rallied in New York Citys Times Square on Saturday to show solidarity with Ukraine.
WASHINGTON  U.S. President Joe Biden has called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss ongoing efforts to impose economic costs on Russia and to speed U.S. military, humanitarian and economic assistance to Ukraine.
We know why we are here. We know why we defend our country. And our guys that are actually standing there and fighting Russian military forces, he told Britains Sky News. We know what we are doing and thats why we will win.
The notice offers this guidance: If you wish to depart Russia, you should make arrangements on your own as soon as possible. If you plan to stay in Russia, understand the U.S. Embassy has severe limitations on its ability to assist U.S. citizens, and conditions, including transportation options, may change suddenly.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces were holding key cities in the central and southeastern part of the country Saturday, while the Russians were trying to block and keep encircled Kharkiv, Mykolaiv, Chernihiv and Sumy.
ARD and ZDF said in a statement that they are examining the consequences of the new legislation and suspending reporting from the Moscow studios for now.
Zelensky also asked them to suspend access to Visa and Mastercard credit cards in Russia, according to another person granted anonymity to discuss the call.
Rais measure, effective Saturday, follows similar moves by some other foreign media. Rai said the measure is necessary to safeguard the safety of its journalists in the place as well as the maximum freedom of information about the country.
SIRET, Romania  Romanian President Klaus Iohannis visited a refugee camp in Siret on Saturday and declared that no Ukrainian would be denied entry to his country.
Earlier this week, Shell said it was shocked by the loss of life in Ukraine and would end its joint ventures with Gazprom, the massive oil and gas company that is controlled by the Russian government.
This is horrible, Zelenskyy said. Guys 18, 20 years old ... soldiers who werent even explained what they were going to fight for.
Bennetts office said he departed early Saturday morning for Moscow, accompanied by Russian-speaking Cabinet minister Zeev Elkin, who was born in Ukraine. Both men are observant Jews and wouldnt normally travel on the Sabbath.
The city of Chernihiv, located north of Kyiv and with a population of 290,000, has come under heavy fire from Russian forces. Officials said 17 people in the region were killed in the shelling.
The measure was signed into law by President Vladimir Putin on Friday and already prompted some foreign media including the BBC and Bloomberg to say they were suspending operations within Russia.
Ukraines top court president, Vsevolod Kniaziev, said the Supreme Court of Russia should be excluded from the Conference of Chief Justices of Central  Eastern Europe as it represents a country that brought terror, death and crimes against humanity in Ukraine.
LONDON  Ukraines foreign minister on Saturday criticized Shell for continuing to buy Russian oil, lashing out at the energy giant for continuing to do business with Vladimir Putins regime after the company announced it was exiting investments in Russia.
Others brought signs decrying Russian President Vladimir Putin or calling for a no-fly zone to be imposed over Ukraine.
TIRANA, Albania  Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama said he spoke by phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday to express his countrys support.
Pushych used to be a well-paid worker at a transport and logistic company. But in 2016, she joined the army as a paramedic in response to the separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  Crowds of men have been lining up in Kyiv to join the Ukrainian army.
Following Russias invasion and the closure of Ukrainian airspace, the Egyptian government has allowed Ukrainian tourists to extend their stay for free in hotels and resorts, Saad said.
It cited a high risk of foreign-leased planes being impounded as part of Western sanctions that ban leasing of planes to Russia.
Rosaviatsiyas recommendation doesnt apply to Russian airlines that use Russian planes or foreign planes that arent at risk of being impounded. Aeroflots statement Saturday cited circumstances that hinder operating flights as a reason for its move.
WASHINGTON  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a desperate plea to U.S. senators on Saturday to send more planes to help the country fight the Russian invasion.
NATO has said a no-fly zone, which would bar all unauthorized aircraft from flying over Ukraine, could provoke widespread war in Europe with nuclear-armed Russia.
Usually this weapon is used against military-industrial facilities and fortified structures, said Chaus, head of the same-named region of Chernihiv. But in Chernihiv, against residential areas.
PHOENIX  An Arizona-based ammunition company is offering to donate 1 million bullets to Ukraines military amid Russias invasion of its European neighbor.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine  Doctors relied on light filtering in through windows and emitted from cellphones to tend to wounded Ukrainian soldiers Saturday at a hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, where a promised cease-fire collapsed.
The passing of the law comes amid a broader crackdown on media outlets and social media in Russia.
The meeting ended after about three hours, according to an Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The official said the meeting was coordinated with the U.S., Germany and France and that Bennett is in ongoing dialogue with Ukraine.
Blinken says the world is watching to see which nations stand up for the principles of freedom and sovereignty.
WARSAW, Poland  The head of Ukraines Supreme Court has appealed for Russias top court to be excluded from a body of Central and Eastern Europes chief justices because of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro, Michael Balsamo and Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington contributed to this report.
Albania has joined the European Union in imposing hard-hitting sanctions against Russias top officials and institutions.
NEW YORK -- Russian President Vladimir Putin says there is nothing that warrants imposing martial law in Russia at this point.
Kuleba added, Ukraine is bleeding but Ukraine has not fallen and stands with both feet on the ground.
CAIRO  Egypt says it has transferred to Europe about 4,000 Ukrainian tourists who were stranded in the Middle Eastern nation after Russia invaded their country.
There was no immediate indication whether the U.S. government will approve the proposed export of the ammunition, which has a retail of about $700,000, Phoenix television station KSAZ-TV reported.
WASHINGTON  The U.S. State Department has updated an earlier travel advisory and is now recommending that U.S. citizens leave Russia immediately.
Putin said that martial law is imposed in a country ... in the event of external aggression, including in specific areas of hostilities. But we dont have such a situation, and I hope we wont.
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said in a statement that Zelenskyy made a desperate plea for Eastern European countries to provide Russian-made planes to Ukraine.
Zelenskyy told senators he needs planes and drones more than other security tools, according to a senior Senate aide granted anonymity to discuss the private meeting.
BERLIN -- The U.N. human rights office says it has confirmed the deaths of 351 civilians in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began.
Anything that could hurt the Russian economy will help the Ukrainian people and may make this war more difficult for Russian President Vladimir Putin, Graham said in a video.
In the city of Irpin, near Kyiv, a sea of people on foot and in wheelbarrows trudged over the remains of a destroyed bridge to cross a river and evacuate.
Ukraines embassy in Cairo has said there were about 20,000 Ukrainian tourists in Egypt, a touristic hub for tourists from eastern Europe and Russia.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the third plant currently under threat is the Yuzhnoukrainsk nuclear power plant, located 120 kilometers 75 miles north of Mykolaiv, one of several cities the Russians were trying to keep encircled Saturday.
NEW YORK  Mastercard and Visa are suspending their operations in Russia, the companies said Saturday,
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Saturday echoed the presidents assertion that Russia has lost more than 10,000 troops.
During the call, Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia asked Zelenskyy about the idea of banning Russian oil to the U.S., according to two people granted anonymity to discuss the private call.
Valentyna Pushych was known locally as Romashka, which means Daisy. A friend described her as a daredevil, who was never afraid to get under bullets.
The suspensions are a follow-up to more limited moves earlier in the week to block financial institutions from the networks that serve as arteries for the payments system. Russian people have already been hit hard by heavy sanctions and financial penalties imposed by the U.S. government and others.
Russia has made significant advances in the south, clearly seeking to cut off Ukraines access to the sea. Capturing Mariupol, which has been fending off the attack for six days, could allow Russia to build a land corridor to Crimea, which it annexed in 2014.
The city is in a very, very difficult state of siege, Vadym Boychenko told Ukrainian TV. Relentless shelling of residential blocks is ongoing, airplanes have been dropping bombs on residential areas.
Putins comment on Saturday followed days of speculation that the introduction of martial law could be imminent.
Kuleba also said in a video message released by the Ukrainian government that the Russians had lost dozens of aircraft and hundreds of armored vehicles.
Several women, including some dressed in camouflage jackets, cried as her body lay in a casket at a service. A portrait of Pushych was on a wall nearby.
Speaking at a meeting with female pilots on Saturday, Putin said Russia would view any move in this direction as an intervention that will pose a threat to our service members.
Dr. Evgeniy said the hospital had no power or heat. Patients were lined up in beds along the corridors, and some people were curled up on the floor to protect themselves.
Wang called for negotiations to resolve the immediate crisis, as well as talks on creating a balanced European security mechanism. Wang says the U.S. and Europe should pay attention to the negative impact of NATOs eastward expansion on Russias security.
The department already has advised Americans not to travel to Russia. That warning cites the unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces in Ukraine and the potential for harassment against U.S. citizens by Russian government security officials, among other things.
CHERNIHIV, Ukraine  Russia has dropped powerful bombs on residential areas of the city of Chernihiv, a regional official said Saturday.
The rights office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has confirmed. It said Saturday it believes the real figures are considerably higher, especially in government-controlled territory and especially in recent days, as the receipt of information from some places where there was intense fighting was delayed and many reports were still undergoing corroboration.
It is a situation that no Ukrainian and no Romanian wanted, but we are very determined to deal with it here in Romania, as it should be, Iohannis said.
The Ilyushin Il-62 is flying from St. Petersburg to Washington Dulles International Airport outside the U.S. Capitol. A U.S. government official confirmed it had been granted a waiver from the airspace restriction put in place in retaliation for Russias invasion of Ukraine in order to retrieve the Russian diplomats.
Technical safety systems are intact and radiation levels are still normal at the Zaporizhzhia plant, according to the countrys nuclear regulator, the International Atomic Energy Agency said Saturday.
The U.N. Security Council will hold a meeting Monday afternoon on the escalating humanitarian needs that have arisen since Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Assisted by Ukrainian soldiers, they lugged pets, infants, purses and flimsy bags stuffed with minimal possessions. Some of the weak and elderly were carried along the path in blankets and carts.
Albanian Foreign Minister Olta Xhacka, meanwhile, vehemently shot down Russian President Vladimir Putins assertsions that Albanian mercenaries are operating in Ukraine, calling it a lie that Moscow keeps repeating shamelessly!
Were inflicting losses on the occupants they could not see in their worst nightmare, Zelenskyy said. He alleged that 10,000 Russian troops were killed in the 10 days of the war, a claim that could not be independently verified. The Russian military doesnt offer regular updates on their casualties. Only once, on Wednesday, they revealed a death toll of nearly 500.
Russians keep bearing devastating losses on the ground, and I cannot understand how mothers, wives and daughters of these Russian soldiers bear this pain, seeing how President Putin sends more and more of their beloved ones to Ukraine, Kuleba said.
BEIJING  Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that China opposes any moves that add fuel to the flames in Ukraine.
Kniazievs letter of appeal was received Saturday by Malgorzata Manowska, the president of the Supreme Court in Poland, which borders Ukraine.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko on Saturday showed off a shipment of the Starlink systems that had arrived in the capital city. He said Starlink would help secure the work of critical infrastructure and the defense of the city.
We have some issues with supplies, not enough analgesics, Dubrov said. Weve worked more than a week without a break.
Zelenskyy said on Twitter the two presidents discussed security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.
Israel is one of the few countries that has good working relations with both sides. The country has delivered humanitarian aid to Ukraine, but also maintains ties with Moscow to make sure that Israeli and Russian warplanes do not come into conflict in neighboring Syria.
KYIV, Ukraine  A Ukrainian paramedic who was shot while on her way to evacuate injured people from the outskirts of Kyiv was buried in the countrys capital on Saturday.
Mondays will be the third round of talks as the two sides try to negotiate a cease-fire and safe passage corridors for civilians.
She was always running to the most dangerous places to rescue to the injured, Nataliia Voronkova said.
A video released Saturday by the Ukrainian government showed people cheering as they watched a Russian military plane fall from the sky and crash.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina, said Zelenskyy emphasized during a private call Saturday with the U.S. lawmakers that the energy sector needs to be sanctioned.
The U.S. Congress also is working on a $10 billion package of military and humanitarian aide, and Schumer told Zelenskyy that lawmakers hope to send it quickly to Ukraine, the person said.
Arakhamia is head of the parliamentary faction of President Volodymyr Zelenskyys Servant of the People party and a member of Ukraines delegation at the talks.
Schumer told Zelenskyy the U.S. lawmakers are inspired by him and by the strength and courage of the Ukrainian people, according to another person on the call who was granted anonymity to discuss it.
That very second, we will view them as participants of the military conflict, and it would not matter what members they are, the Russian president said.
Guterres relayed the promise to Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba in a phone call on Saturday, U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said.
LVIV, Ukraine  Russian forces have now seized two Ukrainian nuclear power plants and are advancing toward a third, Ukraines president said during a call with U.S. senators Saturday.
Zelenskyy indicated he was 100 on board with banning Russian oil to the U.S. and told the senators it would be very helpful, the people said.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk for giving Ukraine access to his companys satellite-internet system, called Starlink.
Several large Ukrainian cities remained without internet or phone connection after being shelled by Russian troops.
A soldier, Svyatoslav Borodin, said a blast blurred his vision, and he thought he might have lost his legs. Another soldier applied a tourniquet.
An order from Ukraines government prohibited men between the ages of 18 and 60 from leaving the country to keep them available for military conscription.
The U.S. expelled 12 Russians at its mission to the United Nations accusing them of being intelligence operatives.
At the cemetery, red roses were placed on Pushychs body. After she was buried, the dirt was covered with the flag of Ukraine.
Ten days into Russias invasion of Ukraine, 1.45 million people have fled the battered country, according to the U.N.-affiliated Organization for Migration in Geneva. The U.N. has predicted that the total number of refugees could swell to 4 million, to become the biggest such crisis this century.
China has broken with the U.S., Europe and others that have imposed sanctions on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine. China says that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations should be respected, but that sanctions create new issues and disrupt the process of political settlement.
KYIV, Ukraine  The next round of talks between Ukraine and Russia will be held on Monday, Ukrainian official Davyd Arakhamia said Saturday.
NEW YORK  Aeroflot, Russias flagship carrier, has announced that it will halt all international flights except to Belarus starting March 8.
Visa said its working with clients and partners in Russia to cease all Visa transactions over the coming days.
The Geneva-based office said that another 707 civilians were injured between Feb. 24 and midnight Friday.
CEO Fred Wagenhals of AMMO Inc. on Friday said it was his response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys appeal for international assistance.
Boychenko said that thousands of children, women and the elderly came under fire as they arrived in the morning for a possible evacuation through a safe passage corridor. Russia promised to stop the shelling of Mariupol, a port city of 430,000, and Volnovakha, a city in the east, but violated the cease-fire.
NEW YORK  U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres says the United Nations is committed to scaling up its humanitarian operations to help both those who have stayed in Ukraine and the more than 1 million who have fled.
Another Russian airline, low-cost carrier Pobeda, said Saturday that also would halt all international flights starting March 8.
NEW YORK  Russian President Vladimir Putin says Moscow would consider any third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as participation in the armed conflict.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennetts office confirmed the meeting at the Kremlin, which came just days after Bennett spoke over the phone with both Russian and Ukrainian leaders.
Dmytro Kuleba said he had been told Shell discreetly bought the oil on Friday. He appealed to the public to pressure the company and other international firms to halt such purchases in light of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Im grateful to him for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds Zelenskyy said in a tweet. Next week we will receive another batch of Starlink systems for destroyed cities. He joked that they discussed possible space projects, which he would talk about after the war.
The White House said the pair also discussed talks between Russia and Ukraine during the more than 30-minute call early Sunday in Ukraine, but offered no additional details.
Shell on Saturday said it has already stopped most activities involving Russian oil, although it continues to buy some products from Russia to supply the needs of its refineries and chemical plants. These purchases are necessary to ensure fuel supplies for customers, Shell said.
Zelenskyy made the request on a call joined by more than 300 people, including senators, some House lawmakers and aides.
Mastercard said cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by its network and any card issued outside the country will not work at Russian stores or ATMs in the latest blow to the countrys financial system after its invasion of Ukraine.
Dujarric said the two also discussed the conditions for safely evacuating civilians, including foreigners, from combat zones.
WASHINGTON  A Russian airliner has received an exception to the U.S. airspace ban in order to return Russian diplomats expelled from the U.S to Russia.
WASHINGTON  Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy urged U.S. lawmakers to sanction Russias oil and gas sector and suspend credit card access, and backed an idea to ban Russian oil imports to the U.S. thats been gaining support in Congress.
One of the plants under the Russians control is the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant in the southeastern city of Enerhodar, the biggest nuclear power plant in Europe. The other is Chernobyl, which is not active but is still staffed and maintained. Previous Russian shelling sparked a fire at the Zaporizhzhia plant that was extinguished without a release of radiation.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has pushed NATO to impose a no-fly zone over his country, warning that all the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you.
JERUSALEM  Israels prime minister met with Russian President Vladimir Putin for several hours in Moscow on Saturday.
Russia on Friday passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.
About 140,000 people of Ukrainian descent live in New York, making it the largest Ukrainian population in the U.S., according to population data from the federal government.
The claim could not be independently verified. The Russian military doesnt offer regular updates on their casualties. On Wednesday, military officials revealed a death toll of 498.
LVIV, Ukraine  Russian forces have intensified shelling in the port city of Mariupol, including with the use of airplanes, the mayor said Saturday night.
Ive got no illusions. Ive got no romantic ideas of war or like Im going to be some hero or make a difference  but it is what I do, Ayres said.
The tourists were brought to countries neighboring Ukraine on free flights operated by state-run airliners, and more flights are scheduled in the coming days, government spokesman Nader Saad said Saturday. He did not elaborate.
Vyacheslav Chaus posted a photo of what he said was an undetonated FAB-500, a Soviet-designed 500-kilogram 1,100-pound air-dropped bomb.
The U.S. State Department says Blinken underscored that the world is acting in unison in response to Russian aggression and ensuring that Moscow will pay a high price.
I will do all I can to help the administration to facilitate their transfer, Schumer said.
Many attendees were waving Ukrainian flags or draped the flag around their shoulders at the afternoon demonstration.
BERLIN -- German public broadcasters ARD and ZDF say they are suspending reporting from their Moscow studios after Russia passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.
The move by Russias biggest state-owned airline comes after the countrys aviation agency, Rosaviatsiya, recommended that all Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes halt both passenger and cargo flights abroad.
