Live updates Zelenskyy says Ukraine ready to discuss deal
20220321
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-kyiv-boris-johnson-business-europe-4b0fee549843a0a6ed73c314f8c2fa12
Maria Fiodorova crossed the border from Ukraine into Medyka, Poland, on Monday after an arduous, five-day journey. The 77-year-old woman told The Associated Press that the city is almost 90 percent destroyed, with every building razed to the ground.
NEW YORK  Russias central bank has cautiously reopened bond trading on the Moscow exchange for the first time since the country invaded Ukraine.
The latest situation has been all caused by Russias invasion of Ukraine, Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno told reporters Tuesday. He called Russias response extremely unjustifiable and absolutely unacceptable.
MOSCOW  A Moscow court banned Facebook and Instagram on Monday for what it deemed extremist activity in a case against their parent company, Meta.
Biden told the business leaders they have a patriotic obligation to harden their systems against such attacks. He said federal assistance is available, should they want it, but that the decision is theirs alone.
BERLIN  Germanys Buchenwald concentration camp memorial says Boris Romanchenko, who survived camps at Buchenwald, Peenemuende, Dora and Bergen-Belsen during World War II, was killed Friday when his home in Kharkiv was attacked.
Officials have made it clear that Russia has vastly more aircraft, and flies a great deal more than Ukraine does, but that Russia still does not have air superiority over the country yet.
Ukraine and Russias delegations have held several rounds of talks both in person and more recently via video link. Zelenskyy has said he would be prepared to meet Putin directly to seek agreements on key issues.
Thats why we got in the car, at our own risk, and left in 15 minutes because everything is destroyed there, dead bodies are lying around, she said.
BRUSSELS  EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell is accusing Russia of committing war crimes in Ukraine, most notably in the besieged port city of Mariupol where hundreds of civilians have been killed.
Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney says his country is certainly open to other mechanisms for accountability in terms of the atrocities that are taking place in Ukraine right now.
The federal government has warned U.S. companies about Russian state hackers since long before the country invaded Ukraine.
WARSAW, Poland  Leaders from Poland and The Netherlands discussed further sanctions on Russia for its war against Ukraine, including banning imports of Russias oil and gas and closing European ports to Russian ships.
Nauseda replied saying that Lithuania invested heavily into energy security for decades and now is ready for a full boycott of Russian oil and gas.
A woman named Yulia told The Associated Press that she and her family sought shelter in Bezimenne in eastern Ukraine after a bombing destroyed six houses behind her home.
Vitaliy Koval, the head of the Rivne regional military administration, confirmed a twin Russian missile strike on a training center there early Monday but offered no details about injuries or deaths.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has hailed protesters in an occupied city for their courage in confronting the Russian troops who fired shots to disperse the demonstration.
Now that the masks have fallen, it is time to move forward implementing decisions that are absolutely necessary for Europe to feel safer, more independent and resistant to external shocks, Nauseda said.
Polands Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki hosted the Dutch leader Mark Rutte for talks Monday about ways of stopping Russias aggression on Ukraine and of helping Ukraines fighters and civilians.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine  Witnesses fleeing the besieged port of Mariupol say they are leaving behind a city that has been almost entirely destroyed by Russian bombardment and heavy fighting.
NEW YORK  Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov says more progress must be made in talks with Ukraine before Russian President Vladimir Putin can meet his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Many of the cars had pieces of white cloth tied to door handles and carried homemade signs saying children in Russian.
Mariupol authorities have said several thousand people were taken to Russia against their will and that only about 10 of the citys former population of 430,000 has managed to flee.
Coveney says social media images of the war are driving a fury across the European Union for those responsible to be held to account.
The Russians have also increased naval activity in the northern Black Sea, but there are no indications at this point of an amphibious assault on Odesa. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the militarys assessment.
WARSAW, Poland  Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki says he is encouraging Switzerland to take bolder steps in cutting off Russian oligarchs who support Russian leaders from the billions of U.S. dollars they have in Swiss banks or in business there.
WASHINGTON  A senior U.S. defense official says the Russians have increased the number of military aircraft sorties over Ukraine over the past two days, doing as many as 300 in the last 24 hours. The official said Monday that Ukraine has also increased the pace of its military flights, but declined to provide numbers.
Bucha and other nearby villages have been all but cut off by Russian forces. Associated Press journalists who were in the area a week ago saw bodies in a public park in the town of Irpin, including a woman with a mortal wound to her head. Basement shelters beneath apartment buildings were filled, and not a day goes by without smoke rising from the area.
WASHINGTON  President Joe Biden on Monday warned U.S. companies that Russia could be preparing to launch cyberattacks against critical infrastructure amid the war in Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said that Kyiv will be ready to discuss the status of Crimea and the eastern Donbas region held by Russian-backed separatists after a cease-fire and steps toward providing security guarantees.
According to Mondays statement, the combination of risks could mean a significant deterioration of the ability to control the spread of radiation not just in Ukraine but beyond the countrys borders in weeks and months to come.
UNITED NATIONS  France and Mexico are pressing U.N. members to mention Russias invasion in a resolution on the worsening humanitarian situation in Ukraine.
We must be sure that energy independence has sufficient gas and oil in the system. It is very important for the Netherlands, Germany, France, and the countries of eastern Europe, Mark Rutte told reporters after meeting Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda. We need to do this as soon as possible, but we cannot do that tomorrow.
He says Russia has lost any moral high ground and he underlined that war also has law. Borrells remarks Monday came as he arrived to chair a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels.
Konashenkov also said an overnight cruise missile strike hit a Ukrainian military training center in the Rivne region. He said 80 foreign and Ukrainian troops were killed.
Peskov says that in order to talk about a meeting of the two presidents, first its necessary to do the homework, its necessary to hold talks and agree the results.
Ratings agencies have downgraded Russias bonds to junk status. Russias finance ministry last week flirted with default by threatening to pay foreign holders of dollar bonds in massively devalued rubles before sending the money in dollars.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukrainian army said it forced Russian troops out of Makariv, a strategically important Kyiv suburb, after a fierce battle. That prevents Russian forces from encircling the capital from the northwest, the Defense Ministry said.
Donetsk government officials said about 5,000 Mariupol residents have taken refuge at the camp since the start of the war.
We will not accept this kind of aggression against a sovereign and democratic nation, Rutte said.
WASHINGTON  The White House said President Joe Biden and the European leaders he spoke with on Monday discussed their concerns about Russias tactics in Ukraine, including attacks on civilians, and underscored continued humanitarian and security support for Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said he spoke with Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and French President Emmanual Macron to coordinate their positions before Western leaders meet on Thursday.
Unlike the Security Council, there are no vetoes in the General Assembly. But assembly resolutions are not legally binding, as Security Council resolutions are, though they do have clout in reflecting world opinion.
TOKYO  Japan on Tuesday denounced Russia over its decision to discontinue peace treaty talks over the disputed Kuril islands and withdraw from joint economic projects in retaliation for Tokyos sanctions over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Prosecutors havent requested to ban the Meta-owned messaging service WhatsApp, which is widely popular in Russia. The authorities also emphasized that they do not intend to punish individual Russians who use Facebook or Instagram.
Stocks last traded on Feb. 25, the day after the invasion started and sent the main stock index sharply lower.
LVIV, Ukraine  Russian forces shelled along a humanitarian corridor on Monday, wounding four children who were among the civilians being evacuated, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation. He said the shelling took place in the Zaporizhzhia region, the initial destination of those fleeing Mariupol.
The courts ruling bans Meta from opening offices and doing business in Russia. Meta declined to comment when contacted by the AP.
The central bank bought bonds to support prices. It has imposed wide-ranging restrictions on financial transactions to try to stabilize markets and combat the severe fallout from Western sanctions that have sent the ruble sharply lower against the U.S. dollar and the euro.
He added that the war has turned ordinary Ukrainians into heroes and the enemy doesnt believe its all real.
And these are not empty words. We are showing we are willing to put out money where our mouth is, he said.
KYIV, Ukraine  A cluster of villages on Kyivs northwest edge is on the verge of humanitarian catastrophe, regional officials said Monday.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said late Monday he was prepared to discuss a commitment from Ukraine not to seek NATO membership in exchange for a cease-fire, the withdrawal of Russian troops and a guarantee of Ukraines security.
The two countries never signed a peace treaty formally ending World War II hostilities because of their dispute over the Russian-held islands north of Hokkaido, which Moscow took at the end of the war.
Speaking in a video address, Zelenskyy said that we saw slaves shooting at free people, slaves of propaganda that replaced their conscience.
The Tverskoy District Court fulfilled a request from prosecutors to outlaw Meta Platforms Inc. and banned Facebook and Instagram for what they called extremist activities. The prosecutors have accused the social media platforms of ignoring government requests to remove what they described as fake news about the Russian military action in Ukraine and calls for protests in Russia.
We talked today about a blockade of all European ports to Russian ships and also on all sorts of sanctions, including on oil and gas, Morawiecki said.
Residents have fled Mariupol not knowing what, if anything, will be left  if and when they return.
He also repeated his call for direct talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Unless he meets with Putin, it is impossible to understand whether Russia even wants to stop the war, Zelenskyy said.
Japan has imposed a series of sanctions on Russia in recent weeks, including freezing some individual assets, banning exports of luxury goods and high technology equipment to the country and revoking Russias most-favored nation trade status.
Borrell says that whats happening in Mariupol is a massive war crime. Destroying everything, bombarding and killing everybody in an indiscriminate manner. This is something awful.
Its a compromise for everyone: for the West, which doesnt know what to do with us with regard to NATO, for Ukraine, which wants security guarantees, and for Russia, which doesnt want further NATO expansion, Zelenskyy said late Monday in an interview with Ukrainian television channels.
Rutte said Putin has made a very big mistake by bringing war again to Europe.
BEZIMENNE, Ukraine  A long line of vehicles lined a road in Bezimenne, Ukraine, as residents from the besieged city of Mariupol sought shelter at a temporary camp set up by the rebel Donetsk government.
The price of Russias ruble-denominated government debt fell Monday, sending borrowing costs higher. Stock trading has remained closed, with no word on when it might reopen.
Biden said the administration has issued new warnings that, based on evolving intelligence, Russia may be planning a cyberattack against us. ... The magnitude of Russias cyber capacity is fairly consequential, and its coming.
Polands government is working on amendments to the constitution that would allow for the seizure of Russias assets in Poland.
She told me that they have already switched to a Russian time zone, that there are lots of Russian soldiers walking around the city. Civilians cannot leave, Yulia Bondarieva, who fled Kharkiv for Medyka, told the AP. She feared that her sister and family would soon run out of food and water.
In a statement Monday, the agency also said there are no longer firefighters available in the region to protect forests tainted by decades of radioactivity as the weather warms. The plant was seized by Russian forces on Feb. 24.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines prosecutor general said a Russian shell struck a chemical plant outside the city of Sumy a little after 3 a.m. Monday, causing a leak in a 50-ton tank of ammonia that took hours to contain.
Russian troops on Monday used stun grenades and fired in the air to break up demonstrators in the southern city of Kherson.
They also reviewed diplomatic developments in support of Ukraines efforts to reach a cease-fire. Biden spoke with the leaders of France, Germany, Italy and the UK. These leaders will meet again later this week in Brussels.
At a crematorium on Sunday in Kyiv, the bodies of three civilians from the area were delivered in the back of a van.
Another Ukrainian woman who made it to the Polish border said she left behind a sister in Mariupol who reported that Russian soldiers there are not allowing anyone to leave.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Authorities in Odesa have accused Russian forces of damaging civilian houses in a strike on the Black Sea port city on Monday.
The city council said no one was killed in the strike and that emergency services quickly extinguished a fire. Mayor Hennady Trukhanov visited the site and said we will not leave Odessa and we will fight for our city.
Odesa is in southwestern Ukraine and has largely avoided the fighting so far, though Russia has ships operating off the Black Sea coast.
There is no need to organize resistance, Zelenskyy added. Resistance for Ukrainians is part of their soul.
He adds that so far significant movement has not been achieved in the talks and that there are not any agreements which they could commit to at a joint meeting.
VILNIUS, Lithuania  The Dutch prime minister says that the European Union should be careful when imposing new sanctions on Russian gas and oil companies because some nations are still heavily dependent on these resources,
Management of the Chernobyl plant said Sunday that 50 staff members who had been working nonstop since the Russian takeover have been rotated out and replaced.
Morawiecki spoke Monday at a joint news conference with visiting Swiss President Ignazio Cassis. They held talks about the situation in Ukraine, which was invaded by Russian troops Feb. 24. Morawiecki noted that Russias richest businessmen have deposited billions of U.S. dollars in Swiss banks, were doing business there and had other assets.
Russian military spokesman Igor Konashenkov claimed the leak was a planned provocation by Ukrainian forces to falsely accuse Russia of a chemical attack.
Cassis noted that Switzerland has joined the European Unions sanctions on Russia and has also has frozen the bank accounts and business of Russian oligarchs who are on the EU sanctions lists and also of some others.
The memorial cited relatives in a series of tweets on Monday. It said his granddaughter said that he lived in a multistory building that was hit by a projectile. Romanchenko was vice president of the International Buchenwald-Dora Committee.
Morawiecki said they also discussed the gathering of evidence from the refugees of the really terrible, cruel crimes committed during the war in an effort to make sure that the crimes are punished.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines nuclear regulatory agency says the radiation monitors around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, site of the worlds worst meltdown in 1986, have stopped working.
Video captured by The Associated Press shows residents pushing carts and carrying bags of food and supplies along debris-ridden streets and passages. The siege has caused shortages of food, water and energy supplies, according to city officials who say at least 2,300 civilians have been killed thus far in Mariupol.
But South Africa is arguing against that approach, saying that inserting political issues may block consensus on helping civilians. A French-Mexican draft resolution expected to be voted on this week in the 193-nation U.N. General Assembly makes clear that Russias invasion of Ukraine is responsible for its humanitarian crisis.
He said the assets could be used to help Ukraine rebuild from the wars destruction.
A rival South African draft resolution circulated late Monday makes no mention of Russia, referring instead to all parties.
Instagram and Facebook were already blocked in Russia after the communications and media regulator Roskomnadzor said they were being used to call for violence against Russian soldiers. In addition to blocking Facebook and Instagram, Russian authorities also have shut access to foreign media websites.
The International Criminal Court in the Netherlands is gathering evidence about any possible war crimes in Ukraine, but Russia, like the United States, does not recognize the tribunals jurisdiction.
Unlike Poland and The Netherlands, Ukraine is not a member of the European Union. Poland backs giving it candidate status in a fast-track procedure.
The official said that most of the military flights involve air-to-ground strikes, mainly on stationary targets, and that the Russian aircraft are not spending a lot of time in Ukrainian airspace. The Ukraine military has continued to use its short and long-range air defense systems and drones to target Russian aircraft.
