Live updates Zelenskyy recalls envoys to Georgia Morocco
20220330
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-moscow-belarus-6b788c7c349528bc64609266c30da9f7
Guterres said this is taking place at a moment of multiplying risks that are pushing peace further out of reach -- inequalities, COVD-19, climate change and cyber threats, to name just a few.
Zelenskyy, speaking through an interpreter during a live video appearance before the 169-member Stortinget, said Wednesday that the future of Europe is being decided now.
The $500 million could come from $13.6 billion that Congress approved earlier this month for Ukraine as part of a broader spending bill. The White House is also looking at possibly using funding authorized prior to approval of the spending bill.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has told the Norwegian Parliament that Russia wants to destroy the foundation of Europe.
Ukraine also is home to the decommissioned Chernobyl plant, the site of the 1986 nuclear accident, with the Russian military seized early in the war. As of Tuesday, eight reactors were operating and the rest were shut down for regular maintenance.
Shvidler, whos already sanctioned over his business links to Roman Abramovich, has had two private jets seized.
If we really are fighting for freedom and in defense of democracy together, then we have a right to demand help in this difficult turning point, Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation Wednesday. Tanks, aircraft, artillery systems. Freedom should be armed no worse than tyranny.
Jeremy Fleming, who heads the U.K.s GCHQ electronic spy agency, said Russian President Vladimir Putin massively misjudged his chances for a swift military victory in Ukraine.
GENEVA  The U.N. human rights chief says her office is looking into allegations that some residents of the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol have been forcibly evacuated to areas controlled by Russian forces or to Russia itself.
Podolyak took part in Tuesdays talks with Russian negotiators in Istanbul. He said a deal on multilateral security guarantees for Ukraine will be a key part of the package to be discussed.
David Arakhamia, a member of the Ukrainian delegation who also leads the governing partys group in parliament, posted on social media that meetings with high-ranking Turkish officials during which cooperation in the military-technical field will be discussed were planned for Wednesday.
He told the U.N. Peacebuilding Commission on Wednesday that last year 84 million people were forced to leave their homes because of conflict, violence and human rights violations. And this year, we estimate that at least 274 million will need humanitarian assistance, he said.
Prior to Wednesdays announcement of $500 million in aid, the Biden administration had sent Ukraine about $2 billion in humanitarian and security assistance since the start of the war last month.
WASHINGTON  The White House has pledged an additional $500 million in direct aid for Ukraine as the Russian invasion grinds on.
He said the flames of conflict are fuelled by inequality, deprivation and underfunded systems and these issues must be addressed urgently.
BERLIN  The German government says it has received assurances from Russia that European companies wont have to pay for Russian gas supplies in rubles.
Rafael Mariano Grossi said the IAEA is not involved in political talks with the Russians.
WASHINGTON  U.S. intelligence officials have determined that Russian President Vladimir Putin is being misinformed by his advisers about Russian forces performance in Ukraine, according to a U.S. official.
We are trying to be very active in order to ensure that as soon as possible, the situation is regressed, and the facilities are back in the hands of the Ukrainians, Grossi said.
Guterres said the U.N. estimates that this year at least 274 million will need humanitarian assistance. This represents a 17 increase from 2021 and will cost $41 billion for the 183 million people targeted for aid, according to the U.N. humanitarian office.
He said Ukraine also signaled its readiness not to host foreign military bases and to hold joint drills with foreign militaries only in consultation with countries serving as guarantors of a peace deal, which would include Russia.
Johnson said a cease fire would not be enough, and the G-7 should intensify sanctions with a rolling program until every single one of President Vladimir Putins troops is out of Ukraine.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia  Slovakias Foreign Ministry says it has decided to reduce the Russian diplomatic mission in the country by 35 people.
KYIV, Ukraine  An adviser to Ukraines president says that a vote sealing a prospective agreement with Russia could only be held after Russian troops pull back.
The Russian military has said it has shifted its focus to Ukraines eastern industrial heartland, the Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces since 2014.
At the same time Putin emphasized during the conversation that there would be no change for European contractual partners, who would continue to pay only in euros to Gazprombank, it said.
But the intel community has concluded that Putin was unaware that the military had been using and losing conscripts in Ukraine. They also have determined Putin is not fully aware of the extent to which the Russian economy is being damaged by economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and allies.
The government also said that finance, trade and shipping sanctions imposed on Crimea have been expanded to the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
With all due respect, if there wont be weapons, wont be sanctions, wont be restrictions for Russian business, then please look for other work, Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation Wednesday. I am waiting for concrete results in the coming days from the work of our representatives in Latin America, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Africa.
LONDON  A U.K. intelligence chief is warning that Russia is looking for cyber targets and bringing in mercenaries to shore up its stalled military campaign in Ukraine.
Zelenskyys speech was the latest of a string of addresses to lawmakers in several countries, including the United States, Britain, Sweden, Germany, Canada, Israel, Japan and the European Union.
Gazprombank is not currently under EU sanctions but is under restrictions from the U.S. affecting debt and equity operations.
In an online briefing, he voiced hope for a meeting soon between Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Russian President Vladimir Putin but wouldnt say when exactly it could happen.
DUBLIN  An aircraft-leasing company has filed $3.5 billion in insurance claims for planes and aircraft engines that are stranded in Russia because of sanctions following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
UNITED NATIONS  The United Nations chief says one-quarter of humanity -- two billion people -- are living in conflict areas today, and the world is facing the highest number of violent conflicts since the end of World War II in 1945.
He said the diplomatic front is one of the key fronts in Ukraines battle to win the war against Russia.
In a speech in Australia, Fleming praised Ukraines information operation for effectively countering Russias big disinformation campaign about the war.
At least four European allies expelled dozens of Russian diplomats on Tuesday, an apparent coordinated effort to tackle espionage.
The talks between Ukraine and Russia will resume on Friday by video, according to the head of the Ukrainian delegation, David Arakhamia.
Prior to Wednesdays announcement of $500 million in aid, the Biden administration had sent Ukraine about $2 billion in humanitarian and security assistance since the start of the war last month. Thats all part of the $13.6 billion that Congress approved earlier this month for Ukraine as part of a broader spending bill.
The delegations met in-person on Tuesday in Istanbul, after two weeks of meeting by video, and the faint outlines of a possible peace agreement seemed to emerge.
Speaking generally of Russias military activities in Ukraine, Zelenskyy said that for the Russians, there are no prohibited targets.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has recalled Ukraines ambassadors to Georgia and Morocco, suggesting they havent done enough to persuade those countries to support Ukraine and punish Russia for the invasion.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres cited conflicts from Yemen, Syria, Myanmar and Sudan to Haiti, Africas Sahel and now the war in Ukraine  a catastrophe shaking the foundations of the international order, spilling across borders and causing skyrocketing food, fuel and fertilizer prices that spell disaster for developing countries.
About the supposed withdrawal of Russian forces from Kyiv and Chernihiv, Zelenskyy said: We know that this is not a withdrawal but the consequences of being driven out. But we also are seeing that Russia is now concentrating its forces for new strikes on Donbas and we are preparing for this.
After sanctions prohibited U.S. and European companies from leasing, selling or servicing planes and aircraft parts to Russia, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a law letting his countrys airlines re-register foreign planes and use them for domestic flights.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukrainian military says that Russian troops have intensified their activities in the countrys east.
The U.K. has sent anti-tank weapons and other military equipment to Ukraine but wants to avoid anything that could be seen as escalating the conflict.
The Dublin-based company said AerCap says its unclear whether it will recover more, and Russian airlines continue to use its planes even though it terminated the leases and demanded that the planes be returned.
But he noted that Russia has talked about prioritizing the Donbas region. Kirby was speaking on CNN and Fox Business.
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency visited a nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine on Wednesday to meet Ukrainian officials and provide technical assistance.
Ukraine has 15 nuclear reactors at four plants, one of which Zaporizhzia is under the Russian militarys control.
AerCap said it had leased 135 planes to Russian airlines and has repossessed 22 of them outside of Russia.
The statements came after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made several recent comments that were harshly critical of the Hungarian governments approach to the war.
The Ukrainian general staff said Wednesday that the Russians have scaled up their activities around Izyum, south of Kharkiv, after redeploying some units from other areas. It also said that the Russian forces have intensified shelling and attacks in the eastern Donetsk region, focusing on trying to win control of Mariupol, Popasna and Rubizhne.
Russian media reported that the Russian delegation returned home Tuesday after the talks with Ukraine.
The Ukrainian delegation offered a framework under with the country would declare itself neutral  dropping its bid to join NATO, as Moscow has long demanded  in return for security guarantees from a group of other nations.
But Fleming warns that Russias cyber actors are looking for targets in the countries that oppose their actions.
Speaking to a committee of British lawmakers on Wednesday, Johnson also said Britain was discussing going up a gear in support to help Ukraine defend itself. He said sending armored personnel carriers was something the U.K. was looking at.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres cited conflicts from Yemen, Syria, Myanmar and Sudan to Haiti, Africas Sahel, and now the war in Ukraine  a catastrophe shaking the foundations of the international order, spilling across borders and causing skyrocketing food, fuel and fertilizer prices that spell disaster for developing countries.
Vladimir Medinsky said that, during Tuesdays talks in Istanbul, Ukraine submitted a set of proposals including its readiness to adopt a non-bloc, nuclear-free status and drop its bid to join NATO.
LONDON  Britains government has announced new legal powers prohibiting U.K. maintenance on planes and ships belonging to Russian oligarchs. The Foreign Office said Wednesday the new sanctions have been used immediately against billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler and Oleg Tinkov, founder of Tinkoff bank.
Ukraine has charged that Russian forces were forcibly taking people from Mariupol and other areas to Russia. Moscow has denied the claims, saying about 500,000 Ukrainians left for Russia voluntarily.
During the call Putin said he planned to issue a law requiring gas supplies to be paid in rubles from April 1, Scholzs office said.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the U.S. does not view this as a withdrawal, but as an attempt by Russia to resupply, refit and then reposition the troops.
While there were expectations that Russia would launch a major cyberattack as part of its military campaign, Fleming said such a move was never part of Moscows playbook.
In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto claimed that there was ongoing coordination between the Hungarian left and representatives of the Ukrainian government, and that Ukraine was attempting to influence Hungarys April 3 election in favor of a coalition of opposition parties.
BUDAPEST, Hungary -- Hungarys foreign minister has accused Ukraines leadership of attempting to interfere in the upcoming Hungarian election. His Ukrainian counterpart has denied the charge in an episode that put further strain on relations.
The ministry said on Wednesday the Russian side was informed about the move in a diplomatic note.
The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity Wednesday to discuss the recently declassified intelligence finding, said that Putin has felt misled by the Russian military and there is now persistent tension between him and senior Russian defense officials.
MOSCOW  The head of Russias delegation in talks with Ukraine this week says that Kyivs readiness to consider a neutral status would meet a key Russian demand.
But Kuleba told Ukrainian newspaper Evropeiska Pravda that we have never interfered in Hungarys internal affairs and especially not ahead of an election.
ISTANBUL, Turkey -- A senior Ukrainian official says the countrys delegation to talks with Russia has remained in Turkey to discuss military issues.
UNITED NATIONS  The United Nations chief said Wednesday that one-quarter of humanity -- two billion people -- are living in conflict areas today and the world is facing the highest number of violent conflicts since 1945 when World War II ended.
The given step is an inevitable reaction to the continuing activities of the Russian embassys personnel that violate the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations, Slovakias interests and an effort to develop partnership relations with the Russian Federation, the ministry said.
Zelesnkyy has pressed the Biden administration and other Western allies to provide Ukraine with military jets. The U.S. and other NATO countries have thus far been unwilling to accommodate that request out of concern it could lead to Russia broadening the war beyond Ukraines borders.
WASHINGTON  The Pentagon said Wednesday that over the last 24 hours it has seen some Russian troops in the areas around Kyiv moving north toward or into Belarus.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked the White House for pledging an additional $500 million in direct aid, but said he was open with U.S. President Biden about Ukraine needing more to resist the Russian invasion.
U.S. President Joe Biden told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy during a 55 minute call Wednesday that the additional aid was on its way. The leaders also reviewed security aid already delivered to Ukraine and the effects that weaponry has had on the war, according to the White House.
Mykhailo Podolyak said Wednesday that the Russian forces must withdraw to their positions before the Feb. 24 invasion to pave the way for any peace deal to be put on a nationwide referendum.
He told the U.N. Peacebuilding Commission on Wednesday that last year 84 million people were forced to leave their homes because of conflict, violence and human rights violations. And that doesnt include the Ukraine war which has already seen 4 million people flee the country and displaced another 6.5 million within the country, according to U.N. agencies.
Medinsky said in televised comments that the proposals signaled Ukraines readiness to reach agreement for the first time in years, adding that if it fulfills the obligations, the threat of creating a NATO bridgehead on the Ukrainian territory will be removed.
LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Western nations shouldnt lift sanctions on Russia until all Moscows troops have left Ukraine.
She says the office also received allegations that two civilians affiliated with Russian armed forces, or backing pro-Russian views, had been killed. She criticized widespread detention of civilians who openly support Ukraine in areas under Russian control.
Zelenskyy said the negotiations with Russia were continuing but for now, they were only words without specifics.
On Wednesday, Szijjarto claimed that Ukraines foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, had contacted Ukraines ambassador in Budapest to discuss how Ukraine could influence Hungarys election, in which Prime Minister Viktor Orban is seeking a fourth consecutive term.
It noted that the German chancellor did not agree to the procedure but instead requested written information to understand it better.
Kirby also said that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have continued to try to speak with their Russian counterparts but they have not answered and they have not replied with a willingness to do so.
Turkey is a supplier of drones which Ukrainian forces have used to destroy Russian vehicles from the air.
The findings demonstrate a clear breakdown in the flow of accurate information to Putin, and show that Putins senior advisers are afraid to tell him the truth, the official said.
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said the new law adds to Britains powers to deprive oligarchs access to their luxury toys.
British authorities on Tuesday seized a Russian-owned superyacht valued at $38 million. They did not identify the owner of the vessel, only saying the billionaire was connected to President Vladimir Putin.
Speaking to the U.N.s Human Rights Council on Wednesday, Michelle Bachelet decried life of sheer terror for people in the southeastern port city since Russias invasion on Feb. 24.
Bachelet said her office also is reviewing credible allegations that Russian forces have used cluster munitions 24 times and allegations that Ukrainian forces also have done so.
Olaf Scholzs office said the German chancellor spoke by phone Wednesday afternoon with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who had requested the call, about the issue.
