Live updates Man detained at site of Lviv rocket attacks
20220326
https://apnews.com/e1f346d4d0fe8281b33f206b9a5338c8
 Biden ends speech in Poland  by calling for Putins removal, saying, For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power
He said the assurances were all the more important as Russia is carrying out brutal assaults in Ukraine, just across Polands eastern border.
Lviv had been largely spared since Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, although missiles struck an aircraft repair facility near the international airport a week ago.
Slavutych is located north of Kyiv and west of Chernihiv, outside the exclusion zone that was established around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant after the 1986 disaster. It is home to workers at the Chernobyl site.
Duda noted that under contracts already concluded with the U.S., Poland is set to receive Patriot missile sets, artillery rocket launchers, F-35 fighter jets and 250 Abrams tanks.
Rockets hit an oil storage facility and an unspecified industrial facility, wounding at least five people. A thick plume of smoke and towering flames could be seen on Lvivs outskirts hours after the attacks.
LVIV, Ukraine  Air raid sirens sounded Saturday afternoon in the western city of Lviv, and governor of the region Maksym Kozytskyy reported three powerful explosions near Lviv. Footage shot by The Associated Press showed thick plumes of smoke rising above the city.
Moscow has said it would consider European Union members Finland and neighboring Sweden joining NATO a hostile move that would have serious military and political repercussions.
Broadcaster NTV showed images of an object bobbing in the waves off Istanbuls Sariyer district, on the Bosporus European coast. A Coast Guard vessel was stationed nearby.
The president listened intently to young Ukrainian children tell them about their parents. He picked up a young Ukrainian girl in a pink coat, smiling broadly and telling her she reminded him of his own granddaughters.
The participants were marching through the Czech capital Saturday, waving white and blue flags, a common feature for the anti-war protests by the Russians. They replaced the Russian national flag with the tricolour of the red, blue and white horizontal fields with another one where the red field, which symbolizes blood, was replaced by one more white one.
LONDON  Thousands have gathered in central London on Saturday to march in support of the people of Ukraine as they resist the Russian invasion.
Elena Taciy, a 50-year-old from Berdyansk, said that the U.S. support is right and needed. She said Saturday she wanted Biden to come to Ukraine in person and see the situation with his own eyes.
Biden, who was in Warsaw on Saturday, dropped in on a meeting between U.S. and Ukrainian foreign policy and defense leaders.
I asked the U.S. president, Joe Biden, to accelerate, as much as possible, those purchasing programs that are already being implemented in order to strengthen our security, the Polish leader said.
Putins friends who made millions out of his regime will not enjoy luxuries whilst innocent people die, Shapps said on Twitter.
BUCHAREST, Romania  NATOs deputy secretary-general says that Russian President Vladimir Putins month-old barbaric war against Ukraine is one he cannot win.
He spoke in a speech attended by President Andrzej Duda and his political allies in the conservative ruling Law and Justice party. Since they won power in 2015, the European Union has accused them of undermining the rule of law in Poland by eroding the independence of the judicial branch of government.
A daily update says Russian forces are proving reluctant to engage in large scale urban infantry operations, rather preferring to rely on the indiscriminate use of air and artillery bombardments in an attempt to demoralize defending forces.
The powerful explosions frightened a city that had been a haven for hundreds of thousands of people fleeing the Russian assault on other parts of Ukraine.
Governor Oleksandr Pavlyuk said Saturday that the Russians also kidnapped the citys mayor, but some media reported later in the day that the mayor was released swiftly. Neither claim could be verified independently.
The governor said that residents of Slavutych took to the streets with Ukrainian flags to protest the Russian invasion.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of the Kyiv region says that Russian forces have entered the city of Slavutych and seized a hospital there.
The regional governor, Maksym Kozytskyy, said on Facebook that preliminary indications were five people were injured in the first attack but did not specify what the two rockets hit. Hours later, he reported three more explosions outside the city, again with no details.
The assessment says it is likely Russia will continue to use its heavy firepower on urban areas as it looks to limit its own already considerable losses, at the cost of further civilian casualties.
NATO is a defensive alliance, but also its a nuclear alliance, he said. If they will be using chemical weapons or other kinds of higher-end systems against Ukraine, this will be changing fundamentally the nature of the war that Mr. Putin has waged against Ukraine.
Treasury Secretary Grant Shapps said Saturday that the two aircraft would be detained indefinitely after three-week investigation that had already grounded the planes. The Times of London described the aircraft as a $45 million Bombardier Global 6500 and a $13 million Cessna Citation Latitude.
I think that for us Poles, in the situation we have today, in our part of Europe, in the era of Russian aggression against Ukraine, this is a very important element, Duda said.
What I am always surprised by is the depth and strength of the human spirit, Biden told reporters after his conversations. Each one of those children said something to the effect of Say a prayer for my dad or grandfather or my brother.
Duda said that the relations between the two nations are flourishing, despite the difficult times.
Maria Shevchenka, a 43-year-old from Mykolaiv, said that we are waiting for them the Americans to help us end this crisis, so that finally we can return back to our country and our homes.
PRAGUE  Several thousand Russians living in the Czech Republic in Prague and thousands more people in London have rallied to protest the Russian military aggression against Ukraine.
WARSAW, Poland  U.S. President Joe Biden has told Polands President Andrzej Duda that your freedom is ours, echoing of one of Polands unofficial mottos. He assured Duda that the U.S. and other NATO allies would come to their aid if Russia should attack.
On March 18, Turkey advised ships to keep a sharp lookout and report any possible mines that had drifted from Ukrainian ports.
A Defense Ministry statement said divers were dispatched to deal with the object. According to Demiroren News Agency, it was noticed by fishermen.
ISTANBUL  Turkeys defense ministry says a mine-like object has been neutralized at the northern entrance to the Bosporus Strait.
The back-to-back attacks on Saturday brought a chill to residents and displaced Ukrainians who had seen Lviv as a relatively safe place to rebuild their lives. Home to about 700,000 people before the invasion, the city has absorbed many more.
Speaking of a perennial struggle for democracy, Biden mentioned the rule of law and freedom of the press among the principles that are essential in a free society.
WARSAW  President Joe Biden on Saturday spent time with Ukrainian refugees in Poland as he wrapped up his four-day visit to Europe, marveling at the spirit of their resolve in the aftermath of Russias invasion of their homeland.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said the curfew will run from 8 p.m. local time on Saturday to 7 a.m. on Monday, with local residents allowed to leave their homes only to get to a bomb shelter.
Besides their condemnation of the war, the Russians also said they want to make it clear they are part of the local society and not secret supporters of Putin.
Jacob is now safe with his wife and daughter and they are all planning to travel to Minnesota. The family declined to elaborate on the circumstances of Jacobs detainment. Klobuchar said they want to be really careful and at some point ... the whole story will be told.
These innocent people have been through unimaginable pain and suffering over the last month, and by joining together today we are showing that we stand with them, Khan said.
LVIV, Ukraine  Authorities in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, have announced a new 35-hour curfew in the city.
Lviv, a city of over 700,000 roughly 70 kilometers 43 miles east of Ukraines border with Poland, has been largely spared from major Russian attacks in recent weeks. Two weeks ago, the Russian forces fired missiles on a military training center near Lviv, which at the time was the most westward target, and killed 35 people.
The explosions Saturday came as U.S. President Joe Biden was wrapping up a visit to neighboring NATO ally Poland in which he told Polands president that  your freedom is ours.
Mircea Geoana said in an interview with The Associated Press that NATO would be forced to take appropriate measures in the event of a chemical or nuclear attack, which follows a string of ominous comments from Moscow officials who refuse to rule out their use. He declined to say what those measures would be.
Tyler Jacob had been detained earlier this month while trying to cross from Ukraine into Turkey. Klobuchar said she reached out to the U.S. State Department and connected with John Sullivan, the U.S. ambassador to Russia, who discussed the situation with the Russian government.
The Russians opened fire into the air. They threw flash-bang grenades into the crowd. But the residents did not disperse, on the contrary, more of them showed up, Pavlyuk said.
Several polls in recent weeks have shown a majority of Finns now supporting NATO membership, up from 25 at most before the Russian invasion of Ukraine. President Sauli Niinisto said in an interview Saturday with public broadcaster YLE that the biggest benefit would be gaining a preventive effect.
LONDON  Britains Defense Ministry says Russia continues to besiege a number of major Ukrainian cities including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol.
Duda, speaking after meeting Biden, said that he also urged the United States to speed up its planned delivery of weapons to Poland.
Along with some friends from Turkey, he got on a bus headed for the Turkish border but was taken into custody at a checkpoint in Armiansk.
 Russian President Vladimir Putin faces stark choices in Ukraine invasion as armed forces stall
The 28-year-old Jacob went to Ukraine in November, where he took a job teaching English to be with his longtime girlfriend, a Ukrainian, the Star Tribune reported. The couple married in January and lived in Kherson, a southern port on the Black Sea. Jacob stayed even after Russia invaded last month, but finally decided he should try to get out.
Klitschko said that shops, pharmacies, gas stations and public transport will not be operating during the curfew.
He said an application would lead to tensions at Finlands 1,340-kilometer 830-mile border with Russia, including the possibility of robust border and territorial violations  not just by Russian aircraft, as Finland has experienced in the past.
The march was organized by London Mayor Sadiq Khan after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on people everywhere to show their backing for Ukraine. Demonstrators were marching from Hyde Park to Trafalagar Square, which has been decorated in the blue and yellow colors of Ukraines flag.
The two gathered Saturday on Bidens final day in Europe to speak about their shared effort to end the war in neighboring Ukraine.
But he pointed to a risk of disruptive behavior by Russia during an accession process, which would take at least months.
He said Warsaw holds a sacred place in the history of not only of Europe but humankinds unending search for freedom. For generations, Warsaw has stood where liberty has been challenged and liberty has prevailed.
Biden called the collective defense agreement of the Western military alliance a sacred commitment, and said that the unity of NATO was of the utmost importance. He also acknowledged that Poland was bearing the brunt of the humanitarian crisis, with more than 2 million of the 3.5 million people fleeing Ukraine entering the country. He said the other NATO allies must do more. The U.S. has pledged to accept up to 100,000 refugees.
He also held hands and gave hugs to their parents, as he heard their stories during a visit to a stadium in Warsaw where Ukrainian refugees go to obtain a Polish identification number that gives them access to social services such as health care and schools.
 The Associated Press has independently documented at least 34 assaults on Ukrainian medical facilities by Russian forces
Maksym Kozytskyy said police found the man had recorded a rocket flying toward the target and striking it. Police also found on his telephone photos of checkpoints in the region, which Kozytskyy said had been sent to two Russian telephone numbers.
Duda late last year vetoed the legislation, but concerns about press freedom in Poland remain due to the governments use of public media as a party mouthpiece.
LVIV, Ukraine  Several rockets struck the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on Saturday in what officials say were two separate attacks that occurred the same day President Joe Biden was visiting the capital of Poland, whose border is just 45 miles away.
LONDON  Britain has seized two jet aircraft belonging to Russian billionaire Eugene Shvidler as Western governments seeking to end the war in Ukraine put pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin by targeting the luxury lifestyles of his closest supporters.
The organizers from Pragues Russian anti-war committee said the rally is an opportunity for the Russian nationals to say loud and clear No to the war, No to Putin, We are with Ukraine, and We are with the Czech Republic and the whole world against the Russian aggression.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of the Lviv region says a man was detained on suspicion of espionage at the site of one of the two rocket attacks that rattled the city on Saturday.
Biden also paid homage to Polands long struggle for democracy in his speech at the Royal Castle, which like most of Warsaw was destroyed by occupying Nazi German forces during World War II and later rebuilt.
The U.S. has been sending money and supplies to aid the refugee effort. This week, Biden announced $1 billion in additional aid and said the U.S. would accept up to 100,000 refugees.
Some of the women and children told Biden that they fled for Poland without their husbands and fathers, men of fighting age that were required to remain behind to assist in the fight against Russian forces.
A Winona, Minnesota man taken into custody by Russian forces in Ukraine has been released, U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar said.
Last year some 38,500 ships passed through the Bosporus, which links the Black Sea and the Mediterranean. Soon after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Ankara closed the strait to military vessels.
WARSAW, Poland  Polands President Andrzej Duda welcomed President Joe Bidens assurances while visiting the Polish capital on Saturday that NATO would guarantee his countrys security.
The protesters also displayed banners that read Stop Putin, Save the World and Putin is not Russia, calling Russias President Vladimir Putin a Killer.
HELSINKI  Finlands president says his country would likely be targeted by Russian cyber warfare and could face border violations if it decides to apply for membership in NATO.
MEDYKA, Poland -- Refugees arriving in Poland from Ukraine are pleading for more help to end the war as U.S. President Joe Biden wraps up his four-day visit to Europe.
The U.K. froze Shvidlers U.K. assets last week as it announced a new round of sanctions on Russian companies and wealthy individuals. Shvidler was sanctioned because of his links to those who have backed the war in Ukraine and because he has profited from his support for the Putin regime, the U.K. said.
Niinisto said: We dont even know all the possiblities for hybid influencing that someone may invent. The entire world of information technology is vulnerable. Even some important society functions can be disrupted.
The Polish authorities were also in conflict with Washington last year over legal attempts to silence TVN, a broadcast network owned by U.S. company Discovery. The aim was to strip Discovery of its control of TVN, which produces independent news programs that are critical of the nationalist government.
Since the beginning of the invasion, Lviv has become a safe harbor for some 200,000 displaced Ukrainians.
Khan also pledged 1.1 million pounds $1.45 million to support refugees, migrants and asylum seekers in London. Some 3.8 million people have fled Ukraine since the invasion began.
The sighting on Saturday of a possible naval mine followed warnings that mines laid at the entrances to Ukrainian ports could break free in bad weather and cross the Black Sea.
Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadovyi called the second round of explosions a rocket attack, saying it did significant damage to an unspecified infrastructure object.
WARSAW, Poland  In a forceful speech in Warsaw denouncing Russian President Vladimir Putin and voicing strong support for Ukraine, President Joe Biden also appeared to have a message for his Polish hosts.
