Putins recognition of Ukraines rebels ups ante in crisis
20220221
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-russia-vladimir-putin-moscow-07b1cbe7969f2e8cac3cf82778eacb95
MOSCOW AP  It was a piece of fast-moving political theater in Moscow, a carefully orchestrated political announcement years in the making.
On Thursday, tensions spiked along the line of contact between Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists in the conflict that erupted in 2014 and has killed over 14,000 people. The rebels have charged than a sharp increase in skirmishes heralded Ukraines intention to reclaim control of the region by force. Ukrainian authorities have rejected any such intentions, said they were not responding to increased shelling, and accused the rebels of provocation.
The quick move by Putin represents a sharp change of course for the Kremlin, which in the past hoped to use a 2015 peace agreement brokered by France and Germany to have Ukraines rebel regions gain more power inside the country to stymie its bid for NATO membership. The strategy didnt work, because most Ukrainians resented the deal as a betrayal of national interests and its implementation has stalled.
We are ready to show you what the real decommunization would mean for Ukraine, Putin said in a stark warning that appeared to reflect a threat to take back the lands that he felt were robbed from Russia by the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union.
In a fast-moving chain of events, rebel leaders announced massive evacuation in a video that was aired Friday but was recorded two days earlier, according to the data embedded in it  a sign of a pre-arranged plot. They followed up Monday by asking Putin to recognize their regions independence, setting stage for the Kremlins political show.
The recognition of the rebel regions came as over 150,000 Russian troops have surrounded Ukraine from three sides in what the U.S. and its allies saw as a sign of an imminent invasion. The U.S. has warned that Moscow could try to create the pretext for attacking Ukraine with false-flag attacks in the volatile rebel east or other similar action.
The Russian president spent a large part of his address denigrating Ukraine and trying to delegitimize the country as a creation of the Communist rulers of the Soviet Union. He said sarcastically that Ukraine could be named after Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin, who had handed over wide swathes of Russias historic lands to it.
In a long ranting address to the nation before the signing ceremony, Putin described Ukraines bid to join NATO as an existential threat to Russia, brushing off Western assurances that the alliance doesnt threaten Russia. He described the prospective deployment of U.S. missiles in Ukraine as a knife to our throat, saying that they would be capable of reaching Moscow in just 4-5 minutes.
Immediately after the pro-Russian leaders of Ukraines separatist peoples republics were shown on Russian TV pleading with Putin to acknowledge them as independent states, Putin chaired a Kremlin meeting Monday in which a lineup of senior Russian officials all backed the move.
During the Kremlin meeting on Monday, several top officials suggested that Putin wait for several days to recognize the separatist regions to give the West the last chance to persuade Ukraine to abide by its obligation under the deal to offer the rebels a broad self-rule. However, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and other officials argued that it makes no sense to wait, saying that a delay wouldnt change the situation.
Russian President Vladimir Putin moved quickly on Monday to recognize the independence of separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, framing his show of defiance against the West in a series of nationally televised appearances that came amid Western fears of Russian invasion in Ukraine.
Hours later, Putin spoke in an hour-long televised address to the nation and then was shown on TV signing the recognition decrees.
Putin mocked Ukraines decommunization campaign that saw the destruction of Lenins monuments, saying: You want decommunization, it suits us well.
