Putin blames West for tensions demands security guarantees
20211221
https://apnews.com/article/europe-russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-moscow-2a3c3d0bf3834fe2e566f8aca57b57a1
For us, it is the most serious challenge  a challenge to our security, he said, adding that this is why the Kremlin needs long-term, legally binding guarantees from the West, as opposed to verbal assurances, words and promises that Moscow cant trust.
Russias relations with the U.S. sank to post-Cold War lows after it annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 and backed a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine that still controls territory there. Tensions reignited in recent weeks after Moscow massed tens of thousands of troops near Ukraines border.
In the conversation with Scholz, hope was expressed that serious negotiations would be organized on all the issues raised by Moscow, the readout said.
MOSCOW AP  The Russian president on Tuesday reiterated his demand for guarantees from the U.S. and its allies that NATO will not expand eastwards, blaming the West for tensions that are building up in Europe.
Putin added that Moscow hopeds constructive, meaningful talks with a visible end result  and within a certain time frame  that would ensure equal security for all.
Putin has pressed the West for guarantees that NATO will not expand to Ukraine or deploy its forces there and raised the issue during a video call with U.S. President Joe Biden two weeks ago.
Donfried said bilateral U.S.-Russia meetings are likely to happen in January, and talks within NATO-Russia Council, as well as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, are likely to see movement in January as well.
What is happening now, tensions that are building up in Europe, is their U.S. and NATOs fault every step of the way, the Russian leader said. Russia has been forced to respond at every step. The situation kept worsening and worsening, deteriorating and deteriorating. And here we are today, in a situation when were forced to resolve it somehow.
The president has been extremely clear for many, many years about some basic principles that no one is moving back on: the principle that one country does not have the right to change by force the borders of another, that one country does not have the right to dictate the policies of another or to tell that that country with whom they may associate, Blinken told reporters in Washington. One country does not have the right to exert a sphere of influence. That notion should be relegated to the dustbin of history.
Efforts to reach a political settlement of the Ukraine conflict, which has killed more than 14,000 people, have failed, however, and sporadic skirmishes have continued along the tense line of contact.
Russian President Vladimir Putins speech at a meeting with Russias top military brass came just days after Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe.
Armed conflicts, bloodshed is not our choice, and we dont want such developments. We want to resolve issues by political and diplomatic means, Putin said.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington is working with its European allies to address what he called Russian aggression with diplomacy but said President Joe Biden opposes the kind of guarantees sought by Putin.
There are other things in those documents that the Russians know will be unacceptable, she added, without specifying which ones.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu charged Tuesday that more than 120 staff of U.S. private military companies are currently operating in two villages in war-torn eastern Ukraine, training Ukrainian troops and setting up firing positions in residential buildings and different facilities.
What they are now trying to do and plan to do at Ukraines territory, its not thousands of kilometers away, its happening right at the doorstep of our house, he said.
Putin charged Tuesday that if U.S. and NATO missile systems appear in Ukraine, it will take those missiles only minutes to reach Moscow.
Any dialogue with Russia needs to be based on the core principles of European security and to address NATOs concerns about Russias actions, Stoltenberg said.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Tuesday that he intends to call a new meeting of the NATO-Russia Council as soon as possible in the New Year.
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Karen Donfried, the top U.S. diplomat for Europe, said at a briefing Tuesday that Washington is prepared to discuss those proposals that Russia put on the table.
Putin noted that NATO has expanded eastward since the late 1990s while giving assurances that Russias worries were groundless.
There are some things were prepared to work on, and we do believe there is merit in having discussion, Donfried told reporters after a visit to Kyiv, Moscow and Brussels.
The demands  contained in a proposed Russia-U.S. security treaty and a security agreement between Moscow and NATO  were drafted amid soaring tensions over a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine that has stoked fears of a possible invasion. Russia has denied it has plans to attack its neighbor but pressed for legal guarantees that would rule out NATO expansion and weapons deployment there.
Associated Press writers Angela Charlton in Paris and Lorne Cook in Brussels contributed to this report.
The conflict in eastern Ukraine was also discussed in both phone calls, with Putin claiming that Kyiv was reluctant to implement the Minsk agreements  a peace deal brokered by France and Germany in 2015 that helped end large-scale hostilities in the region.
On Tuesday evening, Putin talked about Russias proposals in phone calls with French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. According to the Kremlin, Putin informed Macron about Moscows diplomatic efforts on the subject, and gave Scholz detailed comments on the drafts Russia-U.S. security treaty and a security agreement between Russia and NATO submitted last week.
