RussiaUkraine war Key things to know about the conflict
20220314
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-kyiv-europe-85127d5367f6c3eb938d1ca327301619
Anxiety was building Monday in Poland, after a weekend Russian missile attack in western Ukraine killed at least 35 people. The attack, just 15 miles 24 kilometers from the Poland border, prompted Poles to rush to passport offices and stockpile essentials amid fears the war could spill into their country.
Zelenskyy has called on  Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet with him directly, a request that has not been met by the Kremlin.
Ukraines military said it repelled a Monday attempt by Russian forces to take over Mariupol. The Ukrainians said the Russian forces incurred losses and were forced to retreat. Satellite images from Maxar Technologies showed burning buildings and heavy damage across the city.
Russias military said 20 civilians were killed by a Ukrainian ballistic missile strike on Monday in the eastern city of Donetsk, in the separatist Donetsk region. The claim couldnt be independently verified.
In the Polish border town of Przemysl, exhausted refugees said they wished the violence would stop.
Anjela, 55, a refugee from Poltava who wouldnt give her last name, said that only a NATO intervention could end the violence. Zelenzkyy has repeatedly asked NATO to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine, but military experts have said that is unlikely.
The office of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy reported Monday that airstrikes hit residential buildings near the important southern city of Mykolaiv, as well as in the eastern city of Kharkiv. Explosions also rang out overnight around the Russian-occupied Black Sea port of Kherson.
Kateryna Lot said she was in her apartment while her child did homework online when they heard a loud explosion.
Russian forces kept up their assault on Ukraine on Monday, firing on suburbs around the capital of Kyiv and attacking other cities, even as the two countries held another round of diplomatic talks, which ended without a breakthrough.
The woman was transferred to another hospital  surgeon Timur Marin said the baby showed no signs of life after a Caesarean section, and attempts to resuscitate the mother failed.
The Associated Press has learned that a pregnant woman and her baby died after Russian forces bombed a maternity hospital in Mariupol. After Wednesdays attack on the hospital, the woman was seen in AP video and photos, stroking her bloodied lower abdomen as rescuers rushed her through the rubble. It was among the most brutal moments so far in Russias war in Ukraine.
Two people were killed when artillery hit a nine-story residential building in a northern district of the city early Monday, destroying apartments on several floors and igniting a fire. Ukrainian authorities said two more people died and seven were injured after Russian forces struck an airplane factory in Kyiv, sparking a large fire.
Meanwhile, top U.S. and Chinese officials met in Rome, where U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan  warned that Chinese assistance to Russia would be costly. Sullivan has warned China to avoid helping Russia evade punishment from global sanctions. The European Union on Monday announced a new set of sanctions against Russia.
In Russia, a live evening news program on state television was interrupted by an anti-war protester. An anchor was speaking during the newscast when a station employee appeared on camera behind her holding a sign with the headline no war scrawled in English across the top. The poster included a message calling on people not to believe Russian propaganda.
A Russian airstrike near a Ukrainian checkpoint caused extensive damage to a downtown Kyiv neighborhood on Monday. Ukrainian officials said the airstrike killed one person and injured six others.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian government announced plans for new humanitarian aid and evacuation corridors. In one rare sign of progress, Mariupols city council said a convoy of 160 civilian cars left the besieged port city along a designated humanitarian route, after many previous attempts at evacuations collapsed.
A fourth round of talks were held Monday but ended without a breakthrough after several hours, according to Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak. Podolyak said the negotiators took a technical pause and planned to meet again Tuesday.
The fighting, now in its third week, continued to exact a human toll. Thousands of soldiers and civilians have died and the war has forced more than 2.8 million people to flee Ukraine. Some of the exhausted refugees have shared heartbreaking stories about leaving family members behind, with one woman simply saying: I wish this war would end.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday that there have been no signs of de-escalation that would demonstrate Putin is negotiating in good faith.
The child became hysterical, our windows and the balcony were shattered, part of the floor fell down, Lot said. It was very, very scary. The child started screaming so we took him, ran to the door and down to the shelter.
Alexandra Beltuygova, a 33-year-old who fled from Dnipro, between Kyiv and Mariupol, said she spends her days crying after leaving her husband and parents behind, and, I wish this war would end. Many of the displaced are women and children, as men between the ages of 18 and 60 were not allowed to leave Ukraine.
A top Red Cross official said the war has become  nothing short of a nightmare  for those who remain in besieged cities.
Overall, nearly all of Russias offensives remained stalled Monday after making little progress over the weekend, according to a senior U.S. defense official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the Pentagons assessment. The official said Russian forces have launched more than 900 missiles but Ukraines airspace is still contested, and Russia has not achieved total air superiority.
Russian troops refocused their efforts to seize Kyiv on Monday, firing artillery on suburbs, which have seen some of the worst conflict during Russias stalled attempt to take the capital. A local official said a town councilor for Brovary, east of Kyiv, was killed in fighting there.
I dont know when I will see my husband. I dont know when my children will return home, Anjela said. I beg you, it depends only on you! Close the sky, everything else we will do ourselves.
After Russian forces shelled a nine-story apartment building in the northern Obolonskyi district of Kyiv, firefighters worked to rescue survivors, painstakingly carrying an injured woman on a stretcher away from the blackened and still smoking building.
The U.N. has recorded at least 596 civilian deaths, though it believes the true toll is much higher. Ukrainian officials said that at least 85 children are among the dead.
Air raid alerts sounded in cities and towns all around the country overnight, from near the Russian border in the east to the Carpathian Mountains in the west.
