Russia denies looking for pretext to invade Ukraine
20220117
https://apnews.com/f58cbbd7eca51cccf74ebd4be68484e8
Our bipartisan congressional delegation sends a clear message to the global community: the United States stands in unwavering support of our Ukrainian partners to defend their sovereignty and in the face of persistent Russian aggression, Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said in a statement.
Lukashenko said the maneuvers will be conducted on Belarus western border and also in the countrys south, where it borders Ukraine. Belarus Security Council Secretary Alexander Volfovich said Monday that Russian troops already had started arriving in the country for the exercise, according to the BELTA news agency.
Russia has denied having plans to attack its neighbor and in turn accused the Ukrainian leadership of hatching plans to use force to reclaim control of Russian-backed rebel-held territories in eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian authorities have denied it.
Asked Monday about the possibility of Russian missile deployment to Cuba and Venezuela, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that Russia is thinking about how to ensure its security in the context of the current situation.
Yuras Karmanau reported from Kyiv, Ukraine. Frank Jordans in Berlin and Aritz Parra in Madrid contributed to this report.
Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, said after the delegation met with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that if Russia invades Ukraine we will impose crippling economic sanctions, but more important we will give the people of Ukraine the arms, lethal arms they need to defend their lives and livelihoods.
Amid the troops buildup, Russia in recent weeks has held a series of war games in regions that border Ukraine. On Monday, the military announced the launch of another exercise involving armored units stationed in the western part of Russia that includes 300 combat vehicles.
Speaking to reporters Monday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov dismissed the U.S. claim as total disinformation.
MOSCOW AP  Russias top diplomat angrily rejected U.S. allegations that Moscow was preparing a pretext to invade Ukraine, as Russian troops that are amassed near the Ukraine border launched more drills Monday.
He reaffirmed that Russia expects a written response this week from the U.S. and its allies to Moscows request for binding guarantees that NATO will not embrace Ukraine or any other ex-Soviet nations, or station its forces and weapons there.
Speaking Monday on a visit to Kyiv, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock warned that any further escalation would carry a high price for the Russian regime  economic, political and strategic  and emphasized the need to continue negotiations.
We are prepared to have a serious dialogue with Russia, because diplomacy is the only way to defuse this highly dangerous situation, she said.
A delegation of U.S. senators is visiting Ukraine to emphasize U.S. support for the country.
Ukrainian officials have warned that Russia could launch an attack from various directions, including from the territory of its ally Belarus.
Washington and its allies firmly rejected  Moscows demands during last weeks Russia-U.S. negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels, which were held as an estimated 100,000 Russian troops with tanks and other heavy weapons are massed near Ukraine in what the West fears might be a prelude to an invasion.
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, who has increasingly relied on the Kremlins support amid Western sanctions over a brutal crackdown on domestic protests, said Russia and Belarus will hold massive military drills next month.
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov, who led the Russian delegation at the talks with the U.S. in Geneva, said last week that he would neither confirm nor exclude the possibility of Russia sending military assets to Cuba and Venezuela if the U.S. and its allies dont curtail their military activities on Russias doorstep. U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan has dismissed the comments as bluster.
The White House said Friday that U.S. intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had already deployed operatives to rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine to carry out acts of sabotage there and blame them on Ukraine in a false-flag operation to create a pretext for possible invasion.
Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 after the ouster of Ukraines Moscow-friendly leader and also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting there.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that Moscow will take unspecified military-technical measures if the West stonewalls its demands.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on a visit to Spain that we expect clear steps from Russia to deescalate the situation, adding that military aggression against Ukraine would entail serious political and economic consequences.
We made clear that we will do everything to avoid escalating the crisis, she said.
Baerbock said Germany has offered to send cybersecurity specialists to Ukraine to help investigate last weeks cyberattacks, which Ukrainian authorities have blamed on Russia. At the same time, she noted that Germany hasnt changed its refusal to provide it with weapons.
