Russia hits Ukraine fuel supplies airfields in new attacks
20220226
https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-volodymyr-zelenskyy-kyiv-europe-united-nations-edc6df79755195b29473cfd6d38b1ebb
Officials in Kyiv urged residents to stay away from windows to avoid debris or bullets.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia unleashed a wave of attacks on Ukraine targeting airfields and fuel facilities in what appeared to be the next phase of an invasion that has been slowed by fierce resistance. The U.S. and EU responded with weapons and ammunition for the outnumbered Ukrainians and powerful sanctions intended to further isolate Moscow.
There is no particular need in maintaining diplomatic relations, Medvedev said. We may look at each other in binoculars and gunsights.
The countrys Infrastructure Ministry said a Russian missile was shot down early Saturday as it headed for the dam of the sprawling reservoir that serves Kyiv. The government also said a Russian convoy was destroyed. Video images showed soldiers inspecting burned-out vehicles after Ukraines 101st brigade reported destroying a column of two light vehicles, two trucks and a tank. The claim could not be verified.
Huge explosions lit up the sky early Sunday south of the capital, Kyiv, where people hunkered down in homes, underground garages and subway stations in anticipation of a full-scale assault by Russian forces.
It was unclear how much territory Russian forces had seized or to what extent their advance had been stalled. Britains Ministry of Defense said the speed of the Russian advance has temporarily slowed likely as a result of acute logistical difficulties and strong Ukrainian resistance.
Ukraines health minister reported Saturday that 198 people, including three children, had been killed and more than 1,000 others wounded during Europes largest land war since World War II. It was unclear whether those figures included both military and civilian casualties.
Highways into Kyiv from the east were dotted with checkpoints manned by Ukrainian troops and young men in civilian clothes carrying automatic rifles. Low-flying planes patrolled the skies, though it was unclear if they were Russian or Ukrainian.
Shelves were sparsely stocked at grocery stores and pharmacies, and people worried how long food and medicine supplies might last.
Refugees arriving in the Hungarian border town of Zahony said men between the ages of 18 and 60 were not being allowed to leave Ukraine.
Russia claims its assault on Ukraine from the north, east and south is aimed only at military targets, but bridges, schools and residential neighborhoods have been hit.
The U.S. and its allies have beefed up forces on NATOs eastern flank but so far have ruled out deploying troops to fight Russia. Instead, the U.S., the European Union and other countries have slapped wide-ranging sanctions on Russia, freezing the assets of businesses and individuals including Putin and his foreign minister.
We arent going to lay down weapons. We will protect the country, he said. Our weapon is our truth, and our truth is that its our land, our country, our children. And we will defend all of that.
They didnt have food, no tea, they were standing in the middle of a field, on the road, kids were freezing, Iryna Wiklenko said as she waited on the Polish side for her grandchildren and daughter-in-law to make it across.
The Kremlin confirmed a phone call between Putin and Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev but gave no hint of restarting talks. A day earlier, Zelenskyy offered to negotiate a key Russian demand: abandoning ambitions of joining NATO.
Flames billowed into the sky before dawn from an oil depot near an air base in Vasylkiv, where there has been intense fighting, according to the towns mayor. President Volodymyr Zelenskyys office said another explosion was at the civilian Zhuliany airport.
The effort was already coming at great cost to Ukraine, and apparently to Russian forces as well.
In addition to Kyiv, the Russian assault appeared to focus on Ukraines economically vital coastal areas, from near the Black Sea port of Odesa in the west to beyond the Azov Sea port of Mariupol in the east.
Terrified men, women and children sought safety inside and underground, and the government maintained a 39-hour curfew to keep people off the streets. More than 150,000 Ukrainians fled for Poland, Moldova and other neighboring countries, and the United Nations warned the number could grow to 4 million if fighting escalates.
A missile struck a high-rise apartment building in Kyivs southwestern outskirts near one of the citys two passenger airports, leaving a jagged hole of ravaged apartments over several floors. A rescue worker said six civilians were injured.
A senior U.S. defense official said more than half the Russian combat power that was massed along Ukraines borders had entered the country and Moscow has had to commit more fuel supply and other support units inside Ukraine than originally anticipated. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal U.S. assessments.
Zelenskyy reiterated his openness to talks with Russia in a video message, saying he welcomed an offer from Turkey and Azerbaijan to organize diplomatic efforts, which so far have faltered.
Ukrainian artillery fire destroyed a Russian train delivering diesel to troops heading toward Kyiv from the east, said Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the interior minister.
Zelenskyys office also said Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city, prompting the government to warn people to protect themselves from the smoke by covering their windows with damp cloth or gauze.
Markarova said Ukraine was gathering evidence of shelling of residential areas, kindergartens and hospitals to submit to The Hague as possible crimes against humanity.
President Vladimir Putin hasnt disclosed his ultimate plans, but Western officials believe he is determined to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, redrawing the map of Europe and reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
Fighting on the citys outskirts suggested that small Russian units were trying to clear a path for the main forces. Small groups of Russian troops were reported inside Kyiv, but Britain and the U.S. said the bulk of the forces were 19 miles 30 kilometers from the citys center as of Saturday afternoon.
Putin sent troops into Ukraine after denying for weeks that he intended to do so, all the while building up a force of almost 200,000 troops along the countries borders. He claims the West has failed to take seriously Russias security concerns about NATO, the Western military alliance that Ukraine aspires to join. But he has also expressed scorn about Ukraines right to exist as an independent state.
Dmitry Medvedev, the deputy head of Russias Security Council, warned that Moscow could react by opting out of the last remaining nuclear arms pact, freezing Western assets and cutting diplomatic ties.
Fighting also raged in two eastern territories controlled by pro-Russia separatists. Authorities in Donetsk said hot water supplies to the city of about 900,000 were suspended because of damage to the system by Ukrainian shelling.
Ukrainian soldiers in Mariupol guarded bridges and blocked people from the shoreline amid concerns the Russian navy could launch an assault from the sea.
To aid Ukraines ability to hold out, the U.S. pledged an additional $350 million in military assistance to Ukraine, including anti-tank weapons, body armor and small arms. Germany said it would send missiles and anti-tank weapons to the besieged country and that it would close its airspace to Russian planes.
The curfew forcing everyone in Kyiv inside was set to last through Monday morning. The relative quiet of the capital was sporadically broken by gunfire.
The U.S., European Union and United Kingdom agreed to block selected Russian banks from the SWIFT global financial messaging system, which moves money around more than 11,000 banks and other financial institutions worldwide, part of a new round of sanctions aiming to impose a severe cost on Moscow for the invasion. They also agreed to impose restrictive measures on Russias central bank.
The U.S. government urged Zelenskyy early Saturday to evacuate Kyiv but he turned down the offer, according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation. Zelenskyy issued a defiant video recorded on a downtown street, saying he remained in the city.
At Polands Medyka crossing, some said they had walked for 15 miles 35 kilometers to reach the border.
Isachenkov reported from Moscow, and Miller from Washington. Francesca Ebel, Josef Federman and Andrew Drake in Kyiv Mstyslav Chernov and Nic Dumitrache in Mariupol, Ukraine and other AP journalists from around the world contributed to this report.
Ukraines ambassador to the U.S., Oksana Markarova, said troops in Kyiv were fighting Russian sabotage groups. Ukraine says some 200 Russian soldiers have been captured and thousands killed.
My son was not allowed to come. My heart is so sore, Im shaking, said Vilma Sugar, 68.
I dont care anymore who wins and who doesnt, said Ruzanna Zubenko, whose large family was forced from their home outside Mariupol after it was badly damaged by shelling. The only important thing is for our children to be able to grow up smiling and not crying.
