Russia halts gas through major pipeline citing maintenance
20220831
https://apnews.com/52da1c3ad6aa4707f375222a58aca7d2
Natural gas is used to power industry, heat homes and offices, and generate electricity. Increasing the amount in reserve has been a key focus of the German government since Russia invaded Ukraine, to avoid rationing for industry as demand rises in the winter.
The pressure is so great that I am really very confident that it will be done quickly, he said Wednesday, without specifying whether changes will be in place this winter. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen pledged reform on Monday.
While Germany looks to store gas and diversify its supplies, it also is among countries pushing for an urgent redesign of the European electricity market to decrease the influence of soaring gas prices on the cost of energy.
The European Unions energy commissioner, Kardi Simson, said Wednesday that the 27-nation bloc already had reached its goal of filling gas storage to 80 of capacity ahead of the winter months. The target date was Nov. 1.
Gazprom started cutting supplies through Nord Stream 1 in mid-June. It cited technical problems that German authorities have dismissed as cover for a political power play. In recent weeks, Nord Stream 1 has been running at only 20 of capacity.
Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook Wednesday that Gazprom will deliver up to 5.8 million cubic meters per day in September and October on top of the amounts already outlined in a long-term agreement between the two countries, Hungarian news agency MTI reported.
In July, the government moved to tighten storage requirements. It introduced a requirement for storage to be 75 full by Sept. 1  a target that already has been surpassed  and raised the targets for October and November to 85 and 95, respectively, from 80 and 90.
As of Wednesday, Germanys storage facilities were over 83 full. Chancellor Olaf Scholz said his government had done well to act early, when not everyone was sure we might have a problem.
BERLIN AP  Russias Gazprom halted the flow of natural gas through a major pipeline from Russia to Europe early Wednesday, a stoppage that it announced in advance and has said will last three days.
EU member Hungary, which has been close to Russia and insisted on a temporary exemption from the blocs embargo on Russian oil, is getting more gas from Moscow.
Russia, which before the reductions started accounted for a bit more than a third of Germanys gas supplies, has also reduced the flow of gas to other European countries which have sided with Ukraine in the war.
The Russian state-owned energy company announced the closure of Nord Stream 1 in mid-August, citing maintenance at a compressor station  an explanation that German officials have cast doubt on. Gazprom says that work is necessary on the only remaining functioning turbine at the Portovaya station, at the Russian end of the pipeline.
