UN sees progress in talks to free up Ukraine grain exports
20220713
https://apnews.com/e239c45b5af29fefc32889bdb4920fee
U.N., Turkish and other officials are scrambling for a solution that would empty the silos in time for upcoming harvest in Ukraine. Some grain is now being transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the amount is small compared with the Black Sea routes.
Experts have cautioned that an agreement will not have an immediate impact. It will take time to ensure there are no mines in the Black Sea shipping channel, and then to get cargo ships to Odesa, Ukraines largest Black Sea port. Inspections will have to be done and arrangements made for shipping out the 22 million tons of grain that Ukraines president says are now in silos.
Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar said the sides reached agreement concerning the joint control of vessels as they leave and arrive at Black Sea ports to pick up grain, and the safety of the transfer routes. A coordination center would be established in Istanbul and would include U.N., Turkish, Russian and Ukrainian officials, he said.
Russia said it had presented a package of proposals for a practical and quick solution to unblock the export of Ukrainian grain but did not elaborate.
The U.N. chief spoke in New York, hours after military officials from Russia, Ukraine and Turkey met with U.N. humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths in Istanbul to discuss stumbling blocks to a deal, mainly on how to ship about 22 million tons of grain stuck in Ukraine because of the war.
Guterres proposed a package deal in early June to unblock shipments of Ukrainian wheat and other food crops from the Black Sea and lift restrictions on Russias exports of grain and fertilizer. He kept tight-lipped about progress  until Wednesday.
Guterres said there was very substantive progress and I would say broad agreement Wednesday on how to ensure the safe export of Ukrainian food products through the Black Sea. Now, he said, there is a ray of hope to ease human suffering and alleviate hunger around the world and bring much needed stability to the global food system.
He cited substantive agreement on many aspects related to the control of shipping, coordination of the operation and de-mining of the Black Sea.
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization says the war in Ukraine is endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
With the war in Ukraine in its fifth month and much of the world seeing food prices soar and millions in developing countries facing hunger and possible starvation, getting grain and fertilizer shipments moving again from two of the worlds major exporters is crucial.
Any agreement needs to ensure that Russia will respect these corridors, they will not sneak into the harbor and attack ports or that they will not attack ports from the air with their missiles, he said.
NATO-member Turkey has retained close ties to both Moscow and Ukraine and has worked with both countries and the U.N. to reach an agreement. It has offered to provide safe Black Sea corridors.
Ahead of the talks, Pyotr Ilyichev, head of the Russian Foreign Ministrys department for ties with international organizations, said Russias military had repeatedly declared its willingness to allow safe shipping corridors in the Black Sea.
Western sanctions on Russia do not ban exports of food or fertilizer. But Moscow argues that Western sanctions on its banking and shipping industries make it impossible for Russia to export those goods and are scaring off foreign shipping companies.
Akar said the talks were held in a constructive atmosphere. We see that the parties are willing to solve this problem, he said, forecasting agreements next week.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his countrys delegation at the talks had informed him that they were making progress.
Seventy vessels from 16 countries have remained stuck in Ukrainian ports, Ilyichev said, alleging that Ukrainian authorities had barred them from departing.
The U.N. chief cautioned that more technical work will now be needed to reach an agreement, but the momentum is clear  Im encouraged. Im optimistic, but its not yet fully done.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russias invasion and war has disrupted production and halted shipments across the Black Sea to the Mediterranean.
Moscow claims Ukraines heavily mined ports are causing the delay. Russian President Vladimir Putin has pledged that Moscow wouldnt use the corridors to launch an attack, if the sea mines were removed.
ISTANBUL AP  U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the first meeting in weeks between Russia and Ukraine took a critical step forward Wednesday to ensuring the export of desperately needed grain from Ukraines Black Sea ports to help ease the global food crisis.
But Ukrainian officials have blamed a Russian naval blockade for holding up the exports and causing the global food crisis. They are skeptical of Putins pledge not to take advantage of cleared Black Sea corridors to mount attacks on Ukrainian ports, noting that he insisted repeatedly this year that he had no plans to invade Ukraine.
Our conditions are clear: We need to have a way to control and check the ships to prevent any attempts to smuggle weapons in, and Kyiv must refrain from any provocations, Russias Interfax news agency quoted Ilyichev as saying.
We still need a lot of goodwill and commitments by all parties, Guterres said. In the end, the aim of all parties is not just an agreement between the Russian Federation and Ukraine but an agreement for the world.
He said he was grateful to the United Nations and Turkey for their efforts to restore Ukraines agricultural exports. If they succeed in removing the Russian threat to shipping in the Black Sea, it will reduce the severity of the global food crisis, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address.
Turkeys defense minister said agreements would be signed when negotiators meet again in Istanbul next week.
Before the talks, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told The Associated Press that grain exports from his countrys ports would not resume without security guarantees to ship owners, cargo owners, and to keep Ukraine as an independent nation.
He said the U.N., Russia, Ukraine and Turkey will work together to ensure that an agreement is implemented effectively.
