Local Ukrainians decry Russian invasion of their homeland as attack on democracy
20220224
https://www.wbur.org/news/2022/02/24/photos-ukraine-russia-boston-reactions
A young Russian woman who didnt want to be quoted said she and almost every Russian she knows opposes Putin and his war  but shes afraid local Ukrainians will still blame her for the war.
"Putin doesnt want American bases in the Ukraine," she said. "Hes defending his people. I dont like him. He is too demanding. But but hes clever. You cant deny that."
"Monster Putin. Monster," said Tamara Lutova, who moved to Boston from Moscow 15 years ago.
Jack Mitchell Twitter Associate ProducerJack Mitchell was an associate producer in WBUR's newsroom. He works across a wide spectrum of departments and shows  from the newscast unit, to WBUR.org, to Radio Boston.
With some translation help from a store clerk, Lutova added that she has great love for the people of Ukraine.
Slava Oleinik traveled to the rally from Framingham, where he lives with his family. Oleinik said he still has relatives in Ukraine. He grew up there when the country was still part of the Soviet Union.
"It is not a war of Russia against Ukraine. It is a war of Russia against the world order that we know."
Hannah Chanatry Twitter Producer, All Things ConsideredHannah Chanatry was a producer for WBUR's All Things Considered.
About a hundred people rallied at the State House in Boston Thursday in support of Ukraine as the Eastern European nation stares down a large-scale invasion by Russian military forces.
He said he's angry about what Russia has done, and that he is willing and ready to fight in his homeland.
"It is not a war of Russia against Ukraine. It is a war of Russia against the world order that we know," he said, adding it is not possible for him to leave Kyiv right now.
Steve Brown Twitter Senior ReporterAnchorSteve Brown is a veteran broadcast journalist who serves as WBUR's senior State House reporter.
Olha Shirpa was visibly upset as she and some friends wrapped themselves in a huge Ukrainian flag. She runs a local business, but her parents and other friends remain in Ukraine.
Meanwhile, shoppers in a Russian grocery store, Bazaar Supermarket in Brookline, had an array of strong opinions on the Russian invasion.
Shirpa said she fears for their safety  and that some loved ones are in the process of fleeing Ukraine's large cities because of the Russian threat.
Leon, her husband, said Biden's sanctions, which primarily target Russian banks and the country's technology sector, do not go far enough.
Ukrainians at the rally urged people to lobby Congress to support the Biden administration's sanctions. They also asked people to donate funds to help support the Ukrainian military as it tries to fight back Russian troops.
Shes a retired Russian language teacher, and says she understands why Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine.
The show of solidarity, anger and grief was a public display of the emotions that many residents across Massachusetts are feeling privately as they watch the crisis unfold.
Demonstrators carrying blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flags sang patriotic songs and chanted, "Putin go home"  referencing Russian President Vladimir Putin  and, "Stop the war."
The Beacon Hill demonstration came as the state's all-Democratic congressional delegation condemned the Russian invasion in public remarks online, and just hours before President Biden announced stiff new penalties targeting Russia's economy.
Writer Helen and her husband Leon spent years in the Bay State before moving to Kyiv. WBUR agreed to use only their first names because of their concerns about safety in the evolving situation in Ukraine. Helen spoke with WBUR from the city Thursday  describing subway tunnels used as bomb shelters and the distant sound of shelling.
"I'm Polish, but what I am is Eastern European, and I stand with Ukraine," Kryca said. "This is our problem, and there is no two nations who are closer allied than Poland than Ukraine. We both want democracy, freedom to be part of the West, to be European. We don't want to be part of Russia's corrupt tyranny and oppression."
Some Americans with Massachusetts ties that remained in Ukraine amid the invasion expressed fear Thursday. Many said they were grappling with whether they should leave.
"If this is not really stopped at this point, it has the potential to grow into something that cannot be stopped at all," Laptiev said.
"What a disaster that we have lived through  Sept. 11, and then COVID, a revolution in Ukraine and now the war," she said. "It's troublesome."
He said he and his wife will only start considering that option if the roads open and flights return.
One man at the deli counter in Brookline said he supports Putin. But when I asked to record him, he shook his head, and said he didnt want to stir up any trouble.
"So much Russian people have parents or family in Ukraine," Lutova said. "It's brothers national and we don't want to be a fight with each other."
According to the Census, about a quarter of those are Russians. The next largest groups are Poles and, Ukrainians, But there are many other nations represented here.
Among them was MIT graduate student Artem Laptiev, who's from a Ukrainian town about 12 miles from the Russian border. He called the invasion an attack on freedom and the fundamentals of democracy.
Helen said she and her husband want other countries to take stronger action against Russia, adding the invasion is a threat to all of Europe.
