They were shooting civilians Ukraine refugees saw abuses
20220310
https://www.wbur.org/news/2022/03/10/ukraine-russia-invasion-citizen-casualties
The United Nations human rights office said Wednesday it had recorded the killings of 516 civilians in Ukraine in the two weeks since Russia invaded, including 37 children. Most have been caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, it said. It believes the real toll is considerably higher and noted that its numbers dont include some areas of intense hostilities, including Mariupol.
Some of the latest refugees have seen those deaths first-hand. Their testimonies will be a critical part of efforts to hold Russia accountable for targeting civilians and civilian structures like hospitals and homes.
I am afraid, said Anna Potapola, a mother of two who arrived in Poland from the city of Dnipro. When we had to leave Ukraine my children asked me, Will we survive? I am very afraid and scared for the people left behind.
More and more, the peope who are turning up at border crossings are survivors who have fled some of the cities hardest hit by Russian forces.
The International Criminal Court prosecutor last weeklaunched an investigationthat could target senior officials believed responsible for war crimes, after dozens of the courts member states asked him to act. Evidence collection has begun.
More evacuations were announced for Thursday as desperate residents sought to leave cities where food, water, medicines and other essentials were running out.
The Russians promised to provide a humanitarian corridor which they did not comply with. They were shooting civilians, he said. Thats absolutely true. I witnessed it. People were scared.
It was very eerie, said Ihor Diekov, one of the many people who crossed the Irpin river outside Kyiv on the slippery wooden planks of a makeshift bridge after Ukrainians blew up the concrete span to slow the Russian advance.
Such testimonies will increasingly reach the world in the coming days as more people flow along fragile humanitarian corridors.
Nationwide, thousands of people are thought to have been killed across Ukraine, both civilians and soldiers, since Russian forces invaded two weeks ago. City officials in the blockaded port city of Mariupol have said 1,200 residents have been killed there, including three in thebombingof a childrens hospital. In Ukraines second largest city, Kharkiv, the prosecutors office has said 282 residents have been killed, including several children.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday said three such corridors were operating from bombarded areas. People left Sumy, in the northeast near the Russian border suburbs of Kyiv and Enerhodar, the southern town where Russian forces took over a large nuclear plant. In all, about 35,000 people got out, he said.
As more than 2 million refugees from Ukraine begin to scatter throughout Europe and beyond, some are carrying valuable witness evidence to build a case for war crimes.
