Russias feminists are in the streets protesting Putins war
20220308
https://www.greenleft.org.au/content/russias-feminists-are-streets-protesting-putins-war
The following is a manifesto by Russian feminists who have united against the occupation and war in Ukraine. Feminism is one of the few opposition movements in contemporary Russia that has not been destroyed by the waves of persecution launched by President Vladimir Putins government.
Join peaceful demonstrations and launch offline and online campaigns against the war in Ukraine and Putins dictatorship, organising your own actions. Feel free to use the symbol of the Feminist Anti-War Resistance movement in your materials and publications, as well as hashtags FeministAntiWarResistance and FeministsAgainstWar.
At the moment, several dozen grassroots feminist groups are operating in at least 30 Russian cities. Feminists taking part in anti-war demonstrations around the country call on feminists around the world to unite in opposing the military aggression launched by Putins government.
Russia has declared war on its neighbour. It did not allow Ukraine the right to self-determination nor any hope of a peaceful life. We declare  and not for the first time  that war has been waged for the last eight years at the initiative of the Russian government. The war in Donbas is a consequence of the illegal annexation of Crimea. We believe that Russia and its president are not and have never been concerned about the fate of people in Luhansk and Donetsk, and the recognition of the republics after eight years was only a pretext for the invasion of Ukraine under the guise of liberation.
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special operation on the territory of Ukraine on February 24, at around 5:30am Moscow time, in order to denazify and demilitarise this sovereign state. This operation had long been in preparation. For several months, Russian troops were moving up to the border with Ukraine. At the same time, the leadership of our country denied any possibility of a military attack. Now we see that this was a lie.
War means violence, poverty, forced displacement, broken lives, insecurityand the lack of a future. It is irreconcilable with the essential values and goals of the feminist movement. War exacerbates gender inequality and sets back gains for human rights by many years. War brings with it not only the violence of bombs and bullets but also sexual violence: as history shows, during war, the risk of being raped increases several times for any woman. For these and many other reasons, Russian feminists and those who share feminist values need to take a strong stand against this war unleashed by the leadership of our country.
Share this manifesto with others. Its necessary to show that feminists are against this war  and any type of war. Its also essential to demonstrate that there are still Russian activists who are ready to unite in opposition to Putins regime. We are all in danger of persecution by the state now and need your support.
Today feminists are one of the few active political forces in Russia. For a long time, Russian authorities did not perceive us as a dangerous political movement, and therefore we were temporarily less affected by state repression than other political groups. Currently, more than 45 different feminist organisations are operating throughout the country, from Kaliningrad to Vladivostok, from Rostov-on-Don to Ulan-Ude and Murmansk.
Distribute the information about the war in Ukraine and Putins aggression. We need the whole world to support Ukraine at this moment and to refuse to help Putins regime in any way.
For updates on peoples struggles for ecology and justice, local and global, nothing beats Green Left. Ive read the paper for decades now, and it just keeps getting better and better!
The current war, as Putins addresses show, is also fought under the banner of the traditional values declared by government ideologues  values that Russia allegedly decided to promote throughout the world as a missionary, using violence against those who refuse to accept them or hold other views. Anyone who is capable of critical thinking understands well that these traditional values include gender inequality, exploitation of womenand state repression against those whose way of life, self-identificationand actions do not conform with narrow patriarchal norms. The justification of the occupation of a neighboring state by the desire to promote such distorted norms and pursue a demagogic liberation is another reason why feminists throughout Russia must oppose this war with all their energy.
We call on Russian feminist groups and individual feminists to join the Feminist Anti-War Resistance and unite forces to actively oppose the war and the government that started it. We also call on feminists all over the world to join our resistance. We are many, and together we can do a lot: Over the past ten years, the feminist movement has gained enormous media and cultural power. It is time to turn it into political power. We are the opposition to war, patriarchy, authoritarianism, and militarism. We are the future that will prevail.
As Russian citizens and feminists, we condemn this war. Feminism as a political force cannot be on the side of a war of aggression and military occupation. The feminist movement in Russia struggles for vulnerable groups and the development of a just society with equal opportunities and prospects, in which there can be no place for violence and military conflicts.
Reposted from Anti-Capitalist Resistance. This English translation first appeared in Jacobin. Translated by Anastasia Kalk and Jan Surman. Feminist Anti-War Resistance has a Telegram channel Russian. Members of the initiative are anonymous for security reasons. Its representative in London is Ella Rossman.
