Ukraine nuclear fears partly fuelled by Australian uranium
20220304
https://www.greenleft.org.au/content/ukraine-nuclear-fears-part-fuelled-australias-uranium
Before the uranium left last April, many, including the federal parliaments treaty review committee, raised serious safety and security concerns about where it would end up.
ACF recommended then that Australia instead help enhance energy security in Ukraine through the provision of smart and sustainable renewable energy systems and resources. Nuclear electricity has extremely high capital costs and is centralised and risky, while renewable energy is faster to deploy, more flexible and fit for purpose, as well as safer and cheaper.
The Joint Standing Committee on Treaties JSCOT approved the export plan, even though the committees investigation conceded existing safeguards were not sufficient and there was a risk Australian nuclear material would disappear off the radar.
There are also"deep concerns over those parts of the Ukrainian nuclear sector that are not yet infamous names, including very real security concerns about nuclear facilities being targeted in the then current conflict with Russia.
Whether from unsecured nuclear material, Chernobyl or other compromised nuclear facilities, or the horrific prospect of nuclear war, the Ukraine conflict sharply highlights radioactive risk.
On February 24, the International Atomic Energy Agency said it had not been able to gain access to key nuclear facilities in Ukraine. As it had already downgraded Ukraines nuclear transparency, there is a real threat that this uranium has disappeared.
Thank you for maintaining your rage about universal human rights abuse. Your voice for refugee rights has been a blow torch on mandatory indefinite detention of innocent men women and children, a wake up call about racism, discrimination and state sponsored torture. Long may you live.
Uranium is a dual-use material that can be used for civil power production or diverted for far less civil purposes.
It also said there wereserious containment and waste management issues at Chernobyl where authorities were still trying to "enclose the stricken reactor complex and reduce the chances of further radioactive releases.
Although JSCOT ultimately recommendedthe uranium deal, it made it conditional, sayingthe Australian government must undertake a proper assessment of risks, and develop and maintain a suitable contingency plan for the removal of Australian nuclear material if the material is at risk of a loss of regulatory control.
Today, ACF is keen to find out what steps the federalgovernment and its agencies are taking for a proper risk assessment, along with a contingency plan to remove Australian nuclear material, if that is needed.
ACF told a parliamentary inquiry in 2016 onplanned uranium sales to Ukraine that there are serious and unresolved nuclear safety and security issues with Ukraines nuclear sector that would be exacerbated by the proposed treaty action.
Along with the notorious Chernobyl plant, Ukraine has an aging fleet of 15 reactors  two-thirds of which have now exceeded, or are at, their design life use-by date. This radioactive material, now absorbed into Ukraines aging nuclear sector, is fuelling uncertainty.
Advancing a bilateral agreement with Ukraine would not significantly affect Australias exports. Ukraines intention to increase external uranium purchases offers Australian producers the chance of a portion of a potential market valued between $A2050 million. This is simply an equation where scant return directly entails and fuels  considerable risk.
Most would not know, and would probably be shocked, that Australian uranium is being exported to Ukraine. Less than a year ago, the first shipmentlanded in Ukraine.
Ukraine urgently needs hostilities to cease and the world needs a comprehensive transition to renewable energy systems that cannot be so easily weaponised.
It went on to mention the Zaporizhzhia nuclear facility, Europes largest, was just 200 kilometres from the conflict zone in eastern Ukraine at that time.
The Australian Conservation Foundations ACF 2017 submission to JSCOT highlightedhow Ukraines nuclear sector was plagued by serious and unresolved safety, security and governance issues and that some reactors had been the focus of armed assaults.
