Friday Short Cuts
20220225
https://patriotpost.us/articles/86501-friday-short-cuts-2022-02-25
Toward no crimes have men shown themselves so cold-bloodedly cruel as in punishing differences of opinion. James Russell Lowell 1819-1891
Even if they put up a good fight, Ukraine cannot win this war. They cant. The gulf separating the capabilities between the two nations is wider than the Pacific. Ukraine has no way to counter Russian aircraft or missiles. Theyre outmatched in men and heavy equipment. Its only a matter of time before Russian tanks are rolling into the capital of Kyiv.  What do we do? What does Joe Biden do  and can he even do it? Biden has been wrong on every major foreign policy endeavor for the past 40 years. Afghanistan showed hes still a terrible decision maker. Matt Vespa
New study shows that covid school closures affected cognitive and motor development in preschoolers. Learning loss is most pronounced in kids most at risk. We must focus on keeping kids in school and on closing educational disparities. CNN medical analyst Leana Wen, February 23, 2022
In recent weeks, prominent economists, public health experts and commentators have argued that schools shouldnt be closing because they arent major contributors to the surge in covid-19 cases. I disagree. With much of the United States engulfed in exponential virus spread and many hospitals already overwhelmed, most schools should close and stay closed through the winter. Leana Wen in The Washington Post, November 24, 2020
If you really want to compete with Russia and China to prevent the 21st Century from being dominated by a new axis of evil, you must first defeat the Church of Global Warming. As long as thats the official state religion of the Western world, we havent got a prayer. John Hayward
Why does America even still fund the UN? Our tax dollars pay almost 30 of the budget for an organization that Russia and China have absolute veto power over. Greg Price
Putin is calling the Wests bluff. Weve spent the decades since the end of the Cold War blowing out our national debt, destroying our energy independence, questioning why we ought to exist in the first place, and massaging China and Russia in order to minimize any conflict. What Russia and China are demonstrating is that challenging a global hegemony does not require you to be particularly strong. It just requires the hegemony to be weak, bloated, and self-obsessed. Ben Shapiro
A lot of people in the GOP right now are buying this lie that Donald Trump would have solved the problem. He wouldve said, Here. Here is Ukraine. Take it. And Im gonna build a casino there any minute now. "The Views" Joy Behar
Im concerned about Ukraine because of the people of Ukraine and because of the principles that are at risk.  There will be massive emissions consequences to the war. But equally importantly, youre going to lose peoples focus. Youre going to lose certainly big country attention because they will be diverted. And I think it could have a damaging impact.  I hope President Putin will help us to stay on track with respect to what we need to do for the climate. John Kerry
Ukraine, one way or the other, were going to resolve it ultimately over X number of years. But the climate crisis remains existential.  So it could be very tough for the climate agenda. Theres no question about it. climate czar John Kerry
I have come to expect very little from the Republican Party, to be blunt. I understand that they prefer autocracy. They want a white nationalist autocracy in the United States. They believe that white Christians are beleaguered and need to rule the United States without elections. MSNBCs Joy Reid
Imagine whenif Republicans get power in 2024  the massive global realignment. The US President actively helping Russia, Hungary, Poland, and other countries with far-right governments to promote violence, authoritarianism, and white Christian nationalism. Disaster. Daily Beast columnist Wajahat Ali
Im not surprised that Republicans really love the idea of this because it kind of sounds like, you know, theyre admiring a guy who rigs elections and is a son of macho leader and  its an all bright nation and  its a very, very Christian nation. And they are not good to LGBTQ people or people of any color. And it sounds kind of like  this is what they would like to bond with. "The Views" Whoopi Goldberg
Im scared of whats going to happen in Western Europe, too. You know, you just, you plan a trip. You want to go there, want to go to Italy for four years. I havent been able to make it because of the pandemic, and now this. Joy Tone-Deaf Behar
Right-wing doesnt love Putin just because he is an authoritarian, tyrannical leader, they love him because hes a WHITE authoritarian leader. Race has become more important than even nationality. Theyve turned on democracy and now even America, in favor of a white warlord. "The Young Turks" host Cenk Uygur
We import 595,000 barrels of oil per day from Russia. The Keystone XL pipeline would have produced 830,000 barrels per day. Relying on Russian oil is a choice. And its a stupid one. Congressman Dan Crenshaw
Secretary of State Antony Blinken prioritized giving us his music playlist via the U.S. State Departments official Twitter page over the Christmas holidays just a few weeks ago  not once, but eight times  while the omicron variant was raging and Russia was amassing an estimated 190,000 troops along the Ukrainian border. Let that sink in. While Russia was bolstering its military forces preparing to invade Ukraine, Americas top diplomat was working on his Spotify playlist. Obviously, Blinken shouldve been implementing tough sanctions on Russia as a deterrent  before it invaded Ukraine  and taken other critical steps to rally NATO defense forces to avert war andor prepare for the worst. But instead, we got Taylor Swifts latest jam. Adriana Cohen
The whole country is seeing Bidens mental cognitive issues on display for over a year now, and theres really no question in most peoples minds that theres something going on with him, that hes not cognitively the same as he used to be and, in my mind, not fit to be our president right now. Every time he gets up and talks to the American people, its not just the American people that are watching him speak, its the whole world, and thats part of what the problem is here. He looks tired, he looks weak, he looks confused, hes incoherent, and it sends a message of weakness all over the world, and theyre seizing up on that. Congressman and former White House physician Ronny Jackson
