The Widening War
20220309
https://patriotpost.us/opinion/86782-the-widening-war-2022-03-09
In response, the U.S. and other NATO allies are moving ground troops and tanks into Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. News broke Monday that the U.S. is considering supplying air defense systems to these three Baltic countries.
On Monday, Blinken also pledged to Lithuanias foreign minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis, that we will defend every inch of NATO territory if it comes under attack.
American eyes are on gruesome television images of Ukrainians huddled in the basements of bombed hospitals or running down snowy roads with children in their arms to escape Russian missile fire.
Johnson wrote in the New York Times on Monday that this is not a NATO conflict and it will not become one.
Vladimir Putin is eyeing territory beyond Ukraine, including Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, all NATO allies once under Soviet domination.
Thats ridiculous. The U.K. and the U.S. cant make that guarantee. There are too many tripwires leading to broad-scale war.
Putin himself is laying tripwires for a NATO conflict. Sunday, he warned that foreign countries like Romania that are allowing Ukrainian fighter pilots to use their airstrips may be viewed by Moscow as parties to the conflict. Putin could say the same about Polands announced decision to lend fighter planes to Ukraine.
But Russian President Vladimir Putin is eyeing territory beyond Ukraine, including Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, all NATO allies once under Soviet domination.
President Joe Biden and the United Kingdoms Prime Minister Boris Johnson need to level with their own countrymen about the rising risk of war against Russia. The publics getting double talk  praise for the Ukrainians courage but also empty promises that whats happening in Ukraine will stay in Ukraine.
These countries and five other NATO members have already triggered Article 4 of the NATO agreement, calling for consultations about the serious Russian threat.
Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda warned Blinken, if we want to avoid the Third World War, Putin must be stopped in Ukraine. Nauseda is worried his own country will be next, but he nevertheless is driving home a fundamental truth. It wont be easier to stop Putin after he crushes Ukraine.
Now is the time for the Biden administration to talk honestly about what it already knows is true. The U.S. and NATO allies may be forced into a war with Russia, not because we choose to go to war but because a tyrant leaves us no choice.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken promised Sunday that President Biden has been clear that we are not going to get into a war with Russia.
Cowed by Putins warnings, the U.S. and NATO allies refuse Ukraines requests for a no-fly zone. Blinken concedes that without NATO pilots fighting off Russian bombers, Ukrainians face bloodier days ahead as the Russians keep grinding things down, leveling city after city. A high price to pay, and for what?
History aside, the question is, how long can Putin be allowed to continue snuffing out innocent lives in Eastern Europe? Russias economy is tanking as corporations pull out and the half-hearted sanctions already imposed by the West take effect. If oil and gas exports were also banned, Bloomberg Economics predicts, the Russian economy would contract a devastating 14 this year. Russia may be more a more vulnerable foe now than at another time.
Is NATO ready to fight this weakened foe? Despite neglecting the Russian threat for years, NATO outspends Russia on armaments 15 to 1 and outnumbers Russian ground forces 4 to 1, according to retired Adm. James Stavridis, a former NATO supreme allied commander.
Though Ukraine is not part of NATO, its arguable that the U.S. and U.K. owe Ukraine more than theyre doing. In 1994, they pressured newly independent Ukraine into surrendering its nuclear weapons to Russia under the Budapest Memorandum with tacit assurances  now conveniently forgotten  that they would respond if Russia threatened them.
