To Avoid Ukraines Fate Taiwan Needs Nuclear Missiles  Now
20220302
https://patriotpost.us/opinion/86635-to-avoid-ukraines-fate-taiwan-needs-nuclear-missiles-now-2022-03-02
That ambiguity should have been abandoned long ago. A successful Chinese invasion of Taiwan would be an international catastrophe. Besides shattering global trade, it would endanger the whole Western Pacific and, as former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abecq said this week, directly endanger Japan as well.
We do not renounce the use of force to prevent Taiwan from being recognized as a sovereign nation, President Xi Jinping of China has said. Under a sinister headline  Time to warn Taiwan secessionists and their fomenters: War is real  the Chinese Communist Party newspaper Global Times proclaimed last October that Chinas armed forces are making preparations based on the possibility of combat  to use force against Taiwan. It vowed that there would be military punishment if Taiwan does not reverse the current situation and submit to Chinas control. This warning is not just a verbal threat, the editorial ended.
Ukrainians have inspired and united the civilized world with their tenacious resistance to Vladimir Putins unprovoked attack, a war of bloody aggression resembling the Soviet and German invasions of Poland in 1939. As of this writing, on Tuesday, Ukraine remains free. But a 40-mile-long convoy of Russian armored vehicles is heading toward the capital city of Kyiv, burning homes and buildings as it advances, and civilian areas of Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, are being shelled indiscriminately by Russian rockets. It is far from clear that Ukraine, fighting alone against a nuclear power, can win this war.
The regime in Beijing will not go to war to crush Taiwans sovereign democracy if it will face nuclear-armed defenders.
When Ukraine regained its independence after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, it had the worlds third-largest stockpile of nuclear warheads. Had it remained a member of the nuclear club, it would not have lost Crimea to a Russian invasion in 2014 and would not be fighting now for its life against a massive and illegal Russian onslaught.
With Russia engaged in a murderous assault on Ukraine, protecting Taiwan from a similar fate must be a top US priority. Under the terms of the Taiwan Relations Act, the United States is legally bound to provide Taiwan with all military equipment needed for its self-defense. But under the bizarre doctrine of strategic ambiguity, Washington has never explicitly committed to fighting alongside Taiwan should it be attacked.
But Ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons. Yielding to pressure from the United States and Britain, it signed an agreement in 1994 to turn over its arsenal to Russia. In exchange, Russia pledged to respect Ukraines independence, sovereignty, and existing borders. Russia also obligated itself to refrain from the threat or use of force against Ukraine and promised that no Russian weapons will ever be used against Ukraine.
The regime in Beijing is evil but not irrational. It will not go to war to crush Taiwans sovereign democracy if it will face nuclear-armed defenders. Proliferating nuclear weapons to another country is always a cause for concern, but a Chinese conquest of one of Asias key democracies poses a far greater threat. Taiwans fate is on the line, and there is no more time to waste.
Repeatedly, the communist regime in Beijing claims that Taiwan  a nation of 23 million people that has never been ruled by the Peoples Republic of China  has no right to an independent existence. It openly threatens to go to war to enforce its outrageous demand.
On the day Russia launched its invasion, nine Chinese fighter jets invaded Taiwans air defense identification zone, forcing Taiwans air force to scramble its own fighters in response. Two days later, China struck again, sending six fighter jets and two anti-submarine aircraft over the southwest corner of Taiwans air-defense zone. China now does this routinely, deliberately acting to intimidate its small neighbor and keep it in a constant state of tension. On some occasions, it goes much further, firing missiles into the seas off Taiwans coast or staging simulated invasions of the island.
To safeguard the island from the invasion that Beijing keeps threatening to unleash, Taiwan needs a nuclear arsenal ASAP. Even a relative handful of missiles with nuclear warheads would suffice to change Beijings calculus on Taiwan and deter an attack from the mainland. In much the way that the Reagan administration deployed nuclear-armed Pershing II and cruise missiles in Europe during the 1980s to deter a Soviet attack, the Biden administration should make nuclear missiles available to Taiwan now, making sure that China knows their purpose is to defend Taiwanese independence and sovereignty.
Like Ukraine, Taiwan was once a member or on the verge of membership in the nuclear nations club. Like Ukraine, Taiwan was pressured by the United States into abandoning its nuclear ambitions. It is too late now to empower Ukraine with the nuclear deterrent that would have kept Russia at bay. But its not too late to do so for Taiwan.
