Tuesday Executive News Summary
20220329
https://patriotpost.us/articles/87245-tuesday-executive-news-summary-2022-03-29
Chicago Mayor Lightfoot has 71-person police unit to protect her, blames Trump for being indanger Daily Wire
China locks down Shanghai, its biggest city, as Omicron fuels record surge in COVID cases CBS News
Five-year and 30-year Treasury yields invert for the first time since 2006, fueling recession fears CNBC
Poisoned at peace talks? Ukrainians and a Russian oligarch were apparently poisoned at peace talks earlier this month. Two members of Ukraines peace delegation as well as the Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich came down with sudden symptoms that were typical of poisoning following their meeting. Ukraine is blaming Russia for the attack on hard-liners in Moscow who they said wanted to sabotage talks to end the war. However, with Abramovich also coming down with poisoning symptoms, the exact target of the attack seems somewhat unclear. What is clear is that this has all the markings of Vladimir Putin, who has a history of poisoning opponents. While the symptoms included temporary blindness and the peeling of skin, all three are expected to make a full recovery. Was this Putin simply sending a message?
The Patriot Post is a certified ad-free news service, unlike third-party commercial news sites linked on this page, which may also require a paid subscription.
Biden walks back the walk-back, Ukraine and Russia talks continue, Stefanik hopes for a pink wave, and more.
Humor: Amy Schumer horrified to learn you can now get slapped for bad jokes Babylon Bee
Stefanik shows off GOP women hoping for a pink wave: Democrats are running for the hills, Republican Representative Elise Stefanik recently boasted, as she stood alongside 10 female rising stars she has endorsed with her E-PAC. I didnt hear a lot of Democrats moving up to run for office in these target districts, Stefanik noted. I think most of them are playing defense. Stefanik, the number three Republican in the House, has an ambitious goal for getting 50 Republican women elected to Congress this November. In this years favorable election climate for Republicans  with polls showing over 70 of Americans say the country is on the wrong track  Stefanik sees a huge opportunity for conservative women to win seats. With more than 280 Republican women running this election cycle, the prospect of Stefanik meeting her goal, as well as the GOP winning back control of the House, appears very promising.
Ukraine and Russia talks continue: In an apparent signal that Moscow is looking for a way to end its war in Ukraine soon, the Russian military announced a change of operational focus, noting that it was pulling back from its thus far failed effort to surround and seize Ukraines capital city, Kyiv. With operational successes seemingly few and far between, Vladimir Putin may be looking for a way to cut his losses and secure the Russian-controlled areas in the east of Ukraine. Russias Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin claimed that the militarys pullback from Kyiv and Chernihiv was a goodwill gesture to increase mutual trust and create conditions for further negotiations. Meanwhile, negotiations continue. Ukraine is offering a deal to remain neutral, with its security guaranteed by several third-party countries including the U.S., Britain, France, Turkey, China, and Poland. Furthermore, Ukraine offered to hold continuing talks over the next 15 years with respect to the future of Crimea.
Yale Law School rules out disciplinary action for students who disrupted free speech event Free Beacon
Biden walks back the walk-back: Joe Biden sought to clarify his comments over the weekend in Poland, where he declared that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power. Seemingly calling for a regime change in Russia predictably caused quite a stir, so Biden on Monday sought to downplay it. First, he insisted, Im not walking anything back, but then added: I want to make it clear: I wasnt then or am I now articulating a policy change. I was expressing moral outrage that I feel, and I make no apologies for it. The Kremlin called Bidens initial comment alarming. When pressed as to whether his remark was playing into Putins propaganda, Biden responded: I dont care what Putin thinks. Heres the thing: Hes going to do what hes going to do.  And the idea that he is going to do something outrageous because I called him for what he was and what hes doing is just not rational. The trouble is, who believes Putin is rational?
