Mikhail Gorbachev urged British boy to live a life that makes a difference
20220831
https://www.basingstokegazette.co.uk/news/national/20853832.mikhail-gorbachev-urged-british-boy-live-life-makes-difference/
I asked world leaders what they would say to themselves at 14 years old. Mikhail Gorbachev was quite emotional as he wrote his. His translator helped too. Here it is.
Mikhail Gorbachev encouraged a young British boy to live a life that makes a difference as he told him that the success you take will ultimately be equal to what you put in.
The Russian, who brought down the Iron Curtain by introducing Glasnost and Perestroika to the Soviet Union, was famously the Soviet leader with whom Margaret Thatcher said she could do business.
Mr Gorbachevs death at the age of 91 has prompted tributes from world leaders including Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who said he was saddened to hear of the passing at a time of Putins aggression in Ukraine.
Former British ambassador to Lebanon Thomas Fletcher revealed the ex- Soviet leader gave the advice in a note written during the Britons time as a foreign policy and Northern Ireland adviser in Downing Street.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The note, which was signed M Gorbachev and dated June 6 2008, stated: Dear Charlie, by the time you read this I may no longer be around, but I wish you a successful and joyful life.
Over several years in 10 Downing Street I collected advice for my son, Charlie, wrote Mr Fletcher, who worked for prime ministers Tony Blair, Gordon Brown and David Cameron between 2007 and 2011.
I asked world leaders what they would say to themselves at 14-years-old. Mikhail Gorbachev was quite emotional as he wrote this. His translator helped too. Here it is. RIP.
