Russia takes aim at crowded cities as Biden vows Putin will pay
20220302
https://www.basingstokegazette.co.uk/news/national/19962590.russia-takes-aim-crowded-cities-biden-vows-putin-will-pay/
Ukraines leader has denounced Russias escalation of attacks on crowded cities as a blatant terror campaign, while US president Joe Biden warned that if the Russian leader didnt pay a price for the invasion, the aggression would not stop with one country.
Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget, Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky vowed after Tuesdays bloodshed on the central square in Kharkiv, the countrys second-largest city, and the deadly bombing of a TV tower in the capital.
Mr Biden used his first State of the Union address to highlight the resolve of a reinvigorated Western alliance that has worked to re-arm the Ukrainian military and adopt tough sanctions, which he said have left Russian president Vladimir Putin isolated in the world more than he has ever been.
It also said Kharkiv and Mariupol were encircled by Russian forces and that troops had reportedly moved into the centre of a third city, Kherson.
A TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Cluster bombs shoot smaller bombletsover a large area, many of which fail to explode until long after theyve been dropped. If their use is confirmed, that would represent a new level of brutality in the war.
In Kharkiv, with a population of about 1.5 million, at least six people were killed when the regions administrative building on Freedom Square was hit with what was believed to be a missile.
The Slovenian foreign ministry said its consulate in Kharkiv, located in another large building on the square, was destroyed.
Mr Zelensky expressed outrage on Wednesday at the attack on Babi Yar and concern that other historically significant and religious sites, such as St Sophias Cathedral, could be targeted.
The bombardment blew out windows and walls of buildings that ring the square, which was piled high with debris and dust. Inside one building, chunks of plaster were scattered, and doors lay across hallways.
Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko has said his country has no plans to join the fight.
The UN human rights office said it has recorded 136 civilian deaths, though the actual toll is likely to be far higher.
This is beyond humanity. Such missile strike means that for many Russians our Kyiv is absolutely foreign, Mr Zelensky said in a speech posted on Facebook.
But it also showed Russia was comfortable that they would not come attack by air, rocket or missile, the official said.
The immense convoy, with vehicles packed together along narrow roads, would seemingly be a big fat target for Ukrainian forces, the senior Western intelligence official said.
Mr Boychenko called Russias actions genocide  the same word that Mr Putin has used to justify the invasion.
They have been flattening us non-stop for 12 hours now, Mariupol mayor Vadym Boychenko was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying.
The death toll was less clear, with neither Russia nor Ukraine releasing the number of troops lost.
Residents also reported the use of such weapons in Kharkiv and Kiyanka village. The Kremlin denied using cluster bombs.
One senior Western intelligence official estimated that 5,000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed in the biggest ground war in Europe since the Second World War.
We cannot even take the wounded from the streets, from houses and apartments today, since the shelling does not stop.
The attack on the square, the nucleus of public life in the city, was seen by many Ukrainians as evidence that the Russian invasion was not just about hitting military targets but also about breaking their spirit.
They keep moving. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising.
Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an invasion or war.
Many military experts say Russia may be shifting tactics. Moscows strategy in Chechnya and Syria was to use artillery and air bombardments to pulverize cities and crush fighters resolve.
Mr Zelensky has mocked Russias claim that it is going after only military targets, saying 16 children were killed on Monday.
A top Kremlin official warned that the Wests economic war against Russia could turn into a real one.
Ukraines defence ministry said it had evidence that Belarus, a Russian ally, is preparing to send troops into Ukraine.
The UKs Defence Ministry said it had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days.
Where are the children? What kind of military factories do they work at? Mr Zelensky said.
Ukrainian authorities said five people were killed in the attack on the TV tower near central Kyiv.
As the seventh day of the war dawned Wednesday, Russia found itselfincreasingly isolated, beset by the sanctions that have thrown its economy into turmoil andleft the country practically friendless, apart from a few nations like China, Belarus and North Korea.
Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraines east in recent days.
Russias defence ministry said it had seized Kherson, though the claim could not be confirmed.
Russia previously told people living near transmission facilities used by Ukraines intelligence agency to leave their homes.
But Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov claimed Wednesday that the airstrike on the TV tower did not hit any residential buildings.
The UN has launched an emergency appeal for US $1.7 billion to urgently deliver humanitarian support.
The invading forces also pressed their assault on other towns and cities, including the strategic ports of Odesa and Mariupol in the south.
Instead, Moscow made new threats of escalation on Tuesday, days after raising the spectre of nuclear war.
Some Russian military columns have run out of petrol and food, the official said, and morale has suffered as a result.
Throughout our history weve learned this lesson, when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos, Mr Biden said.
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion.
Humanitarian needs are rising steeply in Ukraine, as essential supplies and services are disrupted and civilians flee.
As Mr Biden spoke, a 40-mile convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles advanced slowly on Kyiv, the capital city of nearly three million people, in what the West feared was a bid by Mr Putin to topple the government and install a Kremlin-friendly regime.
Mr Zelenskys office reported that the site of the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial, which is adjacent to the TV tower, was also hit.
Leading Russian bank Sberbank announced on Wednesday that it is pulling out of European markets amid the tightening Western sanctions.
The first talks between Russia and Ukraine since the invasion were held Monday, but ended with only an agreement to talk again. On Tuesday, Mr Zelensky said Russia should stop bombing first.
A spokesman for the memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941, was damaged, but the extent would not be clear until daylight.
A ministry statement posted early Wednesday on Facebook said the Belarusian troops have been taken into combat readiness and were concentrated close to Ukraines northern border.
Ukraines emergency services said Tuesdays strike killed at least two people, burned three homes and broke the windows in a nearby hospital.
Overall, the Russian military has been stalled by fierce resistance on the ground and a surprising inability to completely dominate Ukraines airspace.
A senior US defence official said that Russias military progress, including the massive convoy, has slowed, plagued by logistical and supply problems.
About 85 miles west of Kyiv, Zhytomyr is the home of the elite 95th Air Assault Brigade, which may have been the intended target.
