Top Russian ballet cancel tour following the invasion of Ukraine
20220301
https://www.basingstokegazette.co.uk/news/19960724.top-russian-ballet-cancel-tour-following-invasion-ukraine/
READ MORE:Mum, 49, leads the donation drive as a village comes together to help Ukraine
The current tour included classics such as Swan Lake and The Nutcracker and started in December and had been due to end in Bristol on March 25.
A spokesperson from Raymond Gubbay Ltd said: In view of the current shocking circumstances unfolding in Ukraine, the remaining performances by the Russian State Ballet of Siberia of their 202122 tour will not be taking place.
A RUSSIAN ballet that were due to head to Basingstoke this month have cancelled their remaining tour dates.
The Russian State Ballet of Siberia has cancelled tour dates following the invasion of Ukraine.
We have been liaising with both the government and venues throughout the weekend as to our sharedsentiment and all ticket holders shall be contacted as soon as possible by their point of purchase.
Promoter Raymond Gubbay Ltd said the tour would not be able to continue "due to the current shocking circumstances unfolding in Ukraine".
The Russian State Ballet of Siberia, which is led by artistic director Sergei Bobrov and music director Anatoly Tchepurnoi, is one of Russia's leading ballet companies.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
They were due to take The Anvil stage in Basingstoke on Monday, March 14 for three nights until March 16.
Founded in 1978 the impressive ballet has toured the country several times since its UK debut 20 years ago.
SEE MORE:Overton man who escaped from Ukraine days before war helps set up station in Slovakia for refugees
Other theatres had already cancelled the show including theatres in Bristol, Wolverhampton, Northampton, Edinburgh, Bournemouth, Southend and Peterborough.
Please help us to continue bringing you all the trusted news from your area by sharing this story or by following ourFacebook page.
