140000 Ukrainians living outside the country return to fight Russia
20220307
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/140-000-ukrainians-living-outside-the-country-return-to-fight-russia
"Weve observed fighting in the south near Kherson and Mykolaiv," a senior defense official told reporters on Sunday. "We have not observed an amphibious invasion in or near Odesa, nor do we assess that one is imminent. Weve observed continued ongoing fighting and efforts to encircle Mariupol."
"More than 140,000 Ukrainians, mostly men, have returned from Europe," Reznikov wrote in a Facebook post on Monday. "Tens of thousands joined the Territorial Defense Forces. Of course, there are those who run away. But the whole world sees the Ukrainian people fighting for their country."
Ukrainian leaders have repeatedly pleaded with Ukrainians living outside the country's borders to join their forces. More than 3,000 Americans have sought to join the fight as of last Thursday.
Russian forces have made more progress in the southeastern parts of the country where they have been attacking port cities that have access to the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. In those areas, these forces have engaged in indiscriminate rocket launches and attacks often resulting in the deaths of civilians.
The Ukrainian military has successfully kept Kyiv, the capital, from falling during the first weeks of the war. Russia's troops have "stalled" roughly 15 miles outside the city, a senior defense official said last week, attributing their delayed progress to a combination of factors, including a resistance force that was more significant than expected, logistic problems, and lack of supplies.
Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians living abroad have returned home to join the military in an attempt to thwart Russia's invasion, Ukraine Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov announced on Monday.
Reznikov also accused Russia of "trying to suffocate the hero city Mariupol with a humanitarian crisis. The leadership of the state is doing everything possible and impossible to ensure humanitarian corridors."
"Russian terrorists don't keep their word," he added. "There is no pity even for children and women, for the wounded. They are shooting up residential neighborhoods. They are shooting at peaceful people during the evacuation. Even jackals don't behave like this."
