An updated look at Russias military capabilities 10 weeks into Ukraine war
20220502
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/an-updated-look-at-russias-military-capabilities-10-weeks-into-ukraine-war
Despite its remaining resources and personnel, Russia's losses have been drastic thus far. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense reported on Monday that Russia has lost more than 23,000 troops, more than 1,000 tanks, and around 350 aircraft and helicopters, while the Russians have been much less open about publicly revealing the nation's losses.
A senior U.S. defense official told reporters in mid-April that the Pentagon believes Russia still has roughly 75 of the capabilities that it had at the beginning of the invasion. It has 92 operational battalion tactical groups within Ukraine, and another 20 in Russia, though it started with between 125 and 130, the official said last week. Each BTG consists of roughly 800-1,000 service members.
The latest updates from the U.K.'s Defense Ministry mirror comments from the Pentagon in recent weeks.
Russia has committed roughly two-thirds of its ground combat strength since the start of its war in Ukraine, which has gone on for nearly 10 weeks.
Death estimates in war, whether of soldiers or civilians, are incredibly difficult to track accurately, and both sides in a conflict have motivations to alter the numbers in one way or another.
A senior Russian commander, Rustam Minnekayev, said last month that Moscow now wants "fullcontrol" of southern Ukraine, in addition to the Donbas region.
Russia devoted roughly 120 battalion tactical groups to its military operation, and the United Kingdom Defense Ministry said on Monday that its likely that more than a quarter of these units have now been rendered combat ineffective.
The Russian military has refocused its offense on the Donbas region in the eastern part of Ukraine, which is on the border of the two warring countries, where fighting between the sides has occurred for eight years. Russia is also looking to capture the land connecting the Crimean Peninsula, which it annexed in 2014, and the Donbas region, which is why it is still focused on Mariupol, one of the most besieged cities.
Russia, which began its military operation on Feb. 24, sought to capture Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine, and topple the government, though it was unsuccessful due to a variety of different factors and ultimately retreated from the area. The Russians faced much tougher resistance from Ukrainians and had their own self-inflicted mistakes, including problems with supply lines, food, and low morale.
