At least nine Ukrainians pregnant after being systematically raped by Russian troops
20220413
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/at-least-nine-ukrainians-pregnant-after-being-systematically-raped-by-russian-troops
The human rights advocate warned there may be more sexual assaults that have occurred in Ukraine since Russian troops have invaded, but the full extent may never be known, as not everyone is willing to tell us what happened to them.
The first of the rape allegations emerged in a report published on April 3 by Human Rights Watch, which documented dozens of reports by officials and human rights workers in the country.
Denisova described one case including a 25-year-old woman who said she watched Russians rape her 16-year-old sister in front of her on the streets as they screamed, This will happen to every Nazi prostitute.
Russian soldiers assaulted 25 Ukrainians between the ages of 14 and 24 who were hiding in a basement in the Kyiv suburb, where hundreds of bodies were found strewn across the streets, according to the countrys human rights commissioner. Some of these attacks occurred in public as a warning to others, officials said.
At least 1,842 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, with another 2,493 injured, according to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
Russian soldiers told them they would rape them to the point where they wouldnt want sexual contact with any man, to prevent them from having Ukrainian children, said Lyudmyla Denisova, a human rights official in Ukraine.
At least nine Ukrainian women and girls are pregnant after Russian troops systematically raped them while they were hiding together in the besieged town of Bucha, reports say.
The majority of them currently call for psychological support, so we cannot record those as crimes unless they give us their testimony, she said.
The Kremlin has denied reports of targeted civilian attacks or war crimes, despite allegations from President Joe Biden earlier this week that Russia has committed genocide.
