Democrats spy 2022 lifeline in Supreme Court vacancy
20220127
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/democrats-spy-2022-lifeline-in-supreme-court-vacancy
Michigans junior senator characterized the battle over Breyers successor as a fight to block Republicans from using the courts to overturn abortion rights, take away healthcare protections enshrined in Obamacare, put a major dent in workers rights, and that so many other issues central to the lives of every American are all on the line. The landmark abortion rights decision Roe v. Wade could be overturned this year, before Breyer retires.
The president and Democrats in Congress are reeling from their collective failure to pass Build Back Better, Bidens signature domestic spending legislation, as well as an overhaul of federal voting laws they claimed amounted to a national emergency. Meanwhile, Biden is bedeviled by multiple foreign crises, from Russias threats to invade Ukraine to Chinas provocations against Taiwan to the fallout from the chaotic Afghanistan withdrawal.
Biden is going to do what he always does  go Left, and that is going to remind independents and swing voters why they need to go back to divided government, said Brad Todd, a GOP strategist in Washington.
With Democratic majorities in the House and Senate hanging by a thread even before voters soured on Biden, Republicans say they are not all that concerned the confirmation process will change a midterm election trajectory that points to big GOP gains. Democrats are defending a practically ungovernable five-seat advantage in the House and a tie in the Senate that can only be broken by Vice President Kamala Harris.
However, even some Democratic insiders are approaching the confirmation process cautiously. A party operative in the southwest, who requested anonymity to speak candidly, said Biden should nominate the most confirmable justice he can find, emphasizing that its critical Manchin and Sinema be on board, in advance, with whomever the president picks.
The moment Breyers retirement was publicized, Democrats began formulating a strategy. They plan to use Senate Judiciary Committee hearings and the ensuing floor debate to confirm Bidens nominee to put Republicans on the defensive and save themselves from a fall extinction event.
On Thursday, Biden vowed to nominate a black woman to replace Associate Justice Stephen Breyer, who will retire from the high court in late June. Its an opportunity for the embattled president to deliver a win for the liberal base and energize disinterested Democratic voters after months of prominent domestic and foreign policy struggles increased chances of a Republican tsunami this fall. That is how Democrats are approaching the confirmation battle.
Indeed, some Republicans are expressing confidence that Bidens eventual nominee, who they expect to be a doctrinaire liberal, will ultimately help Republicans win seats in November.
Democrats are seizing on the confirmation of a new Supreme Court justice to stabilize President Joe Bidens political standing and flip the script on surging Republicans heading into the midterm elections.
At the very least, this Supreme Court vacancy, the first of Bidens tenure, presents him with a deliverable. Amid the difficulties the president has had coalescing Democrats behind his legislative agenda, his judicial nominees have sailed through the Senate with little to no trouble. Even centrist Democrats such as Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona have supported Bidens picks for the federal bench.
Senate Republicans did not waste any time in attempting to frame Bidens likely nominee as an obsequious move to satisfy the liberal factions of his party. I encourage President Biden to nominate a jurist committed to the Constitution and the rule of law, instead of nominating yet another unqualified, left-wing ideologue, as he has done so often with lower-court nominees, Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton said.
This vacancy reinforces the stakes in this years election and why we must defend and expand our Democratic Senate majority, Sen. Gary Peters, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said in a statement. In 2022, voters will make their voices heard by standing with Senate Democrats.
The Senate will have a fair process that moves quickly so we can confirm President Bidens nominee to fill Justice Breyers seat as soon as possible, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York said. Former President Donald Trump appointed three of the nine justices sitting on a Supreme Court dominated by conservatives by a 6-3 margin. Trumps third nominee, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, was swiftly confirmed just days before the 2020 election.
