Dont rush to undercut Biden if Russia invades Ukraine
20220216
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/dont-rush-to-undercut-biden-if-russia-invades-ukraine
We may not like it that Biden is now the president. But he is indeed the president  our president  and as such, by virtue of his office, he represents all of us to the rest of the world. If we hobble him too badly, we also hobble ourselves.
It bears stressing that this admonition is absolutely not a call for unquestioning, robotic faith in Dear Leader. In some ways, it is an appeal of tone more than substance. Especially if the crisis continues, there is nothing wrong  and indeed, there may be everything right  with thoughtful, measured dissent. Nobody deserves a blank check, and to mix metaphors Bidens leash may deserve to be particularly short considering his history of misjudging almost every foreign policy issue for the full 49 years of his political career.
Specifically, even for those of us who oppose almost everything President Joe Biden does and who question his conduct of Russia-Ukraine diplomacy so far, it would be inappropriate to criticize him harshly as the Russians invade and as he reacts. If Biden rushes more weaponry to the Ukrainians or seizes worldwide assets of some of the oligarchs who prop up Vladimir Putins dictatorship or sabotages the Nord Stream 2 pipeline or conducts a cyberattack that darkens a whole Russian city, he merits an initial public assumption he is acting in the best U.S. interests.
Still, any eventual criticism should be focused and constructive and not too loud a volume. And none of it should be aimed at domestic political advantage, but only at strengthening the U.S. diplomatic and defense positions. Tens of thousands of lives, or even hundreds of thousands, hang in the balance, as does the relative stability of an international order that values and rewards freedom and human rights. A world hostile to freedom is a world where American commerce, travel, prosperity, and safety are also, inevitably, at risk. And without U.S. leadership and resolve, those hostile international forces will gain power.
As we await news about whether Russia has invaded Ukraine, all Americans should remember the dual wisdom about when politics should stop at the waters edge and when rallying around the flag is appropriate.
Neither of the above clichs should be absolute guides to political behavior, but both of them should enjoy a sort of presumptive, default status.
There are times when the nation needs to present a united front  for example, when a nuclear-armed adversary gets aggressive. Biden may be wrong in his reaction, but he should be seen not as some mere partisan opponent in this regard. He is the singular leader of the United States. Patriotism and the practical considerations of national security demand show support. If Putin senses the U.S. is bitterly divided about Bidens response, he will exploit that division to the expense of our interests.
