No the US should not consider nuclear weapons in the RussiaUkraine conflict
20211211
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/restoring-america/patriotism-unity/no-the-u-s-should-not-consider-nuclear-weapons-in-the-russia-ukraine-conflict
. It could mean that. It could mean that we participate, and I would not rule that out  I would not rule out American troops on the ground. We dont rule out first-use nuclear action.
. You know, when it comes to our nuclear policy, if youll recall, we dont take things off the table there. We make it clear that every option is open. Thats been a policy of Democrats and Republicans, administration in and administration out.
Sen. Roger Wicker of Mississippi made eye-raising comments this week during an interview with Neil Cavuto on Fox News. Wicker took a very hawkish view regarding the United States's involvement in the situation between Russia and Ukraine, suggesting that President Joe Biden should not rule out putting troops in Ukraine. Then, almost as if it were taken from the plot of Dr. Strangelove, Wicker stated that the U.S. should not rule out the use of nuclear weapons.
Clearly, this is absurd. The Russia-Ukraine conflict in no way warrants the use of nuclear weapons, which have been used only twice in the history of the world to stop Japan during World War II. Even the mention of nuclear weapons in this situation is asinine. Wicker has made a mushroom cloud out of a molehill.
Wicker later clarified that he was not advocating nuclear war, just stating that it should be considered. This clarification, even if it was a completely truthful and honest statement from Wicker, is nonsensical.
Military action could mean that we stand off with our ships in the Black Sea and we rain destruction on Russian military capability, Mississippis senior senator
The Cold War spanned nearly four decades with government officials taking every approach possible to avoid the use of nuclear weapons. This is not the Cuban missile crisis. There is no need to suggest using nukes in a conflict between Ukraine and Russia. The situation there, while troubling, has no direct impact on the national security of the U.S. And even if it did, the use of nuclear weapons, or even the notion of using nuclear weapons, is not something that should be announced on television by politicians in this context.
