Russia hitting Ukrainian supply lines but not with much accuracy
20220504
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/russia-hitting-ukrainian-supply-lines-but-not-with-much-accuracy
What we believe this is, is an attempt by the Russians to try to hit targets that they believe are affecting the Ukrainians' ability to resupply or reinforce themselves, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said on CNN on Tuesday.
Russia, up until now, had not been able to stop Ukraine from moving supplies within the country, which includes weapons provided by the United States and other countries trying to help the Ukrainian military.
The Russians have hit railroad stations, fuel and ammunition depots, and artillery positions. A power plant in Lviv, which is in the western part of the country, near the Polish border, was hit with three cruise missiles.
Russia's military has attacked critical infrastructure in the western part of Ukraine, likely in an attempt to hamper Kyiv's ability to resupply its troops.
During Wednesday's briefing, he pointed out that Russia has not been accurate with many of its strikes during the war in Ukraine, which has dragged on for two and a half months now.
Conversely, Russia has struggled with logistical problems, such as resupplying already-advancing troops. This was mainly a problem for the forces that invaded from Belarus, which borders Ukraine to the north, and sought to topple the capital of Kyiv. Other problems that have plagued the Russian military include "anecdotal evidence of morale and cohesion problems inside many units," Kirby added.
We've seen them hit weapons production facilities in Kyiv, for instance. We've seen them in central Ukraine go after what they believe are weapon storage facilities or ammo depots, he added. And then, they have also begun to try to hit transportation hubs because they know that the Ukrainians are using things like the rail lines to move their troops and to move their equipment.
"I'm not making a statement about these most recent ones, but I think it's just good to remind ourselves of their lack of accuracy over the course of the last almost 70 days," the spokesman added.
"We're still assessing the degree to which they hit when they were targeted. I would just offer without  without trying to correlate specifically to these most recent strikes, I would just remind that their ability to target with precision has been less than advertised throughout this entire war," he explained during the briefing. "They are not good at precision strikes."
