Russian soldier pleads guilty in first war crimes trial since Ukraine invasion
20220518
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/russian-soldier-pleads-guilty-in-first-war-crimes-trial-since-ukraine-invasion
We still have no information about this case. And the ability to provide assistance is also very limited due to the absence of our diplomatic mission in Ukraine. But, once again, I repeat, I do not have any information on this case, said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, calling the charges unacceptable, outrageous, and staged.
The International Criminal Court began investigating allegations of war crimes in April, as well as looking into reports of crimes against humanity and genocide. The United Nations Human Rights Council voted last week to begin its own investigation into serious violations of international humanitarian law in Ukraine.
More than 3,700 people have been killed in Ukraine since the Russian invasion, with another 4,062 injured, according to the U.N. Human Rights Commission. Most of these casualties were caused by explosives and shellings that affected a wide area.
A 21-year-old Russian soldier accused of killing an unarmed civilian in Ukraine has pleaded guilty in the first war crimes trial since Russia invaded in late February.
Vadim Shishimarin appeared before a full courthouse in Kyiv on Wednesday, telling the judge he was fully guilty and declining to speak further. He is expected to appear for questioning at a later date.
The soldier is accused of killing an unarmed 62-year-old Ukrainian man in late February by shooting at him as he rode his bicycle in a village in the Sumy region of northeastern Ukraine. Ukraines prosecutor general announced on May 11 that he would stand trial for the killing, making him the first Russian soldier to do so.
There are 9,600 war crime cases under investigation, according to Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova. Criminal charges have been filed against at least 10 Russian soldiers for human rights abuses connected to reports that soldiers captured unarmed civilians hostage, killed them with hunger and thirst, held them on their knees with tied hands and closed eyes, mocked and beaten."
