Russians drove through radioactive Red Forest by Chernobyl with no radioactive gear on
20220328
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/russians-drove-through-radioactive-red-forest-by-chernobyl-with-no-radioactive-gear-on
Russian troops invaded Slavutych, Ukraine, which is near the Chernobyl power plant and home to many of its workers, on early Saturday, seizing the towns hospital and briefly kidnapping its mayor. They left on Monday after completing their task of surveying the defunct Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked energy-producing countries on Saturday to produce more oil and gas, arguing it would help Europe recover financially from the recent spikes in energy costs and push Russia's economy further toward collapse. He also warned that a continuation of Russia's military aggression in Ukraine would lead to food shortages internationally.
The soldiers drove their armored vehicles through a highly toxic zone called the Red Forest, kicking up clouds of radioactive dust as they traveled, workers at the site said. One of the workers claimed driving through the area with no protection was "suicidal" because the radioactive dust they inhaled would likely cause internal damage in their bodies, according to Reuters.
The Red Forest is the most radioactively contaminated part of the zone around Chernobyl, about 100 kilometers, or 65 miles, north of Kyiv. The two workers both said they saw Russian tanks and other armored vehicles moving through the toxic area.
RUSSIA TREATING ITS WAR DEAD IN UKRAINE WORSE THAN WHEN 'DOG OR CAT DIES': ZELENSKY
Russian troops are trying to "break through" Ukrainian defensive positions northwest and east of Kyiv in an attempt to advance toward Kyiv, the Ukrainian armed forces said on Monday. The forces said its grouping of its forces and its means of defense of the city are "deterring the Russian enemy."
Russian soldiers driving near the Chernobyl nuclear disaster site did so without wearing any radioactive protection.
