Russian military may be in the process of radically reshuffling Report
20220622
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/russian-military-radically-reshuffling
The organization, which provides daily assessments on the latest developments in Ukraine, reported on Tuesday that the Kremlin recently replaced Col.-Gen. Andrey Serdyukov with the chief of staff of the Central Military District, Col.-Gen. Mikhail Teplinsky, as the commander of the Russian Airborne VDV forces.
Moscow may be in the process of radically reshuffling the command structure of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, indicating a possible purge of senior officers blamed for failures in Ukraine, the Tuesday update said. "Several sources are additionally reporting contradictory claims about replacements for the current Southern Military District Commander  and overall commander of the Russian invasion of Ukraine  Army General Alexander Dvornikov.
The Russians have infrequently shared statistics on the casualties of the war, though the self-declared Donetsk Peoples Republic publishes casualty figures for DPR forces.
The Russian military has replaced one of its commanders, and more reshuffling could be occurring, according to the latest insights from the Institute for the Study of War.
"It is highly likely that DPR forces are equipped with outdated weapons and equipment. On both sides, the ability to generate and deploy reserve units to the front is likely becoming increasingly critical to the outcome of the war," the update continued.
As of 16 June, the DPR acknowledged 2128 military personnel killed in action, and 8897 wounded, since the start of 2022, the British Defense Ministry said on Wednesday. The DPR casualty rate is equivalent to around 55 percent of its original force, which highlights the extraordinary attrition Russian and pro-Russian forces are suffering in the Donbas.
Russia, which has failed to accomplish nearly any of its original goals, has already changed some military leaders throughout the war, now nearing its fourth month. While the United States believes Russian President Vladimir Putin still wants to achieve his original goals of capturing Kyiv and installing a puppet government, Russian forces remain focused on capturing the Severodonetsk area in the Donbas region.
