Russia claims key port city second round of MoscowUkraine talks expected and China says no to sanctions
20220302
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/russia-claims-key-port-city-second-round-of-moscow-ukraine-talks-expected-and-china-says-no-to-sanctions
"Throughout our history, we've learned this lesson  when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos," he said. "They keep moving, And, the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising."
He confirmed that the United States would close off American airspace to all Russian flights, knocked the ruble for losing 30 of its value, and expressed solidarity with the Ukrainian people. While he said the U.S. would not deploy troops to Ukraine, he said American troops were deployed to Europe "to defend our NATO allies in the event that Putin decided to keep moving west."
Moscow continued to show its military might by surrounding other key cities in the south and east and continued its assault on central Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city. A university building was hit by a rocket strike Wednesday morning, and reports have started to surface about food, water, and supply shortages.
UNHCR previously projected as many as 4 million people might flee Ukraine. UNHCR spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo said the agency would reevaluate that figure.
Japan also announced it would be moving its embassy operations from Kyiv to Lviv, a city about seven hours to the west. The Japanese Embassy in Poland has also set up a temporary office in Rzeszow to support Japanese nationals evacuating from Ukraine.
Russia claimed Wednesday that its forces are fully in control of Kherson, a strategically important port city near the Black Sea. If true, it would be the first major Ukrainian city to fall to Moscow since President Vladimir Putin launched his attack against the neighboring country six days ago.
The offer is unusual for the Asian country, which has been criticized in the past for providing a narrow door for migrants. The country's immigration policies have become even tighter due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Biden also announced that the Justice Department is launching a task force to investigate Russian oligarchs and then addressed them directly: "We are coming for your ill-begotten gains."
Kharkivs regional governor Oleg Synegubov said at least 21 people were killed and 112 wounded during the shelling of the city over the last 24 hours.
In Kyiv, Ukraine's capital city, multiple blasts were heard overnight as Russian forces moved closer toward encircling the city. There were also reports that grocery stores had been cleaned out, and like, Kharkiv, supplies were running very low.
"It's hard to call this morning good, but let's try," Kherson Mayor Ihor Kolykhaev said, according to an NBC News translation. Kolykhaev said he was in city hall when the building was shelled by Russian forces but that everyone inside the building was alive. It was a different story outside.
The dire situation in the Eastern European country was addressed by President Joe Biden during his State of the Union address Tuesday night.
"For that purpose, we have mobilized American ground forces, air squadrons, ship deployments to protect NATO countries including Poland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia," he said.
In a Facebook statement, Russia's defense ministry said its forces had taken Kherson's city center "under full control" and added that "civil infrastructure, life support facilities for population and urban transport operate on a daily basis." He added that the city "does not experience shortages in food and essential goods."
In China, the country's top banking and insurance regulator said it would not be joining much of the international community in issuing tough financial sanctions against Russia.
Zelensky adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said a second round of talks with a Russian delegation would take place later on Wednesday. The first round of talks, which took place Monday, resulted in only a promise to meet again. It's unclear when exactly or where the new talks might take place. Zelensky had said earlier that Russia must stop bombing Ukraine before meeting again, which is something that has clearly has not happened.
"We plan to start first with those with family and friends in Japan, but we will not stop there and will respond from a humanitarian viewpoint," he said.
In Japan, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said his country would accept refugees from Ukraine, including those who fled the war-torn country to Poland.
Ukraines emergency services said on Facebook that the citys National Police Department building has been shelled and that nearby buildings have been damaged. The services said four people had died in Wednesday mornings shelling.
Despite multiple days of heavy losses, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky tried to rally his nation, saying in a Facebook post that Ukrainians "are a symbol of invincibility."
Russia's claim has not been independently verified. Ukrainian officials said that even though the city of 300,000 people located northwest of Crimea was surrounded, the battle for it continued.
Biden said Putin had "badly miscalculated" by invading Ukraine and promised to make Moscow pay an economic "price."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov upped the ante on Wednesday, warning that a third world war would be "nuclear" and "destructive," essentially telling NATO to not intervene militarily in Ukraine, Reuters reported.
The statement from Guo Shuqing, chairman of the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission, threw cold water on the idea that the world's No. 2 superpower might help complete the isolation of Moscow.
"Today, I will work to find a way to collect the dead, how to restore light, gas, water, and heat where it is damaged," he said. "But I warn you: to fulfill these tasks today is to perform a miracle. We are all waiting for a miracle now. We need it."
Russian troops also surrounded Mariupol, another port city in the southeast. According to the New York Times, more than 120 civilians are being treated for injuries.
The United Nations refugee agency said Wednesday more than 874,000 people have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion seven days ago but added that the number is "rising exponentially" and could hit the million mark by mid-morning.
