Russian troops ceded control of Chernobyl to Ukraine nuclear watchdog says
20220331
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/russian-troops-ceded-control-of-chernobyl-to-ukraine-nuclear-watchdog-says
The troops panicked at the first sign of illness, which showed up very quickly, and began preparing to leave, Energoatom said, adding that the troops appear to be heading toward Belarus.
Russian troops who seized control of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant have handed control of the facility back to Ukraine, the International Atomic Energy Agency said Thursday, citing information from Ukraines state-owned power company, Energoatom.
We gather that they are leaving to the north to go back again towards Belarus," he added. "But again, indications are not completely clear at this time."
It added that it is in close consultations with Ukrainian authorities on the situation at Chernobyl and plans to send its first assistance and support mission to the area in the next several days.
It did, however, confirm Ukraines assessment that Russian troops had begun moving two convoys toward Belarus. In addition, Ukraine reported that there are still some Russian forces on the Chornobyl NPP site but presumed that those forces are preparing to leave, the IAEA said.
Some soldiers, he said, might have been exposed to a hot spot of contaminated material while digging past topsoil at Chernobyl. Others may have assumed they were at risk too, he added.
The IAEA said in a press release that the Russian troops, who first seized the facility in late February, had in writing returned control of the plant back to Ukrainian personnel.
Edwin Lyman, a nuclear expert with the U.S.-based Union of Concerned Scientists, told the Associated Press it seems unlikely a large number of troops would develop severe radiation illness but added that it would be impossible to draw a firm conclusion without more details.
Speaking to reporters at a press briefing Thursday, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby appeared to back Ukraines early assessments, saying the United States has seen indications that some Russian forces are departing the Chernobyl plant facility.
The news comes after Energoatom said in a Telegram post that the Russian troops had announced their intention to leave Chernobyl after being exposed to "significant amounts" of radiation while digging trenches in the exclusion zone.
The IAEA has not yet confirmed Kyivs reports that Russian forces received high doses of radiation at Chernobyl and said it is seeking further information in order to provide an independent assessment of the situation.
