Satellite images show Russian convoy outside Kyiv largely dispersed artillery in firing position
20220311
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/satellite-images-show-russian-convoy-outside-kyiv-largely-dispersed-artillery-in-firing-position
A U.S. defense official told the Associated Press that some vehicles in the convoy were seen moving off the roadway into the tree line in recent days, but the official could not confirm whether the convoy had dispersed.
In daily briefings, the Pentagon has described the convoy as being "stalled" in recent days, only making incremental progress toward Kyiv. Its progress has been hampered by reported food and fuel shortages, as well as troop morale problems. Ukrainian troops with anti-tank missiles have also slowed the convoy by targeting it with "direct attacks," according to U.S. officials.
Satellite images released Thursday show that the massive Russian military column heading toward Kyiv, Ukraine, is dispersing and repositioning itself, with heavy artillery moving into firing position.
Russia's towed artillery howitzers have a firing range of 9 miles to 30 miles, depending on the model of the artillery piece and the type of ammunition used.
The photos released by Maxar Technologies show that the 40-mile-long convoy of Russian military vehicles, tanks, and heavy artillery has dispersed into towns outside Ukraine's capital city, and some elements have been repositioned into wooded areas. Approximately 15 miles outside Kyiv, towed Russian howitzer artillery pieces have been moved into firing position, according to Maxar.
"The large Russian military convoy that was last seen northwest of Kyiv near Antonov Airport has largely dispersed and redeployed. Armored units are seen maneuvering in and through the surrounding towns close to the airport, elements of the convoy further north have repositioned and are deployed in forestsalong tree lines near Lubyanka with towed artillery howitzers in firing positions nearby," a Maxar spokesperson said.
