Tired Zelensky says peace talks with Russia waste of time unless fighting stops
20220301
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/tired-zelensky-says-peace-talks-with-russia-waste-of-time-unless-fighting-stops
When asked whether he believed it possible that Russia would agree to these terms, he responded, "We'll see."
Looking worn and tired in a secret underground bunker in central Kyiv, Zelensky said Tuesday that the talks between Russia and Ukraine would be a "waste of time" if Russia will not agree to deescalate the invasion.
Zelensky rejected the notion that he's become an international icon for standing against Russian President Vladimir Putin, instead crediting his entire country for its perseverance.
"It's very serious. It's not a movie ... I'm not iconic. I think Ukraine is iconic," Zelensky said. "Ukraine is the heart of Europe, and now, I think, Europe sees Ukraine is something special for this world. That's why the world can't lose this something special."
Zelensky also expressed hope that President Joe Biden will say something "useful" about the conflict in his State of the Union speech Tuesday evening.
The Ukrainian president said he hasn't seen his wife and two children, who are reportedly just beneath him on Russia's hit list, in three days. Despite the danger he faces, Zelensky has refused numerous evacuation offers as Russian missiles bombard the capital.
A diplomatic solution to the Russian invasion of Ukraine depends on Russia's willingness to stop fighting, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
"Everybody has to stop fighting and to go back to that point from where it began five, six days ago," Zelensky said. "I think there are principal things you can do ... If you do this, and that side does this, it means they are ready for peace. If they aren't ready, it means you're just wasting time."
Zelensky argued people in the United States and in Europe have recognized the importance of Ukraine, which sits at the crossroads between Russia and the West, Chance added.
The Ukrainian president gave a rare interview to CNN reporter Matthew Chance, who said that Zelensky looked pale, red-eyed, and unshaven as the pressures of leading a nation at war and reportedly being No. 1 on Russia's kill or capture list take a physical toll.
