Ukraine has made nationalism cool again
20220307
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/ukraine-has-made-nationalism-cool-again
Russia is an unadorned aggressor, of the kind we rarely see these days. Putins objectives were not veiled. He saw Ukrainians as Russians who had been led astray, their sense of nationality fabricated by Polish and Austro-Hungarian occupiers, their speech a Russian dialect that had been falsely elevated to the status of a language.
Nationalism is the doctrine that states should reflect, as closely as possible, the affinities and loyalties of their own people. It holds that enrolling people into an entity to which they feel no connection is a recipe for unhappiness. As the Italian patriot Giuseppe Mazzini put it, in perhaps the pithiest summary ever, Where there is a nation, let there be a state.
All of a sudden, nationalism is back in vogue. Freedom-lovers and democrats are throwing their weight behind a nation that insists on being fully sovereign rather than entering into a quasi-dependent relationship with its neighbor. They understand, as Ukrainians themselves have long understood, that the things they value, including uncensored newspapers, human rights, the rule of law, and personal freedom, depend on being able to hire and fire your own lawmakers.
The agonies of Ukraine have reminded us that the national principle, the idea that freedom and democracy are most secure within units where people feel a shared patriotism, is still worth fighting for. Few wars have had such clear right and wrong sides. Russia was not threatened by its little neighbor. Ukraine had no territorial claims against it and was not seeking to harm its prosperity. On the contrary, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was elected in 2019 after promising to restore friendly relations with Moscow. A native Russian-speaker, he rejects with his every breath the Kremlins claims that that language is restricted in Ukraine. A Jew by birth, he renders absurd the Russian pretense that Ukraine is being run by neo-Nazis.
If Putin is not a bona fide Russian nationalist, who is? How about the most famous of all Soviet dissidents, that deep-dyed conservative Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who suffered persecution and imprisonment for his opposition to Bolshevism? He passed his exile in Vermont, chosen because its snowy woodlands reminded him of home. I hope no one questions the sincerity of Solzhenitsyns love for Russia. Like many of his countrymen, he had Ukrainian ancestry and could never look on that territory as wholly foreign. Yet he also understood that nationhood rested on consent.
This is the creed that animates the good guys in the Ukrainian conflict. It plainly doesnt hold much appeal for Putin, who is quite happy to trample over the national aspirations of others in order to keep his grip on power. Although the impassive autocrat is often called a nationalist, the tag has no meaning except in the left-liberal sense of something I dont like. Putin, rather, is an old-fashioned dictator who is prepared to whip up war fever to distract people from his domestic failings. He is threatened not by the policies of an independent Ukraine but by the very existence of a kindred multiparty polity on his border that might infect Russians with the bacillus of freedom.
Until two weeks ago, this was an enormously unfashionable idea. To argue for the supremacy of the nation-state was to invite accusations of racism. It was the ultimate low-status opinion, associated with Brexit and with Trumpery. Sophisticated people believed in a world where borders would eventually dissolve and wed all be one happy multiculti family.
Astonishingly, this view is parroted by some of Putins Western admirers. I say astonishingly because, in general, these are politicians and commentators who call themselves nationalists. Consider, for example, Steve Bannon, whose schtick is the elevation of nationhood against a technocratic global order. Ukraines not even a country, says the man pardoned by former President Donald Trump. Its just a corrupt area that the Clintons turned into a colony where they can steal money out of.
Yes, they might believe themselves to be distinct, the Russians' narrative says, but that was an illusion. What really mattered was their descent from the medieval Rus and their Orthodox religion. If Ukrainians wouldnt acknowledge as much, they would have to be brought into the fold by force.
Here is how he put it as the Soviet Union broke apart: We must prove that we are a great nation, not with the vastness of our territory or the number of peoples in our care, but with the greatness of our deeds and with how we plow what we are left with when those peoples who choose not to stay with us have seceded.
Thus does the self-proclaimed patriot justify the extirpation of a nation-state whose sole offense is to assert its sovereignty.
