White House downplays concerns of Russian cyber strikes on US homeland
20220127
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/white-house/white-house-downplays-concerns-of-russian-cyber-strikes-on-us-homeland
Still, the memo noted that Moscows threshold for an attack on the U.S. homeland probably remains very high.
The Department of Homeland Security has warned that Russia could soon launch cyberattacks against the U.S. if it responds to an invasion of Ukraine.
Moscow has warned separately that it would take appropriate measures against Washington as the U.S. attempts to navigate the buildup of troops on Ukraines border.
Itd be an act of war, Graham told Fox News. If a foreign power blows up a power plant, I would consider that an act of war against the American people. If you shut down a power grid or water supply, that would be an act of war. Whether you use a bomb or cyber techniques, its all the same consequence to us. So Id put Putin on notice if theres a cyberattack against critical American infrastructure, were going to respond in kind.
Psaki demurred over Russia specifically, but she said the U.S. is prepared to respond with retaliatory cyber strikes. We have a range of tools at our disposal to use in reaction, and the president reserves the right to do that, she said.
The Department of Homeland Security bulletin was distributed to critical infrastructure operators and state and local governments to warn of the threat.
First of all, theres no information we have at this point about any imminent threat against the U.S. homeland, press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Wednesday.
On Wednesday, Republican South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham argued that cyber strikes in the U.S. should be viewed through a wartime lens.
The White House downplayed concerns that the United States could soon face Russian cyber strikes but said it is prepared to respond with retaliatory action as threats from Moscow escalate over Ukraine.
Russia maintains a range of offensive cyber tools that it could employ against U.S. networks  from low-level denials-of-service to destructive attacks targeting critical infrastructure, said a Jan. 23 DHS intelligence memo reported by CNN.
If we do not receive a constructive answer from the West on our security demands, Moscow will take appropriate measures, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said earlier Wednesday, pointing to what he called the Wests continued aggressive line.
