The daily gossip Will Smith and Jessica Chastain score SAG wins Josh Gad has regrets about Beauty and the Beast gay moment and more
20220301
https://theweek.com/briefing/daily-gossip/1010721/the-daily-gossip-monday
Will Smith and Jessica Chastain had a great night at Sunday's Screen Actors Guild Awards  and unlike a certain someone, they weren't in the bathroom during their big victory. Smith took the lead actor SAG Award for King Richard, making his first Oscar win even more likely, while Chastain won lead actress, giving her a boost in an Oscar race that also includes Nicole Kidman. West Side Story's Ariana DeBose won best supporting actress, and CODA's Troy Kotsur made history as the first deaf actor to win an individual SAG Award, while CODA also won the top film prize. On the TV side, Squid Game performed surprisingly well, with stars Jung Ho-Yeon and Lee Jung-Jae winning lead drama actor and actress trophies, though Succession still earned the top drama series prize. Michael Keaton also won an award for Dopesick  and he had to sprint to the stage, and literally roll onto it, because he was in the bathroom when his name was called. "I could have sworn I had another 20 minutes," Keaton explained afterward, "so I thought, 'Well, better hit the bathroom.'" And the award for most poorly timed bathroom break goes to 
It's a tale as old as time: some historic LGBTQ representation in a Disney film is hyped up beforehand, only for it to disappoint as a tiny, blink-and-you-miss it moment. That's what happened with the live-action Beauty and the Beast in 2017 after the director declared it would feature an "exclusively gay" moment  which turned out to just be a quick shot of Josh Gad's LeFou dancing with another man. Speaking with The Independent, Gad now reflects, "My regret in what happened is that it became 'Disney's first explicitly gay moment' and it was never intended to be that." The actor further admitted that "I don't think we did justice to what a real gay character in a Disney film should be," adding, "We didn't go far enough to warrant accolades. We didn't go far enough to say, 'Look how brave we are.'" Two years after Beauty and the Beast, Disney's Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker later featured a gay kiss  very briefly and between two minor characters, in a moment Vanity Fair slammed as "another crumb of gay pandering."
Someone out there apparently said "Beetlejuice" three times recently. A report from The Ankler on Monday said a long-discussed secondBeetlejuice filmis moving forward with Michael Keaton and Winona Ryder returning, and it could begin shooting "as soon as this summer." Surprisingly, the report also said that Brad Pitt's production company Plan B  which has produced Oscar nominees and winners like 12 Years a Slave and Moonlight  is expected to produce. "I believe Tim Burton would once again direct," The Ankler's Jeff Sneider wrote. A Beetlejuice sequel has repeatedly been in discussions going back to shortly after the original movie came out, and at one point, there were talks of making one called Beetlejuice Goes Hawaiian. We'll have to see if the movie really, truly is happening this time or if it will end up rejoining all the other recently deceased Hollywood sequels.
We have a major update in FakeButtGate. Last week, in a butt declaration heard around the world, Spider-Man: No Way Home star Tom Holland revealed that one of the Spider-Man actors in the Marvel film "has a fake ass in their suit." So when Andrew Garfield walked the red carpet at the SAG Awards, Entertainment Tonight naturally had to confront him on who it was. "I have no idea!" Garfield insisted. "It's not me, so I have no clue. I don't know. I assumed everyone's butts were their butts!" Since Holland implied it wasn't him either, that would suggest it was Tobey Maguire, but Garfield claimed otherwise. "I don't think it's Tobey," he said. "I've seen Tobey's butt. Tobey's got back." Then again, after Garfield spent an entire year repeatedly falsely claiming he wasn't in No Way Home, we're slightly hesitant to take his word for it  and in another red carpet interview with Variety, he admitted, "Everybody's going to call me a liar for the rest of my life. I am the boy who cried wolf now." Or the boy who cried butt, maybe?
In the latest example that we've all found ourselves in the weirdest timeline possible, Ukraine is being defended against Russia by one of the stars of the Paddington films  well, the Ukrainian versions, at least. Amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Paddington star Hugh Bonneville pointed out on Twitter that Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky, who's drawing international praise for his handling of the crisis, was the voice of Paddington Bear in the Ukrainian dub of the 2014 movie and its sequel. It was one of a number of roles Zelensky had when he was an actor before being elected president  another of which was the role of Ukraine's president. "Speaking for myself," Bonneville tweeted, "thank you, President Zelenskiy." Defending his people against Vladimir Putin probably tops the lists of the Ukraine president's accomplishments, but a role in Paddington has to at least be in the top ten, right?
