Boris Johnson 5pm update 10 major measures announced against Russia
20220224
https://www.newsshopper.co.uk/news/19950604.boris-johnson-5pm-update-10-major-measures-announced-russia/
Updating the Commons on his talks with G7 leaders and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg on Russias invasion of Ukraine, Boris Johnson said: Putin will stand condemned in the eyes of the world and of history. He will never be able to cleanse the blood of Ukraine from his hands.
Boris Johnson told the Commons the UK will implement the largest and most severe package of economic sanctions that Russia has ever seen in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
"With around half of Russia's trade currently in USD and Sterling, I'm pleased to tell the House that the United States is taking similar measures."
"In fact, he is hurling the might of his military machine against a free and peaceful neighbour in breach of his own implicit pledge and every principal of civilised behaviour between states.
Vladimir Putin is a blood-stained aggressor who believes in imperial conquest and was always determined to attack his neighbour, no matter what we did,Prime Minister Boris Johnsontold MPs.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
He also announced the "stringent export controls, similar to those that they in the US are implementing".
"He will never be able to cleanse the blood of Ukraine from his hands. I'm driven to conclude that Putin was always determined to attack his neighbour, no matter what he did.
Although the UK and our allies tried every avenue for diplomacy until the final hour, I am driven to conclude that Putin was always determined to attack his neighbour, no matter what we did.
"Now we see him for what he is, a blood-stained aggressor who believes in imperial conquest."
The Prime Minister added: Now we see him for what he is  a bloodstained aggressor, who believes in imperial conquest.
Mr Johnson will hold a COBRA meeting at 7:30pm this evening before a cabinet meeting at 8:30pm.
Speaking in the House of Commons he said:"At this stage, Ukrainians are offering a fierce defence of their families and their country.
"These powers will enable us to totally exclude Russian banks from the UK financial system... stopping them from accessing Sterling and clearing payments through the UK.
"Earlier today, President Putin gave another televised address and offered the absurd pretext that he sought the de-militarisation and de-Nazification of Ukraine.
Boris Johnson told the Commons: Overall well be imposing asset freezes on more than 100 new entities and individuals, on top of the hundreds weve already announced.
Mr Johnson announced further steps to impose economic sanctions on Russia including a full asset seize on VBT Bank.
The Prime Minister addressed Commons after vowing Vladimir Putins hideous and barbaric venture in Ukraine must fail.
