China to provide Ukraine humanitarian aid praises Russia ties
20220307
https://wtbx.com/2022/03/07/china-to-provide-ukraine-humanitarian-aid-praises-russia-ties/
China is willing to continue to make its own efforts to resolve the humanitarian crisis and the countrys Red Cross will as soon as possible provide a batch of aid to Ukraine, Wang said, without giving details. It was the first time the country has announced such help.
No matter how sinister the international situation is, both China and Russia will maintain their strategic determination and continuously push forward the comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination in the new era.
China has already done some work to promote peace talks and has all along been in contact with all sides, he added.
China has refused to condemn Russias attack on Ukraine or call it an invasion while asking Western countries to respect Russias legitimate security concerns.
China is willing to continue to play a constructive role in pushing for peace and promoting talks, and is willing to work with the international community to carry out necessary mediation when needed.
Wang said the friendship between China and Russia was rock solid and prospects for cooperation bright.
BEIJING Reuters -Chinas Red Cross will provide humanitarian aid to Ukraine as soon as possible, Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday, as he praised his countrys friendship with Russia as rock solid.
Wang said the causes of the Ukraine situation were complex and had not happened overnight, noting, using a traditional Chinese expression, that three feet of ice does not form in a single day.
China proposes that humanitarian action must abide by the principles of neutrality and impartiality, and humanitarian issues should not be politicised, he added.
Solving complex problems requires calmness and rationality, rather than adding fuel to the fire and intensifying contradictions, he told a news conference on the sidelines of the annual meeting of Chinas parliament.
Russian President Vladimir Putin met Chinese President Xi Jinping hours before the start of last months Winter Olympics in Beijing and they signed a wide-ranging strategic partnership aimed at countering U.S. influence and said they would have no forbidden areas of cooperation.
