UN chief Ukraines nuclear plant must be demilitarised
20220818
https://wtbx.com/2022/08/18/u-n-chief-ukraines-nuclear-plant-must-be-demilitarised/
Reporting by Andrea Shalal in Lviv and Michelle Nichols in New York writing by Tom Balmforth editing by Timothy Heritage
Guterres said on Thursday that the terms for the mission and the make-up of the team had been shared with Russia and Ukraine, who both need to agree to it. He said he intends to appoint Brazilian General Carlos dos Santos Cruz to lead the inquiry.
We must spare no effort to ensure that plants facilities or surroundings are not a target of military operations, Guterres told reporters after talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan.
LVIV, Ukraine Reuters -U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called on Thursday for the demilitarisation of the vast nuclear power plant held by Russia in southern Ukraines Zaporizhzhia region, and said he was gravely concerned by the situation in and around it.
The facility on the Russian-controlled south bank of a huge reservoir was captured by Russia in March.
Earlier this month, Guterres launched a fact-finding mission into an incident in the front-line Ukrainian town of Olenivka in which prisoners held by Moscow-backed separatists were killed. Russia and Ukraine both requested an investigation.
The facility must not be used as part of any military operation. Instead, agreement is urgently needed to reestablish Zaporizhzhias purely civilian infrastructure and to ensure the safety of the area, he said.
Guterres, speaking to reporters after talks in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, said that military equipment and personnel should be withdrawn from the plant and called for efforts to ensure it is not the target of military operations.
We will now continue to work to obtain the necessary assurances to guarantee secure access to the site and any other relevant locations, Guterres said. To put it simply, a fact-finding mission must be free to find the facts.
Russia and Ukraine have blamed each other for shelling the nuclear plant and on Thursday accused each other of preparing to stage a provocation at the vast complex.
