Irish premier due to arrive in Kyiv for series of engagements
20220706
https://www.burnhamandhighbridgeweeklynews.co.uk/news/20258466.irish-premier-due-arrive-kyiv-series-engagements/
It also comes after Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday declared victory in seizing the eastern Ukrainian province of Luhansk, with his troops escalating their offensive in neighbouring Donetsk.
Mr Martin has warned previously that the Russian president appeared to be leveraging its natural gas supplies to exert maximum pressure on Europe ahead of the winter period.
Irish premier Micheal Martin is due to travel to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Wednesday for a number of engagements in the city.
Mr Coveney also visited the town of Bucha on the outskirts of the capital, where suspected killings of civilians prompted global condemnation.
Mr Martin has also been a vocal advocate for Ukraines fast-tracked membership of the EU.
The visit comes two weeks after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky invited Mr Martin to visit Ukraine, which would be the first visit by a Taoiseach to the eastern European country.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ireland is ready to walk every step of that journey with Ukraine, providing whatever support and encouragement we can along the way, the Taoiseach has previously said.
The Irish State has given 20 million euro in humanitarian support and assistance to the country, as well as health equipment and medical donations worth over 4.5 million euro.
Ireland has also taken in more than 36,000 Ukrainian refugees since Russia invaded neighbouring Ukraine at the end of February.
In April, Simon Coveney became the first foreign minister of the UN Security Council to visit Kyiv, and met with Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and defence minister Oleksii Reznikov.
