Putin and Biden plan highstakes phone call in bid to resolve Ukraine crisis
20220212
https://www.burnhamandhighbridgeweeklynews.co.uk/news/19919875.putin-biden-plan-high-stakes-phone-call-bid-resolve-ukraine-crisis/
The foreign ministry spokeswoman in Moscow, Maria Zakharova, said her country has optimised staffing at its embassy in Kyiv, but insisted the move was in response to concerns about possible military actions from the Ukrainian side.
Mr Biden has said US troops will not enter Ukraine to contest any Russian invasion, but he has bolstered the American military presence in Europe as reassurance to allies on Natos eastern flank.
Mr Biden spoke to a number of European leaders on Friday to underscore the concerns raised by US intelligence about the potential imminence of a Russian invasion.
Russia has massed troops near the Ukraine border and has sent personnel to military exercises in neighbouring Belarus, but insistently denies that it intends to launch an offensive against Ukraine.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter conflict since 2014, when Ukraines Kremlin-friendly leader was driven from office by a popular uprising.
Adding to the sense of crisis, the Pentagon has ordered an additional 3,000 US troops to Poland to reassure allies.
Several Nato allies including the UK, Canada, Norway and Denmark also are asking their citizens to leave Ukraine, as is non-Nato ally New Zealand.
He said the combination of a further Russian troop build-up on Ukraines borders and unspecified intelligence indicators have prompted the administration to warn that war could begin at any time.
Defence Secretary BWallaceMP today met Swedish Foreign Minister AnnLinde for talks on European Security and our response to the build-up of Russian forces on the border of Ukraine. pic.twitter.coml6BwV1azpm
Mr Lavrov said he told Mr Blinken that the propaganda campaign launched by the United States and its allies about Russian aggression against Ukraine pursues provocative goals.
We cant pinpoint the day at this point, and we cant pinpoint the hour, but that is a very, very distinct possibility, Mr Sullivan said.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
and  are close defence partners, and we work together as part of the JEF.
The department had earlier ordered families of US embassy staffers in Kyiv to leave. But it had left it to the discretion of non-essential personnel if they wanted to depart.
The Anglo-Saxons need a war. At any cost. Provocations, misinformation and threats are a favourite method of solving their own problems.
US officials told The Associated Press that the US state department plans to announce on Saturday that virtually all American staff at the Kyiv embassy will be required to leave, although the state department would not comment.
Mr Bidens national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, urged all Americans in Ukraine to leave, emphasising that they should not expect the US military to rescue them in the event that air and rail transportation is severed after a Russian invasion.
Russia is demanding that the West keeps Ukraine and other former Soviet countries out of Nato.
I had a productive call with Ukrainian Foreign Minister DmytroKuleba on our continued efforts to support Ukraine and deter Russia from further aggression. Our support for Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity is unwavering.
In this situation, fearing possible provocations by the Kyiv regime or third countries, we actually decided to somewhat optimise the staffing of Russian foreign missions in Ukraine.
However, American officials said that Russias build-up of offensive air, land and sea firepower near Ukraine has reached the point where it could invade on short notice.
Mr Sullivans stark warning accelerated the projected timeframe for a potential invasion, which many analysts had believed was unlikely until after the Winter Olympics in China end on February 20.
Yes, it is an urgent message because we are in an urgent situation, he told reporters at the White House.
It also wants Nato to refrain from deploying weapons near its border and to roll back alliance forces from Eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
In addition to the more than 100,000 ground troops that US officials say Russia has assembled along Ukraines eastern and southern borders, the Russians have deployed missile, air, naval and special operations forces, as well as supplies to sustain a war.
Mr Biden has said the US military will not enter a war in Ukraine, but he has promised severe economic sanctions against Moscow, in concert with international allies.
On Friday the Pentagon said Mr Biden ordered a further 3,000 soldiers to Poland, on top of 1,700 who are on their way there. The US army is also shifting 1,000 soldiers from Germany to Romania, which like Poland shares a border with Ukraine.
Russian officials scoffed at the American claims. Ms Zakharova said earlier: The hysteria of the White House is more indicative than ever.
Moscow responded by annexing Crimea and then backing a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine, where fighting has killed more than 14,000 people.
The official would not say how definitive the intelligence was, and the White House publicly underlined that the US does not know with certainty whether Mr Putin is committed to invasion.
Mr Sullivan said Russian military action could start with missile and air attacks, followed by a ground offensive.
This week, Russia moved six amphibious assault ships into the Black Sea, augmenting its capability to land marines on the coast.
Russia has all the forces it needs to conduct a major military action, Mr Sullivan said, adding, Russia could choose, in very short order, to commence a major military action against Ukraine.
A 2015 peace deal brokered by France and Germany helped halt large-scale battles, but regular skirmishes have continued, and efforts to reach a political settlement have stalled.
Russian president Vladimir Putin and US counterpart Joe Biden are to hold a high-stakes telephone call as tensions escalate over a potentially imminent invasion of Ukraine.
Before talking to Mr Biden on Saturday, the Russian leader will share a call with French president Emmanuel Macron, who met with him in Moscow earlier in the week in a bid to resolve the crisis.
Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov and US secretary of state Antony Blinken have spoken by telephone ahead of the Putin-Biden talks.
The move came as the US announced plans to evacuate its embassy in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
Germany and the Netherlands have joined the UK in called on their citizens to leave Ukraine as soon as possible.
She said: We conclude that our American and British colleagues apparently know about some military actions being prepared in Ukraine that could significantly complicate the situation in the security sphere.
He said the scale of such an invasion could range from a limited incursion to a strike on Kyiv, the capital.
Mr Blinken later tweeted that he had reiterated that further Russian aggression would be met with a resolute, massive, and united Transatlantic response.
I spoke with Foreign Minister Lavrov today to urge a diplomatic resolution to Russias unprovoked military build-up around Ukraine. I reiterated that further Russian aggression would be met with a resolute, massive, and united Transatlantic response.
Mr Sullivan said the Western leaders were completely united and would respond harshly to a Russian invasion with devastating economic and trade sanctions.
The US picked up intelligence that Russia is looking at Wednesday as a target date, according to a US official.
