Volodymyr Zelensky says Russia tried to humiliate UN with Kyiv attack
20220429
https://www.burnhamandhighbridgeweeklynews.co.uk/news/20104140.volodymyr-zelensky-says-russia-tried-humiliate-un-kyiv-attack/
Grandma, will I live? she said Igor asked her when they were in the basement waiting for help.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko derided the attack as equivalent to Russian President Vladimir Putin showing Mr Guterres his middle finger.
About 1,000 civilians are with them, and the fighters said recent concentrated bombings killed and wounded people.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Instead, stiff Ukrainian resistance, bolstered by Western arms, stalled Mr Putins advance and forced his troops to pull back to regroup.
But so far, Russias troops and the separatist forces appear to have made only minor gains, and the UKs Ministry of Defence said on Friday that those have been achieved at significant cost to Russias forces.
This says a lot about Russias true attitude towards global institutions, about attempts of Russian authorities to humiliate the UN and everything that the organisation represents, Mr Zelensky said in an overnight video address to the nation.
Mr Putin, long irked by Natos expansion to eastern Europe, says the operation seeks the demilitarisation of Ukraine, aims to protect people in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas and ensure Russias own security.
An official in Mr Zelenskys office said negotiations were under way with UN mediation, and did not rule out an evacuation of the plant happening Friday.
An estimated 100,000 people are believed to still be in the city, and the city council warned that a lack of safe drinking water or a working sewer system could lead to outbreaks of deadly diseases such as cholera and dysentery.
Ukraine and the West say it was an unprovoked and illegal invasion launched to topple the government in Kyiv.
Video posted online by Ukraines Azov Regiment inside the steel plant showed people combing through the rubble to remove the dead and help the wounded.
In Lyman, a town in Donetsk where Russian forces are reportedly trying to advance as part of their Donbas push, shells rained on Tatiana Maksagorys home this week, devastating her family.
Thursdays explosions in northwestern Kyivs Shevchenkivsky district shook the city and flames poured out the windows of the residential high-rise and another building.
A day after Russia pounded a wide area of Ukraine, the governor of Ukraines central Dnipropetrovsk region, Valentyn Reznichenko, said two towns there were hit by Russian Grad rockets on Friday.
The capital had been relatively unscathed in recent weeks, and cafes and other businesses have started to reopen, while a growing numbers of people have been out and about, enjoying the spring weather.
The strikes were the boldest Russian bombardment of the capital since Moscows forces retreated weeks ago following their failure to take the city in what they hoped would be a lightning offensive.
In an apparent reference to the same strike, Russias defence ministry said on Friday that it had destroyed production buildings at the Artem defence factory in Kyiv.
One of Moscows demands has been that Ukraine drop its bid to join the western Nato alliance.
Getting a full picture of the unfolding battle in the east has been difficult because airstrikes and artillery barrages have made it extremely dangerous for reporters to move around.
Some have now started to push into the countrys eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas, which Moscow now says is its focus.
Both Ukraine and the Moscow-backed rebels fighting in the east also have introduced tight restrictions on reporting from the combat zone.
One aim of Mr Guterres visit was to secure the evacuation of people from the ruined southern port city of Mariupol, including a shattered steelworks where Ukrainian defenders are holed up and hundreds of civilians are also sheltering.
Separately, the governor of Russias Kursk region, Roman Starovoit, said that a border post came under mortar fire from Ukraine and that Russian border forces returned fire.
The world owes Ukraine security, and we ask states to decide which security guarantees they are ready to provide.
Ukraines leader accused Russia of trying to humiliate the United Nations by raining missiles on Kyiv during a visit by secretary-general Antonio Guterres, an attack that shattered the capitals tentative return to normality as the focus of the war moved east.
Ten people were wounded in the attack, including at least one who lost a leg, according to Ukraines emergency services.
Russia pounded targets all over Ukraine on Thursday, including the attack on Kyiv that struck a residential high-rise and another building.
An official in the presidents office did not rule out an evacuation as soon as Friday.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba wrote on Friday on Twitter that a security vacuum had led to the war.
Russian forces largely control the city, but some 2,000 Ukrainian fighters are holed up at the steel plant, the last known pocket of resistance.
The terrible human cost of the war, which has driven more than 11 million Ukrainians from their homes, continues to climb.
The official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to speak to the media.
Under siege since the early days of the invasion, many of its residents became trapped with scarce access to food, water, medicine or electricity.
President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraines forces were holding off Russias attempted advance in the south and east, as efforts continued to secure safe passage for residents trapped in Mariupol, which has been largely reduced to rubble in a two-month-long siege.
The attack on Kyiv came barely an hour after Mr Zelensky held a news conference with Guterres, who toured some of the destruction in and around Kyiv and condemned attacks on civilians during his visit.
Ms Maksagorys 14-year-old grandson, Igor, was declared dead after emergency services drove him to the hospital.
I cannot confirm the exact details of the operation to make sure it is done with safety for our people and for civilians stranded in Mariupol, said Saviano Abreu, a spokesperson for the UNs humanitarian office.
US-funded broadcaster Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty said its journalist Vira Hyrych, who lived in one of the buildings hit, died. Her body was found in the rubble on Friday.
The regiment said the Russians hit an improvised underground hospital and its operating room, killing an unspecified number of people.
