China distances itself from Russia calls for halt to violence
20220226
https://www.thestar.com.my/aseanplus/aseanplus-news/2022/02/26/china-distances-itself-from-russia-calls-for-halt-to-violence
On Friday, Wang made clear that China supports Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, adding that Beijing backs the interests of "small and medium-sized countries.While taking some veiled shots at the US, the senior diplomat also called China a "responsible major country -- signaling that Beijing is concerned about how the Russian conflict might impact the reputation of the worlds second-biggest economy.
"China has been following the evolution of the Ukraine issue, and the present situation is something China does not want to see, Wang Yi said in phone calls with top diplomats from the UK., France and the European Union, according to a readout from the official Xinhua News Agency.
Ukrainian service members are seen at the site of a fighting with Russian raiding group in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv in the morning of on Saturday, February 26, 2022, according to Ukrainian service personnel at the scene.- AFP
"The safety of ordinary peoples lives and properties should be effectively safeguarded, and in particular, large-scale humanitarian crises have to be prevented, the report cited him as saying.
"China has always been faithfully fulfilling its international obligations and playing a constructive role in safeguarding world peace and stability, Wang said. - Bloomberg
China has stood by Russia over the past month as tensions escalated, with Xi hosting Putin at the Olympic Games in Beijing and declaring their friendship had "no limits in a lengthy statement.China also endorsed Putins security concerns over the expansion of the NATO alliance and abstained Friday from a vote on a United Nations Security Council draft resolution, vetoed by Russia, that condemned the Ukraine invasion.
The comments came shortly after President Xi Jinping made his first remarks on the crisis, urging Russian leader Vladimir Putin in a phone call to solve the issue through talks with the Ukrainians.Putin later said hes ready to authorise talks with Ukraine on a possible neutral status for the country, but its unclear when or if they will take place.
BEIJING, Feb 26 Bloomberg: China attempted to distance itself from Russia as the scale of the invasion becomes clear, with Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday saying it was "absolutely imperative for all sides to exercise restraint to prevent the conflict from "getting out of control.
Wangs latest comments mark a shift in tone from tense press briefings immediately after Putin ordered the military operation. On Thursday, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying pinned the blame on the U.S., questioned the use of the word "invasion and highlighted Russias comments that the military would avoid artillery strikes on cities.
Still, Chinas statements since the invasion show an increasing discomfort, particularly with reports of heavy fighting in the capital Kyiv and other cities.
