Chinas DJI halts Russia Ukraine sales to prevent use of its drones in combat
20220427
https://www.thestar.com.my/tech/tech-news/2022/04/27/chinas-dji-halts-russia-ukraine-sales-to-prevent-use-of-its-drones-in-combat
Ukraine calls on Chinese drone maker to stop use by RussiaUkrainian drone enthusiasts sign up to repel Russian forcesUganda tests drones to speed up delivery of HIV medicineDrone operators challenge surveyors turf in US mapping dispute
The conflict has put Chinese companies in a bind. Continuing to operate in Russia has drawn international criticism, but withdrawing would risk a backlash from the Chinese public.
DJI abhors any use of our drones to cause harm, and we are temporarily suspending sales in these countries in order to help ensure no-one uses our drones in combat.
SHENZHEN, China: Drone giant DJI Technology Co said it will temporarily suspend business in Russia and Ukraine to ensure its products are not used in combat, making it the first major Chinese firm to cite the conflict in halting sales in Russia.
In February, ride-hailing giant Didi Global reversed a decision to leave Russia and Kazakhstan after domestic social media users accused it of succumbing to US pressure.  Reuters
Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say this a false pretext for an unprovoked war of aggression.
Uganda tests drones to speed up delivery of HIV medicineDrone operators challenge surveyors turf in US mapping dispute
Ukrainian drone enthusiasts sign up to repel Russian forcesUganda tests drones to speed up delivery of HIV medicineDrone operators challenge surveyors turf in US mapping dispute
Privately held DJI does not release financial information but research firm Drone Analyst has estimated that it had hardware revenue of US$2.9bil RM12.63bil in 2020.
A company representative said last month DJI was aware of footage online that suggested the Russian military was using its products, but it had not been able to confirm this and the company had no control over the use of its products.
A DJI spokesperson said on Wednesday its suspension of business in Russia and Ukraine was not to make a statement about any country, but to make a statement about our principles.
A DJI spokesperson said on Wednesday its suspension of business in Russia and Ukraine was not to make a statement about any country, but to make a statement about our principles.  Reuters
Ukrainian officials and citizens have accused DJI of leaking data on the Ukrainian military to Russia  allegations the worlds largest maker of consumer and industrial drones has called utterly false.
In contrast to the many Western firms that have pulled out of Russia to protest its invasion of Ukraine, Chinese companies have stayed there, in line with Beijings stance of refraining from criticism of Moscow over the conflict.
