Cyberattacks accompany Russian military assault on Ukraine
20220224
https://www.thestar.com.my/tech/tech-news/2022/02/24/cyberattacks-accompany-russian-military-assault-on-ukraine
Eset Research Labs said it detected a previously unseen piece of data-wiping malware Wednesday on hundreds of machines in the country. It was not clear how many networks were affected.
The DDoS targets Wednesday included the defense and foreign ministries, the Council of Ministers and Privatbank, the countrys largest commercial bank. Many of the same sites were similarly knocked offline Feb 13-14 in DDoS attacks that the US and UK governments quickly blamed on Russias GRU military intelligence agency
Word of the wiper follows a mid-January attack that Ukrainian officials blamed on Russia in which the defacement of some 70 government websites was used to mask intrusions into government networks in which at least two servers were damaged with wiper malware masquerading as ransomware.
With regards whether the malware was successful in its wiping capability, we assume that this indeed was the case and affected machines were wiped, said ESET research chief Jean-Ian Boutin. He would not name the targets but said they were large organisations.
The attackers have gone after these targets without much caring for where they may be physically located, he said.
This is terrible. We need the world to stop it. Immediately, Zhora said of the offensive that Russian President Vladimir Putin announced in the pre-dawn hours.
Cyberattacks have been a key tool of Russian aggression in Ukraine since before 2014, when the Kremlin annexed Crimea and hackers tried to thwart elections. They were also used against Estonia in 2007 and Georgia in 2008. Their intent can be to sow panic, confuse and distract.
Wednesdays DDoS attacks appeared less impactful than the earlier onslaught  with targeted sites soon reachable again  as emergency responders blunted them. Zhoras office, Ukraines information protection agency, said responders switched to a different DDoS protection service provider.
Officials have long expected cyberattacks to precede and accompany any Russian military incursion. The combination of DDoS attacks, which bombard websites with junk traffic to render them unreachable, and malware infections hewed to Russias playbook of wedding cyber operations with real-world aggression.
Asked if the denial-of-service attacks were continuing Thursday morning, senior Ukrainian cyber defense official Victor Zhora did not answer. Are you serious? he texted. There are ballistic missiles here.
All three had close affiliation with the government of Ukraine, said Thakur, saying Symantec believed the attacks were highly targeted. He said roughly 50 computers at the financial outfit were impacted, some with data wiped.
BOSTON: The websites of Ukraines defense, foreign and interior ministries were unreachable or painfully slow to load Feb 24 morning after a punishing wave of distributed-denial-of-service attacks as Russia struck at its neighbour, explosions shaking the capital of Kyiv and other major cities.
In addition to DDoS attacks on Wednesday, cybersecurity researchers said unidentified attackers had infected hundreds of computers with destructive malware, some in neighbouring Latvia and Lithuania.
The wiper malware detected in Ukraine this year has so far been manually activated, as opposed to a worm like NotPetya, which can spread out of control across borders.  AP
Symantec Threat Intelligence detected three organisations hit by the wiper malware  Ukrainian government contractors in Latvia and Lithuania and a financial institution in Ukraine, said Vikram Thakur, its technical director. Both countries are Nato members.
Distributed-denial-of-service attacks are among the least impactful because they dont entail network intrusion. Such attacks barrage websites with junk traffic so they become unreachable.
Russia likely has been planning this for months, so it is hard to say how many organisations or agencies have been backdoored in preparation for these attacks, said Chester Wisniewski, principal research scientist at the cybersecurity firm Sophos. He guessed the Kremlin intended with the malware to send the message that they have compromised a significant amount of Ukrainian infrastructure and these are just little morsels to show how ubiquitous their penetration is.
A spokesman for California-based Cloudflare, which provides services to some of the targeted sites, said Wednesday that DDoS attacks in Ukraine had been until then sporadic but on the rise in the past month but relatively modest compared to large DDoS attacks weve handled in the past.
Ukraine computers hit by data-wiping software as fears of full-scale Russian invasion riseTwitter says it mistakenly took down accounts posting on Russian military
Alaptopscreendisplays a warning message in Ukrainian, Russian and Polish, that appeared on the official website of the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry after a massive cyberattack, in this illustration taken Jan 14, 2022. The combination of DDoS attacks, which bombard websites with junk traffic to render them unreachable, and malware infections hewed to Russias playbook of combining cyber operations with real-world aggression.  Reuters
The West blames Russias GRU for some of the most damaging cyberattacks on record, including a pair in 2015 and 2016 that briefly knocked out parts of Ukraines power grid and the NotPetya wiper virus of 2017, which caused more than US$10 billion of damage globally by infecting companies that do business in Ukraine with malware seeded through a tax preparation software update.
Doug Madory, director of Internet analysis at the network management firm Kentik Inc, recorded two attack waves each lasting more than an hour.
