Everyone Needs Peace Russian artist in Moscow makes antiwar posters
20220615
https://www.thestar.com.my/lifestyle/culture/2022/06/15/039everyone-needs-peace039-russian-artist-in-moscow-makes-anti-war-posters
On one recent spring day, Besov was out in the streets of Moscow in sunglasses and a black T-shirt, using a paint brush to slather glue on one of his posters in front of a brick wall covered with graffiti.
Besov stopped making the "No To War" posters after Russia introduced strict new censorship laws, making it illegal to refer to the intervention as a war and setting jail terms for those found guilty of discrediting Russia's military.
"They were very nervous," he says. The two women are now waiting to know whether they will face any charges.
Despite his passion for his work, Besov is not sure how long he can keep his shops running or printing the posters.
Using an old printing press with hefty wooden Cyrillic type and vintage red ink, Besov created nostalgia-tinged posters with updated Soviet-style slogans.
New book connects readers to KL Chinatown's culture, history, architecture, foodBorder reopens: five museums you need to visit in Kuala LumpurBM version of 'Macbeth' to kickstart Radio Teater Nasional's launch on June 15
Before the launch of Russia's military campaign in Ukraine, printer Sergei Besov was part of a burgeoning art scene based out of a converted factory in northern Moscow.
"Everyone Needs Peace," reads one of his latest creations, hanging over the entrance to his Partisan Press poster workshop.
"Today the posters are about what happens to us. They talk about fear. 'Fear is no reason not to act' was the first poster we printed after our break," he says.
Besov, 45, gained instant attention when, in the early days of Russia's military offensive he started printing "No To War" posters in the shop.
Comedian Joanne Kam grateful for pandemic side hustles, preps big stage returnScrabble and a murder mystery collide in Hanna Alkaf's new page turnerNew book connects readers to KL Chinatown's culture, history, architecture, foodBorder reopens: five museums you need to visit in Kuala LumpurBM version of 'Macbeth' to kickstart Radio Teater Nasional's launch on June 15
And the vintage red ink he uses for his posters - made in the Soviet-dominated Hungarian People's Republic in 1989 - will also soon run dry. - AFP
Besov uses an old printing press with wooden Cyrillic type and vintage red ink to create Soviet-style posters with modern messages. Photo: AFP
His main business is printing high-end stationery and business cards at another nearby workshop under the imprint Demon Press. But under Western sanctions, the fine paper he uses for the business will soon be impossible to find in Moscow.
One reads simply "Cognitive Dissonance" - a reference, Besov says, to how many in Moscow are living their normal lives while "our friends over there in Ukraine are suffering".
Scrabble and a murder mystery collide in Hanna Alkaf's new page turnerNew book connects readers to KL Chinatown's culture, history, architecture, foodBorder reopens: five museums you need to visit in Kuala LumpurBM version of 'Macbeth' to kickstart Radio Teater Nasional's launch on June 15
Border reopens: five museums you need to visit in Kuala LumpurBM version of 'Macbeth' to kickstart Radio Teater Nasional's launch on June 15
"It was unclear whether martial law was going to be introduced... Everyone was in a panic," he says.
Malaysian fashion icon Vivy Yusof to publish memoir in DecemberComedian Joanne Kam grateful for pandemic side hustles, preps big stage returnScrabble and a murder mystery collide in Hanna Alkaf's new page turnerNew book connects readers to KL Chinatown's culture, history, architecture, foodBorder reopens: five museums you need to visit in Kuala LumpurBM version of 'Macbeth' to kickstart Radio Teater Nasional's launch on June 15
More than three months after Russian forces moved into Ukraine in late February, Besov is still working, but these days his posters are about more than witty catchphrases.
Once the glue was applied, he stuck up the poster reading: "If there are dreams, there will be journeys."
He began printing the "Everyone Needs Peace" posters instead but the police still turned up at this shop in early March and detained two of his employees.
The posters' slogans are vague and eerie, loaded with the words that cannot be said: "The wave will sweep everything away", "The main thing is not to lose yourself", "Every wall has a door".
Tens of thousands of Russians have decided to take one-way journeys since the start of the conflict, fleeing the country with no plans to return.
The workshop took a few weeks off in March "simply out of fear", Besov says, but is now up and running again.
