Germany plans to            jumpstart coal plants
20220829
https://www.thestar.com.my/business/business-news/2022/08/29/germany-plans-to------------jump-start-coal-plants
Further south from Moorburg, energy group Uniper will today fire up its Heyden 4 site, which had been a reserve plant since mid-2021.
Alternative source: Inland freighters transporting coal along the Rhine River while passing a power plant in Duisburg. Russias curtailing of gas exports to Germany has forced Berlin to make the radical decision to restart coal power stations, at least temporarily.  Bloomberg
But infrastructure issues, manpower shortages and logistical problems are proving to be major obstacles for the restart.
Even power plants that had not been completely shut, but put in reserve to generate power only occasionally, are struggling with a complete reboot.
But the Moorburg plant, located in the suburb of Hamburg, had been one of the most modern in the world.
Chancellor Olaf Scholzs government has said it would stick to the 2030 coal exit timetable, but in the meantime, it authorised the restart of 27 mothballed plants or those put in reserve to help fill the energy gap until March 2024.
Before it closed, the plant churned out around 11 billion kilowatts per year  the equivalent of the electricity consumption for the city of Hamburg. But now, the installation is no longer complete.
In the turbines hall, thousands of small components have been packed away into boxes. A rotor, an element that allows the turbine to turn, is packed in aluminium, ready to be sent off. The transformer is also no longer functioning.  AFP
HAMBURG: A year after the last wisps of smoke disappeared into the skies from the imposing chimneys of the Moorburg coal plant, hopes had grown that the mothballed site would see new life as Germany scrambles to secure energy supplies.
But the company warned that its output would be affected by railway capacity limits in ferrying hard coal to the site.
It was shut down in the summer of 2021, just six years after it was put into service, in exchange for a public subsidy programme aimed at cutting coal from Germanys energy mix.
With a capacity of 875 megawatts MW, Unipers Heyden 4 figures as the largest on the list.
Russias curtailing of gas exports to Germany in the wake of the Ukraine war has forced Berlin to make the radical decision to restart coal power stations, at least temporarily.
Since then, the operator has started dismantling and selling the parts that are not necessary for hydrogen  a priority for Germanys future energy sources.
At Moorburg, operator Vattenfall has dashed hopes of new operations, saying simply that restarting it would be neither technically, economically nor legally feasible.
Germany began winding down its coal-fired power plants in the last few years, in view of meeting a target to end usage of the fossil fuel by 2030.
But Russias invasion of Ukraine has upended plans as Moscow reduced energy exports to Germany in what Berlin believes is retaliation for its support for Kyiv.
