In snowy trenches Ukrainian soldiers vow to stand firm against Russia
20220104
https://www.thestar.com.my/news/world/2022/01/05/in-snowy-trenches-ukrainian-soldiers-vow-to-stand-firm-against-russia
U.S. officials have said Russia might launch a new attack against Ukraine as early as the second half of January.
Service members of the Ukrainian armed forces stand guard at combat positions on the line of separation from Russian-backed rebels outside the settlement of Krymske in the Luhansk region, Ukraine, January 4, 2022. REUTERSMaksim Levin
Russia denies it is planning an offensive and accuses Kyiv of building up its own forces in the east of the country. But Moscow has demanded security guarantees it wants from the West in order to defuse the current crisis.
Russian troop movements near Ukraine's borders https:www.reuters.comworldeuropewhy-is-russias-putin-so-focused-ukraine-2021-12-15 have alarmed Kyiv and its Western allies in recent weeks. The soldiers say they are ready for any escalation from Russia.
Inside the trench, another soldier stands in front of a small Christmas tree, with messages and drawings from well-wishers pinned on the wall behind him.
"If they show off their muscles and rattle their sabres, then it is unlikely they will attack. If someone wants to attack, he does it covertly," he said.
Another serviceman, who gave his name as Oleh, played down the prospect of a major escalation.
"I don't plan to stay here forever. I plan to repel a Russian attack and come back home so that my daughter will later say: 'Wow, father, you managed to stop superpower with your own hands.'
This is the frontline of Ukraine's eight-year war against Russian-backed forces in the Donbass region https:www.reuters.comworldeuropehow-rebel-held-regions-eastern-ukraine-have-grown-closer-russia-2021-12-15.
KRYMSKE, Ukraine Reuters -     A soldier peers over the top of a wooden trench as snow falls thickly on the surrounding fields near the village of Krymske in eastern Ukraine.
"We are determined to stand firm, we will not give up our country. We fought for independence for a long time," said one serviceman, who gave his nom-de-guerre as Martin.
