Insight  Export losses give Ukraine leeway in its upcoming corn harvest
20220420
https://www.thestar.com.my/business/business-news/2022/04/20/insight---export-losses-give-ukraine-leeway-in-its-upcoming-corn-harvest
If Ukraine produces just half as much corn as last year, total 2022-23 exports could top the 23 million-plus tonnes shipped in 2020-2021, which followed a poor 2020 harvest.
That includes leftover stocks and a typical distribution of new supplies between domestic use and exports.
The country has been slowly exporting some grain by rail via the European Union, but the volume is only a fraction of normal and the potential is extremely limited.
Although the USDA may need to make further export adjustments, its current numbers put Ukraines corn stocks-to-use at 18 in 2021-2022.
The agriculture ministry said last week that shipments could fall to just 17 million tonnes, which would be a six-year low. The marketing year runs to the end of June.
Beyond the immediate impact on corn exports, analysts have also been fixated on production potential for Ukraines summer corn crop that would supply its 2022-23 season. Farmers there should be ramping up planting now.
That could leave room for Ukraines upcoming corn harvest to fall well short of previous ones and still come up with very respectable exports over the next year.
Possible 2022 Ukrainian crop scenarios vary widely across the industry, but the countrys own ministry is perhaps the most optimistic on the situation.
The use forecast of 13.2 million tonnes is already 20 over the previous record set eight years ago, so the feasibility and whether there is room for growth are both uncertain.
Under the believable scenario that Ukraines 2021-2022 ending stocks rise at least 10 million tonnes above typical levels, that allows for a much lighter crop in 2022. But how light?
It is considered one of the big four corn suppliers along with the United States, Brazil and Argentina.
Since nearly 80 of the countrys annual crop is intended for export, this decline will cause a backlog in the country.
On Friday it pegged spring sowing area at 14 million ha, up from 13.4 million previously forecast but down from 16.9 million in 2021.
Karen Braun is a market analyst for Reuters. The views expressed here are the writers own
However, Ukraines exporting future is highly dependent on how long the conflict lasts and the short-and long-term impacts on its ports and infrastructure.
Some analysts believe Ukraines crop could be a near disaster, but the countrys own experts are much more optimistic.
While that is causing a global supply crunch in the near term, it is also leading to an unprecedented buildup of stocks in the country.
The USDA hiked Ukraines 2021-2022 domestic corn use by a total of two-thirds over the last two updates to deal with the supply buildup.
The ministry did not break down its area outlook by crop, though analyst APK-Inform said Friday the 2022 grain harvest could fall 55 on the year.
It is also unknown whether farmers have been able to secure inputs, labour, equipment or whatever else they need for a full crop season. Yields are always at risk when any of those items fall short.
Corn could take a smaller share of the spring acreage if more land is dedicated to Ukraines staple food crops like buckwheat, oats, millet and peas, which was suggested by Ukrainian officials last month.
Before the war, Ukraine expected to export a record 33.8 million tonnes of corn in 2021-2022 following a bumper crop last fall.
Almost all of Ukraines grain exports depart via the Black Sea, and ports there are currently occupied by Russian military.
But again, this is assuming that Ukrainian seaports can be fully open as normal for most of 2022-2023, and no one knows this for sure, hence the market anxiety and strong corn prices. Nearby Chicago corn futures on Monday pushed above US$8 RM34 per bushel for the first time since 2012.
UKRAINEs corn exports basically ground to a halt several weeks ago when Russia invaded the country, leading to the closure of its critical seaports.
The US Department of Agriculture USDA earlier this month was far more generous with its estimate for Ukraines 2021-22 corn exports at 23 million tonnes versus 33.5 million pegged in February.
Filepic shows a dockyard worker watching as barley grain is mechanically poured into a 40,000 ton ship at a Ukrainian agricultural exporter's shipment terminal in the southern Ukranian city of Nikolaev
Those levels have been seen before, but not since Ukraine became integral to world corn trade. That ratio has averaged 4.3 in the last five years, meaning Ukraine typically carries over very little supply relative to what it uses.
That is anyones guess for now, though there is no indication from Moscow that the conflict is nearing an end.
Despite the aggressive consumption forecast, the USDA sees Ukraines corn ending stocks surging to 6.5 million tonnes, far above the record 1.6 million set a few years ago and the five-year average of just under 1.3 million.
There was no reason offered for the upgrade, which represents a substantially larger area than the seven million ha proposed by the ministry in March.
Ukraine ramped up corn production and exports massively within the last decade and the country now accounts for about 15 of global exports.
Global corn importers will be rooting for Ukraines harvest as farmers in leading exporter the US are cutting acres 4 on the year to a four-year low, and planting there is not off to a quick start.  Reuters
