Japan PM Kishida to stress unity on Ukraine in meet with Indias Modi
20220319
https://www.thestar.com.my/news/world/2022/03/19/japan-pm-kishida-to-stress-unity-on-ukraine-in-meet-with-india039s-modi
MUMBAI Reuters -     Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida will encourage a unified approach on Ukraine when he meets Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Saturday, while aiming to strengthen security ties across the Indo-Pacific region.
Reporting by Kentaro Sugiyama in Tokyo and Abhirup Roy in Mumbai Writing by Rupam Jain Editing by Edmund Klamann
FILE PHOTO: Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida speaks during a news conference at the prime minister's official residence on February 25, 2022, Tokyo, Japan.   Rodrigo Reyes MarinPool via REUTERSFile Photo
"Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine coincides with this trip, I'd like to emphasise the importance of international unity and confirm that Japan and India will work together on various issues," Kishida said ahead of his visit.
Japan has imposed sanctions on dozens of Russian individuals and organisations since the Ukraine invasion that began on Feb. 24 and has been receiving Ukrainian refugees. India, however, is the only one of the four Quad members that has not condemned the invasion.
Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in 2014 announced 3.5 trillion yen in investment and financing over five years during a visit to India.
He is expected to announce a plan to invest 5 trillion yen $42 billion in India over five years during this visit, Japan's Nikkei newspaper reported.
Japan and India in 2020 signed an acquisition and cross-servicing agreement that allows for reciprocal stocks of food, fuel and other supplies between defence forces.
Japan has been supporting India's urban infrastructure development and a high-speed railway based on its bullet train technology.
India and Japan are party to the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue Quad, a security framework that also includes the United States and Australia.
Kishida will also aim to reinforce security and economic ties with India, the world's second most populous country and Asia's third-largest economy.
