Kyiv residents call for iconic Sovietera monuments to be renamed
20220515
https://www.thestar.com.my/lifestyle/culture/2022/05/15/kyiv-residents-call-for-iconic-soviet-era-monuments-to-be-renamed
Stream time: Bing Slamet's historic Malaya visit, Sarawak's exotic food heritageTuyang Initiative heads to Singapore to pay homage to SEA native culturesExperience the arts at KLPac's all-ages 17th birthday month celebrationsMajor arts and culture events, festivals are back again in Malaysia
Users have voted for the "Minsk" station to become "Warsaw" station, and for the "Leo Tolstoy Square" stop to instead celebrate Vassyl Stus, a Ukrainian dissident who died in the Soviet gulag. - AFP
'The Neon Hieroglyph' takes a trippy dive into a hallucinatory universeStream time: Bing Slamet's historic Malaya visit, Sarawak's exotic food heritageTuyang Initiative heads to Singapore to pay homage to SEA native culturesExperience the arts at KLPac's all-ages 17th birthday month celebrationsMajor arts and culture events, festivals are back again in Malaysia
Many Kyiv residents have called for plaques across the city linked to Russia and its ally Belarus to be replaced.
Tuyang Initiative heads to Singapore to pay homage to SEA native culturesExperience the arts at KLPac's all-ages 17th birthday month celebrationsMajor arts and culture events, festivals are back again in Malaysia
Experience the arts at KLPac's all-ages 17th birthday month celebrationsMajor arts and culture events, festivals are back again in Malaysia
Workers dismantle the Soviet monument to Ukraine-Russia friendship in Kyiv last month, amid Russian invasion of Ukraine. Photo: AFP
He said renaming them all would take time and involve "specialists", mainly historians, "so as not to take a hasty decision".
"The city council today decided to 'de-communise' the name of the Arch of the Friendship of the Peoples. It will now be the Arch of the Freedom of the Ukrainian People," the capital's mayor Vitali Klitschko said on Telegram.
The arch is an imposing 35m-high monument that towers over central Kyiv. It was erected in 1982.
Kyiv recently renamed an iconic Soviet-era arch symbolising ties with Moscow to "Arch of the Freedom of the Ukrainian People", the mayor said.
The symbolic move comes after the city demolished a statue of two workers - one Russian and the other Ukrainian - under the arch last month.
He said officials had also "approved a list of more than 40 monuments and memorial plaques that will have to be removed from streets and buildings of the capital and transferred to a museum of totalitarianism."
