Little respite for doctors on Ukraines eastern front
20220815
https://www.thestar.com.my/news/world/2022/08/15/little-respite-for-doctors-on-ukraine039s-eastern-front
Russian forces initially planned to advance on the capital Kyiv but changed strategy after meeting resistance from the Ukrainian army.
No sooner has he recorded the time of death of one serviceman than he is examining another wheeled in on a stretcher.
Still, the medical teams keep working as ambulances keep arriving and patients are brought in for immediate attention.
"I'm just doing my job. All of us do what's needed, we're just fulfilling our duty," he says.
"The most difficult moments are psychological," says Mykhailo, the head of the hospital's surgery department, who also did not want his surname to be published.
Mykhailo has dealt with the stress by setting up a fitness club with some of his colleagues.
Andrii, 47, is from Kyiv and was working there until Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February when he moved to the front line. Treating young soldiers seemed the most natural thing to do in conditions of war, he says.
Russian forces captured virtually all of Luhansk region in battles through June that killed thousands on both sides. Now, they are pushing steadily southward in Donetsk.
A nurse starts humming a tune to try and lighten the atmosphere and offers encouragement to one of the injured.
Ambulances shuttle back and forth to the hospital, carrying soldiers wounded in fighting that has engulfed towns in Ukrainian-held parts of Donetsk.
"A grenade may be concealed where you least expect it," reads a poster taped to a corridor wall in the hospital.
He cuts off the trousers of one injured man and instructs a nurse to prepare an infusion.
The Kremlin, which calls its actions in Ukraine a "special military operation", said it would concentrate on securing the entire Donbass region of eastern Ukraine - parts of which were occupied by Russian forces and their proxies in 2014.
Andrii and his colleagues treat the most debilitating injuries inflicted on Ukrainian soldiers. They work 12-hour shifts in theory but often stay longer if there are a lot of urgent cases.
"The only thing important is that there is a person that does this job. To a certain extent at least. I'm not saying that Im doing something 'extra', just everyone is doing their work, and all of this together creates a certain teamwork spirit."
DONETSK REGION, Ukraine Reuters -     Andrii, a doctor working in Ukraine's Donetsk region, has virtually no time to take breaks during his shifts at a military hospital near the front lines of the war against Russia.
"When you get 20 or 22-year old boys, young boys, and they have serious injuries. When they lose their limbs, or their sight, when they become disabled."
Healthcare workers treat a wounded Ukrainian soldier in a military hospital, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in Donetsk region, Ukraine, August 9, 2022. REUTERSAlkis Konstantinidis
Andrii, who asked to be identified only by his first name, meets patients being brought in by ambulances and scurries down narrow corridors to assess and treat the most recent arrivals.
