Warweary Ukrainian soldiers in trenches ready to make it or break it
20220208
https://www.thestar.com.my/news/world/2022/02/09/war-weary-ukrainian-soldiers-in-trenches-ready-to-039make-it-or-break-it039
The soldiers in the Luhansk region, which shares much of its border with Russia, say they are fed up with uncertainty and want some kind of breakthrough in the conflict that has kept them in the trenches since 2014.
"If something starts it is impossible to predict what's going to happen and to plan accordingly. One will have to rely on one's skills, habits and experience," he said.
Bohdan, 27,  a former miner and a student of aviation engineering in Pavlohrad, near Dnipro, has been stationed on the frontline for the past year.
"We are sick of this never-ending war. Make it or break it, let them attack us or we should attack them to end this uncertainty. We are all tired of this," said Bohdan, a Ukrainian soldier who refused to give his surname for security reasons.
A service member of the Ukrainian armed forces rests in a trench at combat positions near the line of separation from Russian-backed rebels outside the town of Svitlodarsk in the Donetsk region, Ukraine February 8, 2022. REUTERSMaksim Levin
LUHANSK REGION, Ukraine Reuters -     A group of Ukrainian soldiers patrols the frontline in eastern Ukraine when they suddenly hear the noise of grenades going off in the distance. They crouch down and start running towards the safety of the trenches.
This is the contact line of Ukraine's eight-year war against Russian-backed forces that President Volodymyr Zelenskiy says has claimed 15,000 lives.
Bohdan spends time exercising with barbells and a skipping rope in a makeshift gym he has built in the trench that he has been posted at for the past several months.
Russia has massed more than 100,000 troops near Ukraine's borders in recent weeks, ringing alarm bells in NATO member states who fear a new military offensive. Moscow denies any such plan.
Another soldier, Konstyantin, 44, a former policeman from Lviv in active service since 2014, says training will be crucial if full-scale conflict breaks out.
Although the bigger guns have been silent for some time, mortar and rocket-propelled grenade explosions still break the silence over the snow-covered fields.
