CT Weather Thunderstorms Hail Forecast For Saturday Afternoon
20220326
https://patch.com/connecticut/across-ct/ct-weather-thunderstorms-hail-forecast-saturday-afternoon
Sunday Night: Mostly cloudy, with a low around 18. Wind chill values between 10 and 15. Northwest wind 11 to 13 mph.
Tonight: Scattered showers, mainly before 11pm. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 34. West wind around 7 mph. Chance of precipitation is 30.
The CT resident traveled to Ukraine to help soldiers fend off attacks from Russia  and he's documenting his efforts on Twitter.Read More.
Monday: Partly sunny, with a high near 31. Northwest wind 11 to 18 mph, with gusts as high as 29 mph.
"Sunday night will be the first of a few very cold nights as far as early spring goes. Temperatures drop into the upper 10s and lower 20s. This does put some climate sites at risk of breakingrecord lows," the weather service said. On Monday, temperatures will struggle to reach 30 degrees.
Monday: Partly sunny, with a high near 32. Northwest wind 10 to 15 mph, with gusts as high as 26 mph.
Sunday: A slight chance of rain and snow showers after 2pm. Partly sunny, with a high near 43. West wind 10 to 14 mph. Chance of precipitation is 20.
Sunday Night: Mostly cloudy, with a low around 22. Northwest wind 10 to 13 mph.
Today: Scattered showers and thunderstorms, mainly after 1pm. Some of the storms could produce small hail. Mostly cloudy, with a high near 55. Southwest wind 5 to 9 mph. Chance of precipitation is 50. New rainfall amounts of less than a tenth of an inch, except higher amounts possible in thunderstorms.
CONNECTICUT  Anytime after noon Saturday, there is a chance for a strong thunderstorm that could include a brief rain downpour along with small hail and gusty winds, according to Connecticut's weather experts and the National Weather Service.
Today: Scattered showers and thunderstorms before 2pm, then showers likely and possibly a thunderstorm between 2pm and 5pm, then scattered showers and thunderstorms after 5pm. Some of the storms could produce small hail and gusty winds. Partly sunny, with a high near 52. Light southwest wind increasing to 5 to 9 mph in the morning. Chance of precipitation is 60. New rainfall amounts of less than a tenth of an inch, except higher amounts possible in thunderstorms.
Temperatures on Sunday will only be in the low to mid 40s, which is 5-10 degrees below normal for late March, the weather service said. Isolated shower activity is possible in the afternoon and evening hours, with snow or a rainsnow mix farther north and plain rain farther south, the weather service said.
Tuesday Night: Mostly clear, with a low around 23. Northwest wind 6 to 10 mph.
Superior Court Judge Gary White issued a ruling in the case involving the disappearance of Jennifer Farber Dulos.Read More.
"Any thunderstorm activity should be done by late this evening and showers taper off a little later, before midnight," the weather service said.
Tonight: A chance of showers, mainly before 10pm. Cloudy, then gradually becoming partly cloudy, with a low around 36. West wind around 7 mph. Chance of precipitation is 30. New precipitation amounts of less than a tenth of an inch possible.
WTNH News 8 chief meteorologist Gil Simmons wrote on Twitter that the weather will be changing quickly on Saturday. He wrote that dark clouds and spotty downpours begin to roll in after noon. He said there may be some thunder and hail too.
Monday Night: Mostly clear, with a low around 19. Northwest wind 8 to 13 mph.
The National Weather Service said to expect scattered showers around noon and the rain may become more widespread in the afternoon hours and there is a chance for a thunderstorm, which may include small hail and strong wind gusts. High temperatures reach the lower to mid 50s today.
Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.
WTNH News 8 meteorologist Ashley Baylor wrote on Twitter that the scattered thunderstorms will be most prevalent after 2 p.m. Saturday. Small hail is also possible, Baylor wrote. Read more at WTNH News 8.
