 Happy 4th Of July  Enterprise Florida Pledges 5 Million To Miami
20220704
https://patch.com/florida/miami/happy-4th-july-enterprise-florida-pledges-5-million-miami
Hey, neighbors. Happy 4th of July! It's Monday in Miami and I'm back in your inbox with everything you need to know about what's happening in our community today. Here's the lowdown.
1. The Fourth of July is here in the Miami area. Patch has a guide of what's open and closed today. Most local facilities and government offices will be closed to observe the holiday. Miami Patch
2. Nearly 5 million travelers have been screened by TSA since Thursday. 4,934,961 between Thursday and Friday, to be exact. About 145,000 travelers are expected every day at Miami International Airport for the holiday. NBC Miami
Now you're in the loop and ready to head out the door on this Monday. I'll be back in your inbox tomorrow with your next update!
Have a news tip or suggestion for an upcoming Miami Daily? Contact me at carlosreportsnewsgmail.com
3. Enterprise Florida will provide $5 million to help Miami host games in the 2026 FIFA World Cup soccer tournament. Miami is one of 11 cities chosen in the United States for the World Cup, along with three in Mexico and two in Canada. CBS Miami
5. Plans for a redevelopment at the former Miami Arena were filed with the Federal Aviation Administration this month by the Witkoff Group. The development is planned to become the largest residential project by unit count in downtown Miamis history. The Next Miami
4. Lehman Dealership Enterprises, a family-owned business with over 80 years in South Floridas market, has sold its auto business to Lithia  Driveway. Oregon-based Lithia  Driveway also announced the purchase of two Esserman International stores in Miami-Dade County. Miami Today
Weve been getting so much positive feedback about the Miami Daily that were starting to get a big head. Want to bring us back down to earth with some constructive feedback? If so, take our simple  and quick!  reader survey. Your feedback will help us make sure were covering the kind of local news, events and scuttlebutt you really care about. And it will help us toward our goal of being an indispensable local resource and the last email youd ever unsubscribe from.
Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.
About me: Hello my name is Carlos Hernandez and I am a food writer with over 10 years of experience in the industry. I write the food blog Carlos Eats http:www.carloseats.com and also contribute to several newspapers and magazines with food-related blogs and articles.
Attention local businesses  marketers: Attract more customers in Miami by sponsoring this daily newsletter, which gets read by the same people you're trying to reach. Click here to learn more.
Wed be so appreciative of your feedback that, if you take the survey, well enter your email address in a drawing for a small mountain of Patch swag. You know you want that tote bag  so click the link and give it to us straight. Thank you!
