Globe extends free calls data to Filipinos in Ukraine amid tensions
20220224
https://www.sunstar.com.ph/article/1921888/pampanga/local-news/globe-extends-free-calls-data-to-filipinos-in-ukraine-amid-tensions
GLOBE is providing assistance to Filipinos in Ukraine through free roaming calls, texts, and data to keep in touch with their loved ones back home amid tensions between Kyiv and Moscow.Globe customers currently using roaming services in Ukraine may connect with their loved ones with free 15 minutes of incoming and outgoing calls, 15 texts to all networks, and 1GB data whichever service is currently available good for seven days at no extra cost.We understand how connectivity is crucial to our customers in Ukraine at this time of uncertainty. We hope to help them reach their loved ones at home and let them know of their status. We believe this connection is critical especially during a difficult time, Globe Vice President for Postpaid and International Business Coco Domingo said.To avail of the free roaming service, customers only need to connect to Globes roaming partners, Life or Kyivstar. There is no registration required as this goodwill offer will be automatically provided to Globe customers currently located in Ukraine. A confirmation message will be sent to customers advising them that the free roaming offer is ready for use.To make a call, dial  plus country code, area code, and telephone number ex. 63773101212 or dial  plus country code and mobile number ex. 639171234567. To send a text, type  plus country code and mobile number ex. 639171234567.To use the free 1GB data allocation, customers simply need to turn on mobile data and data roaming on their phones settings, and set the network connection to 3G or LTE. Postpaid customers are encouraged to only turn on their mobile data and data roaming once they have received the activation message.Russia this week sent troops to Ukraine, a climax in long-simmering tensions over two regions that had broken away from Kyiv.Globe has been prioritizing the safety of its customers worldwide. It provided prepaid load and postpaid bill adjustments to customers in Myanmar and Afghanistan amid unrest there in 2021, and in Kazakhstan in January this year when oil price hikes fueled riots.For additional information, visit www.globe.com.phinternationalroaming.
