Council of Europe expels Russia from human rights body
20220318
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/council-of-europe-expels-russia-from-human-rights-body/
The 47-nation organizations committee of ministers said in statement that the Russian Federation ceases to be a member of the Council of Europe as from today.
Kox said his organization remains on the side of the victims of this unprovoked war of aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, and all our thoughts are now with the Ukrainian people.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba immediately welcomed the decision, tweeting that there was no place for Russia in European bodies as it wages a barbaric war of aggression against Ukraine and commits multiple war crimes.
The Council of Europe on Wednesday expelled Russia from the continents foremost human rights body in an unprecedented move over Moscows invasion and war in Ukraine.
In a highly symbolic move after the decision, Council of Europe staff went outside of its headquarters in Strasbourg and took down the Russian flag, neatly folding the tricolor before it was taken away.
Earlier this week, the groups parliamentary assembly already initiated the process of expulsion and unanimously backed that Russia would be kicked out.
It was unclear what the extent of support was for the expulsion since the Committee of Ministers arrived at a consensus behind closed doors, making it impossible to have a full breakdown of votes.
Despite the pomp, it was an unceremonious end to 26 years of membership in the group.
Tiny Kox, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, said the expulsion was necessary, and I am glad we dared to do so.
Member nations also spoke out. Russias actions alone have led to this outcome, Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde said. We sincerely hope that Russia will one day return to the ideals of peace and democracy, and regain its membership.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov insisted Wednesday that it would have left the body regardless. In an interview with Russian broadcaster RBK, he accused NATO and EU countries of abusing their majority in the council, eventually transforming it into a tool for anti-Russian policy. Ukraine is also a member of the Council of Europe.
