Defiant Putin Slams West While Ukraine Inches Closer to Joining EU
20220618
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/defiant-putin-slams-west-while-ukraine-inches-closer-to-joining-eu/
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy applauded the European Commissions recommendation to grant Ukraine candidate status for European Union membership, while Russian President Vladimir Putin slammed the West for imposing sanctions on Moscow but played down the EU decision.
Biden said there could be chaos in Europe if Russia keeps moving deeper into the continent without being challenged.
President Joe Biden said Friday that he doesnt know the status of three Americans who are reportedly missing after volunteering to go to Ukraine to fight against the Russians.
Russian state television showed video Friday of two of the missing men. It identified them as Alex Drueke and Andy Huynh.
The head of the European Union said Friday that Ukraine should be formally considered for candidate status.
We dont know where they are, he said. Americans should not be going to Ukraine now. Ill say it again: Americans should not be going to Ukraine.
On Thursday, in an interview with The Associated Press, Biden said hes willing to pay a political price for his support for Ukraine. The United States imposed tough sanctions on Russia for invading Ukraine, and gas prices have since skyrocketed.
The RT television report said the men were being held by Russian-backed separatists in Ukraines eastern Donbas region.
We all know that Ukrainians are ready to die for the European perspective, said Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commissions president, while wearing a jacket in Ukraines national colors. We want them to live with us the European dream.
Biden said he is making decisions as commander in chief and not as a politician.
Early Friday, Zelenskyy tweeted that he commends the decision, adding, Its the 1st step on the EU membership path thatll certainly bring our Victory closer.
Im the president of the United States, he said. Its not about my political survival. Its about whats best for the country.
Putin spoke Friday at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, where he accused the West of colonial arrogance and trying to crush Russia with sanctions he described as stupid.
France is the latest country to be completely cut off from Russian natural gas. Moscow also has reduced supplies by half to Italy and Slovakia. Germany and Austria have also been hit. Europe gets about 40 of its gas from Russia.
The European nations are stockpiling their reserves to prepare for winter, as they use less gas during the summer. The EU wants its members to have their gas storage at 80 capacity, at least, by November.
