Fighting Rages in Eastern Ukraine on 100th Day of War
20220604
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/fighting-rages-in-eastern-ukraine-on-100th-day-of-war/
Earlier this week, U.S. President Joe Biden said the United States was providing Ukraine with a $700 million package of more advanced rocket systems and munitions to help fight off Russias invasion, now in its fourth month. White House officials said Ukraine had vowed not to fire those rockets into Russian territory.
On Thursday, Zelenskyy said Russian forces occupied about 20 of Ukrainian territory. He said there had been some progress in the battle for Sievierodonetsk but did not give specifics.
This war has taken an unacceptable toll on people and engulfed virtually all aspects of civilian life, Assistant Secretary-General Amin Awad said. This war has and will have no winner. Rather, we have witnessed for 100 days what is lost: lives, homes, jobs and prospects. We have witnessed destruction and devastation across cities, towns and villages. Schools, hospitals and shelters have not been spared.
Britains Defense Ministry said Russia had taken control of most of the city. It said Ukrainian forces controlled the main road into Sievierodonetsk, with Russia making steady local gains, enabled by a heavy concentration of artillery.
The Ukrainian head of the Luhansk region, Serhiy Gaidai, told national television Friday that Ukraine had recaptured a large piece of territory in Sievierodonetsk. He said Ukrainian troops had retaken about 20 of the ground they previously lost to the Russians.
Fighting raged in two key eastern Ukrainian cities on the 100th day of Russias war, with both Moscow and Kyiv claiming progress on the battlefront.
Gaidai said that Russian troops were making advances only with heavy artillery, and that once Ukraine had enough Western long-range weapons, it would be able to force the Russians to retreat.
The U.N. crisis coordinator for Ukraine issued a statement Friday to mark the 100th day of the war.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address Friday: We have defended Ukraine for 100 days already, adding, Victory will be ours.
In neighboring Donetsk province, regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko told Reuters that Russian troops were just 15 kilometers outside the city of Sloviansk.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian troops had succeeded in their main stated task of protecting civilians in the separatist-controlled areas in eastern Ukraine.
Russian forces have been trying to encircle the cities of Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk in Ukraines eastern Luhansk province.
The United States and Britain pledged this week to send Ukraine advanced missile systems. Ukraines Defense Ministry said Friday that soldiers had already begun training in Europe to operate the weapons.
This new package will arm them with new capabilities and advanced weaponry, including HIMARS with battlefield munitions, to defend their territory from Russian advances, Biden said in a statement, using the acronym for the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System. We will continue to lead the world in providing historic assistance to support Ukraines fight for freedom.
He added that Russian forces had liberated parts of Ukraine and that this work will continue until all the goals of the special military operation are achieved.
