Is Putin SaberRattling or Preparing for War
20211123
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/is-putin-saber-rattling-or-preparing-for-war/
Everyone is wondering, whats Putin going to do? I think he loves it when we ask those questions, Kramer says.
Of the map Ukraines military intelligence agency released outlining possible Russian incursion routes, Kofman tweeted: I think this is a sobering and fairly accurate picture of what is being considered. The Russian military can do this. This is a worst-case iteration of several possible contingencies.
But he fears Putin is rolling the dice. And that, he says, is a really risky thing.
Ukrainian intelligence released a map detailing its assessment of how the invasion would play out, with Russian forces pushing deep into the country from north, east and south. It would be a much more traditional, but bloodier, operation than the Kremlins seizure of Crimea in 2014. Budanov believes that the ultimate goal of the Kremlin is to topple Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiys administration.
The Kremlin on Monday claimed the dire warnings about a troop buildup along the border are being used to justify supplying Ukraine with high-tech weapons, including Javelin anti-tank missiles. Amid the weeks of escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters in Moscow: Kyiv is itself building up its forces, Kyiv is being helped to build up its forces, Kyiv is being supplied with a significant number of weapons, including modern high-tech weapons.
They are factoring in Russias decision in October and again this month not to send additional natural gas supplies to Europe, worsening an energy crunch, and what they see as the Kremlins efforts to capitalize on the migrant crisis along the Belarus-Polish border manufactured by Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko, a Putin ally.
Over the past few weeks, American officials have been sharing with European allies their intelligence assessments which highlight that Moscow is close to being able to launch a quick large-scale push into Ukraine from multiple points of the map, according to European officials who spoke with VOA. U.S. officials told Bloomberg News Monday that Moscow had also called up tens of thousands of reservists, who could be used to secure territory overrun by tactical battalions, freeing them up to press on with offensive operations.
Is it a feint meant only to taunt? Or is the Kremlin working up to what chess aficionados would term an Armageddon game, one aimed at producing a decisive result?
The combination of all three  the troop deployment, the migrant crisis and Western Europes energy crunch  has grabbed the attention of the Western powers, persuading them that this time might be different.
Before then though, Russia would step up psychological warfare and disinformation campaigns, already under way, designed to destabilize Ukraine, he said. They want to foment unrest, through protests and meetings, that show the people are against the government, he said.
He warned if an attack were to be unleashed, it would dwarf the Russian incursions seen since conflict erupted between the two countries in 2014.
But most of the force has remained, and elite units have been added recently, often covertly overnight, according to Western and Ukrainian officials. That has prompted rising alarm in Kyiv and Western capitals.
Budanov is at one end of a spectrum of opinion over the intentions of Russian leader Vladimir Putin. Is the deployment a provocative gambit intending to goad Kyiv and Western powers into making a poor move in a much broader geopolitical game of chess?
Russia has stated it has sufficient gas supply to meet European energy needs. It can and should provide additional supplies through the existing pipeline network, including Ukraine. Failure to do so threatens European energy security and brings into question Russian motives for withholding those supplies, a U.S. State Department official told VOA.
He added, The number of provocations is growing and growing significantly. These provocations are being carried out with weapons being supplied by NATO countries, and we are observing this with great alarm.
I cant speak to Russias intentions. We dont know what they are, Secretary Blinken said earlier this month. But officials do see something different and edgier this time from previous troop buildups along Russias shared border with Ukraine.
Creating uncertainty about the Kremlins immediate intentions might be Putins main goal, says David Kramer, who was assistant secretary of state in the administration of U.S. President George W. Bush.
Ukraine, the United States and the European Union accuse Russia of manufacturing the separatist land grab and sending troops and arms across the border to support the rebel forces. Moscow denies those claims.
Senior U.S. officials have warned NATO allies that the Kremlin might be plotting to seize more parts of Ukraine in a repeat of its 2014 annexation of Crimea.
According to Budanov, the attack would likely involve airstrikes, artillery and tank bombardments as well as an airborne assault in eastern Ukraine and amphibious assaults on the Ukrainian port towns of Odessa and Mariupol. A smaller incursion might be mounted through neighboring Russian ally Belarus, Budanov added.
They want to make the situation inside the country more and more dangerous and hard and make a situation where we have to change the government, he said. If they cant do that, then military troops will do their job.
If the Russian deployments and political discourse are indicative, they are threatening a significant military operation, he tweeted last week. Kofman says he is wary of the narrative that Putin is just bluffing.
We dont have clarity into Moscows intentions, but we do know its playbook, warned U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken earlier this month. Our concern is that Russia may make the serious mistake of attempting to rehash what it undertook back in 2014 when it amassed forces along the border, crossed into sovereign Ukrainian territory, and did so, claiming falsely that it was provoked.
Gen. Kyrylo Budanov, chief of Ukraines defense intelligence agency, added to rising anxiety Sunday when he told Americas Military Times newspaper he suspects the Kremlin is preparing a major offensive for early next year, probably by late January.
Western officials and analysts remain split on the significance of Russias military deployments along its border with Ukraine. Russia deployed around 100,000 troops earlier this year, claiming the movement was temporary and for training exercises.
He suggested Kyiv is looking for a way to vanquish pro-Moscow separatist rebels who seized a swathe of the countrys eastern Donbas region after Moscow annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula in 2014.
Michael Kofman, director of Russia studies at the U.S. Center for Naval Analyses, questions whether all of this is a Putin feint, a taunting of the West to see what advantages might be secured.
Having things unresolved and unstable serves his interest as much as anything. He enjoys seeing the West trying to divine what hes up to, and thats not exactly a way to proceed for a stable, predictable relationship. He doesnt like being ignored. And I think he feels that the American focus on China is a bit of an insult to him, Kramer told VOA.
