Russia Might Want to Invade Other Countries Ukraines Zelenskyy Warns
20220423
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/russia-might-want-to-invade-other-countries-ukraines-zelenskyy-warns/
Canada announced Friday it had provided heavy artillery to Ukraine, following a pledge by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
U.S. President Joe Biden authorized another $800 million in U.S. military assistance to Ukraine on Thursday, declaring it was necessary to help Kyivs forces repel Russian fighters in the critical battles unfolding in the eastern region of the country.
Russian President Vladimir Putin previously said Russia had no intention of permanently occupying Ukranian cities. Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, a move that was widely condemned by the international community.
He said the talks, which include both NATO and non-NATO countries, will be held Tuesday at Ramstein Air Base.
Another proposal we passed on to Ukrainian negotiators about five days ago, which was drawn up with their comments taken into account it remains without a response, Russias top diplomat said.
U.S. State Department spokesperson Jalina Porter declined to comment on the Russian generals statement but said Washington firmly supported Moldovas sovereignty.
At a Friday press conference in Moscow, Lavrov said talks to end the fighting in Ukraine are at a standstill because Kyiv has not responded to Moscows latest set of proposals.
In Geneva, the U.N. human rights office said Friday there was growing evidence that Russia had committed war crimes in Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said Friday that allies were finally delivering the weapons that Ukraine had sought to defend itself.
He said comments earlier Friday by Rustam Minnekayev, deputy commander of Russias central military district, show that Russia will not stop with Ukraine.
They stopped hiding it, Ukraines Defense Ministry said on Twitter, adding that Russia has acknowledged that the goal of the second phase of the war is not victory over the mythical Nazis, but simply the occupation of eastern and southern Ukraine. Imperialism as it is.
Russian forces control most of Mariupol, Zelenskyy said, but Ukrainian troops remain in part of the besieged city.
Guterres will then travel on Thursday to Ukraine, where he will meet with Zelenskyy and Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba. The U.N. said he would also meet with staff of U.N. agencies to discuss the scaling up of humanitarian assistance to Ukrainians.
On Thursday, Putin declared the besieged Ukrainian port city of Mariupol liberated after nearly two months of fighting, even though Russian forces have not been able to penetrate the citys massive Azovstal steel plant, which remains in the hands of Ukrainian fighters and civilians.
Following the incident, Russia said the entire crew of the ship had been rescued. Moscow said Friday that 396 crew members had been rescued.
Russias Defense Ministry acknowledged Friday for the first time that the crew of the missile cruiser Moskva suffered casualties when it sank last week.
Russian state news agencies quoted Minnekayev as saying that Moscow wanted to seize Ukraines entire eastern Donbas region, provide a land corridor to link with the Crimean Peninsula, and capture the countrys entire south as far west as a Russian-occupied breakaway region of Moldova. That would mean carrying the offensive hundreds of miles past the current lines and to the border with Moldova.
The U.N. chief wrote to Putin and Zelenskyy earlier in the week requesting meetings to discuss the next steps toward peace in Ukraine.
The Pentagon said Friday that U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin would hold a meeting next week in Germany with defense officials and military leaders from more than 20 countries to discuss Ukraines defense needs.
Guterres also appealed this week for a four-day humanitarian pause to coincide with Orthodox Easter, which is celebrated in Ukraine and Russia. So far, those efforts have failed.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday seized on remarks by a Russian general as evidence that Moscow would invade other countries if it succeeded in Ukraine. The general had said Russia aimed to capture all of southern and eastern Ukraine and link it to a breakaway province in neighboring Moldova.
Russian armed forces have indiscriminately shelled and bombed populated areas, killing civilians and wrecking hospitals, schools and other civilian infrastructure, actions that may amount to war crimes, said Michelle Bachelet, the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said that about 40 nations were invited to the meeting and responses were still arriving.
However, Russias lead negotiator at the talks with Ukraine, Putin aide Vladimir Medinsky, confirmed that he had engaged in several lengthy conversations with the head of the Ukrainian delegation on Friday, The Associated Press reported.
Ukraines Defense Ministry said the comments by the Russian general showed that Russias previous claims that it had no territorial ambitions were not true.
This only confirms what I have already said multiple times: Russias invasion of Ukraine was intended only as a beginning, Zelenskyy said in his evening address Friday.
In diplomatic activity Friday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal in Washington. The State Department said Blinken reinforced our determination to help Ukraine successfully defend itself against Russias brutal and unjustified war of aggression.
Ukraine and the United States said the ship was hit by Ukrainian cruise missiles, while Russia blamed the sinking on a fire.
The U.N. announced Friday that Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will meet Putin in Moscow on Tuesday. Hell also hold meetings and have a working lunch with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
