Russian FM Security talks with US NATO to start next month
20211123
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/russian-fm-security-talks-with-us-nato-to-start-next-month/
Yes, my concern is great, but that means all the more that we must enter dialogue with every millimeter of our own action, Baerbock said in Berlin. And that also means that, if proposals are made that are not our basis for negotiations, we must speak to each other.
Asked about Putins warning, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said the Russian leaders statement causes concern and underlined the need for a dialogue.
Moscow presented the demands amid soaring tensions over a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine that has stoked fears of a possible invasion. U.S. President Joe Biden warned Russian President Vladimir Putin in a conference call earlier this month that Russia will face severe consequences if it attacks Ukraine.
Russia annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and shortly after cast its support behind a separatist rebellion in the countrys east. The fighting, which started more than seven years ago, has killed over 14,000 people and devastated Ukraines industrial heartland, known as the Donbas.
We dont want a war, Lavrov said Wednesday. We dont want to take the path of confrontation. But we will firmly ensure our security using the means we consider necessary.
Moscow has rejected Western concerns about the troop concentration, saying its free to deploy them wherever it deems necessary on its territory. It has denied the allegations of a planned invasion as a Western smear campaign and, in its turn, accused Ukraine of an intention to reclaim control of the rebel-held areas by force. Ukrainian officials have denied having any such plans.
Ukraines security chief said Wednesday that the country now faces more than 250,000 troops amassed in western Russia.
He added that Moscow would be ready to consider Washingtons demands, but warned that the talks mustnt drag out indefinitely.
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Russia in January will also start separate talks with NATO to discuss the issue, adding that separate negotiations under the auspices of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe will also be held.
We want these talks, he said in a conference call with reporters. And, certainly, the talks are held to discuss each others positions.
In Tuesdays speech before top military brass, Putin warned that Russia will have to take adequate military-technical measures if the West continues its aggressive course on the threshold of our home.
Separately, U.S. Army Col. Dave Butler, spokesman for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, spoke Tuesday with Russian Gen. Valery Gerasimov, chief of the Russian General Staff. He said the generals discussed regional security issues, but no details of the conversation were released.
A key principle of the NATO alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country, and the U.S. has said it wont give Russia the kind of guarantee on Ukraine it seeks. In the meantime, the American side is conferring with its European allies.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov also hailed reaching a quick agreement on the start of the talks, but noted that they should be aimed at reaching concrete results and not become drawn out. He added that Moscow expects Washington to present a detailed platform for the talks and be ready for a constructive discussion.
I hope that they will take us seriously given the moves we take to ensure our defense capability, he said.
On Tuesday, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu claimed that more than 120 U.S. private military contractors are currently operating in two villages near the line of contact in eastern Ukraine, training Ukrainian troops and setting up firing positions in residential buildings and different facilities. He also alleged that they stockpiled toxic chemicals in preparation for a possible provocation.
If the situation exacerbates, it cant happen momentarily, Danilov said. It will require preparation, and we are watching it.
Putin has denied having plans to launch an attack but has described NATOs expansion to Ukraine and weapons deployment of the alliance weapons there as a red line.
Oleksiy Danilov, the secretary of Ukraines National Security and Defense Council, said that 122,000 Russian troops are concentrated within 200 kilometers about 125 miles of the Ukrainian border and another 143,500 Russian soldiers are within a broader, 400-kilometer 250-mile distance from it.
She stressed the importance of returning to four-way talks between Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine, and again expressed hopes of reviving talks in the NATO-Russia Council to prevent further escalation.
They emphasized the need for coordinated action to support Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity and reaffirmed that any further Russian military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences for the Russian Federation, State Department spokesman Ned Price said.
Speaking in a live interview with Russian RT television, Lavrov hailed Washingtons business-like approach that helped quickly agree on parameters of the future talks.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken discussed Ukraine on Wednesday with Josep Borrell, the EUs high representative for foreign affairs and security policy.
Peskov on Wednesday wouldnt specify what those military-technical steps may include, saying only that they will imply an entire range of measures to ensure security of the Russian Federation and the deterrent parity.
Russian and U.S. negotiators will sit down for talks early next year to discuss Moscows demand for Western guarantees precluding NATOs expansion to Ukraine, Russias top diplomat said Wednesday.
Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. Washington and its allies have refused to provide such pledges, but said they are ready for the talks.
