Saudi Aramco Says Annual Profit More Than Doubled In 2021
20220321
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/saudi-aramco-says-annual-profit-more-than-doubled-in-2021/
Brent crude is currently selling at more than $100 per barrel  in part due to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The announcement came hours after Yemens Houthi rebels  against whom Saudi Arabia leads a military coalition  targeted several locations, including Aramco facilities, in cross-border armed drone attacks.
Although economic conditions have improved considerably, the outlook remains uncertain due to various macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, he said.
Aramco achieved a net income of $88.2 billion in 2019 before the coronavirus pandemic hit global markets, resulting in huge losses for the oil and aviation sectors, among others.
A strong rebound last year saw oil prices recover from their 2020 lows, and they have soared to highs not seen since 2014 this year, amid global supply shortages and Russias invasion of Ukraine.
In February, the kingdom  one of the worlds top crude exporters  moved 4 of Aramco shares worth $80 billion to the countrys sovereign wealth fund.
We recognize that energy security is paramount for billions of people around the world, which is why we continue to make progress on increasing our crude oil production capacity, executing our gas expansion program and increasing our liquids to chemicals capacity.
The transfer was also as a sign that Saudi Arabia wants to further open the oil giant and crown jewel of the Saudi economy, the Arab worlds largest.
But our investment plan aims to tap into rising long-term demand for reliable, affordable and ever more secure and sustainable energy, he added.
The crown prince said last year that Aramco was in talks to sell a 1 stake to a foreign energy giant.
Oil-rich Gulf countries, including Saudi Arabia, have so far resisted Western pressure to raise oil output to rein in prices, stressing their commitment to the OPEC alliance of oil producers, which Riyadh and Moscow lead.
Since Mohammed bin Salmans appointment as crown prince in 2017, Saudi Arabia has sought to diversify its oil-dominated economy.
Our strong results are a testament to our financial discipline, flexibility through evolving market conditions and steadfast focus on our long-term growth strategy, Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser said in a statement.
Russia is the worlds largest producer of gas and one of the biggest oil producers and is grappling with mounting Western sanctions.
Energy giant Saudi Aramco said Sunday its 2021 net profit soared by more than 120, due to higher crude prices, as global economic growth recovered from a pandemic induced downturn.
Aramco floated 1.7 of its shares on the Saudi bourse in December 2019, generating $29.4 billion in the worlds biggest initial public offering.
Aramcos net income increased by 124 to $110.0 billion in 2021, compared to $49.0 billion in 2020, the company said in a statement.
