Sorting fact disinformation after Russian attack on Ukraine
20220226
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/sorting-fact-disinformation-after-russian-attack-on-ukraine/
 Ukraines nuclear energy regulator said higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area around the Chernobyl nuclear plant, site of the worlds worst nuclear accident, after it was seized by the Russian military. The International Atomic Energy Agency said the reported levels dont pose any danger to the public. The Russian Defense Ministry said radiation levels in the area have remained normal.
 Kyiv Mayor Vitaly Klitschko said gunfire and explosions in several parts of the city came as Ukrainian troops were fighting groups of Russian saboteurs. He also said five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the citys eastern outskirts. No electricity outages were immediately reported.
 Moldovas national naval agency said a Moldovan-flagged ship was hit by a missile in neutral waters in the Black Sea, leaving two crew members seriously injured.
 A senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine said the capital city of Kyiv was under missile bombardment late Friday night. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, had no immediate information on what targets might have been hit.
 Russias military said it has taken over Melitopol, a city in the Zaporizhzhia region in southern Ukraine 50 kilometers about 31 miles off of the Azov Sea coast. The claim could not be independently verified.
 Ukraines military said Friday it had shot down a Russian military transport plane carrying paratroopers near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles 40 kilometers south of Kyiv, an account confirmed by a senior American intelligence official. It was unclear how many were on board. Transport planes can carry up to 125 paratroopers. Russia has not commented on the incident.
 Russian Airborne Forces on the outskirts of Kyiv early Saturday attacked Ukrainian units on three sides, but Ukrainian troops were able to repel some of the assaults, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.
 A second Russian military transport plane was shot down Saturday near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles 85 kilometers south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.
 The mayor said a school building was hit by a Ukrainian shell in the rebel-held city of Horlivka in eastern Ukraine, killing its headteacher and a teacher rebels who hold Donetsk said the citys main hospital was damaged by shelling but there were no casualties.
 The Russian military said it took control of an airport outside the Ukrainian capital. The airport in Hostomel, a town 7 kilometers 4 miles from Kyiv, has a runway long enough to receive all types of aircraft, including the biggest cargo planes. Its seizure allows Russia to airlift troops directly to Kyivs outskirts.
 The Russian Defense Ministry said its forces sealed the cities of Sumy and Konotop in northeastern Ukraine. It said they have knocked out 211 military infrastructure facilities. The claims couldnt be independently confirmed.
Associated Press journalists around Ukraine and beyond are documenting military activity during Russias invasion. With disinformation rife and social media amplifying military claims and counterclaims, determining exactly what is happening is difficult. Heres a look at what could be confirmed Friday.
 Ukrainian soldiers evacuating an unmarked military vehicle damaged by gunfire in Kyiv, in the Obolon district about 10 kilometers 6 miles north of the government quarter.
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that 137 heroes, including 10 military officers, had been killed. The Ukrainian military said it has killed over 1,000 Russian troops while fending off Moscows invasion. The Russian military hasnt reported any casualties during the attack. Neither claim could be independently verified.
 Russian missile launcher seen on the edge of the northeastern city of Kharkiv, shelling heard in the distance.
 Ukrainian military establishing defensive positions at bridges around Kyiv. Armored personnel carriers driving through Kyiv streets. Ukrainian authorities placed snowplows at some spots along Kyiv roads to force traffic to slow down.
 Multistory apartment building in Kyiv hit by shelling, with major damage, on the eastern side of the Dneiper River that cuts through the capital, 13 kilometers 8 miles southeast of the government quarter.
 British Intelligence Chief Sir Jim Hockenhull says Russia launched a series of strikes on targets in Kyiv overnight and that multiple rocket launchers have been employed in Chernihiv and Kharkiv.
 Explosions heard from central Kyiv, about 800 meters half a mile from the presidents headquarters.
 The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights said its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties, 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.
 U.K. Defense Intelligence Chief Sir Jim Hockenhull says Russia launched a series of strikes on targets in Kyiv overnight and that multiple rocket launchers have been employed in Chernihiv and Kharkiv.
 A U.S. defense official said a Russian amphibious assault was underway, and thousands of Russian naval infantry were moving ashore from the Sea of Azov, west of Mariupol. The official said Ukrainian air defenses have been degraded but are still operating, and that about a third of the combat power that Russia massed around Ukraine is now in the country.
