Ukrainians cling to life at front line We are patriots
20220707
https://www.newdelhitimes.com/ukrainians-cling-to-life-at-front-line-we-are-patriots/
Communities around the edges of Kharkiv are still in uncertain hands, reportedly part of Moscows strategy to keep Ukrainian troops so distracted that they cannot be sent to places like Donetsk where the Russians are chewing away at entire cities.
On unsteady legs, he returns to the silence of Saltivka, the ticking clock in his hands.
In another Saltivka building, a scrawled sign in the stairway warns potential occupiers that if you come in, youll get killed.
The opera glasses, more of a joke, are hardly needed  the front line is visible without them. The rumbling of Russian and Ukrainian shelling is audible even now, although Lazar claims not to notice. Below his balcony is a crater, one of many. On the nearby street, a Grad rocket launcher rolls by.
You dont wish this on anyone, says Bogdan Netsov, 14, who lives with his family in an apartment with curtains drawn.
The Russians could do the same. More than 600 civilians have been killed in the Kharkiv region north of Donetsk since the invasion, some in Saltiva. Ukrainian authorities have alleged that the Russians used banned cluster bombs.
While towns and villages around the capital of Kyiv have begun to rebuild after the Russians withdrew months ago and world powers discuss long-term recovery, others in eastern Ukraine still cannot sleep soundly.
Viktor Lazar shares his war-side balcony with a pair of opera glasses and a tiny orange snake, his only companion in an apartment that seems to sit at the edge of the world.
As the war grinds into its fifth month along deadly fault lines in Ukraines east and south, Lazar and his few neighbors in Kharkivs vast and shattered neighborhood of Saltivka represent a life without resolution in which many are trapped. New communities are being told to flee. Not all do.
Saltivka, by comparison, is almost dead. Past a final subway station dedicated to heroes, all activity sputters out. Shops are closed and apartment blocks gape with broken windows. In one, a table-sized chunk of concrete twists slowly on a shred of rebar, waiting to fall.
Some electricity has returned but running water has not. Lazar ducks into a basement where water still gurgles for bathing. Two middle-aged women emerge from the darkness, looking fresh, and walk away.
This is me speaking for the whole world, he says, unshaven and fortified by tea. We will push Russia away. Because we are patriots, and we live on our land.
From time to time, a car crunches along the debris. It might bring movers trying to salvage some furniture or volunteers bringing assistance.
Tall grass overtakes abandoned playgrounds scattered with fallen and ripened cherries. Soldiers trenches are bare. In a few apartments now ripped open, laundry still hangs on the line.
The Soviet-era apartment blocks in Saltivka once housed a half-million people, one of the largest neighborhoods in Europe. Now perhaps only dozens remain. Some of the buildings are blackened, while others are crumbling slab by slab.
This is where Viktor Shevchenko still calls home, even as he needs the light of his cellphone to see through its gloom in the daylight hours.
Outside Lazars building, people have assembled a modest kitchen with a mounted bell to ring when the days food arrives. Near the teapot on a wood stove, ammunition boxes now hold bread slowly going stale.
Dishes lie smashed in his destroyed kitchen. A religious symbol from his Orthodox faith is scorched. A clock on the wall, like the neighborhood around him, has stopped working.
But life is less an adventure for those with no options. Pavel Govoryhov, 84, sits in the entrance of a building now as fragile as himself. He has two canes at hand. For four months, he lived in the basement before moving back into his apartment. He tenses at sudden noises. Just speaking about his struggles brings him to tears.
This is my home, says the 37-year-old Lazar, who is shirtless in the soaring summer heat, revealing a machine gun tattoo on his right arm. He proclaims hes ready to fight the Russians, but his only weapons are kitchen knives.
A broken guitar hangs on the wall of his apartment. Lazar, a musician, dreams of holding a defiant concert in Saltivkas echoing, cat-roamed streets. In better days, he played for crowds in the plazas of Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, which is showing signs of rebounding from the war  even though its only a short distance from the border with Russia.
