F35 Stealth Fighters Swing Into Action As NATO Sends Its Top Warplanes To Bulgaria To Check Russian Adventurism
20220417
https://eurasiantimes.com/f-35-stealth-fighters-swing-into-action-as-nato-sends/
Bulgaria had flagged a risk to its security along with Estonia soon after Ukraine was attacked.
The current Royal Netherlands Air Force deployment supports the missions reinvigoration by providing modern air capabilities, demonstrating a strong and capable military posture to deter and protect.
Ever since the war started in Ukraine, it has sent additional arm support to allies in East Europe to secure the eastern flank that lies close to the theater of war. NATO allies like Poland and Hungary even share a border with war-torn Ukraine, while Bulgaria inhabits the region along the Black Sea.
After Russia annexed Crimea, NATO allies decided to launch the Enhanced Air Policing Mission eAPdefense in 2014 to reassure members on the alliances eastern border. Several allies have since partnered with Bulgarias Air Force on a rotating basis to support this mission.
For the first time, F-35 aircraft from the Netherlands have been deployed to Bulgaria as part of the alliances improved air policing mission, which integrates with NATOs expanded vigilance activities in the airspace of its eastern allies.
They are deployed to the country to contribute to the defence of NATO airspace. pic.twitter.comQP7YED6KUO
Earlier in March, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov had announced that the US had agreed to supply a Stryker motorized infantry unit to Bulgarias battle group as part of NATOs effort to fortify its eastern flank following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the war in Russia has intensified even further in the Eastern part of Europe with the West pledging more military support for Ukraine. Ukraine anticipates that Russia is about to launch its next big assault in the region.
The war in Ukraine is not expected to end shortly as neither side has been able to deal a decisive blow. Russian aggression has been met with stiff Ukrainian resistance which has slowed down its march. Even though NATO refused to militarily engage with Russia, its member states will be reinforcing Ukraines and its defenses in the days ahead.
The purchase, as and when it goes through, will allow the Bulgarian Air Force to tackle present and future threats, as well as deploy the fighter jets for patrol operations in the Black Sea region.
It is important NATO allies stand together and I am proud that we can bring our F-35s to Bulgaria and support our ally in safeguarding the Bulgarian airspace together, said Lieutenant Colonel Guido Schols, Commander of the Netherlands F-35 detachment at Graf Ignatievo.
After Russia invaded Ukraine, the NATO alliance sprung into action and announced that it was deploying the NATO Response Force NRF to secure its eastern flank. In line with that commitment, it has now reinforced the Bulgarian defense with stealth fighter jets.
Russia has been resolute in its military action despite calls from all around the world to cease hostilities. The bloody war in Ukraine has brought Finland and Sweden close to the point of officially joining NATO, against Russian warnings that it would bring more instability to the already perturbed region.
The fifth-generation fighter aircraft will reinforce NATOs collective reaction to Russias invasion of Ukraine, as authorized by a Bulgarian government resolution and based on a Netherlands offer to NATO.
On April 6, four F-35 fighter jets from the Royal Netherlands Air Force landed at Graf Ignatievo Air Base near Plovdiv, Bulgaria to protect the skies alongside the Bulgarian Air Force for April and May.
On the other hand, President Vladimir Putin has warned that Russias military intervention in Ukraine is aimed at ensuring Russias security and that its objectives will be met.
Within NATOs eAP framework, there are numerous air policing missions, with the Baltic and Southern Air Policing missions aimed at combating Russia in the east and the Icelandic mission doing the same in the north.
Participating jointly with our colleagues from the Royal Netherlands Air Force in the implementation of the air policing mission with F-35 fighter jets and Bulgarian MiG-29 fighter jets is in the interest of the capabilities of NATOs eastern flank countries, including the Republic of Bulgaria, to ensure air sovereignty, said the Commander of Graf Ignatievo Air Base, Brigadier General Nikolay Rusev.
A few days ago, the US State Department also approved a potential F-16 aircraft and accompanying equipment sale to Bulgaria under the foreign military sale FMS route. The approval came in response to the Bulgarian governments request for the purchase of four F-16 C Block 70 and four F-16 D Block 70 fighter jets.
JUST IN: US Approves F-16 Jets Sale to Bulgaria , includes up to 8 F-16 C and D Block 70 aircraft, estimated cost of $1.6 billion
However, the contribution of our joint activities is far greater: it is about building and strengthening our mutual trust as NATO allies, adds to the exchange of professional experience, and helps expand our capacity for interaction should such a need arise , he added.
Though NATO states have been supplying military aid to Ukraine, they have refused to enter the war or provoke Russia to escalation. However, NATO has vowed to protect every inch of NATO territory for which it has unleashed its collective military might put up a united security front.
