Azov Fighters Describe Conditions at Russian Detention Camp After Surrender
20220520
https://www.newsweek.com/azov-fighters-describe-conditions-russian-detention-camp-after-surrender-1708702
Junior Sergeant Slivak Sergey Evgenievich, 30, with the 57 National Guard, said: "Treatment is better than I expect, I have a blanket, mattress. Food is adequate, there is enough to eat. As for everything else, conditions here are good."
Russia's defense ministry said 771 Ukrainian fighters from the steelworks had surrendered up until May 19, taking the total to 1,730, and 80 of the fighters were wounded.
The Kremlin also says that the Ukrainian fighters from the Azovstal plant have been taken to a former prison colony in a Russian-controlled part of Donetsk.
"They helped my colleagues, I was assured that everything was fine. Most of the seriously wounded soldiers were taken out, at least during that first time with me.
Ukrainian soldiers have spoken about the conditions they are experiencing in a Russian detention camp after surrendering at the besieged Azovstal plant earlier this week.
"Over the past 24 hours, 694 militants have laid down their arms and surrendered, including 29 wounded.
Russian troops first stormed the Azovstal iron and steelworks plant in the city of Mariupol on April 19 and destroyed large areas.
The Russian Ministry of Defense MoD said in a statement May 18: "In Mariupol, militants of Azov nationalist unit and Ukrainian servicemen holed up in the Azovstal plant continue to surrender.
In the footage, he is heard saying: "Today they took us to the dining room. We had soup in the morning. There was also soup and porridge at lunch.
The Azov Battalion, a unit of the National Guard of Ukraine based in Mariupol, remained at the plant to mount a resistance.
Ukrainian fighter Pryashchenko Stanislav gave an account of the treatment he has been receiving at the hands of his Russian captors.
Stanislav added: "We have wounded guys here. We are waiting for the doctor now, they promised to come right now, to change the dressing."
Surgeon Yuri Zayduk, lieutenant of the Medical Service, said: "I really didn't know what to expect. In general what I wanted, what turned out, was better than I expected.
"We have not had dinner yet, we are still waiting. So we have beds, mattresses. Everything is as it should be. Blankets, pillows, everything is there, bed linen.
Following the fall of Mariupol, the Russian authorities plan to tear down the Azovstal metallurgical plant and turn the city into a "resort," according to the Institute for the Study of War.
However, after weeks of being besieged by the Russian forces, the unit began to suffer from severe shortages and didn't have basic necessities such as bandages to treat their many wounded.
"Everything is fine, I have no complaints, everyone is respectful, adequate. Nobody uses insults here, nobody offends us, for sure.
"A total of 959 militants have surrendered since May 16, including 80 wounded, 51 needed urgent hospital treatment and were admitted to Novoazovsk Hospital in the Donetsk People's Republic."
