Battle for Kharkiv as Videos Show Fierce Fighting Between Ukraine and Russia Forces
20220227
https://www.newsweek.com/battle-kharkiv-street-fighting-breaks-out-ukraine-russia-forces-1683023
Videos posted on Telegram by Anton Herashchenko, an adviser to the interior minister, also showed several light military vehicles traveling along a street while another video captured a burning tank.
Russian razvedchiki and Spetsnaz in Kharkiv. I dont think theyll be able to take the city just with light forces. https:t.coWtCVj7IooY pic.twitter.comZwBi2B4XB7
About 60 people who had taken refuge in the building's basement manage to avoid injury, officials said.
Ukraine's State Emergency Service said a rocket had struck a nine-storey residential building in Kharkiv on Saturday night, killing an elderly woman who lived on the fifth floor.
Ukrainian soldiers engaging Russian spetsnaz or razvedchiki by those damaged and abandoned Tigr-M vehicles in Kharkiv. https:t.cogJ6GzsXf3e pic.twitter.comsUgtKa7TjZ
"The Russian enemy's light vehicles have broken into Kharkiv, including the city center," Sinegubov said in the post. "Do not leave shelters! Ukraine's armed forces are destroying the enemy. We ask civilians not to go out."
Oleh Sinegubov, the regional governor of Kharkiv, said in a post on Facebook that light vehicles had entered the city and he urged the city's roughly 1.4 million residents to stay indoors.
Russian forces also blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office said. The government warned residents to protect themselves from the smoke by covering their windows with damp cloth or gauze.
A number of videos posted on social media showed Russian vehicles moving across the city and Russian troops roaming the city in small groups.
Other videos on social media showed gunfire erupting in the streets of Kharkiv and Ukrainian soldiers inspecting Russian light utility vehicles damaged by shelling and abandoned by Russian troops on a street.
"Residents of Kharkiv survived a terrible night, but our soldiers are repelling the Russian invader," the Ukrainian National Guard said early Sunday. "The armed forces are working, the police are on the ground, and government agencies are performing their duties."
Zelenskyy rejected the officer. He suggested other locations, saying his country was not willing to meet in Minsk because Belarus had served as a staging ground for the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian forces battled Russian troops on the streets of Kharkiv after they entered Ukraine's second-largest city on Sunday, according to local officials and videos circulating on social media.
A group of Russian soldiers reportedly surrendered to Ukrainian forces in Kharkiv, according to one of the videos posted by Herashchenko. "A smart Russian is a captive Russian," Herashchenko wrote in a caption.
