Blinken Says Swift Response Needed for Russia Recognizing New Republics
20220222
https://www.newsweek.com/blinken-says-swift-response-needed-russia-recognizing-new-republics-1681212
Blinken said coordination will continue among the U.S., its allies and Ukraine to take "appropriate" steps in response to the move. President Joe Biden is set to sign an executive order prohibiting all new investment, trade and financing involving the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics regions of Ukraine.
"Kremlin recognition of the so-called 'Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics' as 'independent' requires a swift and firm response," Blinken tweeted Monday afternoon. "We will take appropriate steps in coordination with partners."
Russia delivered its written response to the United States Thursday morning, three weeks after the U.S. delivered its proposal detailing steps to address mutual security concerns.
Earlier Monday, the State Department retweeted a security alert, again urging U.S. citizens in Ukraine to leave immediately.
"The security situation in Ukraine continues to be unpredictable throughout the country and may deteriorate with little notice," the alert read. "There is a strong likelihood that any Russian military operations would severely restrict commercial air travel."
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken assured a "swift and firm" response to Russian President Vladimir Putin recognizing the independence of two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine on Monday.
"This decision represents a complete rejection of Russia's commitments under the Minsk agreements, directly contradicts Russia's claimed commitment to diplomacy, and is a clear attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity," Blinken said. "Russia's decision is yet another example of President Putin's flagrant disrespect for international law and norms."
Blinken addressed the United Nations Security Council on Thursday, warning of a "sharp and decisive" response in the event of a Russian invasion.
"The executive order is designed to prevent Russia from profiting off of this blatant violation of international law," Blinken said. "It is not directed at the people of Ukraine or the Ukrainian government and will allow humanitarian and other related activity to continue in these regions."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Blinken are set to meet on February 24 in Europe however, the meeting is contingent upon Russia not sending its troops into Ukraine before Thursday.
In a statement, Blinken condemned Putin's decision and reiterated that the U.S. stands in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
"Our support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as for the government and people of Ukraine is unwavering," his statement concluded.
Kremlin recognition of the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics as independent requires a swift and firm response, and we will take appropriate steps in coordination with partners.
