Defending Troops Fire Flurry of Rockets at Russian Targets in Ukraine
20220524
https://www.newsweek.com/defending-troops-fire-flurry-rockets-russian-targets-ukraine-1711716
The Command of the Assault Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said on May 30: "Artillery of the 81st brigade of the DShV destroyed Russian occupiers in the Ukrainian Donetsk region."
"Death to the Russian occupiers! DShV - Always First! Glory to Ukraine!," the statement concluded.
From February 24 to May 31, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at around 30,500 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Russian troops entered the outskirts of Sievierodonetsk on the morning of May 30 and are advancing on the city center.
The Ukrainian military said: "Two Sievierodonetsk residents were killed with Russian shells, and five more injured. Most of them are from the same residential quarter in the old part of the city. They were cooking food in the yard as the shelling suddenly began. Two Syrotyne residents were seriously injured. All the injured received first aid and were taken to hospitals in Donetsk region."
"Soldiers of the 81st Airmobile Brigade of the DShV of the Armed Forces of Ukraine continue to inflict daily losses on the Russian occupiers and destroy their equipment.
Ukrainian soldiers fired a flurry of rockets at Russian targets from a Grad 122-mm rocket launcher, as seen in a released video.
The Ukrainian military said the attack was carried out by members of the 81st Airmobile Brigade of the Ukrainian Air Assault Forces DShV in the eastern region of Donetsk Oblast.
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 1,358 tanks, 3,302 armored fighting vehicles, 649 artillery systems, 207 multiple launch rocket systems, 93 anti-aircraft systems, 208 warplanes, 174 helicopters, 2,275 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 vessels, 515 unmanned aerial vehicles, 48 units of special equipment, and 120 cruise missiles.
Last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree that makes it easier for Ukrainians in occupied areas to become citizens of Russia. He also scrapped the upper age limit for contractual service in the military.
Ukraine has called Russia's offer to lift the blockade of its Black Sea ports in return for the lifting of some sanctions "blackmail." The blockade has led to shortages in wheat and cooking oil across the world.
The brigade used a BM-21 'Grad' 122-mm multiple rocket launcher to fire at Russian targets.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." May 31 marks the 97th day of the campaign.
