Elon Musk Says Starlink Wont Block Russian News Unless at Gunpoint
20220305
https://www.newsweek.com/elon-musk-spacex-starlink-1685195
"Starlink has been told by some governments not Ukraine to block Russian news sources," he tweeted.
Musk said some Starlink terminals near conflict areas in Ukraine were being jammed for "several hours at a time."
"People across the globe are using Starlink to gain access to education, health services and even communications support during natural disasters," its website states.
The SpaceX and Tesla CEO earlier this week warned there was a high probability that the Starlink satellite broadband service could be "targeted" in Ukraine, amid the invasion launched by Russia on February 24.
"Our latest software update bypasses the jamming. Am curious to see what's next!" he tweeted on Saturday.
Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov tweeted an image of the Starlink terminals arriving in Ukraine, thanking Musk.
"We will not do so unless at gunpoint," Musk added. "Sorry to be a free speech absolutist."
On Monday, Microsoft said RT's mobile apps would be removed from the Windows App Store, and the the company would not display any state-sponsored RT and Sputnik content. Google has blocked downloads of RT's mobile app in Ukraine, while Apple has said it had banned the state-sponsored outlets from its app store in every country except Russia.
The terminals are being used to access Starlink satellites in orbit around Earth and provide internet to Ukraine, as it fends off attacks from neighboring Russia.
SpaceX describes Starlink on its website as a constellation of satellites that provides high-speed, low-latency broadband internet across the globe, enabling video calls, online gaming, streaming, and other high data rate activities that historically have not been possible with satellite internet.
Ukraine began experiencing major internet disruptions in major cities after Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion against the country, declaring a "special military operation."
He added in a separate tweet: "SpaceX reprioritized to cyber defense  overcoming signal jamming. Will cause slight delays in Starship  Starlink V2."
Elon Musk said Saturday that some governments have asked SpaceX's Starlink satellite broadband service to block Russian news sources.
"Starlink service is now active in Ukraine. More terminals en route," Musk tweeted on February 26, responding to a request from Fedorov for Starlink terminals.
The company has said Starlink is ideally suited for areas where connectivity has been unreliable or completely unavailable.
"Important warning: Starlink is the only non-Russian communications system still working in some parts of Ukraine," he said in a Twitter post on Friday. "Please use with caution."
A number of tech giants, including Apple, Google, and Microsoft have moved to ban Russian state-run media outlets such as RT and Sputnik in response to Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
