Getting the Most of Your Gas Mileage as Russian Invasion Drives Prices Up
20220224
https://www.newsweek.com/getting-most-your-gas-mileage-russian-invasion-drives-prices-1682449
Refraining from idling, avoiding driving in rush-hour traffic and shifting from one gear to another "efficiently" are also among AAA's recommendations for improving fuel economy.
The price of oil rose above $105 per barrel Thursday in response to Russia's "unjustified and unprovoked attack" on Ukraine, as President Joe Biden described it Wednesday night. Gas prices, which were already heading higher in the U.S. in recent weeks, continued climbing Thursday, with the national average price of a gallon of regular unleaded gas about 88 cents above the national average at this time in 2021. In California, a state that set a new record for average gas prices on Thursday, some counties reported prices above $5.60, according to AAA.
With gas prices already on the rise across the U.S. and expected to go up even more with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Americans are looking for ways to save money and make the most of what they spend at the pump.
"If your car has a manual transmission, upshift as soon as practical," AAA's list says. "When coming to a stop, use the brakes. Do not downshift to slow the car."
Shortly before Russia's invasion, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters it was likely gas prices would continue to climb. With consumer concerns mounting, industry experts say simple changes to driving behavior can help drivers improve their vehicle's mileage.
In addition to changes in driving behavior, Petersen said, drivers can save money by identifying the gas station closest to them with the lowest prices, a strategy that can help drivers "save upwards of 30 cents per gallon." Rewards programs can also help drivers spend less at the pump, she said.
In a list of strategies for improving gas mileage published on its website, AAA also recommends keeping speeds lower while driving on highways and avoiding what it describes as "jackrabbit" starting and stopping. Suddenly hitting the gas or brake pedals "can lower fuel economy by 15 to 30 percent at highway speeds and 10 to 40 percent in stop-and-go traffic." Lowering speeds on highways between five and 10 miles per hour "can increase fuel economy 7 to 14 percent," according to AAA.
"Aggressive habits like hard braking, speeding and fast acceleration can all waste gas. So essentially, safe driving is best for you and your wallet," Petersen said. "Keeping your tires properly inflated, using cruise control and using AC sparingly, can also help boost mileage."
Nicole Petersen at GasBuddy told Newsweek there are "several things drivers can do to increase their fuel efficiency."
