Jamie Raskin Slams Marjorie Taylor Greene For Likening NATO Allies to Nazis
20220428
https://www.newsweek.com/jamie-raskin-slams-marjorie-taylor-greene-likening-nato-allies-nazis-1701951
"Last week, Congress voted to fund Ukraine with $13.6 BILLION in lethal aid," Greene wrote on March 16. "How much U.S. taxpayer cash will end up in the hands of the neo-Nazis in Ukraine?"
The Azov Battalion is a far-right infantry unit that has joined Ukrainian forces in its fight against Russian troops in key cities. The controversial group has raised concerns that its ideology could attract extremists, including neo-Nazisan argument Putin and the Kremlin have repeatedly used in their messaging that the invasion of Ukraine was necessary to "de-Nazify" the country.
"We are here to debate aid to the people of Ukraine defending themselves against a massive invasion by Vladimir Putin and his army," Raskin said from the floor. "Then, the minority puts up to the distinguished gentlelady from Georgia who does not mention Ukraine once. She does not mention the thousands of Ukrainian civilians who have been slaughtered by Putin's army. She does not mention more than 100 Ukrainian children who've been shot and killed by the Ukrainian army."
In March, Greene, a Georgia Republican, asserted that based on the 2016 bill, the aid package recently passed by Congress would go on to fund Nazis in Ukrainea point Russia has frequently claimed in defense of its invasion of the neighboring country.
"She talks about NATO Nazis. Does the minority believe that our allies in NATO, who are trying to defend the people of Ukraine are Nazis? Has it come to this?" Raskin said on Thursday.
Democrats have been calling  Republicans, President Trump, and his supporters Nazis since 2015.But the Dems have been funding actual Nazis since the ObamaBiden administration.Funding to neo-Nazis in Ukraine only stopped under President Trump.14https:t.cor4kzEpni1I
On Thursday, President Joe Biden urged lawmakers to approve an additional $33 billion in both military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine.
"She had a lot to say the other day when she heckled me continuously," the congressman added. "When I came to the floor, it was like the "Rocky Horror Picture Show" in here, with her chanting about the Russia hoax and Russia-this and Russia-that."
Representative Jamie Raskin slammed Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene in an impassioned speech on the House floor Thursday, criticizing her for likening NATO soldiers to neo-Nazis and demanding "proof" for her claims.
Raskin acknowledged the congresswoman from the floor, saying: "The gentlelady, I think, said something about the Russian hoax or Russian collusion. I accept the heckling because if she wants to continue to stand with Vladimir Putin and his brutal, bloody invasion of Ukraine, she is free to do so."
On Thursday, Greene tagged Raskin in her tweets from last month in which she linked to a 2016 article that mentioned the unanimous passing of the House Defense Appropriations bill, which "limits arms, training, and other assistance to the neo-Nazi Ukrainian militia, the Azov Battalion."
The House took up a similar bill earlier in the day that would allow the U.S. to seize the frozen assets of Russian oligarchs and repurpose them to help Ukraine. Greene was among eight legislators who voted "no."
Earlier this month, Greene heckled Raskin while he was on the floor and speaking in support of holding former Trump officials Peter Navarro and Dan Scavino in criminal contempt for refusing to testify in the House committee's investigation of the January 6 riot.
"She said the aid that the taxpayers of America are sending to the people of Ukraine to defend themselves against Vladimir Putin and the Russian army falls into the hands of Nazis. I want to see her proof. Where's her evidence?" the Maryland Democrat asked.
"And to top it all off, NATO has been supplying the neo-Nazis in Ukraine with powerful weapons and extensive training on how to use them. What the hell is going with these NATONazis?" she added.
