Kremlin Accuses Britain of Helping Ukraine Produce War Propaganda
20220603
https://www.newsweek.com/kremlin-accuses-britain-helping-ukraine-produce-war-propaganda-1712681
"Also 13 Ukrainian tanks and infantry fighting vehicles and 1 Osa-AKM anti-aircraft missile system were destroyed near Bakhmut, as well as 2 mortar batteries, 2 Grad multiple rocket launchers, 8 artillery mounts, 26 special vehicles, and 4 missile and artillery weapon depots near Soledar, Dzerzhinsk, Yakovlevka and Bakhmut.
Konashenkov said: "Against the backdrop of Kiev's political catastrophe in Mariupol and military failures in Donbass, the Kiev regime, with British financial support, has organized the production of 'morale-raising' videos for Western and Ukrainian audiences.
The Russian Ministry of Defense MoD said in a statement on June 3: "High-precision air-based missiles of the Russian Aerospace Forces have hit 21 areas of concentrated AFU Armed Forces of Ukraine manpower and military equipment during the day.
"In the absence of trophy Russian equipment, the mock enemy appears in the frames using Ukrainian APCs and armored vehicles.
"The attacks resulted in the elimination of over 360 nationalists and 49 weapons and military equipment including 1 detection and airspace control radar station in Slavyansk, Donetsk People's Republic.
Also on Friday, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov accused the Ukraine of making propaganda videos with the help of the United Kingdom. The Russian MoD released a short video above they say shows the filming action.
The Russian military says it has destroyed 21 Ukrainian strongholds with high-precision missiles and claims the U.K. is helping Volodymyr Zelensky produce morale-boosting propaganda videos.
"The next video shoot is scheduled for June 5 and 6. The videos will focus on staged testimonies of 'ordinary Ukrainians' accusing Russia of allegedly deliberately shelling civilian populated areas."
"Russian air defense means have shot down 3 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles near Ryasnaya, Krutaya Balka, Donetsk People's Republic and Dmitrovka, Kharkov region, overnight. 3 Uragan multiple-launch rockets have been also intercepted over Petropolie, Kamenka, Kharkov region, and Novoselovka Vtoraya, Donetsk People's Republic.
"Missile troops and artillery have hit 26 command posts, 122 AFU artillery and mortar batteries at firing positions, 537 areas of concentrated AFU manpower and military equipment, as well as 5 ammunition depots. 1 AFU unmanned aerial vehicle control post near Pervomaiskoe in Nikolaev Region was also destroyed.
"The roles of the 'opponents' of the Ukrainian Nazis in the staged short film were performed by members of the local territorial defense unit wearing red armbands.
"In particular, on May 28, staged video was filmed near Meshkovka, Nikolaev region, of the alleged 'high efficiency' of the use of Western weapons by Ukrainian nationalists.
"To add more drama to the future film, at the insistence of British supervisors, a re-enactment of a fake battle between Ukrainian Nazis and outnumbered 'Russian soldiers' was created on the set.
"In total, 186 Ukrainian aircraft and 129 helicopters, 1,087 unmanned aerial vehicles, 328 anti-aircraft missile systems, 3,386 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 462 multiple launch rocket systems, 1,760 field artillery and mortars, and 3,376 units of special military vehicles have been destroyed during the operation."
"Operational-tactical, army and unmanned aviation hit 37 areas of concentrated Ukrainian manpower and military equipment in total."
