Kremlin Warned Russian Media Not to Report Zelensky War Negotiation Update
20220328
https://www.newsweek.com/kremlin-warned-russian-media-not-report-zelensky-war-negotiation-update-1692435
"When journalists were preparing to publish our interviewand we spoke with them this afternoonthe Russian censorship agency came out with a threat," Zelensky continued. "That's what they wrotethey demand not to publish the conversation. It would be ridiculous if it wasn't so tragic."
Earlier in March, Putin signed into law a bill that allows authorities to criminalize news reporting about the Ukraine invasion that does not adhere to the Kremlin's version of the events. Journalists are banned from referring to the conflict as an "invasion" or "war" under the new law, and anyone found violating the rules could face up to 15 years in prison.
Newsweek reached out to Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Russian Foreign Ministry for comment but did not hear back from either in time for publication.
During the Zoom interview, which Zelensky shared on his Telegram channel, the Ukrainian leader discussed Russia's continuing attacks on his country. He said that he wanted to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in an effort to negotiate an end the war in Ukraine. Zelensky also urged the Russian people to "support the truth."
Roskomnadzor, the Kremlin's communications regulator and Internet censor, issued a statement Sunday regarding the interview. On its website, the agency "warned the Russian media to refuse to publish this interview."
There were four journalists present on the Zoom interview with Zelensky, all of whom are not affiliated with a Russian state outlet. They were Tikhon Dzyadko, editor of the recently-closed independent station TV Rain Ivan Kolpakov from the Russian language news website Meduza, which is based in Latvia Vladimir Solovyov from the Moscow-based daily newspaper Kommersant and independent writer Mikhail Zygar.
The regulator also said it was already investigating the journalists who conducted the interview with Zelensky "to determine the extent of responsibility and the taking of measures of response."
Roskomnadzor's statement came hours after the talk was conducted. Zelensky later spoke out against the Kremlin's attempts at censorship during a video address.
The Kremlin warned Russian media outlets not to publish or broadcast a 90-minute interview that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky held with several Russian journalists on Sunday.
"Today is the day when we see again and again how far we are from the Russian Federation," Zelensky said. "Imagine, they were frightened there in Moscow because of my interview to Russian journalists. To those of them who can afford to tell the truth."
