Nestles Russia Ties Puts Company in Twitter Users Crosshairs
20220317
https://www.newsweek.com/nestles-russia-ties-puts-company-twitter-users-crosshairs-1689068
He added that "Paying taxes in Russia means financing terror and war crimes in Ukraine," and concluded that "Companies like Nestle are financing the war."
"Unfortunately," Shmyhal wrote, "he shows no understanding. Paying taxes to the budget of a terrorist country means killing defenseless children  mothers. Hope that Nestle will change its mind soon."
On Thursday, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal tweeted that he spoke with Nestle CEO Mark Schneider "about the side effect of staying in the Russian market."
1. Putin is a war criminal2. Russia is a terrorist state3. Doing business in Russia means paying taxes in Russia4. Paying taxes in Russia means financing terror and war crimes in Ukraine5. Companies like Nestle are financing the war
When asked for comment, a Nestle spokesperson directed Newsweek to a company statement released this week. "As a food company and employer, we recognize that we also have a responsibility toward our more than 7,000 employees in Russia  most of whom are locals," the statement said. "We will continue to do our utmost to ensure a reliable supply of safe and essential food products for the local people."
Nestle and Danone refused to leave russia.. They prefer to support WAR!This is a No-Go! Nestle and Danone are supporting terrorism! Boycott Nestle and DanoneUkraineRussiaWar USA OpRussia Anonymous food cerials picoftheday kitkat europe pic.twitter.comWKjlt7rmJk
Nestle CEO Mark Schnieder posted a statement on March 2 regarding the conflict in Ukraine and pledged to match employee donations to the International Federation of Red Cross Societies IFRC up to $1 million. The company has also worked to provide food and supplies to Ukraine.
Others have also blasted Nestle for paying taxes in Russia, creating graphics that depict the company as the "sponsor" of the Russia-Ukraine war.
While many companies have suspended operations in Russia due to the war in Ukraine, Swiss food conglomerate Nestle has continued to provide essential products to Russia despite the mounting pressure to cut ties.
Talked to Nestle CEO Mr. Mark Schneider about the side effect of staying in Russian market. Unfortunately, he shows no understanding. Paying taxes to the budget of a terrorist country means killing defenseless childrenmothers. Hope that Nestle will change its mind soon.
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, and since then, almost 400 companies have announced plans to suspend operations in Russia in response, a move supported by nearly 75 percent of the American population, according to a Morning Consult poll from earlier this month.
Stratcom Centre UA, a strategic communications company under the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, tweeted, "Nestl continues paying taxes to the budget of a terrorist state, financing indiscriminate attacks on Ukrainian civilians."
Nestle has halted advertisements in Russia and will not be working on any capital investment, and stopped shipping non-essential items like espresso coffee and mineral water, but has continued to provide more essential items like baby food to Russia, Bloomberg reported.
The news from Prime Minister Shmyhal prompted Twitter users to begin calling for boycotts, stating that Nestle was singlehandedly helping fund the war in Ukraine.
Nestl continues paying taxes to the budget of a terrorist state, financing indiscriminate attacks on Ukrainian civilians. How many more children have to die before nestle and other companies, still operating in Russia, finally cut ties with the aggressor? StopRussia pic.twitter.comVtWsdBmWMd
On Thursday, Roman Hryshchuk, a member of the Ukrainian parliament, tweeted, "Putin is a war criminal," Russia is a terrorist state," and "Doing business in Russia means paying taxes in Russia."
