Putins Space Chief Clashes With Top Economist Over Russian Space Program
20220616
https://www.newsweek.com/dmitry-rogozin-roscosmos-alexei-kudrin-russia-space-1716436
"This is not the first time Kudrin's public hostile statements have caused surprise and indignation," he wrote, translated from Russian. "The head of the Accounts Chamber should be, first of all, a highly qualified and objective specialist, and not a professional liberal in a high state position."
Earlier this year Russia said it would be canceling sales of rocket engines to the United States while a planned satellite launch with British satellite company OneWeb fell through in the wake of the war in Ukraine.
"Every penny should be spent for some purpose and some task," Kudrin said on June 14 according to Russian media outlet RBC. "Therefore, we do not just check expenses, we also make sure that the results that were announced in state programs are achieved."
In response, Russian space agency Roscosmos said that performance indicators did not take into account external factors like international sanctions. Roscosmos also said it had improved the results of its work in recent years.
Rogozin has made ambitious statements about the future of Russia's space program in the midst of the ongoing international backlash against the country for its invasion of Ukraine. He said that a Russian mission to Mars and a manned space station are all in the works, despite the fact that Roscosmos must now cope with additional sanctions and a lack of international customers purchasing its goods and services.
It is not the first time that Kudrin has criticized Roscosmos. In 2018, the finance official accused the agency of "irrational spending" and "violations of discipline" in an interview on the Russian state-owned TV channel Russia-1.
Experts previously told Newsweek that they are doubtful Roscosmos will be able to meet its lofty ambitions in the coming years due in part to this financial pressure.
"Several billions have been lostthat is, in fact, stolenand investigations are underway," he said at the time according to state news agency TASS. "We have big problems with Roscosmos."
This week, Alexei Kudrin, chairman of Russia's Accounts Chamber, reportedly told Putin during a meeting that of all the state programs in the country the space program was the one being operated worst in contrast with others like agriculture and transport.
The head of Russia's space program has hit back at comments from one of Vladimir Putin's top finance officials who highlighted the country's shortcomings in space.
