Putin Says Russia and Belarus Will Hold Joint War Games Early Next Year
20211129
https://www.newsweek.com/putin-says-russia-belarus-will-hold-joint-war-games-early-next-year-1664090
The drills added to the months of tension that have been building over tens of thousands of Russian troops amassing near that nation's border with Ukraine, prompting worldwide fears that Putin was planning to invade Ukraine in 2022.
During a meeting Wednesday with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, Russian President Vladimir Putin said the two nations will hold another joint session of war games next year.
The two nations previously conducted war games in September, which involved as many as 200,000 troops and hundreds of vehicles performing drills like repelling air strike attacks, drills that concerned Ukraine and other European nations because of how close they were performed to European Union borders, according to Reuters.
Tensions have escalated further since the summer over the arrival of thousands of migrants and refugees on Belarus' border with EU member Poland. The EU has accused Lukashenko of retaliating for its sanctions by using desperate asylum-seekers as pawns and tricking them into trying to enter Poland.
Russia and Belarus have a union agreement envisaging close political, economic and military ties, and Moscow has staunchly backed Lukashenko amid Western pressure. That pressure intensified after a brutal crackdown on domestic protests fueled by Lukashenko's re-election to a sixth term in an August 2020 vote that the opposition and the West say was rigged.
At the time, Putin responded to the criticism by saying the drills were not directed at any particular foreign power, and the military was justified in conducting them due to the increased activity of NATO members like the U.S. near the Russian border of Ukraine.
Putin has repeatedly denied that claim while also making demands of NATO members like rejecting Ukraine from joining the organization and insisting the U.S. and other military allies scale back the military assistance they are providing to Ukraine, requests which have been denied by President Joe Biden and other world leaders.
Putin said the military training drills proposed by Lukashenko would likely happen in February or March, and details would be finalized later.
Some officials in Ukraine have voiced concern that Russia may attack the country from the territory of Belarus.
In a show of support for Lukashenko, Russia conducted massive war games with Belarus in September and repeatedly sent its nuclear capable bombers on patrol over Belarus in recent weeks.
Speaking during a meeting with Lukashenko in St. Petersburg, Russia, he added that military officials will coordinate details.
