Putins Top Priest Collapses During Russian Church Ceremony
20220625
https://www.newsweek.com/putin-top-priest-collapses-russian-church-ceremony-patriach-kirill-1719162
The patriarch's stance has caused a split in the Orthodox faith worldwide, with his leadership condemned by the U.S. based Orthodox Public Affairs Committee OPAC which in April described his support for the war as "cruel and unjustified."
The British Foreign Office said that the primate was sanctioned "for his support and endorsement of Putin's war."
The head of the Russian Orthodox Church who has been sanctioned for his support of Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine, has been captured on video falling during a religious service.
A close ally of Vladimir Putin, the patriarch said in a sermon on February 27, three days after the invasion started, that Ukraine and Belarus are part of the "Russian lands" and called the Ukrainians defending their country as "forces of evil."
Among his vehement critics is the group Human Rights Without Frontiers HRWF which has submitted to the International Criminal Court ICC a report it says shows that the patriarch is complicit in "Russia's war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine."
A church spokesman said that the patriarch hurt his back on the edge of the pulpit after nearby security guards and other bishops were unable to react in time to stop his tumble, the newspaper Moskovsky Komsomolets reported. The service continued.
Patriarch Kirill was consecrating a church in the city of Novorossiysk in the southern Krasnodar region by the Black Sea when he slipped on the marble floor.
The patriarch tried to laugh off the fall which he put down to being the victim of a slippery surface. "The fact I fell today doesn't mean anything," he told the faithful in a clip shared by BBC Monitoring.
Head of the Russian Orthodox Church Patriarch Kirill took a tumble this morning while consecrating a church in the Black Sea city of Novorossiysk pic.twitter.comKL78NVRpos
The patriarch has faced international condemnation for providing a religious justification for the war in Ukraine. This month, the U.K. sanctioned the cleric after the EU dropped him from their own sanctions list after opposition from Hungary. The church dismissed the measures as "senseless" and "absurd."
"It's just the floor is wonderful, you can look at yourself in it, it's so shiny and smooth," he said, "When water is spilt on it, even if it is holy then the laws of physics come into play."
HRWF head Willy Fautr told Newsweek last month that the patriarch was a "de facto accomplice" of Putin's military aggression.
