Russia Captures Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant World Leaders Condemn Horrific Attack
20220304
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-captures-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-power-plant-ukraine-horrific-attack-fire-1684779
Ukraine has said that Russian troops had seized the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant where a fire had broken out after it had been targeted by shelling.
"I know that one of the buildings was on fire but fortunately it wasn't the actual nuclear station," he said. "It's insane, it's just terrorism, there are no words, the world should do something about it."
However, the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA has put its incident and emergency center "in full 247 response mode due to serious situation."
Ukrainian officials said a fire broke out in a training building outside the facility, with images on social media showing continuous shelling and smoke rising near the nuclear facility.
The New York Times verified videos from the firefight at Europe's largest power plant in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine. It appears to show a line of military vehicles shooting at buildings inside the complex resulting in fires breaking out.Read more here: https:t.coIqtD7ydd1R pic.twitter.comTTQ8XFUot0
Ukraine's nuclear inspectorate said that so far there is no information about casualties and that "at present, no changes in the radiation situation have been registered."
"If this disaster is allowed to worsen then Putin will be putting his own people and those in countries across Europe at terrible risk," Markey tweeted.
"I appeal to parties to refrain from actions that can put nuclear power plants in danger," he tweeted.
IAEA director-general Rafael Mariano Grossi said he was "deeply concerned" with the situation at the power plant and that his organization was "monitoring and in close contact with Ukraine's nuclear regulator and operator."
At around 6.20 a.m. on Friday, Ukrainian responders put out the fire which has not appeared to have affected the reactor sites.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called the attacks on the plant "horrific" and "unacceptable," while British Prime Minister Boris Johnson called the attack "reckless" and said it could "directly threaten the safety of all of Europe," and will seek an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Friday.
Senator Ed Markey D-MA tweeted that the attack "would be an international war crime by Putin that could result in incredible devastation."
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video message that "no country other than Russia has ever fired on nuclear power units. This is the first time in our history," adding, "the terrorist state now resorted to nuclear terror."
The regional military administration said that the fire at the Zaporizhzhia plant in Enerhodar was extinguished, and that there is damage to the compartment of reactor No. 1 but it does not affect the safety of the power unit. https:t.coYWU0y1NMEX
President Joe Biden urged Moscow to stop its military activities around the site and held a phone call with Zelensky, according to a tweet by the White House.
One Zaporizhzhia resident told BBC Radio 4's Today program he saw the Russian military shooting and throwing bombs at the plant all night.
Located in Enerhoda, Zaporizhzhia is the largest nuclear power plant in Europe and among the 10 largest in the world. Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba warned that if the plant "blows up, it will be 10 times larger" than the explosion at Chernobyl.
