Russia Appears to Blitz Ukraine Positions With Thermobaric Warheads
20220526
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-appears-blitz-ukraine-positions-thermobaric-warheads-1710579
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree Wednesday that makes it easier for Ukrainians in occupied areas to become citizens of Russia.
They added that five civilians died, 12 were wounded and 47 civilian sites were destroyed or damaged in the latest attacks.
From February 24 to May 26, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at around 29,600 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 1,315 tanks, 3,235 armored fighting vehicles, 617 artillery systems, 201 multiple launch rocket systems, 93 anti-aircraft systems, 206 warplanes, 170 helicopters, 2,225 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 vessels, 502 unmanned aerial vehicles, 47 units of special equipment, and 114 cruise missiles.
In other developments, Ukrainian officials said Russian forces have attacked more than 40 towns in the eastern Donbas region.
The Russian Armed Forces apparently blasted Ukrainian positions with thermobaric warheads as Ukraine's Defense Ministry called on NATO to urgently supply the country with similar weapons.
The 30-barrel or 24-barrel multiple rocket launcher, mounted on a T-72 tank chassis, is capable of firing thermobaric warheads, a type of explosive that uses oxygen in the surrounding area to generate a high-temperature blast.
The Ukrainian Defense Ministry said Thursday: "Russian TOS-1s shelling Ukrainian positions near Novomykhailivka, Donetsk region.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation."
Russia has also done away with the upper age limit for contractual service in its military.
The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense said the Russians used a TOS-1 multiple rocket launcher to strike at Ukrainian targets near Novomykhailivka in the eastern region of Donetsk Oblast.
Ukraine has called Russia's offer to lift the blockade of its Black Sea ports in return for the lifting of some sanctions "blackmail."
"This is what the largest and most horrific war of the 21st century looks like. Ukraine is ready to strike back. To do this, we need NATO-style MLRS Multiple Launch Rocket Systems. Immediately!"
Ukraine also called Russia's invasion the "largest and most horrific war of the 21st century" and appealed to NATO to supply Ukrainians with similar Multiple Launch Rocket Systems MLRS as soon as possible.
