Russian Ka52 Choppers Carry Out Combat Ops on Ukrainian Targets
20220520
https://www.newsweek.com/russian-ka-52-choppers-carry-out-combat-ops-ukrainian-targets-1708729
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called Russia's invasion of Ukraine an "absolute failure" and said Russian leaders were afraid to acknowledge "that catastrophic mistakes were made at the highest military and state level."
Russia's defense ministry said 771 Ukrainian fighters from the steelworks had surrendered up until May 19, taking the total to 1,730, and 80 of the fighters were wounded.
Meanwhile, following the fall of the port city of Mariupol, the Russian authorities plan to tear down the Azovstal metallurgical plant and turn the city into a "resort," according to the Institute for the Study of War.
The Kremlin also says that the Ukrainian fighters from the Azovstal plant have been taken to a former prison colony in a Russian-controlled part of Donetsk.
"Aviation crews continue to carry out tasks to destroy armored vehicles and military infrastructure facilities of the AFU Armed Forces of Ukraine, escort military convoys, deliver airborne troops and military cargo, and provide air support to units carrying out tasks within the framework of the special operation.
The Russian Ministry of Defense MoD said Ka-52 and Mi-28 multi-purpose attack helicopters were used in the mission.
The Russian military also said they destroyed key command posts and a number of armored vehicles.
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 1,254 tanks, 3,063 armored fighting vehicles, 595 artillery systems, 199 multiple launch rocket systems, 93 anti-aircraft systems, 203 warplanes, 167 helicopters, 2,157 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 vessels, 455 unmanned aerial vehicles, 43 units of special equipment, and 103 cruise missiles.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." Friday marks the 86th day of the campaign.
Russian military officials released video of a Ka-52 chopper reportedly carrying out combat operations against Ukrainian targets.
"As a result of the next combat missions, command posts and armored vehicles of the AFU units were destroyed."
The MoD said May 20: "Ka-52 reconnaissance attack and Mi-28 multi-purpose attack helicopters crews during the special military operation.
Zelensky also said that said Ukraine is determined to reclaim control over the southern cities of Kherson, Melitopol, Berdiansk, Enerhodar, and Mariupol, now occupied by Russian forces.
From February 24 to May 19, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at around 28,500 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
