Russias Best Tank Destroyed Just Days After Rolling into UkraineReport
20220505
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-ukraine-tsaplienko-tank-t-90-1703662
Meanwhile, another Ukrainian journalistOleksandr Makhovwas killed by Russian shelling in the northeastern city of Izium in the Kharkiv region on Wednesday.
A statement on Ukraine's Defense Ministry website said that the tank had been hit and that an infantry fighting vehicle and an MT-LB armored personnel carrier were also neutralized. Kyiv first reported the presence of the T-90M in eastern Ukraine on April 25.
The National Interest reported that its improved features include a multi-channel sighting system, a turret with more armor plating and a more powerful main gun, which is the same as that on the T-14 Armata, another modern Russian tank.
However, the ISW said that Russian forces have pushed deep into the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol on Wednesday and are likely to be operating within the site where the last of the city's fighters are holding out.
"Here's a fresh Russian tank...to improve your mood," he wrote, according to a translation. "It's hot, it's smokin' hot."
Russia's armed forces have around 20 of the tanks whose combat efficiency is more advanced than its T-90 predecessor.
It said that Kyiv's forces have so far stopped Russia merging their offensives to the southeast of Izium and the west of Lyman, Slovyansk, and Kramatorsk.
A journalist has posted a photo on social media of what experts say is the first confirmed loss in the Ukraine war of one of Russia's most advanced tanks.
Ukrainian war reporter Andriy Tsaplienko posted on Facebook an image of him standing in front of the knocked-out T-90M in the eastern Kharkiv region.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky paid tribute to Makhov, 36, who was an on-air reporter for Ukrainian television before volunteering for military service at the beginning of the war. Zelensky called him a "hero."
The image shows the first confirmed loss in the Ukraine war of the T-90M Proryv Breakthrough which is the latest version of the Russian T-90 main battle tank, according to Defense Blog.com.
"As you can see, they did it badly," he wrote, adding that the scrap metal would go on display in a May 9 parade marking the end of World War II. "Glory to the Ukrainian armed forces," he added.
"This village in the Kharkiv region was recently freed by the Ukrainian military. But this morning the invaders tried to get into it again.
The analysis by the U.S. think tank said that Russian forces attacking south of Izium look like they will not be able to successfully encircle Ukrainian forces in the Rubizhne area.
It comes as Ukrainian defenses managed to largely stall Russian advances in eastern Ukraine on Wednesday, according to an assessment by the Institute for the Study of War ISW.
