Russia Rapidly Retreating as Ukraine Makes Big Territorial Gains
20220510
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-rapidly-retreating-ukraine-makes-big-territorial-gains-1705111
The ISW estimates that Russian forces will not be able to hold back an advance by the Ukrainian troops to the border, which is expected in the coming days.
On the other hand, near Izyum, a city over 70 miles away from Kharkiv, Russian troops made advances by taking control of the Velyka Komyshuvakha village, according to the Twitter account. Russian troops, according to WarMapper, have entered Derylove and Drobysheve, two villages northeast of Lyman, a city in the Donetsk Oblast.
These claims have not been officially confirmed by either Ukraine's armed forces or Russian authorities.
Russian state-controlled news agency RIA FAN covered the conquest of the village of Velyka Komyshuvakha.
Last weekend, the ISW reported that the Ukrainian counteroffensive northeast of Kharkiv was making significant progress "and will likely advance to the Russian border in the coming days or weeks."
These small but significant defeats by the Russian army would add up to the massive retreat from the areas around Kyiv ordered by Moscow in early April, which allowed Ukrainian troops to take back massive territories around the country's capital.
"Armies generally only destroy bridges if they have largely decided they will not attempt to cross the river in the other direction anytime soon Russian forces are therefore unlikely to launch operations to retake the northeast outskirts of Kharkiv liberated by Ukrainian forces in the near future," a ISW report from May 7 said.
WarMapper, a Twitter account that has been mapping the Russian invasion of Ukraine since February 24 using drone and satellite images of Ukraine, reported on Tuesday that Ukraine launched two offensive near Kharkiv, where Ukrainian troops took the settlements of Slobozhanske, Borshchova, Rus'ki Tyshky and Cherkas'ki north of the city, and Bairak, Rubizhne, Verkhnii, Saltiv and Zamilivka northwest of Kharkiv.
Ukrainian Armed Forces claimed to have retaken five villages near Kharkiv in an evening report from May 6, saying troops had gained control of Oleksandrivka, Fedorivka, Ukrainka, Shestakovo, Peremoha, and part of Cherkasky Tyshky.
The destruction of three bridges in the area around Kharkiv by Russian troops, as reported by the Ukrainian General Staff is, according to the ISW, a sign that Russian troops do not intend to return to these territories.
Updates: carried out two offensives in the Kharkiv area.North of Kharkiv  captured the settlements of Slobozhanske, Borshchova, Rus'ki Tyshky, and Cherkas'ki. Lyptsi is contested.Northwest of Kharkiv  captured Bairak, Rubizhne, Verkhnii Saltiv, and Zamilivka. pic.twitter.comDbexCXAzug
Despite redirecting troops to the Donbas region, where Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine is now focused, Russia does not appear to have made significant progress in recent weeks. Ukraine's counter-attacks near Kharkiv have proven successful at holding back Russian troops, and even pushing them back, if the data observed by Twitter military observer WarMapper are to be held true.
A map of the approximate situation on the ground in Ukraine as of 00:00 UTC 100522. pic.twitter.coml5EhEvend3
The ISW said Russian troops had made marginal advances in the areas surrounding the city of Severodonetsk in the Luhansk Oblast, only a couple hours drive away from the villages WarMapper said they were taken in the Donetsk Oblast on Tuesday.
According to the latest data from the Institute for the Study of War ISW, Russian forces are stalling around the area surrounding Izyum and did not make any confirmed advances to the southeast or southwest of the city as of May 9. But the Institute added that Russian troops were "likely attempting to concentrate the forces necessary to resume offensive operations in the coming days."
Russian troops in Ukraine appear to be rapidly retreating from the areas around Kharkiv while Ukrainian armed forces make significant advances north and northwest of the city, as shown by unverified maps tracking Moscow's invasion of the neighboring country.
Ukraine: Velikaya Kamyshevakha under the Russian forces control, is located on the most advanced line of the Izyum-Barvenkovsky direction.Photos by RIA FAN. pic.twitter.comNPvcexiQjO
It added that Russian troops were continuing to amass troops in Belgorod Oblast to prevent Ukrainian troops from advancing beyond Kharkiv towards the border.
