Russian Tank Graveyard Shows Armored Vehicles Piled on Top of One Another
20220511
https://www.newsweek.com/russian-tank-graveyard-ukraine-war-armored-vehicle-kharkiv-1705639
The person recording walks up to the center of the bridge where it has been destroyed and examines the vehicles that are now plunged into the water beneath. As well as the two vehicles, a grey van can be seen in the water.
Geopolitical and security analyst Michael A Horowitz shared the video on his Twitter page on Tuesday and the clip has begun to go viral.
In the video, a worker wearing protective clothing can be seen zipping up white body bags in a refrigerated train wagon full of piled-up bodies.
So as suspected by DefMon3 some of this is old older than I thought, but one the armored vehicle piled on top of the first after the first incident happened! You cannot make this stuff uphttps:t.cowNU4v6P6lD
Al Jazeera, which said it had been given "rare access" to the macabre scene, said the bodies were "unclaimed" and belonged to Russian soldiers who died on the front line.
Russian armoured vehicles had a bit of a mishap while fleeing Russa Lozova near Kharkiv pic.twitter.comgm1aqYNuO2
It is not clear how many casualties, if any, Russian forces suffered as a result of attempting to cross the bridge. It is also not clear if either of the armored vehicles was damaged before attempting to cross the bridge.
He suggested that at a later point the second armored vehicle attempted to cross the bridge and got stuck on top of the first vehicle.
Horowitz then shared a picture of the same bridge in Ukraine, except in this photo, there is only one armored vehicle with the grey van. This picture was dated February 27, seven days after Russia invaded the country.
Russian troops retreated from areas surrounding the Ukrainian capital Kyiv last month when Moscow prioritized military operations in the southeastern region of the Donbas. The move allowed Ukrainian troops to regain control of the areas around Kyiv.
"So as suspected by DefMon3 some of this is old older than I thought, but the armored vehicle piled on top of the first armored vehicle after the first incident happened. You cannot make this stuff up", he also tweeted.
The video shows two armored vehicles on top of one another as they are half-submerged on a destroyed bridge. The video has so far been viewed over 280,000 times.
In the comments, Horowitz said that similar images of this area have already done the rounds online.
"Russian armoured vehicles had a bit of a mishap while fleeing Ruska Lozova near Kharkiv," Horowitz tweeted.
On Monday, Al Jazeera published footage of Russian dead bodies "left behind as Russia retreated from the Kyiv region" in early April.
A video of a Russian tank graveyard forming in Ukraine, near Kharkiv, has been circulating on social media.
Ukrainian authorities say over 26,000 Russian troops have died in Ukraine since the beginning of the conflict, while Russia's defense ministry reported a much lower number, of less than 1,500. Both estimates are likely incorrect, slightly inflated on the side of Ukraine and grossly underestimated on the side of Russia, according to Western intelligence.
The footage then shows feet sticking out of bags and the bodies of soldiers that have still not been sealed in body bags.
Elsewhere on the battlefield, Russian President Vladimir Putin has not been able to effectively hide the casualties his forces have taken following the invasion of Ukraine.
