Russian Navy Conducts Exercises in Far East
20220520
https://www.newsweek.com/russian-navy-conducts-exercises-far-east-1708790
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called Russia's invasion of Ukraine an "absolute failure" and said Russian leaders were afraid to acknowledge "that catastrophic mistakes were made at the highest military and state level."
Russia's defense ministry said 771 Ukrainian fighters from the steelworks had surrendered up until May 19, taking the total to 1,730, and 80 of the fighters were wounded.
Zenger News obtained the video from the Ministry of Defense MoD of the Russian Federation on Wednesday.
The Kremlin also says that the Ukrainian fighters from the Azovstal plant have been taken to a former prison colony in a Russian-controlled part of Donetsk.
They also say that between February 24 and May 19, the enemy lost 1,254 tanks, 3,063 armored fighting vehicles, 595 artillery systems, 199 multiple launch rocket systems, 93 anti-aircraft warfare systems, 203 aircraft, 167 helicopters, 2,157 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 shipsboats, 455 unmanned aerial vehicles, 43 pieces of special units and 103 cruise missiles.
On the ground, Ukrainian forces have retaken villages around the northeastern city of Kharkiv, but Russian forces have advanced slowly in the east of the country.
Russian authorities said they plan to tear down Azovstal itself and turn Mariupol into a "resort city," according to the Institute for the Study of War.
The Pacific Fleet is the Russian Navy fleet in the Pacific Ocean. Its headquarters are located in Fokino, close to Vladivostok.
Russian warships were firing rockets and artillery in military exercises held in the country's far east.
"The small missile ships 'Iney' and 'Smerch' as part of the ship's strike group worked out joint actions to conduct a sea battle with a mock enemy, performing rocket and artillery firing.
"The event was held as part of a planned tactical exercise with the ship strike group of the Pacific Fleet in the sea training ground of Avacha Bay."
The update comes after Moscow claimed a strategic victory through the fall of the port city of Mariupol.
Zelensky also said that said Ukraine is determined to reclaim control over the southern cities of Kherson, Melitopol, Berdiansk, Enerhodar, and Mariupol, now occupied by Russian forces.
The MoD said in Russian: "Warships of the Pacific Fleet carried out rocket and artillery firing near Kamchatka.
Avacha Bay is located on the southeastern coast of the Kamchatka Peninsula, located in the Russian far east.
The Ukrainian Armed Forces claim to have killed about 28,500 Russian soldiers since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began on February 24.
