Russia Gains Upper Hand as Ukraine Military Admits Difficult Situation
20220526
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-ukraine-putin-oleksiy-gromov-luhansk-1710451
"Every unit, every serviceman acts according to the general plan of the senior commander," he said, according to news agency Interfax, adding that the provision of weapons from allies "will accelerate our victory."
His comments come as an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky gave a pessimistic take on Ukraine's fighting.
He told a briefing in Kyiv that the situation in the area of Severodonetsk was "difficult, but stable" and that Russian forces were carrying out airstrikes and artillery damage on Ukrainian troops.
"As of today, the aggressor conducts intensified fire along the whole line of contact and the positions of our forces in the Donetsk operational region," Maliar said. Meanwhile, the Russian MP and retired general Vladimir Shamanov, a retired general, suggested that the war in Ukraine is likely to be a long drawn-out affair.
Gromov's comments come as at least four people were killed Thursday when the center of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second city, was shelled, according to regional governor Oleh Synyehubov.
The publication RBC reported that he had said in an interview that the "demilitarization" and "denazification" of Ukrainethe Kremlin's justification for its invasioncould take "five to 10 years."
He said that the Russian side had "managed to accumulate reserves before we did" and that the lag in accumulating military resources "makes the situation at the front extremely difficult."
Ukraine's deputy defense minister, Hanna Maliar, said on Thursday that the Russians are storming Ukrainian positions in several areas of the Donbas simultaneously with "tactical rocket systems, aviation and artillery."
A Ukrainian military official has said Russia has gained the advantage as fighting rages in the eastern Luhansk region.
Oleksiy Gromov of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said on Thursday that Russia had the upper hand "both in aviation and in artillery," but Kyiv's forces were "trying with all our might to change the situation."
Oleksiy Arestovych told the outlet Agentsva on Wednesday that Ukrainian forces lagged behind Russian forces "in terms of pace."
He also warned that in the near future, "the situation at the front will worsen, encirclements are possible" coming with it the prospect of settlements being abandoned and "heavy losses."
Ukraine said that Russian forces attacked more than 40 towns in the eastern Donetsk and Luhansk region and the cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk also came under bombardment.
He said that Russian forces were operating according to a "classic scheme" in which they first used bomber aircraft, then assault aircraft followed by attacks from artillery and ground troops.
