Russian Attack Helicopters Reportedly Destroy Ukrainian Strongholds
20220613
https://www.newsweek.com/russian-attack-helicopters-reportedly-destroy-ukrainian-strongholds-1715436
Salvos of rockets can be seen being fired from some of the helicopters before the footage shows the aircraft landing, presumably back at their base.
The footage shows the attack helicopters, sporting white "V" symbols on their fuselages, being prepared for combat before they take off and head toward their targets. The images then appear to show them opening fire on Ukrainian targets.
The United Kingdom and the United States are sending long-range missile systems to Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned of more attacks in Ukraine if the West sends long-range weapons.
"During the flights, the army aviation pilots carried out missile launches against the identified strongholds of AFU units.
Zelensky has asked for additional weapons from Ukraine's allies to help push back the Russian forces.
Elsewhere in Ukraine, a huge fire is reportedly raging at a chemical plant in Severodonetsk as street-to-street fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces takes place in the city.
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
And on June 8, the European Parliament adopted a resolution recommending that the European Union grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for EU membership. In the balloting, 438 members of the European Parliament voted in favor of the resolution, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
It is unclear where exactly the attacks took place, but the Russian Ministry of Defense MoD said in a short statement on Sunday evening that "Ka-52 attack helicopter crews engaged in combat operations to destroy AFU Armed Forces of Ukraine strongholds.
Images purporting to show Russian Ka-52 attack helicopters destroying Ukrainian strongholds were released Sunday by the Russian military.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that between February 24 and June 13, Russia had lost 32,300 personnel, 1,432 tanks, 3,492 armored fighting vehicles, 718 artillery systems, 226 multiple launch rocket systems, 97 anti-aircraft systems, 213 warplanes, 178 helicopters, 2,460 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 warships, 585 drones, 54 pieces of special equipment and 125 cruise missiles.
"The air strikes were carried out from a range of over 5 kilometers 3.1 miles."
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin continues to say is a "special military operation." June 13 marks the 110th day of the campaign.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russian attacks on the cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk has turned them into "dead cities," but he added that Ukrainian forces could still hold Severodonetsk despite being outnumbered.
Putin has also said that the West will not be able to wean itself off from Russian oil and gas for years. U.S. officials have now also admitted that Russian profits on energy might even be higher than they were before the war started.
An aide to Zelensky has said that Ukraine is losing up to 200 troops a day.
