Russia Boasts of Destroying Western Weapons in Precision Missile Strikes
20220717
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-destroys-western-weapon-himars-long-range-missile-ukraine-war-1725346
"High-precision long-range air-launched missiles in one of the buildings of an industrial enterprise in the city of Odessa destroyed a storage warehouse for Harpoon anti-ship missiles transferred to Ukraine by NATO counties," he said, according to TASS.
"I ask the universities of all democratic countries to declare Russia what it really is - a terrorist country."
Elsewhere in Ukraine, it has been alleged that two universities in Mykolaiv were attacked Friday morning by a Russian missile strike.
"Currently, two people are known to have been injured as a result of the attack," he added.
Russia's Ministry of Defense said long-range air-launched missiles fired by the Russian Armed Forces were able to destroy a warehouse which held Harpoon missiles, while a launcher and a transport-loading vehicle of a HIMARS High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems were destroyed in a separate strike, according to a report by Russian News Agency TASS.
This comes days after the U.S. Department of Defense said the use of HIMARS, provided by the U.S., was making things more difficult for Russian forces on the frontlines in Ukraine. However, It is not exactly clear when the Russian attack took place.
The American company Lockheed Martin has developed the M142 HIMARS and it is considered highly mobile.
Footage released by Ukrainian officials shows large plumes of black smoke rising into the sky above a university after it was reportedly hit, along with another university in the city, by at least 10 Russian missiles.
The footage was also relayed by the Ukrainian government organization the Center for Strategic Communications and Information Security, along with a statement saying: "At around 8 a.m., more than 10 powerful explosions were heard in the city.
The M142 HIMARS system allows for the launching of multiple, precision-guided rockets. Already, the U.S. had provided eight of the systems to Ukraine and last week promised to send an additional four, for a total of 12.
The images were obtained from the Mykolaiv regional governor, Vitaliy Kim, 41, who said: "This morning, the terrorist country Russia again shelled Mykolaiv. By firing at least 10 missiles into the city.
Russian forces have bragged about destroying NATO weapons in a series of strikes, according to reports.
Editor-in-chief of the Military-Technical Cooperation Tass magazine, Dmitry Litovkin, said the Harpoon missile is one of the most successful developments in its class, according to the TASS report.
The claim of Russia's success was made by the official representative of Russian Defense Ministry, Lieutenant-General Igor Konashenkov.
Konashenkov added that near the settlement of Krasnoarmeysk in the Donetsk People's Republic, ground-based high-precision weapons destroyed a launcher and a transport-loading vehicle of a US-made HIMARS multiple launch rocket system.
The missiles are used in almost 30 states, including NATO countries, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, Israel, Chile and India.
He continued: "As a result of the strike on the deployment point of the 97th battalion of the 60th motorized infantry brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the area of the settlement of Novodanilovka, Zaporozhye region, up to 65 nationalists and over 10 units of special vehicles were destroyed."
Kim, the governor of the Mykolaiv region, later said that "Russians attacked two of the largest universities in the city."
