The Killers Iggy Pop Cancel Russian Shows as Assault On Ukraine Escalates
20220301
https://www.newsweek.com/green-day-iggy-pop-cancel-russian-shows-assault-ukraine-escalates-1683724
Also on Tuesday, Scottish rock band Franz Ferdinand also confirmed that they were pulling out of Russian shows in an extended Twitter thread.
The Park Live Festival 2022 line-up, scheduled for July, also boasts My Chemical Romance, Sum 41, Gorillaz, Deftones, Iggy Pop, Five Finger Death Punch, Slipknot, and Limp Bizkit. Of these artists, only Iggy Pop has officially canceled his appearance at the event, so far.
As a part of the ongoing fallout over Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a growing number of musical acts are canceling shows in the country in protest.
"We love Russia," the statement began. This great country has inspired our band through its art and literature and since we first played there seventeen years ago, we have built a rich and deep relationship with our Russian fans. Since Thursday morning, we have spoken to many of our friends in Russia via social media and have encountered unanimous opposition to this violence and solidarity with our Ukrainian friends."
Update 030122, 6:10 p.m. ET:This article has been updated to note that The Killers have now also pulled out of Moscow's Park Live Festival.
Nick Cave  the Bad Seeds announced in a tweet on Tuesday that they were pulling out of scheduled appearances in both Moscow and Kyiv, Ukraine. In the statement, the group also expressed solidarity for the Ukrainian people during this chaotic time.
"In light of current events, this is necessary," representatives for Pop wrote on his official Twitter page. "Our thoughts are with the Ukrainians and all the brave people who oppose this violence and seek peace."
"We know you see the madness of your country's leadership," the statement continued. "We know you do not want war. We do not want war. Despite the tragedy of this situation, we still burn a flame of optimism in our hearts and look forward to the day when we can return in a time of peace to share the joy of music together again."
"We are aware that this moment is not about stadium rock shows, it's so much bigger than that," Green Day's statement read. "But we also know that rock and roll is forever and we feel confident there will be a time and a place for us to return in the future."
"Our thoughts and love go out to the brave people of Ukraine, their heroic leader, and all those suffering from this senseless war," the statement read. "Ukraine, we stand with you, and with all those in Russia who oppose this brutal act, and we pray that this madness is brought to a close soon."
Pop-punk group Green Day was one of the first bands to cancel appearances in Russia, making the announcement on social media on Sunday. The group was scheduled to perform on May 29 in Moscow as part of its ongoing Hella Mega Tour.
As of Tuesday, more popular bands and artists have canceled planned performances in Russia. Universal Music confirmed to Newsweek on Tuesday that alternative rock band, The Killers, had pulled out of a scheduled appearance at Moscow's Park Live Festival over the summer.
Other acts that have called off performances in Russia include industrial rock group Health, Russian rapper Oxxxymiron, Irish indie rock band Inhale, and former One Direction member Louis Tomlinson.
