Ukrainian Airborne Assault Troops Reportedly Take Out Convoy of Russian Ammo Vehicles
20220701
https://www.newsweek.com/ukrainian-airborne-assault-troops-reportedly-take-out-convoy-russian-ammo-vehicles-1721191
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is calling a "special military operation." Friday marks the 128th day of the invasion.
Ukraine's top brass has said that they have forced the Russians to abandon Snake Island and have derided Kremlin officials for claiming that they left as a "gesture of goodwill." Ukraine's military added that the Russians had fled the island in speedboats after being hit by a barrage of missile strikes and artillery.
The situation in the eastern Ukrainian city of Lysychansk has been described as "extremely difficult," with Russian shelling making it impossible for civilians to evacuate.
Zenger News contacted the Command of the Airborne Assault Troops for further comment, as well as the Russian Ministry of Defense, but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that between February 24 and July 1, Russia had lost about 35,750 personnel, 1,577 tanks, 3,736 armored combat vehicles, 796 artillery units, 246 multiple launch rocket systems, 105 air defense systems, 217 warplanes, 186 helicopters, 645 drones, 143 cruise missiles, 15 warships, 2,610 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, and 61 units of special equipment.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that a new "iron curtain" is appearing between Russia and the West.
Russia accused Norway of disrupting critical supplies from being delivered to Svalbard on Wednesday, threatening to retaliate. But Norway said that it was not blocking access to the archipelago in the Arctic, stating that it was only applying international sanctions and that the Russians had other ways of getting there.
U.K. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said that pushing Russian forces out of Ukraine completely was a "realistic" ambition and justification for providing additional weapons.
The 95th Air Assault Brigade is headquartered in Zhytomyr, a city in the Zhytomyr Oblast region of western Ukraine, west of the capital of Kyiv, during peacetime. It is considered one of the most elite units of the Ukrainian military.
A missile strike on Odesa killed 18 people, including two children, according to regional governor Maksym Marchenko, with more than 30 people hospitalized. Ukrainian Brigadier General Oleksii Hromov said that Russia is using inaccurate missiles from old Soviet stockpiles in over half of its strikes on the country.
It is unclear where exactly in Ukraine the images were filmed, but they were obtained Thursday from the Command of the Airborne Assault Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine who said in a statement that they show how the "reactive artillery of the Zhytomyr brigade of the DShV the Ukrainian Air Assault Forces destroyed a convoy of the occupiers' vehicles with ammunition."
Russian military vehicles were successfully hit by Ukrainian ordnance as footage released by Ukraine military reportedly shows.
They also said: "Death to the Russian invaders! Air Assault Forces of Ukraine - Always First!
They added: "The video recorded the successful infliction of fire damage by the rocket artillery unit of the 95th Air Assault Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on a motor vehicle convoy with ammunition belonging to the Russian occupiers."
