Ukraine War Enters Day 17 US EU Launch New Actions Against Russia
20220311
https://www.newsweek.com/ukraine-war-news-live-russia-latest-nuclear-update-putin-zelensky-1687067
"Despite repeated offers by the Ukrainian side, Russia has not shown any willingness to seriously engage so far in negotiations for a diplomatic solution," the EU said in a statement. "Instead, all we hear are new lies and false accusations."
"Revoking permanent normal trade relations will make it harder for Russia to do business with the United States," Biden said. "And doing it in union with other countries that make up half the world's economy will be another crushing blow to Russia's economy."
Nebenzya said the Ukrainians are engaging in "reckless" and "dangerous" experiments involving the plague, anthrax and cholera that could threaten Europe and the entire world.
Biden also announced the U.S. will ban key imports from Russia, including seafood, vodka and diamonds.
The U.S. will also add more Russian oligarchs to the sanctions list and ban the import of certain luxury goods to Russia.
"We're willing to adopt other sanctions and all options are on the table," French President Emmanuel Macron said.
"The service life of the available diesel generators is designed for 48 hours of maintenance of safety systems," the post reads. "The occupiers refused to grant access to the station to Ukraine repairers. Instead, "Belarusian specialists" went there on the instructions of Oleksandr Lukashenko. Among them, under the guise of nuclear power plants, Russian saboteurs also come to organize a terrorist attack."
The IAEA has said the loss of power will not have a "critical impact" on safety functions on site. However, Ukraine's Parliament warned of radiation risks if power was not restored.
"The largest number of countries from the Middle East, more than 16,000 applications. And here, of course, we consider it right to respond positively to requests, especially since these requests are not for money, but for the personal convictions of these people," Shoigu said a recent Security Council, state-controlled TV station Zvezda reports.
Mariana Vishegirskaya was pictured by the Associated Press as she escaped the hospital Wednesday, after it was hit by a Russian airstrike. She walked downstairs wearing pajamas and carrying her belongings. The stairs and ground were covered in debris from the bombing.
His comments come after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced on February 27 an "international legion" volunteer force to defend his country
Lieutenant Colonel Maxim Krishtop said: "After I dropped the bombs, I was shot down by Ukraine's air defense systems. I was then taken prisoner," in a video broadcast by Interfax Ukraine news agency.
Department spokesperson Ned Price said Americans looking to join Ukrainian forces will be treated as "mercenaries" by Russians.
The United Nations Security Council is holding a meeting a Russia's request to investigate claims of military biological activities in Ukraine.
The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine continues to climb more than two weeks since Russia began invading the country. More than 2.5 million refugees have left Ukraine as of March 11, the U.N. Refugee Agency UNHCR estimates.
Ukrainian Ambassador to U.N., Sergiy Kyslytsya echoed this report during the U.N. Security Council meeting Friday and decried reports that civilians in Mariupol are being buried in mass graves.
The first video, published on the Russian defense ministry on its official YouTube channel, claims to show the moment a Russian Unmanned aerial vehicle UAV fired at what it describes as "a fortified base of Ukrainian nationalists."
He said that the U.S. knows the "Kremlin's tactics, especially its disinformation tactics." His comments come after the Russian Defense Ministry accused Ukraine of possibly planning a false-flag chemical weapon attack.
Our senior reporter David Brennan details concerns on the plan's collapse deepening Ukrainian animosity towards NATO and encourage Russian aggression.
In another video on a pro-Russian Telegram channel a "trophy FGM-148 Javelin," the portable anti-tank missile system that Ukraine acquired from the U.S., is being handled by Russian soldiers. If proven true, this may be the first reported successful capture of a functioning "Javelin" by the Russian forces in Ukraine.
The European Union announced it will introduce a fourth package of sanctions against Russia Saturday amid Russia's continued "ruthless" invasion of Ukraine.
"Naturally I will inform you about the situation with Ukraine, and first and foremost about the progress of negotiations, which are taking place on an almost daily basis. There are certain positive shifts, according to the negotiators on our side. I will tell you in more detail," Putin told Lukashenko. He did not elaborate on the specifics of those discussions.
Videos of the aftermath of the crash have been shared extensively on social media by local residents.
The White House has hit back following reports Russia might look to seize assets from U.S. companies in retaliation for the West's crippling sanctions.
An unidentified object, possibly a Ukrainian military drone, has crashed on the outskirts of Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, after allegedly flying all the way from the conflict zone.
Demyanenko is a former deputy head of the SBU Main Directorate in Kyiv and Kyiv Oblast, Boyko said. Ukrinform reports he previously worked as an advisor to current Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko, the former heavyweight boxing champion.
Any such move by Russia would end in "more economic pain" for Russia, White House press secretary Jen Psaki warned on Thursday morning.
"Russia would pay a severe price if they use chemical weapons," Biden said during a press conference Friday.
The president of Ukraine on several occasions publicly called on Putin to meet with him directly, but the Kremlin dismissed such suggestions, saying that there was "no need" for high-level talks.
Besieged Mariupol is now the worst humanitarian catastrophe on the planet. 1582 dead civilians in 12 days, even buried in mass graves like this one. Unable to defeat the Ukrainian Army, Putin bombs the unarmed, blocks humanitarian aid. We need planes to stop Russian war crimes! pic.twitter.comCSFPSlzrTa
President Biden announced that the U.S., along with NATO and G7 allies, will deny "most favored nations" status to Russia.
G7 leaders are restricting Russia's ability to borrow from leading multilateral institutions, including International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
The pair also discussed Kuleba's meeting with his his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, in Turkey. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu mediated the conversation between Kuleba and Lavrov on the sidelines of the Antalya Diplomacy Forum on Thursday.
"Consumers and businesses need relief now," she continued. "On top of price regulation and State Aid, Member States are given the option to tax windfall profits from energy groups. End of March, the E.U. Commission will present options to limit the contagion of the rise of gas prices to electricity."
Residents in Dnipro, central Ukraine, awoke in the early hours to find their city under attack for the first time in Russia's invasion.
Krishtop appeared in a line-up of several Russian officers that Ukraine claims to have captured and brought to speak with journalists.
"We are clear that any intentional attack or targeting of civilians is a war crime. Period," she said.
The U.S. State Department has dismissed these accusations from Russia as lies, and the U.S. Ambassador the the U.N. echoed this sentiment during the meeting Friday.
We're translating Vladimir Putin's remarks to Alexander Lukashenko and will bring you more shortly. First...
Meta's temporary policy changes on calls for violence against Russian soldiers apply to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia and Ukraine.
U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price has this morning warned Russia about using chemical weapons on Ukraine.
Mariupol city officials claim Russian forces have killed over 1,500 civilians since the Ukrainian invasion began.
"According to available information, Vladimir Putin has ordered the preparation of a terrorist attack at the Chernobyl NPP," the Ukraine Ministry of Defense post reads. "The Russian-controlled Chernobyl nuclear power plant plans to create a man-made catastrophe, for which the occupiers will try to shift responsibility to Ukraine."
The pregnant woman pictured escaping from the Mariupol maternity hospital that was destroyed by the Russian artillery fire has become a target of abuse by pro-Russian trolls on social media.
In the aftermath of the bombing the Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov claimed the hospital was targeted because it was cleared days earlier to "host Ukrainian nationalists." Later the Russian defense ministry altogether denied that Russia was behind the bombing, which, it falsely claimed, was "faked."
Congress passed a massive spending bill Thursday night, including $13 billion in military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine. Biden said he looks forward to signing the bill "immediately."
He is being accused of being a member of the "Right Sector," a group the Luhansk prosecutor claims has committed acts of terrorism against civilians in the Donbas region.
"The regulator has continued to receive information about the situation there through senior off-site management of the plant," the IAEA said.
"Please ask Moscow to release the kidnapped mayor of the city of Melitopol," he said. "Please, help us to get him back from the arms of invaders."
"We take very seriously our role and the relationships that we have within the NATO alliance," she said. "We take seriously and are prepared to act on the words we speak when we say an attack against one is an attack against all."
During her time in Bucharest, the VP is focused on the relationship and friendship between the United States  Romania, and on our mutual support for the people of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comSlixP9rp9x
"We are united in our determination to hold President Putin and his regime accountable for this unjustified and unprovoked war that has already isolated Russia in the world," G7 leaders said in a joint statement.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says the country has reached a "strategic turning point," as it continues fighting against Russian forces for a sixteenth day.
Putin added that attempts to "restrict our development, contain it" would not succeed, and said Russia had achieved "colossal" successes under sanctions.
Prior to announcing a new round of sanctions Friday, President Joe Biden spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Biden provided an update on the new U.S. sanctions against Russia, made in coordination with the G7 and the E.U. He also "underscored" ongoing support for Ukraine.
During the United Nations Security Council meeting, Ukraine ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya asked his Russian counterpart to release Fedorov.
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said the the abduction of Fedorov is "classified as a war crime under the Geneva Conventions and the Additional Protocol that prohibit the taking of civilian hostages during the war."
During Fedorov's abduction, officials said a plastic bag was placed over Fedorov's head and now "Melitopol is under the temporary control of Russian troops."
French President EmmanuelMacron says the EU  is ready to impose more sanctions against Russia  and that a rapid return to peace is the "initial objective"  Macron also says the union will also consider Moldova  and Georgia  applications  pic.twitter.comwW1noadZYO
One person died, with the blasts damaging windows in eight apartment buildings, it said. Dnipro is home to about 1 million people, about the same size as Austin.
Putin also commented on Western sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus, saying the "USSR did in fact live under sanctions, was able to develop and achieve colossal victories."
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Russia too had many requests from volunteers, largely from the Middle East.
Friday's briefing is scheduled to begin at 1:30 p.m. EST. Watch live on the Department of Defense website.
She then turned focus to alleged Russian actions in Ukraine, saying Russia called this meeting to use "lies" in an attempt to "cover up atrocities in Ukraine."
"This is a government that has used banned chemical weapons on its own people in the past," he said.
A Warsaw sports center has transformed into shelter for some Ukrainian refugees. Many are women, children and the elderly.
The order to carry out airstrikes came on February 23, the day before Russia began its invasion, the captured pilot claimed. But he also admitted that he was made aware of war preparations upon being assigned to join training exercises in Belarus in January 2022.
We have seen reports that Russia may be considering seizing the assets of U.S. and international companies that have announced plans to suspend operations in Russia or to withdraw from the Russian market.
"U.S. citizens should be aware that Russia has stated that it intends to treat foreign fighters in Ukraine as mercenaries rather than as lawful combatants or prisoners of war," he said during a briefing Friday.
E.U. leaders discussed three major topics during a two-day summit in Versailles: bolstering E.U. defense capabilities, reducing Russian energy dependency and building a more robust economic base amid Russia's invasion into Ukraine.
He added that the U.S. is not able to provide assistance to evacuate U.S. citizens from Ukraine.
Several pro-Russian groups accused Mariana of being a "crisis actor." Ukraine's Ambassador to the U.N. Sergiy Kyslytsya slammed the claims during a U.N. Security Council meeting Friday.
The Russian government and media have continued to peddle a false narrative that Ukraine is "occupied by neonazis," a claim that Western officials and media outlets dismiss as part of a propaganda campaign to justify the invasion of Ukraine.
"We have state flags of Ukraine and two armored personnel carriers over our settlements of Chernihiv region, which will now serve the benefit of the Ukrainian people," fighters added.
Rob Lee, a military expert and senior fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, a U.S.-based non-profit think tank, suggested on Twitter the footage may show a Ukrainian Stugna-P ATGM strike.
As Russias ruthless invasion continues, the EU and our G7 partners continue to ramp up the economic pressure on the Kremlin.Tomorrow, we will introduce a fourth package of measures to further isolate Russia and drain the resources it uses to finance this barbaric war 
He also said he carried out three bombing missions in Ukraine in total, some of which involved deployment of FAB-500 Soviet-era air-dropped bombs with a high-explosive warhead.
Referencing several incidents that have taken place since the invasion, including the bombing of the maternity hospital in Mariupol, Price added that if war crimes have been committed the "perpetrators" will be held "accountable."
Local reports say the drone is likely a Topulev Tu-141 'Strizh' UAV, though it is not clear whether it belonged to the Russian or Ukrainian military.
Newsweek is unable to independently verify the footage and the weapon that appears to be used in the video.
"They are ok, but it's very cold in Mariupol and the bombing doesn't stop," the journalist tweeted.
The site was knocked off the power grid Wednesday and has been running on emergency diesel generators. The regulator lost communication with the power plant on Thursday and has been unable to provide radiological monitoring information from the facility to the IAEA.
As of Friday, the site remains "completely" disconnected from the International Atomic Energy Agency's IAEA monitoring systems, the directorate added.
At the top of the meeting, U.N. High Representative for Disarmament AffairsIzumi Nakamitsu said the organizations is "not aware of any biological weapons programs" in Ukraine.
More than 300 international brands, including Coca-Cola, Starbucks and Ikea, have paused operations in Russia following the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. More on that here
The object landed in the Sava suburb of Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, located nearly 400 miles from Ukraine's border to the east of neighboring Hungary.
"Let me share with you very good news," Kyslytsya said showing a photo. "Miss Mariana, the pregnant woman, gave birth to a healthy daughter last Thursday night. Her name is Veronika. Here she is with her father. No matter what the Russian lies are about herself, her family, and the incident."
"Our initial objective is, of course, a rapid return to peace. Starting with a ceasefire, followed by a rapid withdrawal of Russian troops."
"We will never forget and will never forgive this crime against humanity, against Ukraine, against Mariupol!," the council said in a Telegram post.
Nadezhda, a woman who lives near the site of the airstrike, told BBC News she and her granddaughter ran to a shelter at a Metro station after explosions rocked their building at about 6 a.m. local time.
President Joe Biden threatened "severe" consequences if Russia were to launch a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine.
Earlier Friday, Ukraine's Defense Ministry claimed Russia was preparing a potential "terrorist attack" at Chernobyl. Russian forces have been in control of the site for more than two weeks.
"That could just be force protection because Ukrainians have continued to threaten that convoy and its progress," Kirby answered, cautioning against jumping to conclusions.
BREAKING: Russia's 40-mile long military convoy that had stalled northwest of Ukraine's capital Kyiv has largely "dispersed and redeployed," per satellite photos. Russian armored units have been seen maneuvering in  towns near Antonov airport and in treelines nearby.:Maxar pic.twitter.come127gEduY5
Refugees have flooded into neighboring countries, the vast majority to Poland. Warsaw's mayor has called for global support to respond to the crisis.
Ukrainian forces say they have taken back five settlements in the Chernihiv region, north Ukraine, from Russian occupiers.
As we've previously reported, 47 civilians were killed in a suspected "dumb bomb" attack by Russian forces on Chernihiv city, about 90 miles north of Kyiv, on March 3. Human rights group Amnesty said the attack could be a "war crime."
Ukraine and Russia media is reporting that Dmytro Demyanenko, a Ukrainian former security services in Kiev, has been killed.
Ukraine nuclear regulator told IAEA: technicians started repairing damaged power lines at Chornobyl Nuclear Power Plant off-site electrical power still down additional fuel for diesel generators was delivered staff still has not been able to rotate. https:t.coB8aNmzT4EJ pic.twitter.comcE3wC1Q9In
Russia's ambassador to the U.N., Vasily Nebenzya, said the Russian government has evidence that Ukraine is running a military biological program that is funded and supported by the United States Defense Department. He said there is a network of at least 30 biological laboratories in Ukraine.
"We call on the international community to respond immediately to the abduction of Ivan Fedorov and other civilians, and to increase pressure on Russia to end its barbaric war against the Ukrainian people," the Ukraine MFA said in a Facebook post.
During a press conference with Romanian President Klaus Friday, Harris said the United States is still hoping to find a diplomatic solution to the war in Ukraine, but is not optimistic Moscow is willing to engage in good faith negotiations.
The regulator said work began Thursday night and one section was repaired. "But off-site electrical power was still down, indicating there was still damage in other places," IAEA said in a statement.
Vladimir Putin has positive developments in peace negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian delegates in Belarus.
Alexander Vershbow, former Deputy Secretary-General of NATO, told him it was "very embarrassing that the administration seemed to greenlight it's saying they wouldn't stand in the way and then had second thoughts."
"The Emergency Situations Office immediately sent a response team to the crash site, with initial accounts from eyewitnesses and officials suggesting that it was some kind of aircraft. Firefighters also received a report of a parachute found on a tree nearby," Croatian daily newspaper Jutarnji reported Friday.
"300,000 refugees have arrived in Warsaw since Russia attacked Ukraine on February 24," Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski said. "Our city remains the main destination for Ukrainian refugees. Situation is getting more and more difficult every day."
Zelensky also addressed Polish government officials Friday via video. More than 1.5 million refugees have fled Ukraine into Poland since February 24, the U.N. Refugee Agency UNHCR estimates.
The E.U. will also roll out a plan by the end of May, detailing ways to phase out dependency on Russian gas, oil and coal by 2027.
"It will be backed by the necessary national and European resources," President of the E.U. Commission Ursula von der Leyen said Friday.
More than 20,000 from 52 countries had volunteered as of Monday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has said.
'We've already experienced cruise missiles, multiple rocket launchers and heavy aerial bombs - what is next? What will be the next target?'Ukraine's ambassador to the UN, Sergiy Kyslytsya, questions Putin's next stepshttps:t.coX3flQUBL0rSky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 pic.twitter.comCylp601t1j
By end of May we will propose to phase out our dependency on Russian gas, oil and coal by 2027.It will be backed by the necessary national and European resources.And well present options to optimise the electricity market design, so it better supports the green transition.
The announcement will stream live at 10:15 a.m. ET on the White House website and YouTube channel.
"Here goes. Little tank. One shot, one hit ... Glory to Ukraine!" the caption under the video states.
The pilot of a Russian jet downed shortly after carrying out airstrikes in Ukraine has said that during one mission he "realized that the target was not a enemy military objects, but civilian homes and peaceful people."
Russian state prosecutors called on the tech firm on Friday to be labeled "extremist organization," a move likely to leave its platformsincluding Instagram, Whatsapp and Facebook blocked in Russia.
The Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine made the claim Friday in a Facebook post, adding Russia would blame Ukraine for the attack. Russian forces took control of the site more than two weeks ago.
Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby will soon hold a news briefing, as Russia continues its invasion of Ukraine for a sixteenth day.
Ukraine's State Emergency Service said a kindergarten, residential block and shoe factory were hit by shelling shortly after 6 a.m. this morning Friday.
Croatia : A remotely-controlled UAV has reportedly crashed in Zagreb.The drone seems to be a possible Topulev Tu-141 'Strizh' UAV very likely came from Ukraine.It is currently unknown if it was owned by Russia or Ukraine. pic.twitter.comVKZmY2XC4K
Thomas-Greenfield said the Ukrainian labs in questions are public health facilities used to detect and diagnose diseases. She said the activities at these facilities are "done out in the open" to protect public health.
She said diplomacy should coexists with efforts to hold Russia accountable for its actions, including spreading "lies" and "misinformation."
A U.S. State Department spokesperson said the U.S. is still "surging security assistance to Ukraine" along with its partners and allies.
"A Russian military UAV hit the target with a guided missile from the height of 4 kilometers," the caption to the video states.
Shortly after the Russian defense ministry published a video of a purported drone strike on Ukrainian forces, The General Staff of the Armed forces of Ukraine published footage of what it claims to be an enemy tank being destroyed by a rocket strike.
The U.S. continues to send security assistance to Ukraine daily, as Russia's invasion continued for a sixteenth day.
Most favored nation status means that two countries agree to trade under the best possible terms, Biden said, including low tariffs and few trade barriers.
As we've been hearing, Vladimir Putin has suggested peace negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian delegates are improving.
While the number claimed by Shoigu could not be independently confirmed, a report in the Wall Street Journal on Sunday, March 6, claimed that Russia was recruiting Syrians skilled in urban combat to fight in Ukraine.
Fedorov is being accused of assisting and financing terrorist activities and being part of a criminal community, according to the Luhansk prosecutor's website.
The woman, whose first name is Marianna, gave birth to a baby girl at 10pm local time on Thursday, according to Ukrainian journalist Olga Tokariuk.
The White House issued warnings of the potential warfare Wednesday, after Russia made claims about alleged U.S. biological weapons labs and chemical weapons development in Ukraine. The White House has repeatedly refuted the claims, saying the U.S. has no such program anywhere.
Ukrainian news agency Ukrinform and Ukrainian newspaper Pravda said he was shot dead at a roadblock after purportedly firing at patrol officers in the Darnitskiy district of southeastern Kiev.
The crash caused a small but loud explosion, but did not result in any injuries or casualties, according to a statement issued after Croatia's National Security Council.
Additionally, the EU will propose a "big ban" on new European investments across Russia's energy sector that will cover all investments, technology transfers and financial services for energy exploration and production.
Warning A group of 10 occupiers kidnapped the mayor of Melitopol Zaporizhzhya region Ivan Fedorov. He refused to cooperate with the enemy.StopRussia StopPutin  pic.twitter.comnV6OPlbGfh
The U.S. "will not let atrocities slide," Thomas-Greenfield said, adding that she is confident the "truth and transparency will prevail."
She accused Russia of using the security council meeting to "legitimize disinformation" and "deceive people" in order to justify Putin's war of choice.
Vice President Kamala Harris said Russian President Vladimir Putin is not interested in "serious diplomacy."
Blinken provided Kuleba an update on new U.S. sanctions announced Friday against Russia and an ongoing commitment to provide security, economic and humanitarian support to Ukraine. Blinken additionally shared efforts to hold Belarus accountable for facilitating Russia's combat operations.
Ukraines UN Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya said Russian leaders are struggling to get the story straight as they offer conflicting versions of the bombing of a maternity ward and childrens hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine pic.twitter.com5AVxQLDOyd
A pregnant woman who escaped the maternity hospital attack in Mariupol this week has given birth to a daughter.
The Pentagon believes some Russian forces are starting to make momentum toward Kyiv, as a massive convoy remains stalled.
"There were lots of people there - men, women, little dogs, elderly and the young - it was the first time we went down there.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has been spoken of attracting volunteer fighters to join his war against Ukraine.
"I know that many people have started to feel tired, I understand," Zelensky said. "Impatient. I understand. When we mobilize, when we see our victories and the loss of the enemy on the battlefield, we expect the struggle to end sooner. We expect the invaders to fall faster. But this is life, this is war. This is a struggle. Time is still needed. Patience is still needed."
Marianna, reportedly a beauty blogger originally from Donetsk, Eastern Ukraine, has become a target of a Russian disinformation campaign, with dozens of pro-Russian accounts making unevidenced claims she is a "crisis actor" and the photo of her escape as "staged."
Therefore, the EU will join the U.S. and G7 leaders in denying most-favored-nation trade status to Russia, mounting pressure on Russian elites and banning the import of luxury goods to Russia.
Putin told Belarussian counterpart Alexander Lukashenko that there had been "certain positive shifts" after he was briefed by those taking part in the talks.
"We believe Russia could use chemical or biological agents for assassinations, as part of a staged or false flag incident, or to support tactical military operations," Thomas-Greenfield said. "Russia has a track record of falsely accusing other countries of the very violations that Russia itself is perpetrating."
Friday, Biden said he looks forward to "immediately" signing a massive spending bill passed by Congress Thursday night. It includes $13.6 billion in new assistance for the Ukrainian people.
The Ukrainian Parliament said Russian troops detained Fedorov in the city crisis center and he "refused to cooperate with the enemy."
Friday, AP shared photos of Vishegirskaya lying in a hospital bed, in another facility, after giving birth to a baby girl. Her husband also held their daughter, named Veronika.
"There are certain positive shifts, negotiators on our side tell me," Putin said in a meeting with his Belarusian counterpart Alexander Lukashenko, adding that talks continued "practically on a daily basis."
As Russia escalates its attacks on the ground in Ukraine, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba voiced concerns of Russia also stepping up its disinformation campaigns.
"In our meeting with FM Lavrov... I insisted on the urgent need to allow humanitarian help for Mariupol and a 24-hour ceasefire," Kuleba said Thursday "Unfortunately, FM Lavrov seemed to have come to talk, not to decide. I hope he will convey Ukraine's requests back in Moscow."
U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris announced nearly $53 million in humanitarian assistance from the U.S. government to United States Agency for International Development USAID on Thursday. Biden said the U.S. continues to provide humanitarian support including food, money and aid.
The American people are united. The world is united.  We stand with the people of Ukraine.
"They shared their concerns that Russia is escalating its disinformation campaigns to deceive the world, including at the United Nations," a State Department statement said.
Operational Command "North" made the announcement this morning, reporting that Ukrainian fighters also seized Russian armored personnel carriers.
In a series of tweets, she wrote: "Any lawless decision by Russia to seize the assets of these companies will ultimately result in even more economic pain for Russia. It will compound the clear message to the global business community that Russia is not a safe place to invest and do business."
Technicians have started to repair damaged power lines at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, a Ukrainian regulator told the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA Friday.
"We should not be feeding the energy dependency which we want to leave behind us," the EU said.
Russia has accused Ukraine of mistreating and "parading" war prisoners, who it claims are speaking under duress. Ukraine has refuted those accusations.
"It is impossible to say for how many more days we must liberate our Ukrainian land," he continued. "But it is possible to say we will do it. Because we have already reached a strategic turning point. We are already moving toward our goal, toward our victory."
The 40-mile-long Russian military convoy is situated to the North of the capital city and has been stalled for days. Pentagon assessments indicate its main purpose is resupply. Kirby was asked Friday about recent satellite imagery appearing to show the convoy dispersing.
IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi has expressed repeated concern for the 210 Chernobyl technical experts and guards who have been working on site for more than two weeks straight.
President of Ukraine ZelenskyyUa at the Sejm: God willing, if we win this war, we will share with you our victory. This is a battle for our freedom, but also for your freedom. This is a joint history of great nations. Long live free Poland, long live free Ukraine!  pic.twitter.comMvFSEo0oGM
"I fully comprehend and accept the horrific nature of my crimes. I will do everything in my power to end this war as quickly as possible, and bring those responsible for this genocide of Ukrainians to justice," the pilot concluded.
Former senior NATO officials have told Newsweek that the organization's failure to transfer fighter jets to Ukraine is an embarrassing stain on an alliance that has made so much of its support for Kyiv in the face of Russian invasion.
U.S. tech giant Meta is facing the wrath of Russian authorities after leaked emails showed the company temporarily lifted its own restrictions around hate speech to allow users to post calls for violence against Russian soldiers.
"The sanctions against us present a moment of opportunity," Putin's Belarusian counterpart echoed. "We've always been under sanctions and continued to thrive and develop."
I received an update from a relative of Marianna - a pregnant girl from Mariupol's bombed hospital. They were able to reach her on the phone briefly. Last night at 10pm, Marianna gave birth to a baby girl! They are ok, but it's very cold in Mariupol and the bombing doesn't stop pic.twitter.comPSLxI6I0zZ
The European Union is willing to impose another set of sanctions against Russia, leaders said during a summit in Versailles Friday.
Russia has long-maintained a biological weapon program "in violation of international law," she said, and has a history of using chemical weapons itself.
The Mariupol City Council said "1582 civilians from Mariupol were killed by Russian occupation forces in 12 days of blockade of the city and ruthless shelling of residential neighborhoods."
Long lines formed outside McDonald's restaurants across Russia following the company's announcement it would temporarily close there, local media reported.
The EU will also prevent Russia and Russian elites from using crypto assets to circumvent sanctions and prohibit the import of iron and steel sector from Russia to "hit a central sector of Russia's system, deprive it of billions of export revenues and ensure that our citizens are not subsidising Putin's war."
Biden spoke with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky prior to announcing another round of sanctions against Russia Friday, in what Zelensky called a "substantive conversation."
"Ukraine does not have a biological weapons program," she said. "There are no Ukrainian biological weapons laboratories supported by the United States, not near Russia's border or anywhere."
In addition to economic sanctions, G7 leaders also said they will continue to "fight off" Russia's attempt to spread disinformation.
Social media video above taken on March 9 at 6:30 pm local time showed vehicles waiting at a drive-thru in the city of Surgut in western Siberia.
"Ukrainian people are being killed and Ukrainian cities are being destroyed," he said. "The sooner the aggressors is stopped, the safer the world is."
Lukashenko offered Putin a brilliant anti-sanctions plan: "In a month, we will forget that there are sanctions. We should get together at the table in Moscow  come to an agreement: we sell you this, you sell us that. We'll build a joint economic policy." What a genius strategy! pic.twitter.comY36W6aTDCb
"President Biden highlighted how the United States is continuing to surge security, humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine," a White House statement reads.
Several new videos published on official and unofficial Russian channels appear to show strikes on Ukrainian forces and a captured U.S.-made anti-tank missile system.
Price encouraged Americans to help the war effort in Ukraine in more "constructive" ways through humanitarian aide channels.
"If you see that there are people who want on a voluntary basis, especially not for money, to come and help people living in the Donbass - well, well, you need to meet them halfway and help them move to the war zone," he told security chiefs, Russian news agency Tass reported a little while ago.
Russian president Vladimir Putin met with the leader of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko to discuss progress of peace talks with Ukraine, and the impact of Western sanctions imposed on the two countries by the West.
Zelensky: We have already reached a strategic turning point. We are moving towards our victory. Full video: https:t.coATdjdKSrQ9 StopRussia StopPutinsWar WARINUKRAINE Zelensky Ukraine pic.twitter.comOO7zs7Hqvy
Ukraine's Defense Ministry believes that Russian President Vladimir Putin is preparing a "terrorist attack" at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant.
Photographs taken in Ukraine and Moscow earlier today have been recording the conflict on Day 16 of the invasion. Here are a few:
According to Croatian authorities, the "pilotless military aircraft" entered Croatian airspace from neighboring Hungary at a speed of 700 kph 430 mph and an altitude of 1,300 meters 4,300 feet.
Had a substantive conversation with POTUS. Gave him the assessment of the situation on the battlefield, informed about the crimes of Russia against the civilian population. We agreed on further steps to support the defense of Ukraine and increase sanctions against Russia.
"From the beginning, the United States has been attempting sincerely to engage in diplomacy," she said. "From everything that we know and have witnessed, Putin shows no sign of engaging in serious diplomacy."
"Gave him the assessment of the situation on the battlefield, informed about the crimes of Russia against the civilian population," Zelensky said. "We agreed on further steps to support the defense of Ukraine and increase sanctions against Russia."
Americans who travel to Ukraine, "especially with the purpose of participating and fighting there," face significant risks, Price said, "including the very real risk of capture or death."
Ukrainian journalist Volodymyr Boyko wrote on Telegram that Demyanenko was found dead in a Toyota car with gunshot wounds. Boyko shared photos showing several bodies in a car.
The armed aggression of the RF against Ukraine is accompanied by gross violations of norms and principles of international law, including intl humanitarian law.Among such gross violations was the abduction of Melitopol Mayor Ivan Fedorov on March 11. https:t.copSyJKi8VY8 pic.twitter.comSdZVCW1xNx
The briefing is set to begin at 2 p.m. EST and will stream live on the State Department website and YouTube channel.
Earlier Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov claimed that Putin "was not opposed to meeting Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky," but the Russian side wants for such a meeting to be arranged "only if concrete agreements can be put in place."
"We do assess that the Russians are beginning to make more momentum on the ground towards Kyiv, particularly from the East," Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said during a news conference Friday. "Not quite so much from the North."
"As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine we have temporarily made allowances for forms of political expression that would normally violate our rules, like violent speech such as 'death to the Russian invaders'. We still won't allow credible calls for violence against Russian civilians," Meta said in a statement earlier this week.
Social media posts show CCTV footage of a gunfight at a checkpoint, purportedly showing Demyanenko's final moments.
