Ukrainians Fire 3 Large Tactical Ballistic Missiles at Russian Forces Ammo Depots
20220624
https://www.newsweek.com/ukrainians-fire-3-large-tactical-ballistic-missiles-russian-forces-ammo-depots-1719120
Three "Tochka" tactical ballistic missiles were fired from mobile missile launch systems deployed in a field somewhere in Ukraine, from what can be seen on the footage.
U.S. intelligence has revealed that Russia is mining the Black Sea ports of Odesa and Ochakiv to throttle Ukraine's ability to export grain.
Germany has taken a step closer to gas rationing after a drop in supplies from Russia.
Russia is now thought to control all of the eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk, apart from the Azot chemical plant.
Ukrainian forces fired three large tactical ballistic missiles at Russian positions, including ammunition depots, as images from Ukraine's military reportedly show.
British intelligence has estimated that the pro-Russian, so-called Donetsk People's Republic DPR has lost 55 percent of its original forces.
Ukrainian officials have said there are currently no safe towns for civilians in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine as fighting intensifies.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that between February 24 and June 24, Russia had lost about 34,530 personnel, 1,507 tanks, 3,637 armored combat vehicles, 759 artillery units, 241 multiple launch rocket systems, 99 air defense systems, 216 warplanes, 183 helicopters, 622 drones, 137 cruise missiles, 14 warships, 2,553 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, and 60 units of special equipment.
It is unclear where exactly in Ukraine the images were filmed but the footage was obtained from the Strategic Communications Department of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who said that it shows the "launch of three 'Tochka' OTRs tactical ballistic missiles at the positions of orcs and ammunition depots."
The head of the International Energy Agency, Fatih Birol, warned Russia might stop supplying gas to Europe this winter. Several European countries have already received less Russian gas than expected in the last few weeks, with European imports of natural gas from Russia dropping from approximately 40 percent to 20 percent.
Zenger News contacted the Strategic Communications Department of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for further comment, as well as the Russian Ministry of Defense, but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." Friday marks the 121st day of the invasion.
The European Union on Thursday approved Ukraine's application to become a candidate for admission to the bloc, which is currently made up of 27 countries. The decision has been hailed in Brussels and Kyiv as a "historic moment," with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky saying that "Ukraine's future is in the EU."
