Ukrainian Border Guards Reportedly Shell Russian Unit in Donetsk Village
20220607
https://www.newsweek.com/ukrainian-border-guards-reportedly-shell-russian-unit-donetsk-village-1713682
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 1,386 tanks, 3,400 armored fighting vehicles, 690 artillery systems, 207 multiple launch rocket systems, 96 anti-aircraft systems, 211 warplanes, 176 helicopters, 2,395 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 vessels, 551 unmanned aerial vehicles, 53 units of special equipment, and 125 cruise missiles.
The National Guard of Ukraine said they destroyed four BTR-82 armored personnel carriers, two MT-LB armored vehicles, a T-72 battle tank, and a BMP-2 infantry fighting vehicle.
The Ukrainian military added that they also "found" around 20 Russian soldiers with the equipment in the village in the Donetsk region.
Images obtained from the National Guard of Ukraine show what appear to be Russian vehicles making their way through the village and being hit by Ukrainian ordnance.
Ukrainian border guards reportedly shelled a Russian unit in a Donetsk village, destroying several fighting machines.
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
StratCom said: "Exclusive. Meet. Commander of the DNR's 1st Army Corps of the orcs, Major General Roman Kutuzov has been officially denazified and demilitarized."
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned of more attacks in Ukraine if the West sends long-range weapons.
From February 24 to June 6, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at around 31,250 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
"Four BTR-82s, two MTLBs and one T-72 have been shut down, and one BMP-2 will never be able to hurt Ukrainian land again.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday in the first assault on the Ukrainian capital in weeks.
The National Guard of Ukraine said on June 4: "Guards destroyed the enemy's BMP and almost the entire platoon of occupiers in the Donetsk region. Seven more units of enemy military equipment were disabled.
"Invaders who are constantly trying to take control of Ukrainian lands were forced to hide in the bushes, but it did not help them. This is not the first time the National Guard's mortar battery was hiding with the occupier, and this time it 'found' about 20 Russian soldiers as well as 8 units of military equipment.
In related news, the United Kingdom has announced that it is sending its long-range missiles to Ukraine for the first time.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian Center for Strategic Communications StratCom claimed Monday that Russian Major General Roman Kutuzov was killed in a battle near Popasna in the Luhansk region. Russian media later confirmed that report.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." June 7 marks 104 days since the campaign began.
