Ukraine Blows Up Ammo Depot As Kyiv Gives Russian Estimated Losses Update
20220702
https://www.newsweek.com/russia-ukraine-popasna-arms-depot-missile-strike-blast-1721239
Andrei Marotchko, a spokesperson for the pro-Russian separatist forces, told Tass that "the Luhansk popular militia and Russian forces occupied the last strategic heights" and this meant that the city, which has resisted Moscow's bombardment for weeks, is "completely encircled."
Capturing the city allows the Russians to push deeper into the eastern region of the Donbas, which is the focus of their offensive after they failed to capture Kyiv.
The outlet noted that Popasna was the scene of fierce fighting at the start of the war and that Russian forces began occupying the destroyed city at the start of May.
The estimate of Russian losses included 35,870 personnel, 1582 tanks and 3737 armored personnel carriers.
More details about the location of the strike were revealed when the clip was shared on Twitter accounts. "A warehouse with ammunition belonging to the Russian occupiers was destroyed near Popasna, Luhansk region," tweeted news outlet Nexta.
The news comes as Russian-backed separatists said on Saturday that they had encircled the key city of Lysychansk, according to Russian state media.
It shows a strike on what looks like a warehouse, followed by a blaze and smoke billowing into the sky.
A warehouse with ammunition belonging to the Russian occupiers was destroyed near Popasna, Luhansk region. pic.twitter.com8aoW3d53Gc
"A LOT of Russian ammo going up in one go," tweeted journalist Euan McDonald from the outlet The New Voice of Ukraine.
"Massive explosion of a reportedly Russian ammunition depot in Popasna after being hit by precise Ukrainian strike," tweeted the account of BlueSauron which has shared footage of Ukraine's forces in the war against Russia.
The video was posted on the Facebook page of Ukraine's Armed Forces, which said, "how one of the ammunition depots of the Russian occupiers in eastern Ukraine exploded," according to a translation of the message which did not specify the location.
A Russian ammunition depot was reportedly destroyed by a Ukrainian missile, with video footage shared on social media purportedly showing the strike's dramatic aftermath.
News outlet mil.in.ua said that judging by the video, remote surveillance of the Russian military positions had been conducted by a drone or a stationary camera.
The latest official toll came on March 25 when Moscow said 1,351 soldiers and officers had died. Newsweek has contacted the Russian defense ministry for comment on the toll and the reported depot strike.
The unverified clip comes as Ukrainian armed forces estimated that since the start of its full-scale invasion on February 24, Russia has lost nearly 36,000 military personnel, although this is much higher than Western estimates.
