Ukrainian Artillery Reportedly Takes Out Russian Troops in Kherson Region
20210621
https://www.newsweek.com/ukrainian-artillery-reportedly-takes-out-russian-troops-kherson-region-1717804
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that between February 24 and June 21, Russia had lost about 34,100 personnel, 1,496 tanks, 3,606 armored combat vehicles, 752 artillery units, 239 multiple launch rocket systems, 98 air defense systems, 216 warplanes, 181 helicopters, 611 drones, 137 cruise missiles, 14 warships, 2,537 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, and 59 units of special equipment.
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
Muratov, 60, is the editor-in-chief of Russian independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta, which he co-founded in 1993. The paper has regularly defied numerous threats and covered themes that make the Kremlin uneasy.
"Because the enemy learns, becomes even more cynical, and uses human shields, especially children. We will know that there are children there, and we will be powerless, and we really don't want that. Believe me, de-occupation will be very fast. There will definitely be a counteroffensive."
Zelensky said that a "historic week" has begun as Kyiv awaits a decision from Brussels regarding its EU candidate status. The European Parliament adopted a resolution recommending that the European Union grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for EU membership. Some 438 Members of the European Parliament voted in favor of the resolution, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
It is unclear where exactly in the Kherson Oblast region of southern Ukraine the images were filmed but they were obtained Monday evening from the 36th Separate Marine Brigade, which is part of the Ukrainian Navy, and they said: "The Nikolaev Marines are actively preparing to take part in the 'Kherson referendum'!"
The 36th Separate Marine Brigade added that the footage shows how the "art of the 36th Separate Marine Brigade named after Rear Admiral Mykhailo Bilynsky once again de-nazified the occupiers' command and observation post."
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said that the war in Ukraine could last years, adding that while the costs were high, the cost of allowing Russia to achieve its military goals would be even greater.
She said: "Please go because our army will definitely de-occupy these lands. Our will to do so is unwavering. And it will be very, very difficult to open a humanitarian corridor when there are children there. It was difficult in Mariupol, and in the Kherson region it will be even harder.
The 36th Separate Marine Brigade, officially the "Rear Admiral Mykhailo Bilynskyi 36th Separate Marine Brigade," was formed in 2015, mainly from Ukrainian marines who evacuated from Crimea following Russia's annexation of the peninsula in 2014.
Ukrainian forces have said that they have been successfully thwarting fresh Russian attempts to advance in the Kharkiv region of northeastern Ukraine.
Independent Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov has auctioned off his Nobel Peace Prize medal for $103.5 million, with all the proceeds going to help Ukrainian refugees.
Images purport to show Ukrainian troops taking out Russian soldiers in the Kherson region of southern Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visited Ukraine's southern frontline as Ukrainian forces mount a counterattack in the region to push back Russian troops.
The new head of the British Army, General Sir Patrick Sanders, has told British forces that they need to be ready to face Russia on the battlefield and said the British Army now needs to be capable of defeating Russia.
The released footage appears to show Ukrainian artillery targeting entrenched Russian positions in the area.
They were one of the two primary units - along with the Azov Battalion - that defended Mariupol until the city was taken by pro-Russian forces in May.
Russia conducted an anti-ship missile exercise in the Baltic Sea amid escalating tensions with NATO member Lithuania after the latter country blocked the transit of goods to the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad.
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is calling a "special military operation." Tuesday marks the 118th day of the invasion.
Muratov has been a vocal advocate for the freedom of the press and argued that it needs to remain independent from government influence.
Novaya Gazeta has reported on Russian government corruption, human rights violations, and police violence as well as publishing articles that are critical of Putin.
Iryna Vereshchuk, Ukraine's deputy prime minister and minister for Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories, has urged locals in the Kherson region to evacuate the area so as to help Ukrainian forces "de-occupy" the area.
