Ukraine News 987 Children Born in Kyiv Since Invasion Started
20220331
https://www.newsweek.com/ukraine-news-live-vladimir-putin-war-latest-russia-mariupol-update-kyiv-zelensky-1693720
He condemned oil companies who are taking exploiting of the current situation to take advantage of the American people and called on them to increase their supply.
Mariupol, Donetsk region, east Ukraine: 95 of buildings have been destroyed by Russian shelling and strikes  pic.twitter.comYekQKpwGNl
Kirby added that Russia's shift in military focus to Donbass could drag out the conflict in Ukraine even longer.
In an address the Belgian Parliament, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky provided a grave update on the status of Mariupol.
"I say enough. Enough of lavishing excessive profits on investors and payouts and buybacks when the American people are watching," Biden said.
Some 160,000 people remain in port city on the Sea of Azov which Russian forces have encircled and shelled since the end of February.
IAEA Director General RafaelMGrossi just arrived in Kaliningrad, Russia, for talks with senior Russian officials tomorrow morning. pic.twitter.comnnfolJfKPZ
Kirby also said Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin wants to "keep his options open" regarding the rotating U.S. troops in Europe.
"Europe will be at the forefront of Ukraine's reconstruction with a European Marshall plan for Ukraine," he said. "But for that to happen, this barbarism needs to stop as soon as possible, and it is possible."
"The child was abducted by representatives of the Russian armed forces and taken to the territory of the occupied Donbass under their control," the Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office said.
Zelensky said thousands of people have died and are buried in the courtyards of high-rise building, "or rather, what is left of the high-rise buildings."
"The Ukrainians put a stop to that convoy pretty quickly by being very nimble," he added.
Kyiv remains under martial law, but the city reports that citizens "are returning to the capital, life goes on." A curfew, shortened by two hours earlier this week, remains in place daily from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. The city announced it will lift a ban on alcohol beginning Friday, allowing sales between designated hours.
Biden's speech is set to begin at 1:30 p.m. EST Thursday afternoon, watch live here or below:
These packages include a mixture of weapons systems, including javelins and stingers, as well as body armor, helmets and medical supplies.
He acknowledged Ukraine's plea for a no-fly zone, but reiterated that NATO involvement would lead to "escalation that might engulf the whole of Europe."
Our colleague Lucile on our hope to be able to facilitate safe passage out of Mariupol tomorrow and provide aid  pic.twitter.comxAmUXWv2Vo
Kirby said supply shipments to Ukraine are arriving swiftly, contrary to reports of slow progress.
"Having previously lived in the U.K., Brilev will no longer be able to access any of his U.K. assets or continue business dealings," the U.K. government said in a statement.
The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights OHCHR has recorded 1,232 civilian deaths, including 112 children, between February 24 and March 30.
"The Ukrainians are fighting very, very well and the Russians are not," he said. "It would be foolish to predict exactly how long this will go."
Some families have already been evacuated from heavily-shelled Mariupol and arrived at the registration center in Zaporizhzhia.
Half a dozen shipments from the $800 million package have been delivered, Kirby said, with the rest expected to be delivered "in a couple of weeks."
"Since Putin accelerated his military build-up around Ukraine, gas prices have increased by nearly a dollar per gallon," the White House said in a statement. "Because of Putin's war of choice, less oil is getting to market, and the reduction in supply is raising prices at the pump for Americans."
He said the additional deployments in Europe, just under 20,000 troops, are there on temporary orders.
Kyiv government officials report 987 children were born in city over the first 35 days of the invasion. Parents welcomed a total of 534 boys, 453 girls and 25 twins.
"We'll take each one as it comes," he said, deciding whether each capability needs to stay and, if so, if that units needs to be rotated. So far, none of the units have been rotated out, Kirby said.
Ukraine said Russian forces "transferred" control of the site to Ukrainian personnel in writing and have moved two convoys of troops off of the site and toward Belarus, IAEA said.
U.K. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss announced 14 new sanctions on Russian propagandists and state media "who spread lies and deceit about Putin's illegal invasion of Ukraine." Sergey Brilev, TV anchor on Russia state-owned media Rossiya, is among those sanctioned.
Biden blames the COVID-19 pandemic and Russian President Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine for the increase in gas prices.
Jeremy Fleming said in a speech in Canberra, Australia that there was evidence of rock-bottom morale among Russian soldiers, who even accidentally shot down one of their own aircraft during the Ukraine war.
"The resilience of the Ukrainian people is unparalleled and deserves sustained American support. Today's meeting reinforced our strong relations and we will continue to work with our European allies to further tighten the economic pressure on Putin, welcome Ukrainian refugees, and much more."
The girl had been in Mariupol with her father since the beginning of the invasion, according to investigators. A strike on their home killed a man on March 17, the report does not specify if that was her father. The girl then joined locals to evacuate the city, but was injured in a mine explosion. Investigators believe she was then kidnapped by Russian forces.
Cars approach the devices, slow down and position their vehicles to drive over them without making contact.
He added that there is no indication forces leaving Chernobyl are doing so because of and hazard or nuclear emergency.
The degree to which Putin may be misinformed about the entirety of the situation in Ukraine remains an "open question" Biden said, adding "there's a lot of speculation."
He said it is "hard to say" when the conflict in Ukraine will end, crediting Ukraine for Russia's strategic failures.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for more sanctions against Russia during a video address to the Australian parliament Thursday.
Zelensky said Russian forces have closed all entrances to the city by land and sea, blocking humanitarian aid.
"The distance between our states is thousands of kilometers," Zelensky said. "But the distance simply does not exist for the cruelty and chaos that Russia has brought to ... our Ukrainian land."
De Croo said Ukraine is part of the European people because they share values of "freedom and democracy, of an open society and human progress," and ensured Zelensky of Ukrainian EU membership.
"All parties must agree to the exact terms, the Red Cross said in a tweet. "This operation is critical. Tens of thousands of lives depend on it."
Kirby said the U.S. is unsure if the 40-mile convoy that was stalled outside Kyiv "even exists anymore" after "failing to accomplish their mission."
Secretary Austin has approved the extension of the aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman's deployment in the Mediterranean Sea. He will also keep troops with the 82nd Airborne Divisions in Poland for "awhile longer," Kirby said
The OHCHR reiterates that reports are pending from areas of "intense hostilities," including Mariupol and Irpin, where there are "allegations of numerous civilian casualties."
Thank you President ZelenskyyUa for your address to the  Parliament this evening. The courage  resilience shown by the Ukrainian people is inspirational   will continue to support  in defence of its homeland, including through humanitarian support  military assistance. pic.twitter.comho2qhwtYW6
A convoy of 45 buses will attempt to evacuate people from the besieged southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, amid doubt that a temporary ceasefire allowing people to leave the besieged city would hold.
"The President will call on Congress to pass his plan to speed the transition to clean energy that is made in America," the White House said, saying the plan would save families nearly $1,000 a year in gas by using electric vehicles.
It also reports a third convoy has left Slavutych, where many Chernobyl staff live, also headed toward Belarus. Ukrainian authorities "presume" the remaining Russian forces on site are preparing to leave.
The United Kingdom slapped sanctions on Russian propagandists, Kremlin-funded media and the Russian general dubbed the "the butcher of Mariupol" Thursday.
"It is hard to find the right words given the dramatic circumstances," he said. "But do know, all Belgians admire your courage and cool-headedness. We admire the bravery of the Ukrainian people. And above all, we admire your dignity in the face of so much inhumanity."
U.S. oil companies made nearly $80 billion in profits last year. This isnt the time to sit on record profits. This is the time to step up for the good of your country. To invest in the immediate production we need to respond to Vladimir Putin.
President Joe Biden said Russian President Vladimir Putin may have put some of his advisors on house arrest, as the Pentagon believes that Putin has been "misled" or not fully informed of the situation in Ukraine by his Ministry of Defense.
The road is thought to be the E373 near the village of Potashnya, north-west of Kyiv, the BBC reported.
He added that some companies are riding high prices after making $80 billion in profits last year.
The Red Cross noted that it will "never support any evacuation to anywhere that is against what people want."
Zelensky also warned that the threats Ukraine is facing from Russia may inspire other adversarial countries to initiate attack elsewhere around the world.
Justin Crump, a former British Army tank commander, told the outlet that they looked like Soviet era TM-62M anti-tank mines, carrying around 16lb of explosives which could damage armored vehicles.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC had confirmed Russia had agreed to open a humanitarian corridor to the port city in the south of the country.
"IAEA expert teams and additional safety equipment will arrive very soon to Ukraine's nuclear facilities," Grossi said Wednesday.
"And, the President will issue a directive, authorizing the use of the Defense Production Act to secure American production of critical materials to bolster our clean energy economy," the White House added.
The emergency services said rescuers recovered 19 bodies from the rubble, the Associated Press reported. One person died in the hospital.
Further to the story of the attempts to evacuate residents from Mariupol, footage shared on social media shows the extent of the destruction in the southern port city.
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison pledged to provide an additional $25 million of defensive military assistance for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This comes after Australia has already promised $91 million AUD in military assistance, $65 million in humanitarian aid and 70,000 metric tons of coal to Ukraine.
"The most terrible thing is that if we don't stop Russia now, if we don't hold Russia accountable, then some other countries of the world who are looking forward to similar wars against their neighbors will decide that such things are possible for them as well," Zelenskyy said.
"He Putin seems to be self isolating and there's some indication that he has fired or put under house arrest some of his advisors," Biden said Thursday.
"You have our prayers, but you also have our weapons, our humanitarian aid, our sanctions against those who seek to deny your freedom and you even have our coal," Morrison said, adding that Zelensky is a "lion for democracy."
The Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office puts the number of child casualties even higher, reporting at least 148 children have been killed, and another 232 wounded. The OHCHR acknowledged the report.
President Joe Biden will roll out a two-part plan Thursday afternoon to address skyrocketing gas prices across the United States.
Video has been widely viewed on social media showing cars driving around what appear to be landmines.
"We are not in a training environment in Poland with Ukrainians armed forces," Press Secretary John Kirby said during a press briefing Thursday.
President Joe Biden will announce plans to lower U.S. gas prices Thursday, as prices have skyrocketed amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"The people of Australia stand with Ukraine in your fight for survival," Morrison said. "We welcome you Mr. President as a lion of democracy we do not stand with the war criminal of Moscow."
"Mizintsev is the Chief of the National Defense Command and Control Centre, where all Russian military operations are planned and controlled worldwide," the U.K. government said. "Mizintsev is known for using reprehensible tactics, including shelling civilian centers in both Aleppo in 2015-16 and now in Mariupol where atrocities are being perpetuated against Ukrainian people."
The International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC is participating in these humanitarian efforts, saying it will "facilitate safe passage" of civilians out of Mariupol tomorrow and bring supplies and aid.
However, De Croo reassured Zelensky Belgium is on Ukraine's side and will continue to send its support.
"This is not the time to sit on record profits," he said. "This is the time to step up for the good of your country."
"Our prices are rising because of Putin's action," he said. "There isn't enough supply. And the bottom line is if we want lower gas prices, we need to have more oil supply right now."
Sanctions include RT, Sputnik along with top members of both news organizations. Thursday's action is the latest effort by the U.K. to continue targeting misinformation.
"Today, President Biden is calling on Congress to make companies pay fees on wells from their leases that they haven't used in years and on acres of public lands that they are hoarding without producing."
President Biden just announced his two-part plan to ease American's pain at the gas pump amid a major price hike.
Mariupol City Council says a new evacuation convoy of 17 buses has left for Berdyansk to rescue more residents of besieged Mariupol. Authorities hope they'll be able to evacuate thousands of residents tomorrow in a column of some 45 total buses and also take in humanitarian aid. pic.twitter.com0gqzxufyic
Kirby said the Defense Department will be "flexible" with the U.S. capabilities in Europe because "we don't know how long this war in Ukraine is going to last."
A convoy of buses is making its way to Mariupol to evacuate residents and bring humanitarian support.
Ukrainian officials estimate that 300 people died at the theatre during the attack which Russia has denied carrying out.
IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi landed in Kaliningrad Thursday, where he will speak with Russian officials Friday morning. Grossi met with senior Ukrainian government officials Wednesday to discuss technical assistance needed to ensure nuclear safety.
He said Ukrainians are fighting for the principles of freedom against Russian tyranny "unites the world" during an address to Belgian lawmakers.
The oil and gas industry has nearly 9,000 unused permits for drilling on federal lands. Im calling for a use it or lose it policy. Congress should make companies pay fees on idle wells on federal leases and on public lands theyre hoarding without producing.
"The IAEA has not been able to confirm reports of Russian forces receiving high doses of radiation while being in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone," the agency said. "The IAEA is seeking further information in order to provide an independent assessment of the situation."
Russian troops in Ukraine are refusing to follow orders and sabotaging their own equipment, the head of Britain's spy agency Government Communications Headquarters GCHQ has said.
"Today it is the most horrific place in Europe," he said. "It is hell. It is a catastrophe that everyone knows about, the whole world."
Mariupol's mayor says more than 5,000 people have been killed in the city, and 90 percent of its buildings damaged since the invasion began.
AAA recorded the highest ever average U.S. gas price on March 11, 2022, hitting $4.33. Today's average price for a gallon of gas in the U.S. is $4.23. Prices remain exceptionally high in California, where today's average price is $5.90 and Nevada, $5.24.
Bipartisan members of the Senate Ukraine Caucus met with six Ukrainian Parliament members at the U.S. Capitol. The Ukrainian representatives urged the U.S. and its allies for additional military aid and additional economic sanctions on Russia, AP adds.
The Russian defence ministry said the United Nations refugee agency and the Red Cross would assist in the evacuation of civilians starting from 10 a.m. local time.
"These sanctions will ensure RT will not be able to find its way back on U.K. televisions, and will prevent companies and individuals operating in the U.K. from doing business with Russian state propaganda vehicles RT and Sputnik, and key figures in those organizations," the U.K. government said.
"Most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multiple launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes," OHCHR said.
"Politically, by imposing high economic costs on Russia. Diplomatically, by isolating Russia. By providing humanitarian and military aid and by sheltering those who are fleeing Russian missiles and bombs," he said. "We stand by your side, and we will remain by your side."
Biden will announce a two-part plan Thursday afternoon to expand oil supply by increasing domestic production and reducing American dependence on oil by bolstering the clean energy economy.
"NATO is not a party to this conflict. And it should not become one," he said.
"They will either have to start producing or pay the price for their inaction," Biden said.
The video verified by the BBC shows the damage to the Mariupol theatre which was bombed while hundreds of people sheltered in the building and the basement below. The word "children" can be seen written in Russian on the ground.
"We need to know that Ukraine will be in the European Union because if we are they will lose," he said. "But if we lose, if we lose Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities there will no longer be a strong European Union because tyranny will come and take away from you that which you have and you are proud of.
Press Secretary John Kirby said it is unclear "where they are going, for how long or for what purpose," but said they are likely heading to Belarus to resupply and refit before being deployed elsewhere in Ukraine.
Attacks continue against Kyiv, as the Pentagon said a "small number" of Russian troops have re-positioned away from the capital and towards Belarus.
It is time now, he said, to invest in the immediate production needed to "respond to Vladimir Putin."
Still, Ukraine continues to "make humanitarian corridors from Mariupol work" to save civilians remaining in the city.
President ZelenskyyUa addressed Belgian Federal Parliament today. Historic and moving.Our message: new aid is on the way, Belgium remains by your side. https:t.coXzQZ9cstZo pic.twitter.comvt5IiB9rI7
The young girl's grandfather reported her disappearance, according to the report, saying he's currently "forced to live in Chernivtsi."
"There is nothing in the city: no water, no food, no medicine, no life," he said. "There is nothing you need to sustain any life."
"I've never seen the Department of Defense be able to move with this alacrity or speed as I have these past few weeks," he said.
Biden said oil companies need to "step up" to provide relief for customers, not just to executives and shareholders.
Biden cautioned that he didn't want to put "too much stock" in that claim however, citing a substantial lack of hard evidence.
Zelensky outlined the destruction Ukraine has faced over the last month and asked the lawmakers for more sanctions and armed personnel vehicles, including the Australian-manufactured Bushmaster.
Psychologists have been providing care to women and youth who have taken shelter at metro stations across the city. Sessions are being conducted in group and individual sessions.
There is "some liaison going on," he added, "but we wouldn't call it classic training."
"We need more sanctions against Russia, powerful sanctions until they stop blackmailing other countries with their nuclear missiles," he said, adding a call to stop all trade with Russia.
"It would be a fundamental failure of Europe to keep Ukraine waiting for the formal process of accession to the European Union," he said, adding that EU membership is a long and demanding process.
"Right now, the oil and gas industry is sitting on more than 12 million acres of non-producing Federal land with 9,000 unused but already-approved permits for production," the White House said.
Biden will also announce an unprecedented release of oil reserves that will put an average of one million additional barrels on the market daily for the next six months. The White House said the release will serve as "bridge" until domestic production ramps up.
"Right now, you hear the sound?" Radina said, according to AP. "This is the air raid alarm in the community where my son is staying right now. I need you all to hear that."
The Ukrainians put a stop to that convoy pretty quickly by being very nimble  Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said the much talked about, stalled Russian convoy that never arrived in Kyiv could be a result of poor planning or execution pic.twitter.comNhmbLBFQEi
Ukrainian staff working on site since March 20 have still not been able to rotate, the U.N. nuclear watchdog said. The agency is working to send assistance and support to Chernobyl in the coming days. Ukraine's Parliament has warned of radiation risks amid ongoing power outages at the site, the IAEA is investigating reports of possible exposure.
As a group of Ukraine's Parliament members met with U.S. Senators in Washington D.C. Wednesday to call for more aid, an air raid siren rang out from one of their cell phones.
"The main task is to help cope with the emotional consequences of the crisis, to regain the ability to manage their lives," the City of Kyiv said.
At least 20 people were killed and 33 people were injured after the office of the Mykolaiv regional military governor was hit Tuesday, the Ukrainian State Emergency Services said in an update Thursday.
The video on Live Universal Awareness Map Liveuamap, an independent global news information site, had over 2.5 million views as of Thursday afternoon.
He also called on Congress to pass "use it or lose it" laws to penalize oil companies for sitting on unused leases or idle wells.
A glimmer of hope in Kyiv as the city shares celebratory news amid the devastation of the past few weeks.
The Kyiv Humanitarian Headquarters continues to provide food, medicine and essentials to those most in need. The city reports that all utilities are being provided. Cancer patients are also able to be cared for at the Kyiv City Oncology Center.
Russian forces seized control of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant on the first day of the invasion, February 24.
"The barbaric actions of Vladimir Putin have forced nearly four million Ukrainians to flee their country," Senate Ukraine Caucus Co-Chair Dick Durbin said.
Fleming's speech comes amid an assessment by U S. intelligence officials that Putin's advisors are misinforming him about how his military is performing.
He said before the war, it was one of the most promising and economically powerful cities in Ukraine. Now, more than 90 percent of all building in the city are completely destroyed by Russian strikes, he said.
"What they call de-escalation, I call repositioning," he said, adding that Kyiv is still a central focus of Russian airstrikes.
It said a ceasefire would allow people to travel westwards to Zaporizhzhia via the Russian-controlled port of Berdyansk.
Ukrainian Parliament member Anastasia Radina pulled out her phone as the siren blared, the Associated Press reports.
Sanctions were also announced against Russian Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev, dubbed the "the butcher of Mariupol." Truss said he is behind responsible the "appalling shelling" of the besieged city.
Americans are feeling Putins gas price hike at the pump.Thats why today, Im authorizing the release of 1 million barrels a day from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve  and taking steps to lay a new foundation for lasting American energy independence through clean energy. pic.twitter.comaRQgofiryK
"Putin's war on Ukraine is based on a torrent of lies," Truss said. "Britain has helped lead the world in exposing Kremlin disinformation and this latest batch of sanctions hits the shameless propagandists who push out Putin's fake news and narratives."
A 12-year-old Ukrainian girl has been kidnapped from Mariupol by Russian forces, the Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office said Thursday.
Russian forces have reportedly returned control of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant to Ukraine, Ukrainian authorities told the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA Thursday.
"The world of those who really fight for freedom - here and now - against tyranny," he said. "Against a tyranny that wants to split Europe and destroy everything that unites us. Everything that unites you and the world of those who are so used to freedom that they don't even want to notice what the struggle for it is worth."
He said Belgium and Ukraine should work towards a "swifter and more direct solution" to integrate the Ukrainian and European economies "to trade with each other, invest, to grow towards each other" and allow Ukraine to become truly European and to participate in programs."
GCHQ's analysis hasn't been independently confirmed yet but Fleming said President Vladimir Putin's plan for the invasion of Ukraine is "failing" and that the Russian president "has massively misjudged the situation" in Ukraine.
Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine has hiked prices to record levels, adding to already high prices due to inflation.
Civilian casualties continue increasing in Ukraine as Russia's invasion enters a 36th day. The United Nations has recorded more than 3,160 casualties, warning the actual figures are considerably higher.
