Ukraine War G7 Calls on Russia to Stop Military Operations
20220324
https://www.newsweek.com/ukraine-russia-war-news-live-updates-zelensky-biden-nato-summit-1691319
The latest round of sanctions also targets Russian defense companies. The U.S. vowed to continue imposing costs until Russian President Vladimir Putin ends the war.
Those who continue business with Russia are funding the war crimes inflicted on the Ukrainian people, Ustenko warned.
"The Russian leadership is obligated to immediately comply with the order of the International Court of Justice to suspend the military operations that it commenced on 24 February 2022 in the territory of Ukraine, without any further delay."
Ukraine once again urged its Western partners to tighten the economic screws on Russia at Thursday's extraordinary NATO, European Union, and G7 summits in Brussels, warning Kyiv has no backup plan if its supporters do not choke Moscow's vital energy exports.
Initially predicted to be a short conflict that would see Ukraine's government topped swiftly instead the invasion has stalled, Kyiv has not fallen, and nations have united across the world to both provide humanitarian assistance to Ukraine and impose unprecedented sanctions on Russia.
Addressing leaders of the G7, NATO and the European Union who are meeting in Brussels on Thursday, he called for more weapons, including advanced fighter jets, missile defense systems, tanks, armored vehicles and anti-ship missiles.
They will face travel bans, have their British assets frozen and no U.K. citizen or company can do business with them.
"In terms of the Alliance, he talked about force posture adjustments," a senior administration official said Thursday. "He welcomed the similar moves that we have seen from a number of countries to strengthen NATO's Eastern flank."
President Joe Biden has a packed agenda Thursday as he meets with leaders of the G7 and NATO along with the European Council in Brussels to discuss Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Austin and Ukrainian Minister of Defense Oleksii Reznikov discussed continued security assistance, including the $1 billion in lethal defensive assistance President Biden recently announced.
The resolution was approved by a 140-5 vote Thursday. Russia, Belarus, Syria, North Korea and Eritrea opposed the measure and 38 countries, including China, abstained.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has continued for four straight weeks, in what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called "a month of heroic resistance, a month of the darkest suffering."
"The United States today is designating 328 members of the Russian State Duma, in addition to the 12 members designated on March 11," the statement continued. "The United States is also designating the Russian State Duma in its entirety, as well as Herman Gref, the head of Sberbank and a close ally of Putin. As part of this action, we are also targeting multiple Russian elites to include their properties and family members. Notably, this will include 17 members of the board of PJSC Sovcombank, a designated entity."
Earlier on Thursday the Pentagon said Russian military leaders have declined calls from their U.S. counterparts since before the invasion of Ukraine began.
Today, once again, the United States and nations across the globe stood together in solidarity with Ukraine. pic.twitter.comnKVjHejeLz
"The greatest interest of the police are caused by books on the history of Ukrainian Maidanv, ATOOOS, the history of Ukrainian liberation competitions, school textbooks of Ukrainian history, scientific and popular historical literature are related to "extremist" literature," the Directorate said.
The announcement comes as President Joe Biden is in Brussels meeting with the G7, NATO leaders and the European Council.
Ukrainian defense intelligence reportedly shows Russian forces are removing historical and artistic literature from Ukrainian libraries that do "not match the Kremlin propaganda posts."
On Wednesday several Russian journalists and independent media outlets reported on the notable absence of Shoigu, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, from public view since March 11.
Several videos and images purporting to show the burning vessel spread on social media Thursday, but could not be independently verified.
The test comes amid rising concerns that President Vladimir Putin of Russia may use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine. Russia has also refused to rule out the use of nuclear weapons.
There is so far no convincing evidence that Shoigu has been relieved of duties or detained. The Kremlin explained his absence from the media spotlight by saying he has "a lot on his hands."
In the middle of a busy day of diplomacy here in Brussels, President Joe Biden carved out time during meetings on Ukraine to discuss North Korea's launch of a suspected intercontinental ballistic missile Thursday, the first such test in more than four years.
"Ukraine is increasing pressure on the Russian forces north-east of Kyiv. Russian forces along this axis are already facing considerable supply and morale issues," the ministry said in a statement Thursday.
Efforts will focus on countries that neighbor the European Union who are "vulnerable in this space." Another element of the initiative is supporting documentation of any potential war crimes committed in Ukraine.
The initiative is part of an ongoing effort to support neighboring countries who have been overwhelmed with refugees over the past month. More than 3.6 million people have fled Ukraine into neighboring countries since Russia's invasion, the U.N. estimates.
North Korea has conducted more than 10 missile tests this year, but the rocket fired Thursday, which reached waters off the western coast of Japan, was the first ICBM launch since 2017.
"We remain appalled by and condemn the devastating attacks on the Ukrainian population and civilian infrastructure, including hospitals and schools," a joint statement from G7 leaders reads.
Biden explained Xi's previously stated interests in economic growth with Europe and the U.S. During their conversation, Biden told Xi "he'd be putting himself in significant jeopardy in those aims if in fact he were to move forward supporting Russia."
"There was also a reference by many of the speakers to China and a recognition that China needs to live up to its responsibilities within the international community as a U.N. Security Council member, that we need to continue to call on China not to support Russia in its aggression against Ukraine, and that we need China to call for a peaceful end to the conflict as a responsible member of the international community," the senior administration official said.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has said that the alliance would provide further support to Ukraine.
Good morning. Today marks the one month anniversary since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began.
Following Thursday's summit, NATO issued a statement which called on Putin to "immediately stop this war and withdraw military forces from Ukraine."
Zelensky commended his country's resilience in the face of Russian aggression and asked the alliance if it was confident that Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty would work if Russia attacked NATO.
     , ,           ,       .: https:t.coxrz64Peomq pic.twitter.comjOkz1MUSZy
The senior administration official added that Allies voiced their readiness to continue and increase security assistance to Ukraine and continuing to impose economic sanctions on Russia. NATO leaders also discussed China's role in the crisis.
During a press conference following the meeting by alliance members, Stoltenberg said that his group has increased its presence by its eastern border and had agreed for four new battlegroups to be sent to Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania.
SANCTIONED: Today the UK has imposed 65 new Russian sanctions, cutting off vital industries fuelling Putins war machine.Those targeted include: Russian banks Oligarchs Defence companies Russian Railways https:t.cohXXLUMEnFR Read full thread  pic.twitter.com892rXijsou
Russian landing vessel Orsk is now to meet Sponge Bob at the Berdyansk port. pic.twitter.combi717aVHbS
Im announcing additional sanctions on over 400 Russian elites, lawmakers, and defense companies in response to Putins war of choice in Ukraine. They personally gain from the Kremlins policies, and they should share in the pain.
President Joe Biden said the United States would respond if Russian President Vladimir Putin used chemical weapons in Ukraine.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg opened the meeting, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky then addressed the group by video. President Joe Biden followed, laying out the "three-pronged approach" the U.S. has taken amid Russia's invasion: "significant" sanctions, security assistance and strong message of support for NATO.
The United Nations Refugee Agency has said that more than 3.6 million people have fled from Ukraine into other countries.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said that Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has changed the global security environment for the long term and that his alliance is prepared for the "long haul."
Shortly after the Kremlin dismissed as "conspiracy theories" reports that Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has disappeared, or is unwell, a Russian state media channel published a short clip, purportedly taken from a breaking news segment on a cabinet meeting attended by key ministers earlier on Thursday.
In the video, published without sound on the RIA Kremlin Pool social media channels, the camera appears to demonstratively zoom into the top-left section of the screen, where Shoigu can be seen briefly.
He also called on China not to back the "brutal war against Ukraine" and not to provide economic or military support to Russia.
"The Minister has many concerns at the moment, as you can imagine. There is an ongoing special military operation. Of course, this is not the time for media appearances," Peskov said, without further elaboration, according to Russian outlet MK.
"Ukrainian forces are carrying out successful counter-attacks against Russian positions in towns on the outskirts of the capital, and have probably retaken Makariv and Moschun. There is a realistic possibility that Ukrainian forces are now able to encircle Russian units in Bucha and Irpin."
And in an exclusive conversation with Newsweek, an aide to president Volodymyr Zelensky said curtailing Russia's proceeds from oil and gas sales to the West is key to Ukraine's success.
The Russia's Defense Ministry is yet to comment on the report. But pro-Kremlin Russia media outlet Zvezda did report that "Orsk" had completed its first delivery of weapons, ammunition and vehicles to the port of Berdyansk on March 21.
The U.K. Foreign Office said that the measures will bring the total global asset value of the banks the U.K. has sanctioned since the invasion to 500bn $658bn and the net worth of the oligarchs and family members in excess of 150bn $197bn.
The United States is reportedly planning to accept up to 100,000 Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion.
Discussions also included ways to reduce reliance on Russian energy, address global food insecurity concerns and cyberattacks. Read the full statement here.
She said the citizens, including 84,000 children, were held in primitive conditions with little food and water, the Associated Press reported.
"We express our support to those Russian and Belarusian citizens standing up against the unjustified war of aggression against their close neighbor Ukraine," the statement says. "The world sees them. The people of Russia must know that we hold no grievances against them."
"I made no threats, but I made it clear to him... make sure he understood the consequences of him helping Russia," Biden said Thursday during a press conference from NATO Headquarters in Brussels.
The resolution condemns Russia's shelling, airstrikes and "besiegement" of Ukrainian cities and calls for an immediate ceasefire and unhindered access for humanitarian aid.
Russia claims to have 'evacuated' 402,000 Ukrainians to Russia, including 84,000 children.Source: Verkhovna Rada Commissioner for Human Rights Lyudmyla Denisova. Ukraine is not yet able to verify these statistics.
One month on from the start of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, half of the country's children have been displaced, according to UNICEF.
"Freedom matters," he warned, "Russia is trying to defeat the freedom of all people in Europe."
"The occupants have a whole list of those forbidden to mention names," the post continues. "Among them: Mazepa, Petlyura, Bandera, Shukhevich, Chornovil. In the cities of Kreminna, Rubzhne Lugansk region, Grodno Chernihiv region there are known cases of removal of the book "The Case of Vasyl Stus" by Vakhtanga Kipiani."
Billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, the CEO of Russia's largest bank Sberbank, and Polina Kovaleva, the alleged stepdaughter of Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, are also among those sanctioned.
He also says he has not had any clear answers from NATO members about much-needed tanks. "Give them to us, sell them to us" he said, "we simply want to survive, to save our people."
"Orsk", a Russian navy vessel, was reportedly sunk by the Ukrainian forces in the Azov Sea port of Berdyansk, Ukraine's navy officials claimed on Thursday.
"They desperately need money," Oleg Ustenko, an economic adviser to Zelensky, told Newsweek. "They are using this money to kill our people, to destroy our country, to kill innocent children, civilians."
The Main Intelligence Directorate of Ukraine's Ministry of Defense made the claims in a post Thursday, blaming Russian military police units. The agency says the actions are occurring in the temporarily occupied territories of Luhansk, Donetsk, Chernihiv and Sumy regions.
More than 2.1 million have entered Poland, who continues calling for international support to accommodate the influx. More than 370,000 other refugees have entered the small country of Moldova, the highest number of refugees per capita so far.
Shortly after Peskov's comments, RIA Novosti, the Russian state news outlet, reported that Shoigu met with Putin on Thursday to discuss the "special operation" and Western sanctions, but provided no visual evidence of the meeting.
Reuters reported that the logistics of the scheme have not been finalized, and that not all of those who are accepted will come through the U.S. refugee program.
"President Putin's war continues to inflict horror and widespread suffering on the people of Ukraine," U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrote in a statement.
The G7 summit this afternoon will be followed by a meeting of the European Council, a group consisting of the heads of state of European Union nations. Biden is scheduled to attend the meeting and then head back to NATO headquarters for a press conference this evening.
The United Nations organization had earlier said that the war in Ukraine "poses an immediate and growing threat to the lives and well-being of the country's 7.5 million children.
"These oligarchs, businesses and hired thugs are complicit in the murder of innocent civilians and it is right that they pay the price," said British foreign minister Liz Truss.
G7 leaders shared gratitude to those helping the more than 3.6 million refugees who have fled Ukraine to neighboring countries over the past month. Leaders pledged to step up humanitarian support and voiced concern of "escalating and reinforced repression" against Russian people.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has made an impassioned call for global protests against the war in his country.
"We will also strengthen our cyber defenses and enhance our exercises focusing on collective defense and interoperability," he said on Thursday.
But eagle-eyed social media users spotted a strange shuffling of the camera in the first few seconds of his video link, speculating that the camera is in fact filming another TV or computer screen, on which the video is being broadcast.
Following a meeting among members in Brussels on Thursday, Stoltenberg said that the alliance had agreed to equip Ukraine "with significant military supplies" which included anti-tank and air defense systems and drones.
"As families leave everything they know behind, UNICEF is supporting children with mental health and protection services," it tweeted on Thursday.
He added that the people of Ukraine have shown courage and determination fighting against Russian aggression.
He said that there would also be more pre-positioned equipment and a bigger presence on NATO's eastern border.
And over the past few days Kyiv's counter-offensive efforts appeared to bear fruit, with several Russian high-ranking military officials reportedly killed in action during the intense fighting in the area.
Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, has addressed media speculation about the location and well-being of the Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, who has not been seen in public in nearly two weeks.
"Russia bears sole responsibility for the grave humanitarian crisis and violence in Ukraine," she said. "Together, we called for the protection of all civilians fleeing this conflict and for steps to mitigate the increase in food insecurity caused by this senseless war."
"Secretary Austin underscored the continued resolve of the United States to support Ukraine's military as they defend their country against Russia's unprovoked invasion, and he applauded the skill and bravery with which Ukrainian forces are using these weapons and systems," the statement said.
On Wednesday, Russian officials reported that over 384,000 Ukrainians had voluntarily traveled to Russia and were being offered accommodations and payments.
The United Nations is continuing to gather updated casualty numbers and infrastructure damage reports. As of Thursday, the U.N. reports the following figures from the first month of Russia's invasion.
But Donetsk Region Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko Russians forces are taking passports from Ukrainians and placing people in filtration camps where Russian FSB counterintelligence agency officers conduct security checks before moving them to other places in Russia, according to the AP.
The United States announced a new round of sanctions on more than 400 Russian elites, lawmakers, bank board members and defense companies Thursday.
At least 1,000 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since Russia began its invasion one month ago, the United Nations said Thursday, warning the actual number is "considerably higher."
NATO leaders met in Brussels for an "extraordinary" summit Thursday. A Biden senior administration official described the meeting's tone as "sober, resolute, and incredibly united."
Britain has announced a raft of new sanctions it said would target "key strategic industries and individuals" in Russia over the invasion of Ukraine.
"The E.U. and the United States, they're obviously very concerned about the situation in Moldova, in terms of refugees," the senior administration official said Thursday. " And a strong desire to ensure that we are doing everything possible to bolster the resilience of those countries as well  the ones that are not in NATO or the E.U. but that are, in E.U. parlance, part of their Eastern Partnership Program and on the eastern part of the European flank."
During a news briefing Thursday, Ukrainian Ombudsman Lyudmyla Denisova said the Ukrainian were taken from Mariupol and other besieged cities.
NATO and G7 leaders also discussed a need to develop a system to track who has violated any sanctions imposed on Russia during summits Thursday.
OHCHR adds at least 1,650 other civilians, including 118 children, have been injured. Those injured include: "181 men, 140 women, 28 girls, and 23 boys, as well as 67 children and 1,211 adults whose sex is yet unknown."
"A month of unpunished destruction of the peaceful state, and with it, the whole architecture of global security," he said. "All this is before the eyes of the whole world."
The Deputy Defense Minister of Ukraine Anna Malyar said that the destroyed warship could carry up to 20 tanks, 45 armored personnel carriers and 400 paratroopers.
One outlet, citing a source inside the Russian government, speculated that Shoigu may be unwell and suffering from heart problems.
The group continues coordinating efforts to gather evidence of potential war crimes committed in Ukraine and vowed to continue imposing "severe consequences" on Russia. G7 leaders also announced a restriction on the Russian Central Bank's use of gold in transactions.
Speaking in English, Zelensky said in a television address from the street in Kyiv that "the world must stop the war," as he called for people to take to the streets "from your offices, your homes, your schools and universities," starting from March 24, a month on from the start of the Russian invasion.
Meanwhile a White House source told NBC News that the U.S. would manage the scheme, such as the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, non-immigrant and immigrant visas, and others.
Following the day's summits, Biden will hold a press conference at NATO Headquarters Thursday evening.
"The only thing I demand of you after such a month of war is, please, never tell us that our army does not meet NATO standards," he said.
"Together, we are committed to identifying additional equipment, including air defense systems, to help Ukraine," Biden said in a statement.
"It has called for donations to help its program to provide blankets, medicine and first aid kits as well as mobile psychological protection teams and safe spaces for refugee children.
"China understands that its economic future is much more closely tied to the West than it is to Russia, and so I'm hopeful that he does not get engaged," Biden said Thursday.
Earlier this afternoon Biden discussed the test with Prime Minister Kishida of Japan on the sidelines of the Group of 7 summit. The leaders condemned the missile launch and pledged to "continue working together" to hold North Korea accountable.
"Most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multiple-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes," OHCHR said.
Today, I spoke with my Ukrainian counterpart oleksiireznikov to reiterate our unwavering support for Ukraines Armed Forces  our commitment to continue providing defensive lethal assistance to Ukraine, including the $1B in security assistance recently announced by POTUS Biden.
Draft resolution AES-11L.2 condemning Russia's violations of international humanitarian and human rights law in Ukraine  overwhelmingly passes in the UN General Assembly:140 in favor 5 against38 abstentions pic.twitter.comVnYT012EHP
The United Nations has approved a resolution that blames Russia for the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine.
"We would respond," Biden said during a press conference in Brussels Thursday, when asked if the U.S. or NATO would respond with military action. "We would respond if he uses it. The nature of the response would depend on the nature of the use."
The United States will launch a massive new initiative to defend human rights amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"They personally gain from the Kremlin's policies, and they should share in the pain," President Joe Biden said regarding the new actions.
Concerns were raised regarding the safety and security of Ukraine's nuclear sites. Leaders warn that Russia's military activity poses "extreme risks" for the population and environment "with the potential for catastrophic result." The statement further warns Russia against the use of chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine.
G7 leaders met in Brussels Thursday to "further strengthen" cooperation and called on Russia to immediately suspend military operations in Ukraine.
Biden would not detail any intelligence that suggests Putin is deploying such weapons. When asked again if a chemical weapons attack would trigger a military response from NATO, Biden answered it would trigger a response but "we'd make that decision at the time."
Among those facing measures are six banks including Alfa Bank, whose co-founders include previously sanctioned oligarchs Mikhail Fridman, Petr Aven and German Khan. The world's largest diamond producer Alrosa was also added to the list.
President Joe Biden said he made "clear" to Chinese President Xi Jinping the consequences of aiding Russia amid its invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine's army could fully encircle the Russian positions north of Kyiv in coming days, according to the latest information shared by Britain's Ministry of Defense.
Russian state media published a short excerpt of a live news report featuring president Vladimir Putin's video call with cabinet members, but viewers noted some oddities about Sergei Shoigu's appearance.
The $320 million European Democratic Resilience Initiative will also "strengthen democratic and anti-corruption institutions, support media freedom and increase accountability for human rights abuses and violations of international law," a Biden senior administration official said Thursday.
"At the same time, in Russia, the State Duma continues to use its legislative power to target domestic dissenters and political opponents, disrupt the free flow of information, and restrict the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the citizens of Russia," Blinken said.
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said the council voted to "reaffirm the U.N. charter."
Kyrylenko added that Russian forces are feeding Ukrainians false information, claiming Ukraine was defeated, in order to persuade them to move to Russia.
Materials from that announcement "are now flowing into the region," Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said in a statement.
One month of war has displaced half of Ukraine's children.As families leave everything they know behind, UNICEF is supporting children with mental health and protection services.ForEveryChild, peace. pic.twitter.comy5NtbHp6QX
The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights OHCHR said 1,035 civilians have died, including 90 children. The report further details: "214 men, 160 women, 14 girls, and 28 boys, as well as 48 children and 571 adults whose sex is yet unknown" are among those killed.
The alliance also discussed the deployment of four more battlegroups to Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia. Biden said the new establishment sends a "strong signal that we will collectively defend and protect every inch of NATO territory."
NATO leaders met today in Brussels  one month since the start of Russias unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine. We will continue to support Ukraine with security assistance to fight Russian aggression and uphold their right of self-defense. pic.twitter.comF582A9qDJw
While in the initial days of the war Moscow focussed on efforts to surround and cut off the capital, large areas around Kyiv remain under Ukrainian control, especially south of the city.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has called on NATO for military support and to "help shield our sky."
A focus will be placed on those who already have family in the U.S., it reported.
Biden warned about the "real" threat of Russia using chemical weapons before departing to Europe for Thursday's series of summits.
In a video address to the alliance meeting in Brussels on Thursday, he said his forces have been "on unequal terms for over a month" and said that so far Ukraine has not received a single plane.
"Between now and the NATO summit in June, we will develop plans for additional forces and capabilities to strengthen NATO's defenses," Biden said in a statement. "We will adopt an updated Strategic Concept to ensure NATO is ready to meet any challenge in the new and more dangerous security environment."
AP's ChrisMegerian: "You've warned about...chemical weapons being used. Have you gathered specific intelligence...and would the U.S. or NATO respond wmilitary action if he did use" them?Biden says he can't answer the first part and it depends on how bad for the second part. pic.twitter.com2JOshe6w2a
