Ukrainian Bomb Experts Bury Unexploded Missiles Before Controlled Explosion
20220610
https://www.newsweek.com/ukrainian-bomb-experts-bury-unexploded-missiles-before-controlled-explosion-1714863
The State Emergency Service SES of Ukraine said bomb experts carried out the work in the contested eastern region of Donetsk Oblast.
In the footage, demining experts are seen arriving at a secluded location before unloading unexploded missiles and military equipment from a van and burying them in a pit.
An aide to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Ukraine is losing up to 200 troops a day.
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
Ukrainian bomb experts buried a pile of unexploded missiles and military equipment this week before carrying out a controlled explosion.
More than 1,000 Ukrainian troops captured in Mariupol have been transferred to Russia, according to Russian media. Ukrainian officials estimate that at least 21,000 civilians have been killed in the city.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that between February 24 and June 10, Russia had lost 31,900 personnel, 1,409 tanks, 3,450 armored fighting vehicles, 712 artillery pieces, 222 multiple launch rocket systems, 97 anti-aircraft systems, 212 warplanes, 178 helicopters, 2,438 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 warships, 572 tactical drones, 54 pieces of special equipment and 125 cruise missiles.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that the West will not be able to wean itself off from Russian oil and gas for years, and U.S. officials also admitted that Russian profits on energy might even be higher than they were before the war started.
Zelensky has requested that a corridor be set up so that the country may export grain currently stuck in Ukrainian ports, and 438 members of the European Parliament voted in favor of granting Ukraine candidacy for EU membership, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
In other news from Ukraine, two British men, Aiden Aslin, 28, and Shaun Pinner, 48, were sentenced to death by a court Thursday in Russian-controlled eastern Ukraine after being captured while fighting with the Ukrainian army in Mariupol against Russian troops.
The SES said Thursday the released footage shows "a few minutes in the daily and very dangerous work of bomb experts of the SES in the Donetsk region."
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." June 10 marks the 107th day of the campaign.
Using a detonator, the SES experts carry out a controlled explosion of the military gear from a safe distance.
