Ukraine War Enters Day 24 Biden Lays Out Consequences if China Supports Russia
20220318
https://www.newsweek.com/ukraine-news-live-war-lviv-china-biden-putin-today-march-18-1689330
"UNHCR is closely tracking negotiations for safe passage and already has humanitarian cargo pre-positioned," spokesperson Matthew Saltmarsh said in a statement. "We are ready to send critical supplies into Sumy as soon as conditions allow."
"Seventy five thousand children of Ukrainian refugees are already in Polish schools," Polish Minister of Education Przemysaw Czarnek. said. "Ten percent of them in preparatory departments, 90 percent in Polish classes. We estimate that there will be 700,000 children who can apply to Polish schools."
While Mariupol and Chernihiv are "isolated," Russian forces have not made significant progress on Kyiv or Kharkiv.
"Our partners are in complete denial," Nebenzia said to reporters following the meeting. "They won't listen to what we are saying. They won't accept that we are presenting facts and not just propaganda. They refused to accept and recognize that we presented a new set of evidence of military biological programs that were conducted in Ukraine with participation of the Pentagon."
Putin spoke to a packed stadium where more than 200,000 Russian citizens cheered and waved Russian flags, according to officials.
Thirty-six from Netherlands, U.K., Germany, Sweden, Estonia, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia have written to organizers, seeking an extension to the expired deadline for nominations to allow Ukraine's president to be considered.
President Biden spoke today with President Xi Jinping of the Peoples Republic of China about Russias unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comSnpgobFiPz
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki provided a glimpse of Biden's upcoming trip during Friday's press briefing.
Ukraine's military said Russian cruise missiles fired from the direction of the Black Sea, hit an aircraft repair plant near Lviv's airport.
China has begun a subtle damage control campaign after realizing how its refusal to condemn Russia is affecting its international image.
She reiterated that there are no U.S. soldiers in Ukraine. Russian newspaper Pravda issued a report which included a photograph, identifying the three Americans and said their personal belongings included a Tennessee flag.
"To liberate people from this suffering, from the genocide, is the main inspiring motive of the military operation we started in Donbas and in Ukraine," Putin said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke at an event at Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium to mark the eight anniversary of Russia's seizure of Crimea.
He was asked about a devastating explosions on Wednesday that hit a Mariupol theater, where local officials say hundreds were sheltering from Russian shelling.
In the Kyiv region, there is a corridor from Borodyanka to Zhytomyr and from the village of Shevchenkove to the city of Brovary.
The call lasted nearly two hours, according to the White House. It began at 9:03 a.m. and ended around 10:53 a.m.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Thursday that the war in Ukraine is not going how "President Putin planned for it to go."
U.S. President Joe Biden is due to hold a call with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, later today to discuss Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"Nonetheless the Russian side is ready to continue searching for a solution in line with its well-known principled approaches."
In the phone call, Putin told Scholz that Ukrainian leaders are stalling ongoing peace talks with Russia, according to a readout released by the Kremlin.
Ukrainian President Zelensky said rescue efforts are ongoing to pull survivors from the rubble of a bombed theater in Mariupol.
A note from the Bulgarian foreign ministry to Russia's ambassador in Sofia said the diplomats are required to leave Bulgaria within 72 hours over their alleged involvement in "activities incompatible with their diplomatic status," the Associated Press reported.
"While we are witnessing the bravery of Ukrainians, we are also bearing witness to the unimaginable burden of those who have chosen safety," Kunis said. "Countless amounts of people have left everything they know and love behind to seek refuge. With nothing but what they could carry, these Ukrainian refugees are in need of housing and supplies right away."
Bulgaria has also demanded the expulsion of 10 Russian diplomats and declared them as "persona non grata."
"But without freedom, without the creative desire of millions of people to work for the development of their state," he added.
However, the company told state-run Russian news outlet RIA Novosti on Friday that some restaurants remained open.
"He told me how an extra 9,000 children have arrived in Warsaw's schools over the last 10 days and there's a real shortage of teachers," Ferguson said. "Warsaw needs our help."
On March 8, McDonald's said it would shutter all 847 restaurants there from March 14 in response to "needless human suffering unfolding in Ukraine."
Mayor trzaskowski showed me around one of the buildings giving refuge to families including Olga and her young children. He told me how an extra 9,000 children have arrived in Warsaws schools over the last 10 days and theres a real shortage of teachers. Warsaw needs our help. pic.twitter.comOm40rfqfp3
The U.S. Embassy in Kyiv called on Russia to release Roshchyna and other government officials, journalist and civilians that have been "illegally detained" over the course of the war in Ukraine.
In the Kharkiv region, evacuation routes go from the city of Vovchansk to Kharkiv and humanitarian aide is planned to be delivered to the cities of Balakliya and Izyum.
On Saturday, March 19, humanitarian aid routes will go to cities in the Kherson and Luhank regions.
The United Nations Refugee Council UNHCR said the situation in cities like Sumy and Mariupol are "dire," as residents face critical and potentially fatal food, water and medicine shortages.
Several telegram channels reported finding adverts on social media promising citizens payments between 300 rubles $3 and 1,400 rubles $12 to attend the pro-Putin gatherings.
A German government spokesperson said that Scholz called for a ceasefire, in his nearly hour-long conversation with Putin.
U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield slammed the claims saying Russia is again using the council to "launder its disinformation."
In a Facebook post with the video, the ministry said the strikes were carried out from medium and low altitudes.
Russian media regulators' are clamping down on Western TV channels, several of which have been blocked in the country over the past few weeks, including BBC World News, Deutsche Welle and U.S.-funded Radio Free Europe.
"It will be a fall for them, a painful fall," he said. "Unjust and aggressive war always has a high price for the aggressor."
They will "discuss managing the competition between the two countries as well as Russia's war against Ukraine and other issues of mutual concern," a White House statement said.
More than 3.2 million people have fled Ukraine since February 24, the United Nations estimates.
"As permanent members of the UN Security Council and the world's two largest economies, we must not only lead the development of China-US relations down the correct path, but also shoulder our international responsibilities and make efforts for world peace and tranquillity," the readout said.
"Our journalist Victoria Roshchyna is held captive by the Russian occupiers," Hromadske tweeted Friday. "She was reporting from hotspots in Eastern and Southern Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war. On March 12, we couldn't contact Victoria."
Msg to Ukraine from ZelenskyyUa I am confident that by attacking us, they will destroy everything that Russian society has achieved over the past 25 yearsThey will return to where they once began to rise from, as they say, to the "the wicked 90's". But without freedom pic.twitter.com6ncuKvSaAX
It also pointed to the "volume and potentially serious nature of the issues raised within such a short period to be of great concern," citing RT's poor compliance history, after it had to pay 200,000 in fines for previous breaches.
The three soldiers identified in the article are either current or former members of the Tennessee National Guard. They are accounted for, safe and not, as the article headline erroneously states, US mercenaries killed in Donetsk Peoples Republic. pic.twitter.com2hRDYoPjJr
Lithuania's Ministry of Foreign Affairs declared four employees of the Russian Embassy as "persona non grata" for "activities incompatible with their diplomatic status" and ordered them to leave the country within five days.
There are still more than 1,300 survivors who remain trapped in the theater basement, officials report.
"It is our democratic duty to stand up to authoritarianism and to support a people fighting for democracy and their right to self-government," the appeal read.
"A number of McDonald's restaurants operating in Moscow on a franchising basis continue to provide services to visitors. In particular, restaurants have been opened at airports and at Leningradsky railway station, as well as MakExpress windows near Moscow metro stations," McDonald's communications department said.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky will address Japanese lawmakers via video link next week, a member of the country's House of Representatives says.
Actors Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher have raised more than $34 million to support the growing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine.
Addressing South African parliament on Friday, Ramaphosa said: "The war could have been avoided if NATO had heeded the warnings from amongst its own leaders and officials over the years that its eastward expansion would lead to greater, not less, instability in the region."
Two videos, which have not been independently verified, have recently been released by the Russian and Ukrainian ministries of defense.
"As funding continues to come in we will treat every dollar as if it were being donated from our pocket, with respect and honor for the work that went into earning it, the intent of love through which it was given, and the desire for it so be maximized for positive outcomes," Kutcher added.
Ukrainian President Zelensky said Russia's invasion in Ukraine will destroy the progress the Federation has made over the past two decades.
According to a read out of the call from Chinese state media, President Xi told Biden the crisis in Ukraine "is not something we want to see."
Warsaw has been overwhelmed by refugees. Mayor Rafa Trzaskowski also shared the recent stress on local schools during a meeting with Sarah Ferguson, Duchess of York.
Cities in Poland continue calling for support to accommodate the nearly two million Ukrainian refugees who have entered the country in a span of three weeks.
Austin visited with U.S. and NATO troops in Slovakia who "just finished a big exercise" and are preparing to contribute to a NATO battle group based in Slovakia to "help add to deterrence and defense capabilities of NATO's eastern flank," Pentagon Spokesperson John Kirby said Friday.
Meanwhile, Russia said its footage showed attack drones striking "high-precision missile weapons on the armored vehicles" of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and Ukrainian warehouses with weapons and ammunition.
Asked at a press conference for her thoughts on Putin's comments on purging anti-war opponents, Psaki told reporters "there has been an outpouring of courageous protests and and many speaking out against the war, even within Russia" indicating that nothing is going to plan.
Speaking at a press conference on Thursday, he said China was focused on "peace talks and avoidance of a large-scale humanitarian crisis."
In a Twitter post on Friday, Zelensky said they were "moving to our strategic goal together."
But he said South Africa "cannot condone the use of force and violation of international law", seemingly referencing Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The U.S. also believes the reports of Russian missile strokes on Lviv International Airport are accurate, the official said.
This was Russia's ambassador to the U.N., Vasily Nebenzya, taking questions from reporters last night.
China's foreign ministry has called for the United States and NATO countries "not to supply ammunition or add fuel to the flame" in Ukraine.
"The imagery used on this false reporting is from 2018 and those detected in the picture returned safely to their home base the next year, in 2019," Porter said during a phone press conference Friday. "They are accounted for, safe."
Zelensky said Russia will "will return to where they once began to rise from, as they say, to the 'the wicked 90's.'"
President Volodymyr Zelensky says he has held "substantive" talks with European Union chief Ursula von der Leyen on Ukraine's bid to join the bloc.
Biden will travel to Brussels, Belgium on Wednesday, March 23. Thursday, he will attend a NATO summit, European Council summit and a G7 meeting called by Germany.
"The Ukrainian Air Force is continuing to fly aircraft and employ air and missile defense," the official said.
Newsweek is unable to independently corroborate their authenticity. The move is seen by some as an attempt by the Kremlin to rally support amid unprecedented pushback against its "special military operation" in Ukraine from prominent government officials, businessmen, public figures and ordinary citizens.
"We also plan to deliver humanitarian aid in the form of food and medicine to the cities of Hostomel and Bucha, the villages of Semypolky, Markivka and Opanasiv," Vereshchuk said.
South African President Cyril Ramaphosa failed on Thursday to blame Russia for its invasion of Ukraineinstead appearing to blame NATO.
75 tys. dzieci ukraiskich uchodcw jest ju w polskich szkoach - 10 z nich w oddziaach przygotowawczych, 90 w polskich klasach. Szacujemy, e dzieci, ktre mog zgosi si do polskich szk bdzie 700 tys. - mwi minister CzarnekP w KPRM. pic.twitter.comNEACbMe5UG
President Joe Biden spoke with Chinese President Xi Jinping about Russia's invasion of Ukraine Friday.
Scholz highlighted that the humanitarian situation needed to be improved and a diplomatic solution should be found as soon as possible, it added.
The couple said they reached their $30 million goal, as they pledged to match up to $3 million dollars. Kunis was born in Chernivtsi, Ukraine.
In the Sumy region, humanitarian corridors have been coordinated from the cities of Sumy, Trostyanets, Lebedyn and Konotop, as well as from the villages of Krasnopillya and Velyka Pysarivka to Poltava.
"As I said one week ago, Ukraine does not have a biological weapons program. There are no Ukrainian biological weapons laboratories, not near Russia's border, not anywhere," she said.
Putin's forces are "basically frozen around the country on multiple lines of axes, struggling to fuel themselves and to feed their troops and to supply them with arms and ammunition," they said.
Ofcom, the British media regulator, has revoked Russian-backed television channel RT's license to broadcast in the U.K.
"It was my honor to spend some time with U.S. and Bulgarian troops at Bezmer Air Base this afternoon," he said. "The outstanding work being done here is a prime example of the unity between not just our two nations, but all NATO Allies."
At least 579 Ukrainian civilians have been killed by Russian shelling in urban areas, according to the United Nations.
"We call on the Ukrainian and international community to help us to find and release Victoria Roshchyna," Hromadske said.
Latvia's foreign minister said the employees were expelled due to their "connection with activities that are contrary to their diplomatic status" amid Russia's ongoing aggression in Ukraine.
Wheels down in Bulgaria, where Ill meet with government leaders and visit some of our troops training alongside the Bulgarian armed forces. pic.twitter.comEtQxlAM9IT
During the nearly two-hour phone call, Biden "outlined the views of the United States and its allies and partners on this crisis" and detailed U.S. efforts to prevent and then respond to the invasion, including by imposing costs on Russia, according to the White House.
Russia's Ambassador to the United Nations Vassily Nebenzia claimed new evidence shows the United States is supporting biological weapons in Ukraine.
He called Mariupol "a city dear to our hearts" and a "symbol of the barbarity of the war."
Outside of the Lviv city council building, 109 empty strollers were placed to represent the number of children killed in the attacks during Russia's ongoing invasion in Ukraine.
In a news briefing on Thursday ahead of the call, U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said Biden "will make clear that China will bear responsibility for any actions it takes to support Russia's aggression, and we will not hesitate to impose costs." He did not elaborate on what to costs might be.
Psaki stated that the Russians are facing "challenges" in the war such as "operations of equipment", the amount of equipment available to them, and "food and other supplies.
As thousands of people have been shown streaming towards Moscow's Luzhniki stadium and central areas of some other towns across the country, independent media outlets and watchdogs accused the Kremlin of pressuring large state-linked companies into forcing staff to attend.
The Tennessee National Guard said three soldiers identified in the report are "current or former members" of the Tennessee National Guard.
The Office of the President of Ukraine reported that almost 5,000 people left Mariupol, including 1,124 children. More than 4,000 civilians were evacuated from Sumy Oblast.
Poland's ruling party leader Jaroslaw Kaczynski first announced the idea of an armed peacekeeping mission during a trip to Kyiv on Tuesday.
Nebenzia began his comments continuing to call Russia's invasion a "special military operation" in Ukraine, now 23 days into the war.
RT fired back on Friday, claiming that Ofcom was "nothing more than a tool of the British government, bending to its media-suppressing will."
Russian advances largely remain stalled by Ukrainian forces' determined resistance, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters in an update on Thursday.
Poland will ask NATO if it can send a peacekeeping mission in Ukraine in an attempt to step up the alliance's involvement in the invasion by Russia.
"Shoulder to shoulder, they help each other, support each other and when needed they shield each other from bullets with their bodies like brothers," he said. "Such unity we have not had for a long time."
Sen. Chris Murphy D-CT ahead of Bidens call with Chinese President Xi Jinping:China is much more integrated with the rest of the worlds economy than Russia was, and so the effect of economic sanctions on China are much more significant. pic.twitter.comX1NTMwVkpt
Nebenzia following -initiated UNSC on biolabs in Ukraine: Our partners are in complete denial. They wont listen to what we say. They wont accept that we present facts and not just propaganda. We heard the repetition of what they said on 11 March.https:t.coqOqSr3ai6u pic.twitter.com01KvxHWKFd
"The President underscored his support for a diplomatic resolution to the crisis," the White House readout said.
Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on Friday that Warsaw would make a formal submission to send a peacekeeping mission to Ukraine at the next NATO summit, Reuters reports.
On Sunday, Russian missiles struck the Yavoriv military base, further west of the city and closer to the Polish border, killing 35 people.
Day 23: still no Xi-Zelenskyy call not even a telegram. "Chinas position on the Ukraine issue is aboveboard, objective, fair and constructive  We believe that Chinas position will be understood and supported by more and more countries."https:t.coIeaCnAKjqO
Video released through by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense showed two Ukrainian fighters destroying a Russian military vehicle coming towards them.
"I convinced our partners that increased EU activity in the area of the ongoing migration crisis was simply necessary," Trzaskowski said. "The scale of the challenge is huge. Warsaw and all of Poland needs urgent support here."
One person was killed and four wounded by falling debris in the Podilskyi district, according to a Facebook post by Ukraine's State Emergency Services.
President Joe Biden is preparing to travel to Europe next week to discuss the crisis and ongoing response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine in a series of summits.
"Over the last week, new details have come to light which allows to state that the components for biological weapons were being created on the territory of Ukraine," Nebenzia said during Friday's U.N. Security Council meeting.
"Lithuania made such a decision in solidarity with Ukraine, which has been facing the unprecedented Russian military aggression," the Ministry said in a statement, adding that Russia's military invasion of Ukraine also threatens the security of Lithuania.
The claims were first reported in The Financial Times and The Washington Post, as well as other news outlets such as CNN.
Our journalist Victoria Roshchyna is held captive by the Russian occupiers. She was reporting from hotspots in Eastern and Southern Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war. On March 12, we couldn't contact Victoria 13 pic.twitter.com4728hwDs72
"You can't surge trust at the eleventh hour trust is something you have to work on every day," Austin said. "And from what I've heard, it's exactly what you're doing. You're building trust with, amongst, with our allies, and you're learning more about each other, and I think that's just fantastic."
"I am confident that by attacking us, Russia they will destroy everything that Russian society has achieved over the past 25 years," he said in a video address.
The Estonia Ministry of Foreign Affairs said these employees "violated the Vienna Convention" and have "directly undermined Estonia's security and spread propaganda justifying Russia's illegal warfare."
Latvia and Estonia both ordered three members of the Russian Embassy staff to leave their respective countries.
WARNINGHumanitarian crisis in blockaded Mariupol!Mariupol is in dire need of humanitarian corridors!SaveMariupol StandWithUkraine StopPutin StopRussia pic.twitter.com0NpV91irpl
Ukrainian forces continue to defend Chernihiv, Mariupol, Kyiv and Mykolaiv as Russian troops surround the cities and heavy bombardment continues.
Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis made the offer on Twitter, saying Mariupol is the center of the Greek minority in Ukraine.
Zelensky has previously addressed lawmakers in the U.S., Britain, Canada and Germany via video link.
Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said Western media should advise the U.S. and NATO to "sit down and build peace by talking with Europe, Russia and Ukraine."
Russian ambassador to the UN continuing to peddle disinformation about Ukraine. Tells SkyNews that Russia didnt bomb theatre in Mariupol. pic.twitter.comTQHiezq3PK
Several clips of the president's address to his supporters emerged on Twitter, Telegram and other platforms, showing the Russian leader delivering an impassioned speech about Crimea, and Russia's military operation in Ukraine.
Poland's Education Ministry is now addressing the challenge in schools amid the unexpected spike in student attendance. Some 75,000 Ukrainian refugee children are now attending Polish schools, according to Poland's Education Ministry.
"I've seen so many fakes we have this disinformation war which is raging," he said.
"We have done so on the basis that we do not consider RT's licensee, ANO TV Novosti, fit and proper to hold a UK broadcast license," the media watchdog said in a statement, adding that the decision comes with immediate effect.
"Including transatlantic efforts to impose economic sanctions on Russia, provide humanitarian support for those affected by the violence and address other challenges related to the conflict," Psaki said. "Each your Wheaties, each your spinach, it's going to be a long Thursday."
"They are accounted for, safe and not, as the article headline erroneously states, US mercenaries killed in Donetsk People's Republic," the Guard said.
"Despite the shelling, despite all the difficulties, we will continue rescue work," Zelensky said in a video address.
The Democrat from Connecticut told MSBNC's Morning Joe: "China is much more integrated with the rest of the world's economy than Russia was, and so the effect of economic sanctions on China are much more significant."
An email, allegedly from the CEO of Gazprom, the state oil giant, calling on all staff to attend the pro-government rallies, was shared widely in recent days. A similar letter also emerged addressing the staff of Gazprom-Media, which owns several pro-Kremlin TV channels and news outlets, citing a similar request.
Six missiles were fired, with two destroyed by anti-aircraft defences, Ukraine's air force said. There were no casualties after three blasts, city mayor Andriy Sadovy said on Telegram.
China has previously denied reports that Russia asked Beijing for military support in its war with Ukraine, accusing the U.S. of "spreading disinformation" with the claims.
"While this is far from a solution for the problem, our collective effort will provide a softer landing for so many people as they forge ahead into their future of uncertainty," Kunis said, as the couple thanked donors in a video.
The Ukrainians celebrate after they shoot the vehicle. "Strength tightened," the ministry said in a Telegram post with the video.
More than 9,100 Ukrainian were evacuated through humanitarian corridors Friday, according to Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk.
Ukraine, Russia agree on 9 humanitarian corridors for March 18.The corridors may start from Mariupol, Sumy, Trostyanets, Lebedyn, Konotop, the settlements of Krasnopillya, and Velyka Pysarivka. Ukraine plans to deliver humanitarian aid to Balakleya and Izyum, Kharkiv Oblast.
A downed Russian missile has fallen on a five-storey residential building in a northern part of Kyiv, emergency services in Ukraine report.
Putin was speaking at Moscow's Luzhniki stadium to commemorate the annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region in 2014.
             ,    ...
XI-BIDEN CALL: Heres the english translation of Chinese President Xi Jinpings remarks to his US counterpart Joe Biden, as reported in Chinese state media pic.twitter.comdAlNNdkiU7
Latvia expells three Russian Embassy employees in connection with activities that are contrary to their diplomatic status and taking into account ongoing Russian aggression in Ukraine. The decision has been coordinated with Lithuania and Estonia
Zelensky made an impassioned plea for Ukraine's swift joining of the EUsomething he has long advocatedon February 28, four days into the Russian invasion.
Xi has forged a strong partnership with Russian President Vladimir Putin, which has undermined U.S. dominance.
South Africa has strong economic ties to Russia. Russia's state-owned energy agency Rostom said in September it remains interested in building nuclear plants there after the Rampahosa scrapped plans to buy a plant from Russia in 2019.
Funds will benefit Flexport, an organization shipping relief supplies to refugee sites in Poland, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Moldova. Funds will also benefit Airbnb, which has been assisting refugees with temporary housing.
Greece is ready to rebuild the maternity hospital in Mariupol, the center of the Greek minority in Ukraine, a city dear to our hearts and symbol of the barbarity of the war.
"It just so happens that the starting date of our special military operation in Ukraine, coincided with the birthday of one of our prominent military..." Putin begins, before the video abruptly cuts to a concert on the same stage, with a military choir singing "Forward, Russia!"
China has claimed to be neutral regarding the conflict but U.S. officials have been concerned that Beijing may directly support Moscow in its war efforts.
The senior official with the U.S. Department of Defense said that Russia appears to now be relying more on so-called "dumb" bombs than on precision-guided munitions in its full-scale offensive against Ukrainesomething that could indicate Russia could be suffering shortages and sustainment issues.
A journalist for the Ukraine media outlet Hromadske is believed to be held captive by Russia, according to the outlet.
China "has a responsibility to use its influence with President Putin and to defend the international rules and principles that it professes to support", Blinken added.
Biden also "described the implications and consequences if China provides material support to Russia as it conducts brutal attacks against Ukrainian cities and civilians." The White House has expressed its concern over the close relationship between China and Russia.
U.S. Senator Chris Murphy has suggested the U.S. could hit China with fresh economic sanctions if Beijing provides support to Russia's invasion.
Both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Ambassador to the United Nations Sergiy Kyslysya shared their appreciation to Greece.
Had substantial conversation with EC President vonderleyen. EC opinion on UA application for EU membership will be prepared within few months. UA Government and EC are instructed. Moving to our strategic goal together.
Putin rallied support for the so-called "military operation" in Ukraine, telling the crowd the goal of the mission is to end "genocide."
"And last week, we heard from the Russian representative a tirade of bizarre conspiracy theories," Thomas-Greenfield said. "This week we're hearing a whole lot more where that came from, things that sound like they were forwarded to him on a chain email from some dark corner of the internet. President Biden has a word for this kind of talk: Malarkey."
The U.S. State Department refuted recent "false news" reports of three U.S. mercenaries killed in the Donetsk People's Republic of Ukraine.
           , !.       24       .https:t.coTQwFE77c9y pic.twitter.comg7948pZYox
However, officials say the corridor from the heavily-shelled city of Mariupol to the city of Zaporizhzhia has been blocked.
"We know what we need to do, how to do it and at what cost. And we will absolutely accomplish all of our plans," he said, pushing slogans such as "For a world without Nazism" and "For our president."
NEW: Russia's military advance in Ukraine remains "largely stalled" more than 3 weeks after invasion: senior US defense official. has not made significant advances on KyivMariupol and Chernihiv are "isolated" has made "no apparent progress" on Kharkiv
The city home to more than 700,000 and located about 50 miles from the border with Poland, a NATO member, has so far largely escaped attacks.
However, NATO allies appear unconvinced of the idea. Dutch Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren on Friday said: "I'm afraid we're still in too early stages to talk about that."
"It was noted that the Kyiv regime is attempting in every possible way to delay the negotiation process, putting forward more and more unrealistic proposals," it said.
By the end of the call, both leaders agreed to maintain open lines of communication "to manage the competition between our two countries" and promised to follow up on today's conversation "in the critical period ahead."
Russian police claim more than 200,000 are attending the pro-government event. Independent media accused Russian authorities of forcing state company workers to attend and online adverts that offered small fees for attendance.
We are overwhelmed with gratitude for your support.2 weeks ago, we asked you to join us and more than 65,000 of youstepped up and donated what you could. Now, with your help we have reached our $30 million goal. 15 pic.twitter.comzQfQ1BNWZm
"There are those who are insisting that we should take a very adversarial stance against Russia," he said. "The approach we are going to take instead is...insisting that there should be dialogue."
It said "brave Ukrainian men and women are fighting to preserve democracy and self-government" and that people all over the country invaded by Russia on February 24 "are rising up to resist the forces of authoritarianism.
The Ukrainian leader said von der Leyen's European Commission, which develops laws for EU member states, will share its opinion on Ukraine's application "within a few months."
According to the defense official, Russia has fired more than 1080 missiles into Ukraine since the invasion began, as the airspace over Ukraine "remains contested."
After hundreds of Russians across the country were detained during protests against the Ukraine war, several pro-government rallies, approved by the local authorities, are taking place on Friday across the country.
Nine humanitarian corridors were agreed upon Friday to evacuate civilians out of shelled cities in Ukraine, Vereshchuk said.
Independent media organization Hromadske revealed it believes its reporter Victoria Roshchina has been detained by Russian forces. We call on  to release her and the others  government officials, civilians, journalists - it has illegally detained in its increasingly savage war https:t.co7Vkf5JqID8
Trzaskowski met with European Union Home Affairs and European Council representatives Friday, regarding an "urgent" need for support.
WARNING130 people were rescued from under the rubbles of the destroyed Drama Theater in Mariupol. Yet, more than 1,300 remain trapped in the basements.
Multiple McDonald's restaurants remain open in Russia, despite the company announcing it would temporarily close all of its diners there.
Officials in Washington said that Russia asked China for the military equipment and support for the war, which began on February 24.
Estonia  expels three diplomatic staff members of the Russian Embassy in Tallinn, who have violated the Vienna Convention. They have directly and actively undermined Estonias security and spread propaganda justifying Russia's illegal warfare. StopWar StandWithUkraine
Ukraine's western city of Lviv, a haven for many fleeing Russian forces' shelling of cities, appears to have been targeted by missile strikes on Friday morning.
Russian TV audiences were treated to a rare spectacle on Friday, as President Vladimir Putin was interrupted mid-sentence in a live broadcast of a much-awaited speech.
