Ukraine War Over 4600 Evacuate Through Humanitarian Corridors
20220407
https://www.newsweek.com/ukraine-war-live-ukraine-asks-nato-allies-more-weapons-1695973
With a 513 to 22 vote, with 19 abstentions, the EU Parliament called for additional punitive measures on Russia, including "an immediate full embargo on Russian imports of oil, coal, nuclear fuel and gas."
"War criminals have no place in U.N. bodies aimed at protecting human rights," Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said following the vote. "Grateful to all member states which supported the relevant UNGA resolution and chose the right side of history."
Some members who indicated they will vote "no" or abstain called the resolution a means of politicizing human rights and is a double standard, as previous human rights violation have not been addressed in this way.
Grateful to G7 ministers for inviting me. We discussed ways to take the military, economic, and humanitarian assistance for Ukraine to the new level. Ukraine proposes a fair deal: the world provides us with all the support we require we fight and defeat Putin in Ukraine.
When asked about reports of Russian soldiers admitting to indiscriminately killing Ukrainians, Blinken said targeting civilians was "part of the Russian game plan all along."
Took part in the NATO Foreign Ministerial. Strong sense of unity behind Ukraine among allies and partners. More importantly, a strong resolve to take very concrete steps to support us. I laid out priorities and stressed the urgency. Follow-up from a number of allies are coming. pic.twitter.comPZZFj48muJ
"Any accusations should be based on facts," he added. "Before conclusions are drawn, all sides should exercise restraint and avoid unfounded accusations."
More than 2.5 million refugees have entered Poland in recent weeks. Warsaw Mayor Rafa Trzaskowski continues calling on international support to help refugees, consisting mostly of women, children and the elderly.
Quoting Holocaust survivor and author Elie Wiesel, Kyslytsya took aim at those members who will abstain from this vote.
Teams were also able to evacuate 1,420 others from Lisichansk, Severodonetsk, Rubne and Kreminna in Ukraine's Luhansk region Thursday.
Zelensky continued calling for tougher economic sanctions on Russian banks, a ban from the "democratic world" on buying Russian oil and more weapons. He also called out the West for not imposing sanctions on Russia before its invasion.
What authorities are seeing in Mariupol is "much, much worse that Bucha on all accounts," Kuleba said.
After days of failed attempts, the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC led 1,000 civilians out of Mariupol to Zaporizhzhia this week.
Russia's war in Ukraine has shattered peace in Europe  has global repercussions. NATO's next strategic concept must reflect this new security reality, a more assertive China, cyber  hybrid threats, terrorism  climate change. ForMin
Kuleba said he believes there is a growing understanding among allies that Ukraine is not only fighting for its own safety and security, but for the safety and security of NATO, Europe and the world.
"Russia's armed aggression will be proven and we will punish all those who killed Ukrainians," she said in a tweet.
A convoy of nine buses is now headed to Melitopol with humanitarian assistance. Vereshchuk said the buses will evacuate civilians out of the city to Zaporizhzhia. Two more buses arrived in Tomak Thursday and are also scheduled to head to Zaporizhzhia Friday morning. Another group of buses will leave Zaporizhzhia Friday morning to evacuate civilians remaining in Berdiansk.
"The sincere commitment of Russia to promoting and protecting of human rights does not make it possible for us to remain a member of an international mechanism which has become an enabler of the will of the above mentioned West and its allies group of countries," Kuzmin said.
The head of NATO criticized China for its inability to condemn Russia for its actions in Ukraine.
The United Nations General Assembly voted to suspend the Russian Federation from the U.N. Human Rights Council Thursday.
The ICRC said the Mariupol civilians fled the besieged city on their own. The Red Cross team led the convoy of private cars and buses from Berdiansk on Tuesday, and arrived in Zaporizhzhia Wednesday. The team previously estimated there were 500 civilians in the group, but increased the number to 1,000 on Thursday.
Several U.N. General Assembly member countries have indicated how they will vote on today's resolution to suspend Russia from the Human Rights Council.
"Our priority has always been to strengthen constructive dialogue involving all interested sides in the process of collective development and adoption of decisions in defending and promoting human rights," Deputy Permanent Representative of Russia to the U.N. Gennady Kuzmin said.
While Kuleba said he appreciates everything allies have done to arm Ukraine in the fight against Russia, he appealed for more support
From Zaporizhzhia.Today, we helped people in desperate need of respite to get to a safer place in Ukraine.Our colleague Umar explains  pic.twitter.comd7WBuA8N09
He said members now have an opportunity to prove "you are not an indifferent bystander."
At least 320 civilians were killed, Bucha Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk told the Kyiv Independent, saying the number of bodies found grows daily.
"We will have the weapons necessary to fight, but its a matter of the timeline when we get them," he said.
MEPs also called for European leaders to step up their deliveries of weapons to Ukraine and the establishment of safe humanitarian corridors for civilian evacuations.
He added that he would check the date of the video, noting that no one outside of Ukraine understands how it feels after seeing images from Bucha or talking to rape survivors who escaped from Russian forces.
Lavrov also said this change indicates the Ukrainian government being controlled by "Washington and its allies, who are pushing President Zelensky to continue hostilities."
He said the "revulsion" at what Russia is doing in Ukraine "is palpable" and detailed horrific first-person stories of Russian soldiers killing and raping Ukrainian civilians, noting credible reports of Russian atrocities are emerging every day.
Countries began questioning Kuzmin's claims that Russia chose to withdraw from the Council, when it was in fact suspended. Another Russian representative, not Kuzmin, answered saying, "I think we made a very clear statement."
Horrifying images of the reported atrocities in Bucha sparked international outrage and prompted some countries to enact new sanctions on Russia. Russia has claimed the massacre was "staged" by Ukrainian armed forces and some media outlets.
He added that the Ukrainian delegation will likely ask for a withdrawal of troops and "add more preconditions" for an end to the conflict.
BREAKING: European Parliament, with huge majority, calls for IMMEDIATE  FULL EMBARGO on imports of Russian oil, coal, nuclear fuel  gas.Freedom isn't for free.We stand with Ukraine EPlenary StopGenocide DefundPutin StandWithUkraine https:t.coyB5mhNq6NG pic.twitter.compm3kDKuBwg
Kuzmin said the West's use of sanctions and "military intervention" has "only exacerbated" human rights conflicts. He added that Thursday's resolution to suspend Russia from the council has "no relationship to the actual human rights situation on the ground."
"It is still possible to give us weapons that will really stop this aggression," he said. "The West can do it. Just as it could have applied preventive sanctions last year to prevent this invasion. If the mistake is made again, if there is no preventive action again, it will be a historic mistake for the whole Western world."
"What we got in response was a provocation in Bucha, with the West immediately taking advantage of it to announce a new portion of sanctions, as well as Ukrainian neo-Nazis committing atrocities against Russian prisoners of war," he said.
Others called the vote premature, asking that the independent investigation into reports of Russia's human rights abuses be completed first.
russia is abducting Ukrainian children en masse. Thousands of  orphans from the occupied territories are being illegally "evacuated" to russia. The State Duma is speeding up a bill on a "simplified" procedure for their "adoption" by russian families.russiawarcrimes
He said Ukraine respects the rules of warfare and that this isolated incident will be investigated.
Sergiy Kyslytsya said suspending Russia from the HRC "is not an option, but a duty" for the General Assembly.
Thursday's action is the latest effort hitting Russia's economy. The move comes amid growing calls by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky for stronger sanctions against Russia. Zelensky said sanctions imposed Wednesday by the U.S. have a "spectacular look," but are "not enough."
"The red dots will stay with you and with all of us as long as memories don't fade away," he added.
After outlining Ukraine's specific requests and the timeline for which they should be accommodated, Kuleba said he is "cautiously optimistic" about the outcomes of discussions with allies.
"Beijing has joined Moscow in questioning the right of nations to choose their own path," he added. "This is a serious challenge to us all. It makes it even more important that we stand together to protect our values."
When asked about the video apparently showing Ukrainian troops shooting a Russian solider in the head, Kuleba said he has not seen it but would look into it.
"This is not an excuse to violate the rules of warfare," he said, "but there are some things you simply cannot understand."
"For more than a month now, my every morning begins with Mariupol," Zelensky said in an address to Greek Parliament Thursday. "With what is happening in this Ukrainian city, which Russian troops are simply destroying. This has never happened in the history of Europe in all the years after World War II that a city is destroyed to ashes, destroyed completely. That it is under blockade and its inhabitants are killed with starvation and thirst."
Sanctions are inflicting serious damage on Russia, he said, but so long as the West continues buying Russia gas and oil, "it is supporting supporting Ukraine with one hand while supporting Russian war machine with the other hand."
"Every day at least four Ukrainian children die and another seven are injured or wounded by Russian soldiers, which often leads to disability," Symonenko said.
"This convoy's arrival to Zaporizhzhia is a huge relief for hundreds of people who have suffered immensely and are now in a safer location," ICRC's Pascal Hundt said. "It's clear, though, that thousands more civilians trapped inside Mariupol need safe passage out and aid to come in. As a neutral intermediary, we're ready to respond to this humanitarian imperative once concrete agreements and security conditions allow it."
Tens of thousands continue fleeing Ukraine as Russia's invasion continues for a 43rd day. The U.N. refugee agency UNHCR estimates more than 4.3 million people have now left Ukraine and entered neighboring countries.
The ICRC team who led the effort tried to reach Mariupol for five days and were held by police about 20 kilometers outside of the city, in the town of Manhush.
The Mayor of Bucha said nearly 90 of the murdered civilians found in the city had bullet wounds, not shrapnel, according to Ukraine's Ministry of Defense.
Blinken met with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba to discuss how the U.S. can continue to provide Ukrainian defenders with what they need "to continue to push Russia back."
"With each day, more and more credible reports of rape, killings, torture are emerging, and for every Bucha, there are many more towns Russia has occupied and more towns it is still occupyingplaces where we must assume Russian soldiers are committing more atrocities right now," he said, adding that the U.S. continues to collect evidence of war crimes for international investigations to hold those responsible accountable.
Ull have a chance to prove that you arent indifferent. All u need to do is to press YES button pressing NO means pulling a trigger, means a red dot on the screen. Red as blood of lives lost. This image will stay with u as long as memory doesnt fail you https:t.coZq86YrSaOS
He also said Bucha is just "the tip if the iceberg" in terms of atrocities committed by the Russian forces.
Blinken said he was glad to hear the United Nations voted to suspend Russia from the Human Rights Council, saying "a wrong has been righted."
Pressing no means pulling a trigger,  means a red dot on the screenred as the blood of the innocent lives lost  Ukrainian Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya called on UN nations to suspend Russia from the Human Rights Council pic.twitter.coml61lipQ2HU
Kuleba said there has been a reluctance among some allies to provide certain weapons on time, only acting after disaster like Bucha occurred.
The United Nations General Assembly is meeting now to vote on a resolution that will suspend Russia from the Human Rights Council.
China previously called reports of atrocities in Bucha "deeply disturbing" but did not assign blame to Russia of Ukraine, as the Kremlin did.
Lavrov said that "despite all the provocations" from Ukraine, the Russian delegation will continue the negotiation process by promoting its draft agreement, "which spells out all the key positions and demands very clearly and in full."
"We already know about thousands of missing people," he said in a video address Thursday. "We already know about thousands of people who could be either deported to Russia or killed. There are no other options for their fate."
Lavrov said a provision stating that future security guarantees for Ukraine would not apply to Crimea or Sevastopol was absent from the most recent proposal.
"Now, I wish this could have happened sooner, but after weeks of talks with the other side, it's important that we have found a path forward," Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said.
"It is growing because they are found in private estates, parks, squares, where it was possible to bury bodies when there was no shelling," Fedoruk told the outlet.
Russia blamed the West and its allies of attempting to "destroy the existing human rights architecture," ahead of a vote Thursday to suspend Russia from the United Nations Human Rights Council.
More than 400,000 people called Mariupol home prior to Russia's invasion. Weeks of ongoing attacks have destroyed nearly every building in the city. Russian forces have blocked land and sea access to the city since the beginning of March. Repeated efforts by the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC to deliver humanitarian aid and evacuate civilians failed for several days.
"Thousands of Ukrainian orphans from the occupied territories are being illegally 'evacuated' to Russia," the Ministry said in a tweet.
"All you need to do is to press the 'yes' button and to save the Human Rights Council and many lives around the world and in Ukraine," he said.
Egypt: Likely abstain, saying it "does not believe the draft resolution is being proposed at the right moment and we warn of it."
Parliament expresses indignation over reported atrocities by the Russian armed forces and demands that perpetrators of war crimes be held accountable 
The EU Parliament also called on EU leaders to exclude Russia from G20 and other multilateral organizations, such as UNHRC, Interpol, the World Trade Organisation, UNESCO and SWIFT, "which would be an important sign that the international community will not return to business as usual with the aggressor state."
"This kind of difficult negotiating approach has become all too frequent," he said. "It shows Kiev's true intentions and its policy of dragging out negotiations or even disrupting them by deviating from the understandings reached."
EuroparlEN has now supported a resolution calling for a full and immediate embargo on  energy carriers: oil, gas, coal, and nuclear fuel. I am grateful to EPPresident and all MEPs. This is how StandwithUkraine looks not in words, but in deeds.
During the United Nations General Assembly, China voted with Russia against a resolution to suspend the Kremlin from the Human Rights Council, saying the resolution was not drafted in "an open or transparent matter."
"This should be accompanied by a plan to ensure the EU's security of energy supply, as well as a strategy to 'roll back sanctions in case Russia takes steps towards restoring Ukraine's independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders and completely removes its troops from the territory of Ukraine,'" the EU said in a statement.
He said Ukraine needs help now, "and I'm speaking days not weeks," or else "our help will come too late and many people will die, many civilians will lose their homes, many villages will be destroyed exactly because this help came too late."
"Sexual exploitation, abuse and trafficking are just some of the worrying risks that people face as they flee Ukraine," UNHCR said.
The Russian delegation also took issue with a change to the previous "unambiguous provision" that now provides for the possibility of Ukraine conducting military exercises with the consent of the majority of guarantor states without any mention of Russia.
"How many Buchas have to take place for you to step up sanctions?" he said. "You cannot allow sanctions fatigue just as we cannot allow fighting fatigue."
The General Assembly Emergency Special Session on Ukraine is streaming live on the U.N. website and YouTube Channel.
"Indifference is not a response. Indifference is not a beginning, it is an end. And, therefore, indifference is always a friend to the enemy, for it benefits the aggressor, never his victim."
After the United Nations General Assembly voted to suspend Russia's membership from the U.N. Human Rights Council Thursday, its deputy effectively said Russia wasn't fired, but chose to quit.
Kuzmin said "Russia's decision" to end its membership "does not mean that we are not going to continue fulfilling our international obligations in the human rights field."
Lavrov also claimed that after the peace talks in Istanbul, the Russian armed forces "de-escalated" operations on the Kiev-Chernigov track as a "gesture of goodwill and to expedite the progress towards an agreement."
"If there is no really painful package of sanctions against Russia and if there is no supply of weapons we really need and have applied for many times, it will be considered by Russia as a permission," Zelensky warned Wednesday. "A permission to go further. A permission to attack. A permission to start a new bloody wave in Donbas."
Ukrainian Ambassador to the United Nations give opening remarks during a U.N. vote on a resolution to suspend Russia from the Human Rights Council HRC.
"Countries from around the globe have voted to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council," she said. "We have collectively sent a clear message that Russia will be held accountable."
Deputy Prosecutor General Oleksiy Symonenko also said the Office has opened almost 300 criminal proceedings for the alleged illegal imprisonment or kidnapping committed by Russia.
"The Russian Federation made a decision about suspending its membership in the U.N. Human Rights Council before the end of its term on the 7th of April," Deputy Permanent Representative of Russia to the U.N. Gennady Kuzmin said. He read the "authorized" statement before the General Assembly after the vote.
"From the spontaneous, national insurgency coordinated by local governments, we must move to the stage of thoughtful integration and long-term help for guests from Ukraine," Trzaskowski said. "For this we need both financial support and the international system, for which I have been calling for many weeks."
"The ICRC remains ready to facilitate the safe passage of civilians from Mariupol and other cities, provided that the parties to the conflict ensure the necessary security guarantees and conditions," Hundt said.
Prior to the vote, Kuzmin blamed the West and its allies of attempting to "destroy the existing human rights architecture." He also continued to call the allegations against Russia "untruthful."
He said the Council should be named "Titanic" if the General Assembly does not "take action today to stop the Council from sinking."
The resolution expresses "grave concern at the ongoing human rights and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, particularly at the reports of violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law by the Russian Federation, including gross and systematic violations and abuses of human rights."
The U.S. Senate voted to suspend normal trade relations with Russia and ban importing its oil, in a rare unanimous vote Thursday.
"We will not let anything stand in the way of sending arms to Ukraine," he said.
Russia's actions in Ukraine go "beyond the pale," Kyslytsya said, not just in terms of human rights violations, but in threatening international security.
About 12,000 war crime criminal proceedings have been registered, according to the Ukraine Prosecutor General's Office.
"The country that's perpetuating gross and systematic violations of human rights should not sit on a body whose job it is to protect those rights," he said.
He said more than 30 countries have joined the U.S. in delivering security assistance to Ukraine. Blinken also added that he is confident that Europe is committed to ends its dependency on Russian oil and gas.
As of Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said about 100,000 people remained in Mariupol. Russian forces continue blocking access to the city by land and sea. The ICRC team also said it observed "acute humanitarian needs" as it assisted those who fled the city.
The Prosecutor General's Office has opened almost 300 criminal proceedings on the facts of illegal imprisonment or kidnapping committed by the invader. bout 12,000 criminal proceedings have been registered for war crimes committed by .WarCrimes StopRussia
Pressing "no," however, "means pulling a trigger," he said. Putting a red dot on the vote screen is "red as the blood as the innocent lives lost" in Ukraine.
Both Ukraine and Russia's position going into these negotiation depend on the success of armies on the battleground and the impact of sanctions on Russia, he said.
"We have seen that China is unwilling to condemn Russia's aggression," NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said during a press briefing at the NATO summit in Brussels.
Blinken said allies are building on support to Ukraine and pressure on Russia and its enablers, noting that these countries recognize the Russia not just attacking one country, but the entire world older.
When asked about this, Blinken said President Joe Biden has "aggressively" moved weapons out to Ukraine months before Russia began its invasion. He said the reason Ukraine has been able to push back Russia, besides the "extraordinary courage" of its people, is that Ukrainians already had effective weapons in hand.
"Revoking Russia's Permanent Normal Trade Relations PNTR status sends the strong message to Vladimir Putin that he doesn't get to tear down the international order, brutalize the Ukrainian people and then benefit from normal trade relations," U.S. Senator Ron Wyden said. "This is a big step in holding his regime accountable."
"The reports and images of civilian deaths in Bucha are deeply disturbing," Chinese Ambassador Zhang Jun told the U.N. Security Council, adding that "attacks against civilians are unacceptable and should not occur."
Kuzmin addressed the assembly following Ukraine's Ambassador to the U.N. Sergiy Kyslytsya. Kuzmin criticized Kyslytsya's remarks, saying, "today is not the time or the place for theatrics or these kinds of extremely theatrical performances like the one presented by Ukraine."
"They are not random collateral casualties of war," the ministry said Thursday. "They were killed deliberately, on purpose."
Ruslan Stefanchuk, the Chairperson of the Ukrainian Parliament, thanked EU lawmakers for supporting this resolution.
About 100,000 people remain in the besieged city of Mariupol and are dying of "starvation and thirst," Zelensky said Thursday.
More than 4,600 people were evacuated through humanitarian corridors Thursday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
Thousands of Ukrainians are missing as Russia's invasion continued for a 43rd day, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Thursday.
While providing an update on the situation on the ground in Ukraine, Kuleba said the battle in Donbas is underway and will see the heaviest part of the fighting. He predicted the situation in Donbas will be remnant of World War II.
The bills head to the House later today then to President Joe Biden's desk for a signature. Biden banned the import of Russian oil to the U.S. by Executive Order in March.
3,256 people fled Mariupol and Berdiansk and arrived in Zaporizhzhia Thursday, Vereshchuk reports. Of those, 1,205 were from Mariupol and 2,050 were from Vasylivka, Berdiansk and Melitopol.
While Kuleba looks forward to more peace talks, he is appalled with the actions of the Russian delegation.
He said the attendance of NATO's Asia Pacific partnersAustralia, Japan, New Zealand, and South Korea was important "because the crisis has global ramifications," of China's close relationship with Russia and their threat to sovereignty.
"We reject the untruthful allegations against us based on staged events and widely circulated fakes," he said, urging all members to "really consider your decision."
He said the constant flow of images of atrocities almost normalizes and trivializes things, making them look like something in the background that people don't respond to.
Investigators continue piecing together the horror that unfolded in the city, as mass graves are discovered as well as bodies with their "hands tied and bullet wounds." Nearly 50,000 lived in Bucha prior to the invasion -- the number has now dwindled to 3,700, Fedoruk said.
After meeting with NATO counterparts and foreign ministers from other allies, including Ukraine, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the draft agreement the Ukraine delegation submitted "shows a departure from the most important provisions" that were included in the document signed by head of the Ukrainian delegation David Arakhamia at the meeting in Istanbul on March 29.
Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said investigative task forces of prosecutors and experts, coordinated by the Prosecutor General's Office, are in Bucha, Borodianka, Irpin, and Gostomel to "document every war crime of the occupiers."
"Mariupol is almost destroyed," Zelensky said. "This is what Russia has done with our peaceful Mariupol. But also with your peaceful Mariupol. This city has always been home to a large Greek community."
