Video Appears To Show Key Bridge Destroyed by Ukraine
20220730
https://www.newsweek.com/video-bridge-destroyed-ukraine-russia-antonovsky-dnipro-himars-1729388
On Tuesday, the Antonovsky road bridge was heavily damaged following Ukrainian rocket fire from the U.S.-supplied M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems or HIMARS.
"Ukrainian HIMARS strike has destroyed the Antonovsky railway bridge, one of the three tracks that connected the Russian invaders in Kherson with the "mainland," tweeted World on Alert.
HIMARS strikes have changed the calculus on the battlefield according to a Pentagon official who said on Friday that they have hampered Russia's war effort and bid for aerial supremacy.
But the damaged railway bridge next to it will deal a further blow to Russia, cutting them off from Kherson, which Moscow's troops seized soon after they invaded on February 24.
On Saturday, the British Ministry of Defence said that Russian forces were likely to have set up two pontoon bridges and a ferry system to compensate for Tuesday strikes.
The inability for vehicles to use the bridge dealt a blow to Russian forces as it meant it could not be used to resupply their troops across the river, cutting them off from its right bank and potentially stranding them from the rest of Ukraine's occupied territory.
"Visual confirmation that the railway bridge near the Antonovsky Bridge has been severely damaged," tweeted user Tendar, "Kherson is basically cut off." Newsweek has contacted the Ukrainian and Russian defense ministries for comment on the unverified video.
Putting the road bridge out of action was a "huge" boost to Ukraine's efforts to retake Kherson, according to Retired U.S. Army major John Spencer
"There appear to have been 2 near misses and 1 or 2 direct HIMARs impacts on the bridge. No trains will be crossing that in the near future," wrote Oliver Alexander, who tweets about Open Source Intelligence.
Social media users said that the video circulated on Saturday showed the remains of the Antonovsky railway bridge over the Dnipro River, which is near the scene of a Ukrainian counter-offensive by the southwestern city.
Before news of the railway line strike was reported, he told Times Radio on Thursday that it would give the Ukrainians "the ability to make sure the Russians can't get reinforcements, resupply or withdraw, because the Russians really like to run when they get...surrounded."
"Damage to the railway Antonovsky bridge in the Kherson region," tweeted social media channel covering the war, Trukha along with the video in which someone shows the mangled tracks and holes in the construction.
Footage has emerged appearing to show the aftermath of a Ukrainian strike against a key bridge that has further cut off Russian troops in Kherson.
