Watch Russian Fighter Jets Carry Out Strikes On Ukrainian Targets
20220606
https://www.newsweek.com/watch-russian-fighter-jets-carry-out-strikes-ukrainian-targets-1713241
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 1,386 tanks, 3,400 armored fighting vehicles, 690 artillery systems, 207 multiple launch rocket systems, 96 anti-aircraft systems, 211 warplanes, 176 helicopters, 2,395 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 vessels, 551 unmanned aerial vehicles, 53 units of special equipment, and 125 cruise missiles.
The footage shows an Su-34 preparing for takeoff before taking to the skies. It can be seen lifting off from a runway at an undisclosed location as its wheels retract.
Serhiy Haidai, head of the Luhansk Regional Military Administration, said: "The Russians are storming Sievierodonetsk... Street fights are ongoing there. However, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are holding the defense. The head of state, who visited our advanced positions in the Luhansk region at night, was convinced of this."
The images were obtained from the Russian Ministry of Defense MoD earlier on Monday, with the MoD saying that the images show the "combat work of the crews of Su-34" fighter jets.
These images purport to show Russian fighter jets carrying out combat operations on Ukrainian targets.
The United Kingdom has announced that it is sending its first long-range missiles to Ukraine.
Ukraine is claiming that it has retaken half of the key eastern city of Severodonetsk, where fighting has been focused recently.
Other images appear to show other Su-34 fighter jets taking off before the footage cuts to scenes of countryside. At least one of the fighters appears to launch a missile, with the aircraft's targeting system showing ordnance being fired at unknown targets.
And the Ukrainian Armed Forces said earlier today that Russian forces are continuing their push towards the city of Sloviansk, near Severodonetsk.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned of more attacks in Ukraine if the West sends long-range weapons.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." June 6 marks the 103rd day of the war.
Ukraine's Armed Forces are "holding out" as Russian invaders attempt to seize the city of Severodonetsk in Luhansk region.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday in the first assault on the Ukrainian capital in weeks.
From February 24 to June 6, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at around 31,250 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
The footage then shows the fighters coming in to land, presumably at the same airbase from which they took off, before the footage ends.
