Watch Ukrainian Defenders Bomb Russian Ammo Warehouse
20220608
https://www.newsweek.com/watch-ukrainian-defenders-bomb-russian-ammo-warehouse-1713978
Ukrainian troops reportedly bombed a Russian ammo warehouse in the Pologovsky district of Ukraine, citing alleged shelling of settlements in the area by Russian troops.
"It is known that Russian troops fired at three settlements in the Pologovsky district. Enemy shells hit Gulyaipole, the villages of Dobropolye and Upper Tersa.
"Earlier, the Russian military left some positions in the Melitopol and Vasilyevsky regions. As it became known, they moved in the direction of Kherson region."
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
The attack was carried out by members of the 44th Artillery Brigade of the Ukrainian Ground Forces with the support of aerial reconnaissance by the 81st Airmobile Brigade of the Ukrainian Air Assault Forces.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian Center for Strategic Communications StratCom said Monday that Russian Major General Roman Kutuzov was killed in a battle near Popasna in the Luhansk region. Russian state media confirmed the death.
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 1,390 tanks, 3,416 armored fighting vehicles, 694 artillery systems, 207 multiple launch rocket systems, 96 anti-aircraft warfare systems, 212 aircraft, 177 helicopters, 2,405 motor vehicles and fuel tanks, 13 naval vessels, 553 unmanned aerial vehicles, 53 special equipment units, and 125 cruise missiles.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned of more attacks in Ukraine if the West sends long-range weapons.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." June 8 marks the 105th day of the campaign.
The United Kingdom and the United States have announced that they are sending long-range missile systems to Ukraine.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday in the first assault on the Ukrainian capital in weeks.
The brigade said Wednesday: "Artillerymen of the 44th OAbr of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the support of aerial reconnaissance of the 81st brigade of the 5th BTGR, bombed the accumulation of enemy equipment and ammunition in the Pologovsky district."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russian attacks on the cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk has turned them into "dead cities."
Russia's ambassador to the United Nations walked out of a Security Council meeting Monday after his country was blamed for triggering a global food crisis.
From February 24 to June 7, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at around 31,360 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
