Zaporizhzhia Plant Disconnected From Power Grid by Russia Ukraine Says
20220825
https://www.newsweek.com/zaporizhzhia-plant-disconnected-power-grid-russia-ukraine-says-1737020
U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres has urged both Russia and Ukraine to ensure the power supply to Zaporizhzhia NPP is maintained.
"Thus, the actions of the invaders caused a complete disconnection of the Zaporizhzhia NPP from the power gridthe first in the history of the plant. The NPP's own needs for power supply are currently provided from the energy system of Ukraine through the communication line of the ZANPZaporizhzhya TPP."
Russian action has disconnected the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant NPP in Ukraine from the main power grid for the first time, according to the company that runs it.
Edwin Lyman, nuclear power safety director at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said each reactor on the site now has three backup diesel generators.
There are fears damage to the site, which was occupied by Russian troops soon after their invasion began on February 24, could trigger a meltdown similar to the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster that took place just 300 miles away.
The Ukrainian Government has accused Russia of "trying to induce a nuclear disaster in Ukraine."
However, he warned the biggest risk is that the electricity supply to Zaporizhzhia NPP is completely cut off, as nuclear plants rely on electricity for cooling.
Shells have exploded near the Zaporizhzhia NPP repeatedly over the past few weeks, with Ukraine and Russia holding each other responsible.
Speaking to The Washington Post James Acton, who co-directs the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said the reactors themselves are reinforced with concrete shells, making it unlikely a direct artillery hit would spark a meltdown.
On Tuesday China's UN ambassador Geng Shuang said an incident at the site could result in a "serious nuclear accident with irreversible consequences for the ecosystem and public health" of both Ukraine, and neighboring states.
On Thursday fires near the site shut down the fourth line connecting the power plant to Ukraine's grid, with three other lines having already been damaged by shelling.
Following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan, Ukraine strengthened safety measures at Zaporizhzhia NPP, with new backup power generators installed.
Russian missiles hit a train station in central Ukraine on Wednesday, as the country celebrated its Independence Day, leaving 22 dead and injuring 50.
It added: "Such actions may cut off power supply to the plant, which can cause the largest ever nuclear disaster.
Energoatom, the Ukrainian state-owned company managing the site, said: "As a result, two working power units of the station were disconnected from the network.
"The consequences of this nuclear disaster may be 10 times more powerful than the 1986 Chernobyl catastrophe. The world must stop Russia before it's too late!"
