Zelensky Lego Figures Released To Raise Money for Ukraine Refugees
20220317
https://www.newsweek.com/zelensky-lego-figure-charity-ukraine-refugees-1689010
All of the money raised from the sales of the figures will go to the charity Direct Relief to help those suffering as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The company has made the news in the past for their production of unusual Lego sets like a strip club, Twin Peaks figures and a Breaking Bad set.
On Thursday morning Citizen Brick announced that all the small figures of Zelensky, and the optional extra of a Molotov Cocktail, have now sold out.
The initiative proved so popular that the Citizen Brick team moved their target higher in the hope of raising $100,000 to help Ukrainian refugees.
The Zelensky figures originally came with Molotov Cocktails, a move which got their original post removed on Instagram  "Go figure," Citizen Brick wrotebut the additional extras are also all sold out.
"Due to overwhelming interest in supporting this charity campaign, we have arranged to produce another run of the Zelensky figures," the Citizen Brick Instagram account said on Wednesday. "Our hopes are to raise $100,000 all of which will be donated to directrelief to support their efforts in providing medical supplies to Ukrainian refugees."
Announcing that they had once again sold out of Zelensky figurines, the team said they had raised a total of $145,388 in doing so.
Citizen Brick does not appear to be officially connected to the Lego brand and according to their website the intention of the company is to take Lego mini-figures and print their own "wildly inappropriate unique designs on them." The company has been operating for a decade and they aim to "make things Lego won't the way others can't."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky now has his own Lego character, which was released in order to raise money for Ukrainian refugees.
Citizen Brick first launched the Zelensky "minifigs" on March 5 and sold out "almost immediately" while raising $16,540 for the Direct Relief. On March 6 they posted a special thank you to all of the people who purchased the special edition figurine and shared a screenshot of the entire donation made.
The Chicago-based custom Lego creators Citizen Brick launched an original Zelensky figure in order to raise $100,000 for charity but they smashed their target in less than 24 hours.
The lucky customers who purchased these items are now the owners of a one-of-a-kind product as Citizen Brick won't be making any more. They wrote: "Due to the limited supply of necessary parts, we won't be able to make more. We hope that you will consider making a direct donation to Direct Relief or another relevant charity instead.
