A million flee Ukraine as the International Criminal Court are investigating war crimes into Russia immediately
20220303
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/a-million-flee-ukraine-as-the-international-criminal-court-are-investigating-war-crimes-into-russia-immediately/
UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said, Hour by hour, minute by minute, more people are fleeing the terrifying reality of violence. Countless have been displaced inside the country.
In its preliminary examination of the Situation in Ukraine, my Office had already found a reasonable basis to believe crimes within the jurisdiction of the Court had been committed, and had identified potential cases that would be admissible.
The ICC received formal requests from 39 countries across the world to investigate war crimes as a collection of evidence has been handed over.
And unless there is an immediate end to the conflict, millions more are likely to be forced to flee Ukraine.
More than 1 million people have now fled Ukraine after a week of war, which is the swiftest exodus of refugees thi century which makes up for 2 of the countrys entire population.
What you have done so far is illegal and you risk being isolated for decades to come.
Fears are mounting that Putin will allow widespread use of the deadly vacuum or thermobaric bombs capable of vaporising human bodies which have already been used in parts of Ukraine.
Speaking at a press conference in Estonia, Wallace added, The message to Putin is: Stop. It isnt too late to stop what you are doing.
The British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace warned on Thursday, Weve seen the deployment of thermobaric artillery weapon systems. And we worry how broad those could go.
More than 1 million Ukrainian refugees have now fled their war torn country and on Wednesday evening the International Criminal Court ICC immediately started an investigation into war crimes possibly committed by Russia.
Prosecutor Karim Khan said, I have notified the ICC Presidency a few moments ago of my decision to immediately proceed with active investigations.
