China could politically and economically influence Russia to end the war in Ukraine
20220805
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/china-could-politically-and-economically-influence-russia-to-end-the-war-in-ukraine/
The Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that China does have the economic leverage to put pressure on Vladimir Putin in order to end the war.
Zelensky sked, If we are acting without legislation, then why do we need a Security Council at all, if any country or a few countries in the world can simply decide to violate the rules by military means?
He urged China to use their status on the United Nations Security Council UNSC to show countries that they must abide by international norms.
During a 40-minute Zoom interview with the Asian publication he said, Its a very powerful state. Its a powerful economy So it can politically, economically influence Russia. And China is also a permanent member of the UN Security Council.
I am sure that without the Chinese market for Russia, Russia would feel in complete economic isolation.
He said he understands that China wanted to maintain with a balanced attitude towards the war, however it is important to note that the conflict was based on Russias unprovoked invasion on a sovereign territory.
Since the beginning of the large-scale aggression on February 24, we have asked officially for a conversation, but we have not had any conversation with China even though I believe that would be helpful, Zelensky said.
Zelensky said Xi was one of the few world leaders to have visited Ukraine at least once, adding that the Chinese leader warmly recalled his ties to the country during a phone call last year.
When asked if he would welcome Chinese help to rebuild his war-torn country, Zelensky said he hopes that China, Chinese business and the whole world will help.
He said, that I would like to talk directly. I had one conversation with Xi Jinping that was a year ago.
I would very much like the whole world to unite over this process. It is very difficult for us to overcome this, Zelensky said.
In an exclusive interview with The South China Morning Post, Zelensky urged the Chinese President Xi Jingpin to use its vast political and economic influence over Russia to end the war.
This is what China can do  restrict trade with Russia until the end of the war.
He said, The Russians are invaders this is a war on our territory, they have come to invade. China, as a big and powerful country, can come and kind of put Russia in a certain place.
The President of Ukraine also expressed his desire to have a phone conversation with the Chinese leader.
