European Union is resuming its diplomatic presence in Kyiv so they can work more closely with the Ukrainian authorities
20220409
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/european-union-is-resuming-its-diplomatic-presence-in-kyiv-so-they-can-work-more-closely-with-the-ukrainian-authorities/
During our stay in Kyiv, we saw firsthand the ability of the Ukrainian administration to ensure the effective and full functioning of state and government structures, despite very difficult circumstances.
The return of our delegation to Kyiv will ensure even better interaction with the government and greater support from the Ukrainian people, the High Representative added.
Today, during his visit to Kyiv, High Representative Josep Borrell announced that the work of the EU Delegation to Ukraine will now be led from Kyiv again, the message on the EU official website said on Friday evening
The European Union are resuming their diplomatic presence in Kyiv, which will ensure even better interaction with the government and greater support from the Ukrainian people.
the European External Action Service in Brussels EEAS quoted Borrell as saying, With this visit, the European Union is returning back to Kyiv.
The European Union is resuming its diplomatic presence in Kyiv. After the Russian invasion of 24 February, the Delegation of the European Union was temporarily re-located to the Polish city of Rzeszow.
Visited Bucha. Showed Vonderleyen, JosepBorrellF eduardheger the atrocities committed by the russian military troops against civilian . We will never forgive the enemy for these crimes. We are working together with our  partners to stop the aggressor as soon as possible. pic.twitter.comGdz0wmhuG9
EU Delegation Head Matti Maasikas accompanied High Representative Borrell and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on their joint visit to Kyiv on Friday, saw first hand that Ukrainian administrationare effective and are fully functioning.
He said, The European Union is resuming its diplomatic presence in Kyiv. After the Russian invasion of 24 February, the Delegation of the European Union was temporarily re-located to the Polish city of Rzeszow.
The EUs High Representative Josep Borrell announced during his visit to Kyiv on Saturday, that the work of the EU Delegation to Ukraine will now be led from Kyiv again.
I mean this literally: our Head of our Delegation is back here, so that we can work even more directly and more closely with the Ukrainian authorities.
