Foreign Secretary to discuss with her Ukrainian counterpart the death sentences handed to two captured British fighters
20220610
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/foreign-secretary-to-discuss-with-her-ukrainian-counterpart-the-death-sentences-handed-to-two-captured-british-fighters/
Under the Geneva Convention, prisoners of war are entitled to combatant immunity and they should not be prosecuted for participation in hostilities.
The British government are very concerned over their case being used as a bilateral issue between the UK and Russia, which will assist the Kremlin using the narrative that the two British fighters are mercenaries therefore they will not be afforded the protection as prisoners of war under international law.
The Russian-owned news agency RIA Novosti said on Telegram,The Supreme Court of the DPR passed the first sentence on mercenaries  the British Aiden Aslin and Sean Pinner and the Moroccan Saadun Brahim were sentenced to death, RIA Novosti correspondent reports from the courtroom.
The British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is to discuss the death sentences which was handed to two captured British fighters with her counterpart Dmytro Kuleba later today.
So we will continue to work with the Ukrainian authorities to try to secure the release of any British nationals who were serving in the Ukrainian armed forces and who are being held as prisoners of war.
On Thursday Aiden Aslin, 28, and Shaun Pinner, 48, were sentenced to death at a court in the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic for taking action towards violent seizure of power.
A No 10 spokesman said, We are obviously deeply concerned by this. We have said continually that prisoners of war shouldnt be exploited for political purposes.
Aslin and Pinner moved to the Ukraine some years ago and joined the military in 2018 so that they could get Ukrainian citizenship and also have made a live in the country, therefore they should be treated as prisoners of war because they are not mercenaries as Moscow believes.
The Foreign Secretary said, I utterly condemn the sentencing of Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner held by Russian proxies in eastern Ukraine.
The President of the Donetsk Peoples Republic, Denis Pushilin, accused the captured fighters of monstrous crimes, by trying to seize power along with crimes against groups of people and they will most likely face a firing squad.
My thoughts are with the families. We continue to do everything we can to support them.
