Putin is on the brink of losing Crimea as the Russian filth flee for their lives back to their own stinking sewers
20220819
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/putin-is-on-the-brink-of-losing-crimea-as-the-russian-filth-flee-for-their-lives-back-to-their-own-stinking-sewers/
I seriously doubt that, I cant totally dismiss it, but I seriously doubt that theyre willing to use a nuclear weapon anywhere inside Ukraine.
So, its clear that they realise they dont belong there -they dont seem willing to actually fight for it.
Russian holidaymakers in Crimea are fleeing as the annexed peninsula is coming under intense attacks with air bases and ammunition depots being blown up.
The explosions which rocked the city happened near the Belbek military airport north of Sevastopol and the Russia claims that they had also shot down a Ukrainian drone.
Vladimir Putin is on the brink of losing Crimea because the Russians dont have anything else with which they can escalate.
Speaking on Times Radio, Lieutenant Hodges added, I noted with some interest and amusement that the tens of thousands of Russian vacationers sitting there in Crimea jammed that Kerch bridge trying to get the heck out of there.
Lieutenant Hodges suggested Russias attempts to calm tourists were unsuccessful as Russian tourists fled in their thousands.
Tens of thousands of people have attempted to leave Crimea back to Russia and in one day, a record 38,000 cars were recorded fleeing.
Over night multiple explosions hit another Russian air base in the city of Sevastopol which was heard by terrified locals.
He added, Get the Russian filth occupiers out of Crimea and back to their own stinking sewers.
None of them were seen heading for the nearest Russian army base saying Hey, I want to help defend the motherland here.
One of our readers told LondonLovesBusiness in a comment, that Ukraine isnt attacking Crimea they are liberating it from Russian cockroaches and parasites.
Retired army officer Lieutenant Ben Hodges said prior to last nights attacks, that Crimea has been hit twice now, hard, within just the last few days.
Following the day time attack on the Novofedorivka military base in Saki last week, record-breaking traffic was seen as the Russian were seen fleeing like cockroaches and parasites across the Kerch Bridge, heading back the Russian mainland.
Serhiy Bratchuk, the spokesman for Odesa regions military, issued a warned Moscow, These fireworks mean that Crimea is coming back to Ukraine.
