Putin looks like a hamster stuffed with steroids who cuts a weak and enfeebled figure at Moscows victory parade
20220509
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/putin-looks-like-a-hamster-stuffed-with-steroids-who-cuts-a-weak-and-enfeebled-figure-at-moscows-victory-parade/
The British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace slammed Mad Vlad and said, President Putin has made a number of fairytale claims for months and years now.
I dont know how well or how unwell he is, theres people circulating rumours hes got cancer of some sort. I dont know.
The Russian hamster has lost his strongman image and now cuts a weak and enfeebled figure which has raised more questions over his health.
The former head of the British Army Lord Dannatt said Putin looked puffy and does not appear to be moving freely as he attended the Victory Day parade.
Journalist John Sweeney wrote on Twitter, Vladimir Putin  a blanket on his knees, his cheeks full, a hamster stuffed with steroids  cuts a weak and enfeebled figure as Russian Army rolls past the Kremlin.
One of his claims is that he is surrounded. NATO accounts for six percent of his land border. Thats not being surrounded if only six percent of your land border is NATO countries.
Lord Dannatt told Sky News, I was really just commenting on how President Putin looked.
But if he goes under a bus, metaphorically or realistically, will the replacement be more any better?
But let me put on the record categorically: NATO, Britain, eastern Europe is not planning to invade Russia and never has done.
Vladimir Putin has been likened to a hamster stuffed with steroids as he is seen sitting with his comfort blanket over his legs during the victory parade, as his murdering, raping army of thugs and incompetent soldiers fight on in Ukraine
He doesnt seem to be moving as freely and as easily as one has seen him do to in the past.
Putin said at Moscows parade that the invasion of Ukraine was necessary to ward off an absolutely unacceptable threat just next to our borders.
I think he is believing what he wants to believe  a slight shine of desperation.
