Russian mercenaries arrive in eastern Ukraine with the purpose of provocations to start red flag war
20220219
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/russian-mercenaries-arrive-in-eastern-ukraine-with-the-purpose-of-provocations-to-start-red-flag-war/
The Donetsk region has seen its highest level of attacks in years since and a powerful car bomb blew up near to a government building of the DPR Donetsk Peoples Republic on Friday evening.
A Western security source, who spoke on condition of anonymity said earlier this week, It is likely that Russian mercenaries, under the direction of the Russian state, will be involved in any hostilities in Ukraine, potentially including a pretext for an invasion.
Ukraine military said in a statement, The purpose of these provocations will, of course, be to accuse Ukraine of further escalation.
Certainly things are in motion but the question is whether it can all be pulled back.
Earlier this week Ukraine National Police force were put on combat alert over new fears that Russian mercenaries controlled by the Kremlin are planning a false flag operation as pretext for an invasion.
Russia has been accused of planning to stage provocations in Ukraine which could lead to civilian casualties, which will give the Kremlin a pretext to attack the Ukraine.
The British Prime Minister warned Saturday after the unfolding events in Donetsk could be a prelude to bigger action from Russia.
The Ukraine Ministry of Defence has said Russian special services have laid a number of mines in Donetsk.
These measures are aimed at destabilizing the situation in the temporarily occupied territories of our state and create grounds for accusing Ukraine of terrorist attacks.
Boris Johnson said that there is still time for common sense to win, he added that he hopes Vladimir Putin will think better of what would be an absolutely crazy, disastrous venture in Ukraine.
The Public Relations Service of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine urges Donetsk residents not to leave their homes and not to use public transport.
The Ukrainian military have said that Russian special services and mercenaries have entered Donetsk in eastern Ukraine on Saturday.
The Ministry said, Ukraines military intelligence has information that Russian special services have mined a number of social infrastructure facilities in Donetsk in order to further undermine them.
