The death sentences are not applicable to British fighters as they signed official documents with the armed forces of Ukraine
20220610
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/the-death-sentences-are-not-applicable-to-british-fighters-as-they-signed-official-documents-with-the-armed-forces-of-ukraine/
The governor of Luhansk added, From what I know the lawyers already appealed against this verdict and I believe what is happening is just political pressure coming from Russia.
Thats why they are subject to the Geneva Convention if theyre taken as prisoners of war.
Serhiy Haidai, the governor of Luhansk has said that the death sentences given to the two British soldiers fighting in Ukraine for the Ukrainian military, by Russia is not applicable as both soldiers would have signed official documentation when they joined the Ukrainian army.
The Russian-owned news agency RIA Novosti said on Telegram,The Supreme Court of the DPR passed the first sentence on mercenaries  the British Aiden Aslin and Sean Pinner and the Moroccan Saadun Brahim were sentenced to death, RIA Novosti correspondent reports from the courtroom.
The British government are very concerned over their case being used as a bilateral issue between the UK and Russia, which will assist the Kremlin using the narrative that the two British fighters are mercenaries therefore they will not be afforded the protection as prisoners of war under international law.
This kind of verdict is not applicable to them, even if they are not Ukrainians.
The British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said, I utterly condemn the sentencing of Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner held by Russian proxies in eastern Ukraine.
The British Foreign Secretary is to discuss the death sentences which was handed to two captured British fighters with her counterpart Dmytro Kuleba later today.
However, Aslin and Pinner are protected under the Geneva Convention Act as they signed up to the Ukrainian military years before the war in Ukraine started and have settled in the country for many years.
On Thursday Aiden Aslin, 28, and Shaun Pinner, 48, were sentenced to death at a court in the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic for taking action towards violent seizure of power.
Haidai told BBC Radio 4s Today Programme, All the people who come to fight on the Ukrainian side sign documents with the armed forces ofUkraine, hence they acquire official status.
My thoughts are with the families. We continue to do everything we can to support them.
