The Kremlin has made a major miscalculation as Russian troops are exhausted and this will be Putins end
20220308
https://londonlovesbusiness.com/the-kremlin-has-made-a-major-miscalculation-as-russian-troops-are-exhausted-and-this-will-be-putins-end/
Wallace said that this war will be Putins end as the Ukrainians will not be broken and it will be an impossible task to occupy the country.
The British Defence Secretary has warned that Vladimir Putin has made a major miscalculation on his military planning as his troops are already exhausted as the war enters day 13.
The British Defence Secretary added, Putin wont break the people of Ukraine but as Lees saying hes doing everything to break their countries infrastructure and their supply lines for food.
Speaking to BBC Radio 4s Today, host Mishal Husain asked Wallace, When and how do you believe this war will come to an end?
Because if not only their spirit and their moral component that they have on their side, the Ukrainians but also because it will be an impossible task to occupy such a people and a country.
President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky told his nation, We will not forgive the destroyed houses. We will not forgive the missile that our air defence shot down over Okhmatdyt today. And more than five hundred other such missiles that hit our land. All over Ukraine .. hit our people and children.
I think that is how hes going to try, I think what we should recognise and as Lees said, there is no infrastructure left in many of these countries.
Wallace said, Either when the Russian forces are so stuck and depleted that the Russian armed forces effectively turn in on itself.
Or Russia imposes its total will, which it has already tried to do by trying to break the people of Ukraine.
The cost for Putin is not just in the invasion, its going to be in the decades of occupation which I dont think hell be able to sustain.
Wallace added, And if you think it takes 150,000 as he thinks it does to invade a country where he was arrogantly thinking they would welcome him as a liberator, you try occupying a country the size of France and Germany put together with 44m.
And God will not forgive. Not today. Not tomorrow. Never. And instead of Forgiveness, there will be a Day of Judgment. Im sure of it.
Ben Wallace said that Putins arrogance could end up seeing Russian troops turn in on themselves which could end his war.
