Defence minister backs Ukraine striking Russian soil with British weapons
20220426
https://www.dudleynews.co.uk/news/national/20093391.defence-minister-backs-ukraine-striking-russian-soil-british-weapons/
He told Mr Lavrov to reflect on the reason there is a war in Ukraine being that Russia invaded, telling Sky News: All of this noise from Moscow about somehow their attack on Ukraine being a response to Nato aggression is just utter, utter nonsense.
Russian foreign minister Mr Lavrov has warned that the threat of nuclear conflict should not be under-estimated.
Britain is sending a small number of Stormer armoured vehicles fitted with launchers for anti-aircraft missiles in the latest shipment to repel the Russians.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Amid heavy fighting in Izium and forces trying to advance to the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, the intelligence update said Moscows troops are likely attempting to encircle heavily fortified positions.
A British defence minister has backed Ukrainian strikes on military targets behind Russian lines, even if the weapons used have been supplied by the UK.
Well see a conflict between two forces that are much more evenly balanced, where the Ukrainians have the advantage of defensive positions that have been dug in and prepared over the last eight years, and thats going to make it an extraordinarily difficult nut for the Russians to crack, he told Sky.
He told Times Radio it is completely legitimate for Ukraine to be targeting in Russias depth in order to disrupt the logistics that if they werent disrupted would directly contribute to death and carnage on Ukrainian soil.
The comments mark a further strengthening of the UKs position, as allies shift from caution against antagonising President Vladimir Putin to supplying more and more lethal aid.
He accused Nato forces of pouring oil on the fire by providing weapons, as he warned against provoking World War Three.
But he dismissed Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrovs claims that Western allies are pouring oil on the fire by providing Ukraine with firepower.
There are lots of countries around the world that operate kit that they have imported from other countries when those bits of kit are used we tend not to blame the country that manufactured it, you blame the country that fired it, he added.
Germany is also expected to approve the delivery of Gepard anti-aircraft systems to Ukraine in a significant increase of support from Berlin.
In the UK, the Ministry of Defence said it has seen reports that the city of Kreminna, in the eastern region of Luhansk, has fallen to the Russians.
Mr Heappey has said there is every chance that the Ukrainians will see off the Russians in the invasion, arguing that Moscows victory in the east of Ukraine is not inevitable.
Armed forces minister James Heappey said on Tuesday there is every chance that Moscows forces will be repelled with the support being supplied to Kyiv by allies.
Mr Heappey said of course the UK backs reported strikes on fuel depots in Russia.
And the minister said it is not necessarily a problem if British-donated weapons are used to hit sites on Russian soil after accepting that weapons now being supplied by allies to Ukraine have the range to be used over borders.
And with all the support that the Ukrainians are getting from around the world, theres every chance the Ukrainians can see them off.
But Mr Heappey told BBC Radio 4s Today programme that the chances of nuclear warfare are vanishingly small.
