FOREIGN REACTIONUKRAINE In historic shift Germany ramps up defense spending
20220310
http://dagblog.com/comment/315103
Perfect exampleWHY WOKE-A-TUDE is so dangerous, isthe enemy of moderate coalition making. Moderate liberal elitesallover the world have become afraid of offending The Woke, and they then often turn off right of center people, find themselves having to agree withcalling them fascists or some such. Woke theoryfeeds divisiveness and tribalism, but if they get some real power, they turn into totalitarian nightmares like the Red Guards in China.
Cuba has long relied on Russian tourism for foreign revenue, which is likely to fall dramatically following the collapse of Russias currency and international restrictions on Russian flights.
Officials said that Russian troops had begun shelling the facility, which is Europes largest nuclear power station. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Ukraine's regulator said there has been no change reported in radiation levels at the station and "essential" equipment was not impacted. US President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson both spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about the situation.
I hope it's not in bad taste to say but there'd be something historical irony if both they and Israel ended up arming Azov.
Only immediate action can stop the Russian troops. Do not let Europe die in the nuclear catastrophe, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video stating that Russias actions show Europe needs to wake up. https:t.coeUsPCZObCY
If nothing else this is a cautionary tale as to where the UK could have been had these MPs attained power.
Warsaw central train station is now a refugee receiving center with the upper floor mostly families sleeping as they can, and the lower floor for ticketing and various services including food.
She was actually petite  cute looking like a WAC couldshould, no heavy black accent, no real differing behavior - Army indoctrination through and through. I also remember The Man Who Fell to Earth, some black character goes home, has a white wife, mixed kids, swimming pool, no specific dialog or significance about home, just happened to be his family. Nowadays symbolism is worn high and heavy.
Labour MP Diane Abbott's statement has been reported on. Watch full the 90 second pre-recorded statement, note: "the claims that Russia is the aggressor should be treated sceptically the destabilization in the entire region comes from a continued Eastward expansion of NATO" pic.twitter.com8aDBKfas5I
Jeremy Corbyn claimed that "both sides have access to nuclear weapons" argues that Britain should engage with Russia through the nuclear non proliferation treaty. He appears to suggest UK respond to Russia by pledging to give up nukes. pic.twitter.comh6NOCHVfOK
A large truck has crashed through the gates of the Russian embassy in south Dublin. One man has been arrested. pic.twitter.com35yLDfGhEd
In short, people can dig down and amplify whatever they want, but it doesn't mean it's particularly relevant, but it sure makes for great propaganda and a backdrop of distracting meming - has served Putin well. So how about we get back to the actual war and any real atrocities? It's 2022 on the internet - we can do "fascist fascist fascist" all day long.
The governments of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela have all relied on Russian support in their defiance of the United States, becoming some of Mr. Putins most ardent international allies. All three have touted Russian investment as an antidote to the economic pain inflicted on them by American sanctions.
of special note from it - a great summary on what's going on with Iran talks and Russia
Every life is precious. I hope you all are doing well out there. Love to you all.
The 5 countries who voted against condemning Russia's invasion of Ukraine included Russia, Belarus, Eritrea, North Korea, and Syria. China and Pakistan were 2 of the 35 countries that abstained. pic.twitter.comCODHtGnAm6
Russias Latin American allies have distanced themselves from President Vladimir V. Putins war in Ukraine, underscoring how even his staunchest diplomatic supporters appear concerned about the consequences of the cataclysmic invasion of a neighbor.
Now there is definitely the 1950'ssexist thing at the end about "get me a steak and get a surgical nurse that knows how to keep her tits out the way" but this is not really about sexism - that's just an artifact of the era - it is the medical hierarchy where surgeons were kings precisely because they were seen as knowing the most in medicine. They know so much they get to rule the roost and go golfing after they are done, leaving the lower classothers at the time mostly female, but also any male "grunts"to clean up after them.
A difficult moment for the MFA, which presents its growing consular reach as a point of pride
Also speaking was Medea Benjamin from Code Pink in the USA she says: "This is a time for us to educate people about the dangerous alliance that is NATO" pic.twitter.comGbljTeSy1O
Excellent, calm and objective description in 2 12 minutesof how we got here, exactly how it's going to be recorded in history books if they're good ones,not CRT colonialist ones, that is
Dinklage was in Eyes of Laura Mars, not sure what before - he's been carrying this on his shoulders a long long time. Oops, looks like he did an uncredited cameo in Laura Mars, 1978, first gig i guess.
And let me be Southeast Texas real for a second, if you are not tweeting me with resources, but just to say there is racism in Ukrainein the media coverage about Ukraine, leave me alone. I know. I lived there and work on race. Unclog my feed so I can help people. Replies off.
Extraordinary speech from Germanys foreign minister  to whatever extent Putins actions here have been motivated by security concerns they have badly backfired and reducing Ukrainian cities to rubble wont change that. pic.twitter.comYa1CjYMmMx
I know some Africans who have said they were warned against going to school in Ukraine, were told "it's worse there than here."
I agree, Zelenskyy has broken the fear thing, that's part of why it's such a big deal. His persona of"ordinary guy attaining incredible feats in many careers" is a big part of it.
It's really so wonderful to see that a man who talked incessantly about the mortal danger to Jews around the world asks Israel to ignore the Jewish president and prime minister of Ukraine, lest one of his geopolitical patrons disapproves. https:t.comIOnTMMCEb
The UAE says its ties with Washington are going through a stress test, and Saudi Arabias crown prince says he doesnt care what US President Joe Biden thinks of him.
I was thinking of posting that! It's so hard to believe, you wouldn't believe it if it wasla movie! 400 people, 400 salaries! For one man! Most people would think: but if you get that guy, there will be another. Putinreally believes in 1the power of charisma, if you get that charismatic guy, it will be all right 2 the control he gets from fear? Iwas thinkingthat as a former KGB guy, 2 is deep in his bones.
Talks between the foreign ministers of Ukraine, Turkey and the Russian Federation on ending Russian aggression against Ukraine have commenced in Antaliya. pic.twitter.comLUDCClMNaQ
Now that I think of it some more, I realize that "getrid of the charismatic guy" was always the KGB's main function. If not assassinate, off to the gulag in Siberia, or the whole mental institution thing was a newer invention. Andthe latest: infect with a deadly disease.
Volodymyr Zelensky: Russian mercenaries ordered to kill Ukraines president  News  The Times https:t.coTEsFQYWKG4
Note here that he praises Truss for travelling to Moscow and berates Jonson for travelling to Ukraine "he seems to think he's in some kind of historic moment"
Former Special advisor to the Leader of Labour Party Andrew Murray: "we see what's happening with NATO's expansion into Eastern Europe and the extraordinary rhetoric from the British gov as an attempt to maintain and even extend US hegemony across Europe" pic.twitter.compUayfLMBX5
Just before hostilities in Ukraine began the Stop the War Coalition organised a meeting with the participation of 3 MPs.
Tribe  McFaulsupport a blitzkrieg idea - sendALL 70 of NATO's Mig fighter jets to Ukraine right NOW:
He's no Russian troll, he'sAnti Establishment Vet w commentary from experience inside the war machine and life in the civilian world as a Black man. Reparations, on Twitter since 2017 and with 49,000 followers and with a You Tube channel.
Biden Administration reportedly agreeing to a deal, negotiated by the Russians, to give Iran a pathway to a nuclear weapon  massive sanctions relief. This would be a grave mistake, empowering Americas adversaries, and weakening American security.https:t.coqNb25owQMq
For anyone out there still going on about NATOs expansion into Central Europe, and how this provoked Russia, via TimothyDSnyder pic.twitter.com9gJqktMPWH
With an eye on winning back Englands red wall and a sniff of power according to allies, the opposition leader is asserting himself defence
she says it all and she's the pro from Dover, she can't use thefrigging moronic Woke messaging right now, she cutthem off right then and there, she's doing tons of worktrying to help get all foreigners out of Ukraine from Nigerians to Sikhs -
Most people at the time knew that was the message. I wonder if Woke typeswould even see that, they are so myopically focused on seeing everything through the lens of their racist, sexist, colonialist memes. That's so scary to me in a way, they are like brainwashed robots
Similarly cautious diplomatic stances were taken by President Nicols Maduro of Venezuela and his Nicaraguan counterpart, Daniel Ortega, both of whom spoke to Mr. Putin by telephone in the days before the invasion.
European wholesale gas prices hit 335 a megawatt hour, up from a price a year ago of about 16 https:t.coK1UIAuM7jx
yeah old military weaponspro Steven Erlangerwrote a piece for the NYT, yesterday from Brussels,on the danger for NATO in the flood of weapons:
I noticed that thereIS some kind of diplomaticshit going down with the Iran this is a clue, though probably not accurate wish we had that Twitter emoji of guy throwing up his hands
Bennett and Elkin observe Shabbat and broke it to go to Moscow to meet with Putin, indicating that it's an urgent national security matter.
Azov has been accused of some few? ethnic related attacks - against Romagypsies, not against Jew - and 1 to break up a women's movement. As 1 article notes, the supremacist leader known for anti-semitic sentiment previously hasn't made any anti-semitic comments since joining the movement 2014 looking to do bigger things post-Russian invasion? but of course that just means he's hiding it and we can continue fretting over it as usual.
FT Exclusive: The US is working with Warsaw on a deal to provide Ukraine with Polish fighter jets https:t.coRNi3VpdRlO
It feels chaotic, but also surprisingly warm and human. Thats a playground for the kids, who play as kids do, seemingly oblivious to the situation.
This whole PutinUkraine thing has reinvigorated a pride in "The West" in their liberal Enlightenment values and what they have done for the world, which Putin hates and which The Woke consider evil. Time for The Woke to be asked: which side are you on, that's your choice, those are the countries we have in the world right now. There is no Wakanda. For me, Kenya at the U.N. had the correct answer, learned from hard experience, not from some "colonialist"overlord.
Basically WWIIIdone in the air? Fine for the chicken hawks, what do the pilots think?
But in a news conference on Sunday, Mr. Bolsonaro said Brazil must remain neutral in the conflict because of the potential economic fallout, including Brazils dependence on Russia for fertilizers.
Zelenskyy gives live address to massive anti-war demonstration in Georgia and several other European cities I believe. Have you ever seen anything like this? https:t.coL41qoe6VaJ
Russias invasion of Ukraine has forced the West to return to a policy of containing Moscow: Cold War 2.0 https:t.couM1Ux8huo4 via WSJ
And what made it "worse"? I mean, at the moment the big thing is maybe some black people weren't allowed on the bus, but chances are the Russians were coming to kill Ukrainians, not black Africans, so we're debating something else. Would Ukrainians "go home" from Poland? well, they're largely home already - Lithuania and Poland and Ukraine and Belarus have had their borders mangled beyond belief. So again we're mixing up shit because some people don't even understand history  geography so it's hard to discuss anything. People in Ukraine  Belarus and Russia and Slovakia can largely all understand each other - their languages are that close. The Slavic immigrants in New York sometimes speak "Slav-ish", a mix of available Slavic languages including Balkan ones.
"Despite accusations that the group isantisemitic, some members of the Jewish community in Ukraine support and serve in the Azov Battalion. One of its most prominent members is Nathan Khazin, leader of the "Jewish hundreds" during the 2013Euromaidanprotests in Kyiv.100In an interview, Andriy Biletsky explained that he regardsIsraelandJapanas role models for the development of Ukraine.101"
Lefty Labour MP's with the same anti-NATO stance as the Democratic Socialists of America, of which AOC, Rashida Tlaib, Jamaal Bowman and Cori Bush are members and fellow travelerssuch as a representative for USA's Code Pink -
After quoting Churchills we will fight them on the beaches, and on the landing grounds speech, and again show what leadership means, ZelenskyyUa received a standing ovation. pic.twitter.comU8ajZ6ryF4
Mr. Maduro and Mr. Ortega had both voiced strong support for Mr. Putins decision to recognize Ukraines Russian-backed breakaway republics on Feb. 21.
That schtick's so old already - where's his sketch of a bomb done with sharpie -
I spoke with African students in Ukraine who are leading their own rescue efforts, and have created a massive network to help Black people in the area find safety  refuge.
long twitter thread reporting on Israeli Prime Minister's visit with Putin, and after, starts here
Russia told Ukraine to just disarm, or the resulting bloodshed presumably Ukrainian would be their fault. Ukraine's held Russia off 5 days, rather respectably, no obvious onslaught in sight. Last week Germany refused to give Ukraine any support, basically said they were gonna get their asses kicked anyway so it was futile. This week they had to eat crow and admit they were the backwards appeasers. I'm sure Putin playing the nuclear card is the farthest from the "Atomkraft, nein danke" stance the Germans had wanted to take
Also says there is "a peaceful way out of it but I'm afraid too many Western leaders simply are not willing to engage in the dialogue and diplomacy that is required" pic.twitter.comhQUywDjoy0
Allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO said on Friday that they will increase support but will not grant Ukraine's request for the implementation of no-fly zones. "We are not part of this conflict, and we have a responsibility to ensure it does not escalate and spread beyond Ukraine," NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told a news conference. On Friday, the UN Human Rights Council overwhelmingly voted to create a high-level investigation into human rights violations committed following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
i know all governments do propaganda but it's the way the russians don't even try to make theirs good https:t.cowFk2sGhkyC
yay, African students not into being pitiful helpless victims, have agency to accomplish things, not sitting around waiting for someone to help them -
Ukraine officials say nuclear safety at Zaporizhzhia power plant is 'secured' following Russian shelling, AFP reports
whoa Germany's goinggung ho,is like: what's the closest thing we can do to a no-fly zone?
An aside, some of the Alt Right people who surround Richard Spencer remember him? are ironically praising this move. A pan-European military is the kind of thing they always wanted, apparently, and they have made the epiphany, a thousand years too late, perhaps, but better late than never, that Russia looks east and not west.
God bless these people, and God love them for the incredibly German way in which this is being organised. https:t.coRat3OVZkpM
President Jair Bolsonarovisited Moscowjust days before the invasion, and saidBrazil stood in solidarity with Russia, though he didnt clarify what that meant.
Spies in Russias infamous security apparatus were kept in the dark about President Putins plan to invade Ukraine, according to a whistleblower who described the war as a total failure that could be compared only to the collapse of Nazi Germany.
UPDATE Germany will increase its weapons deliveries to Ukraine following the Russian invasion by sending an 2,700 anti-aircraft missiles to the conflict zone, a government source tells AFP.
Belarus may join Ukraine invasion! Reminds me of how Nazi Germany got little Romania on its side.
All my support for President Vladimir Putin and his people, Mr. Maduro said last Tuesday.
^ does it need to be said? major yuck fou to Putin from former SSR's.
I read a book about Eurasianism and found most notable that Putin was appointed and by Boris Yeltsin at that. He represents a system thatmaybe was simply reduced, as opposed to destroyed.
I dont know why the embassy didnt tell us the war was going to break out when other countries advised their citizens to leave days beforehttps:t.co0Bler2NzYL nivincent
Prof Richard Sakwa, Uni of Kent: "I don't think there'll be an invasion that was never on the cards"
Read our story here: Olaf Scholz announced major boost to German military spending  the latest in a series of dramatic policy shifts by Berlin in response to Russias war on Ukraine.https:t.coMB7OHKc1DR
Right now The Woke pumping things up into colonialist white continuing their oppressionwith students from Africa having problems trying to get out of Ukraine. Sure, some Polish people are surely racist and don't want to help black African students. BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT'S A WHOLE WORLDWIDE RACIST SYSTEM, THEY FUCKING GOT INVITED TO GO TO COLLEGE THERE for chrissakes. Part of the problem is some racist people, surely,but a bigger part of the problem is their own fucking home countries have a competency problem with visas and consulates andthe like. And Polish people are happily accepting Ukrainian refugees because they know they will eventually go home, while some may think twice about someone from a faraway country with incompetent consulates...as a New Yorker who knows a few stories about illegal immigrants, Iknow I would and it wouldn't be about race...
That is very significant as Latin America is Russian link to it's Soviet era allies and therefore some of the country's most reliable partners.
Some really truly horrific stuff out of Ukraine. Looks like World War II in full color. Vile. :
BREAKING Israeli Prime Ministe Naftali Bennett is in Moscow, where he met with Putin for two and a half hours. Details to come.
Zelenskyy gave a speech to the House of Commons today, gave em what they wanted to hear
President Alberto Fernndez of Argentina also visited Mr. Putin in Moscow last month, but after the invasion, his government denounced the attacks, issuing its strongest rejection of the use of armed force.
NEW: The State Department has asked its embassies in Europe to "un-retweet ASAP" USEmbassyKyiv's tweet that attacking Zaporizhzhia was a war crime. ht kylieatwood
The Soviet system didn't like charisma. It likedlikes boorish people that personify a broad system. This could explain why eventually their system would appeal more to Western conservatives than progressives. The Left always liked the charismatic socialists who never fit in the systems - Trotsky, Guevera, etc.
WSJ with no paywall: Russias Invasion of Ukraine Changed the World in Days West returns to a policy of containing Moscow: Cold War 2.0
Woke just really disgustme right now, it's like clueless elite, just clueless about real life. AND that's without getting into how some of the big ones in it are just basically grifters off of white guilt that they themselves create
ah, seizing the day to try to moderate some Wokies and Tankies and their ilk:
It's 2022 on the internet - we can do "fascist fascist fascist" all day long.
But he also confirms to his audience "the power is you, you are all the President, don't put a picture of me on the wall, put your family, your kids who are the future". It makes him compelling but nicely expendable - the revolution doesn't depend on him. Hari Seldon in the Foundation Trilogy?
Meanwhile in Warsaw: Polish truck drivers leave a present in front of the Russian Embassy. pic.twitter.comvS8luEElog
"By the grace of God, the world narrowly averted a nuclear catastrophe last night," USAmbUN says during an emergency UN Security Council meeting on Ukraine.
Cheers erupt as Ukraine president addresses huge protest in Prague via video link  video https:t.coL2jgHvtFc0
And Mr. Maduro has used Russias banking system to bypass American sanctions and continue exporting oil and importing basic goods to Venezuela, allowing him to stay in power. Russias dramatic exclusion from the international financial system will likely complicate this trade,wrotethe Venezuelan economist Asdrbal Oliveros.
It may seem cornball pandering to some of us, but keep in mind that Ukraineactually is going through the exact same thing as "The Blitz" and it's still about where the continentgoes and what it becomes, not some far off continent.
We've got 8 years of evidence, including newspaper articles, media segments, photographs, and the Nazis themselves bragging about what they've done in Ukraine on video.
BREAKING: The New York Times reports that Chinese officials asked Russia to delay invasion of Ukraine until the Winter Olympics were finished
Absurd, "Russian boat go fuck yourself" has already spread past Zelenskyj. Martyrs breeding martyrs. ok, so the original crew isn't dead. Doesn't spoil the Schwarzenegger punchline. "Consider this a divorce" or "I had to let him go" off a cliff
What is happening here at Berlin Central Station is deeply moving. Hundreds of people offer free sleeping places to Ukrainian refugees. Helpers use megaphones to arrange overnight stays every minute.
China's propaganda machine is now cranking for Putin -- and blaming America for the invasion. https:t.coVRt1mUJHQT
He said: If we win, and Im sure well win, this will be the victory of the whole democratic world, this will be the victory of our freedom, this will be the victory of light over darkness UkraineRussianWar https:t.coud0UhjEGxz
Specifically, the demand is that the recent US and European sanctions on Russia carve out an exception so that they can trade with Iran. Which is not good for Israel if they get that guarantee, but if it prevents a deal from being signed, is good from Jerusalem's POV.
hah that scene actually hits on some good related memes - I noticed the first nurse they hassle is black but there is no racial reference thing at all. At the time- the popularity of MASH -you did not think about race, it wasn't the first fuckingthing peoplethought about!
oh so Victimhood Olympics even reachesSnow White vs the Dwarves. A femme female gets to be the admiredboss over males or shall we say male-type gender choices?for once but because she's white VERY white! and of normal stature, she's an oppressor!
^ It'sthe tribal argument, identity politics vs. liberal democracy. I.E. we're a minority but we're right and the majority is wrong:we'reall down with send in a righteous entity to cleanse Ukraine of "Nazis" even though most of the rest of the world disagreeswe're all for forcing majority white taxpayers to fund reparations even though most of their ancestors were immigrants to the country after slavery was abolished, etc.
New poll from Germany shows just how much Putin the master strategist has achieved. Germans now:
BREAKING: UK PM Boris Johnson says the 'reckless actions of President Putin could directly threaten the safety of all of Europe'
The point is that to focus on the sexism here would be a way secondary message, again, it's just an artifact of the era. The main takeaway should be: knowledge is power. Not that white male  power. But that knowledge,education and skills  power. Here it even trumps the discipline and hierachy of a military system.
OH all "Woke" lefties definitely know that, hence all their crap about getting rid of NATOtheir whole concept of the history of the world is that Europe and "the West" iand white peopleareracist, imperialist colonizers if not fascists.This view has infiltrated college Humanities Dept.'s around the world. Is why Nikole Hannah-Jones tweet the other day angered me. To them NATO  Richard Spencer  fascist overlords of the all the oppressed peoples. of the world, sometimes the white working class is included, sometimes they are a major part of the problem. That impedes progress and destroys new ways of thinking about policy!
It could've been "Snow White  the Seven Dorks", or maybe the Dwarves could've had 7 superpowers rather than 7 types of cringeworthy. I mean, he kind of has a point - why make over 1 "you go, LatinX grrrl" role but leave the obvious not terribly PC shtick intact? There was some 30s movie with black mammy main role, and they updated it in the 50s to be much more normal especially for New York - not sure why dwarves can't expect similar treatment in 2022.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken: The United States gave a "green light" to NATO countries for the supply of fighter jets to Ukraine. https:t.coOsmQcXR5bp
The governments of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela have all blamed the United States and NATO for stoking tensions in Ukraine and disregarding Russias security interests. But none has yet voiced direct support for Russias incursion.
About 500 Canadian volunteers arrived to Kyiv to fight alongside Ukrainian soldiers and more are on the way. Ukraine command has decided to form a separate unit just for Canadians. Canada Ukraine UkraineRussiaWar
Earlier this year, Mr. Putin sought to further expand Russias influence in Latin America, building ties in the region to countries like Brazil and Argentina that have traditionally been close to Washington.
Ursula von der Leyen quotes KyivIndependent at the European Parliament: "Let me quote the editorial of one Ukrainian newspapers, the Kyiv Independent 'This is not just about Ukraine, it's a clash of two worlds, two polar sets of values.' They are so right." pic.twitter.comv54hevVFkN
New tensions around Russia give an opportunity to specifically test Huntington's forecast that divisions will track a "civilizational" divide between Orthodox Christians and ProtestantCatholic Europe.
Rarely will you see analysis that aged so badly so quickly. These people vote on the laws we live by. Let's hear what they had to say pic.twitter.comfdn9AbjFId
Denmark aims to become independent of Russian natural gas in the wake of Russias invasion of Ukraine,Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen said,according to Reuters. Denmark will also significantly increase its defence budget in response to the conflict, Frederiksen said.....
BREAKING: Russia's Putin told Germany's Scholz that the 'alleged ongoing air strikes of Kyiv and other large cities are gross propaganda fakes'
Reuters - Monaco, an international hub often favoured by wealthy Russians, will also proceed with freezing assets and imposing sanctions on Russians in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, said a statement by the Monaco Royal Palace.
Cuba, Bolivia and Venezuela,in official statements, have called for a diplomatic resolution to the crisis. Bolivias former president, Evo Morales, who continues to play an important role in his countrys pro-Russian government, tweeted after the fighting began last Thursday, War is never the solution.
The dwarf actor Peter Dinklage is complaining about the remake of "Snow White  the Seven Dwarfs", how they updated the beauty to be Hispanic, but still have worker dwarves in hard labor locker-room homestay- "hey, all you dwarfs get in there,  don't let me hear a peep out of you except that "Hi Ho" song when I cue."
Meanwhile, today, as an Iran deal looked inevitable, Russia is making new demands in the nuclear talks.
I think it was widely assumed that Vladimir Putin would be in charge of his country for the duration of his life, but that could easily not be the case. He was assigned his position by Boris Yeltsin and a system that was already in place. He could find himself in a similar situation, forced to hand over the reigns to someone else.
