Russia launches fullscale invasion on Ukraine
20220225
http://dagblog.com/comment/314337
Confirmed by Ukrainian authorities. A large air assault operation with Mi-8 helicopters on Antonov International Airport in Hostomel. Interior Ministry says Russia has seized control. Very dangerous its just 15 minutes west of the capital ring road. pic.twitter.comJhlyVktVRC
The initial attack included an estimate of more than 100 Russian-launched missiles -- mostly short-range ballistic missiles but also some medium-range ones -- and about 75 fixed-wing heavy and medium bombers. So far, the targets are mostly Ukrainian military infrastructure and air defense systems, the official said, adding that U.S. intelligence does not yet have a good sense of total damages or casualties.
At the same time, we are working flat out on how to limit the collateral damage of a SWIFT decoupling so that it hits the intended target. What we need is a targeted and functional retrenchment of SWIFT vis--vis Russia." AMin ABaerbock  BMWK Habeck 22
The Kremlin said early Sunday that a Russian delegation has arrived in Belarus, saying it is ready for talks with Ukraine in the city of Gomel 25 kilometers north of Ukraine https:t.coUALoFIveeZ
Ukraine's interior ministry released an appeal to families of Russian soldiers asking them to help ID Russian POWs  those killed in combat.
I can't imagine sitting down to write 1,000 words and never stopping to think "maybe disagreement over mask mandates isn't a reason to throw my lot with a murderous dictator holding the democratic world hostage".
Urge the Belarusian militaries not to carry out criminal orders, to lay down their weapons, to leave their units and not to take part in the war against the Ukrainian peoplehttps:t.coiYWlnngiU4 pic.twitter.comLnqUliPe6V
My parents live in a big villa with my auntie living upstairs. They offered accommodation to two women with 4 kids between them through some common friends, but they were trying to get here through Slovakia and they lost contact with them. We don't know what's going on...
Here's how front pages in are documenting the invasion, from novayagazeta to lesoir and libe pic.twitter.comhwWtjnwPij
CNNis supportingthe story of a civilian stopping a tank by kneeling in front of it:
We also have to understand that ethno-nationalist authoritarianism is not just a foreign policy issue. It's a force inside our own democracies in the U.S. and Europe - a force that Putin has tried to fuel in every way we can.
I'm not often elated at news from back home, but this makes my heart swell. StandWithUkriane standwithrefugees pic.twitter.compvc4vNvNu7
Governor of Kharkiv says whole city under Ukrainian control, announced curfew from 6pm - non-military vehicles on the street will be liquidated
Media: RepKinzinger D-IL16: "Tonight, I would love to see us declare, at Ukraine's invitation, that Ukraine is a no-fly zone. NATO and the United States would crush Russia in the air in a second. That would give the Ukrainians the ability to prevent the occupation of Kyiv." pic.twitter.comtnoRtaHG52
Gone super-viral: respect for the "President of Ukraine"by twitter accounts from allover the worldmost I looked at do not appear to be bots, have 500 or 1,000 or 2,000 followers. It's more like: I wish we had a leader like that in our country. Words like: humble and love of country.
The Ukrainian Defense Ministry is apparently launching a hotline for the mothers of Russian soldiers captured or killed in Ukraine.
Josh Marshall retweeted this long thread of analysis by Maj. Gen.just Ret. Mick Ryanon what's happening with the 4th day ofhostilities I think it's safe topresume he recommends
Belarus will commit air and ground forces to Russias war on Ukraine, in the next 24 hours.
U.S. intelligence have seen indications that Ukrainian troops "are resisting and fighting back," the official said. Some fighting has been seen around the airport in Kyiv. But the heaviest fighting is currently occurring in the northeastern city of Kharkiv, some 300 miles east of Kyiv, according to the official.
I interviewed him on Monday, he was in a sharp suit and wanted to talk about the citys economic agenda.
Well gee, that's almost as bad as taking over the Azov Sea and bombing civilians.
The Bucha-Irpin bridge has been blown up to stop the Russian advancement toward Kyiv in this direction.
Even some Russian mothers of soldiersare soon going to start complaining. Like Vietnam. In that case, the Soviets were the smart ones, they didn't put their own boots on the ground.
Ha, there was something like that in the Warsaw Pact invasion 1968. Even with Google Maps, if there are no street signs to confirm, it can be confusing, more Charmin than Garmin.
57 Alpha Spec Ops have been near Kyiv since the 18th February. The goal was to take Kyiv and instal a puppet regime. They are preparing provocations against innocent civilians  women and children  to sow panic. This is their trump card.
BREAKING Putin has called on Ukraine's army to remove the country's political leaders in Kyiv, AFP reports.https:t.coH5SS1kVEjR
ANDmore on Germany's decision - translation: he's become a loon one can't negotiate with and then the word "insanity" and then the prescription is Pavloviansticks, like an animal trainer-
The US "argued that because China was widely seen as a partner of Russia, its global image could suffer." Amazing the emphasis we put on PR over everything. https:t.co6Fp8xBuQTS pic.twitter.comUn9qoMh4aS
Interesting from former Russia PM Mikhail Kasyanov on the World Service just now: Absolutely the hardest sanctions devastating sanctions. Will definitely hit Russian economy will have to stop invasion. failure to capture Kiev beginning of the end
Kremlin spokesman says goal of special operation in Ukraine: it is necessary to liberate Ukraine, to clear it of the Nazis. But Ukraine is not run by Nazis and Ukrainians say they dont want Russia to liberate them.
Incredibly brave citizens of Berdyansk,a port city in Ukraine's south-east, tell the Russian soldiers where to go. pic.twitter.comV0nG98lNtF
I'm thinking he deluded himself, despite advice to the contrary from his own intel, thatthey were going to fold and this was going to be easy peasy and everyone in the neighborhood would shrug and forget.
This Wikipedia article documents the current crisis happening in Ukraine. It is being updated constantly by Wikipedia editors around the world.https:t.coFlKG8ErBAB
47 If Ukraine manages to hold the Russians off for 10 days, then the Russians will have to enter negotiations. Because they have no money, weapons, or resources. Nevertheless, they are indifferent about the sanctions.
by Daniel Treisman,a professor of political science at UCLA, a fellow at the Center for Advanced Research in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford, and the co-author of "Spin Dictators: The Changing Face of Tyranny in the 21st Century."
Thank you all for the outpouring of support. I really am out here working without institutional MSM support. Here are the ways you can support my work:
U.S. intelligence believe these three axes were "designed to take key population centers" and that the early moves from the north toward Kyiv indicate an intention to remove the Ukrainian government, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters at the Pentagon.
Some won't like me bringing this up, but Hillary is much like aSviatlana Tsikhanouskaya or Yulia Timoshenko. Yes, and Navalny, not to be sexist. Manafort even ran the same playbook on Hillary as he did Yulia Yulia actually ended up in jail, but she's now back in government working her ass off.
Hope he's right, hoping his iron grip on his own country doesn't put them through hell, too, before they get to that point:
Heres a partial list of reporters on the ground and others who know what theyre talking about. https:t.cojcixvK2O13
The Polish football team has refused to play Russia in the play-offs for the World Cup. Of course they have. Why would anyone wish to play Russia now?! Dzikuj chopcy. https:t.coeeIODWxyNF
The U.S. has now given over a billion dollars to Ukraine in security assistance over the past year.
sort of like CHINA where people don't know what's good for them--don't know the right culture-can be trained to learn, i.e., Tibet, Uighurs, Hong Kong....
Four days since the invasion began. In the past 24 hours, we have seen limited Russian progress according to multiple sources. My 4th set of observations, noting the ongoing lack of clarity  abundance of ambiguity. 124 pic.twitter.com0DxKXIHRtr
Keep in mind a big picture perspective: thismilitary invasion is just not sane, especially if Ukrainians keep fightingone. It's not like cyberwar, for example one can see it and wants nothing to do with it.
It's only sane self-preservation to want to offer help and wantthe Ukrainian mento fight back the Russian invasion - the crazy man might come to your country too or cause a much bigger war.
Those who shout Putin is great and bravo to him are no longer shouting as loud said Lalya Sadykova, owner of a chain of beauty salons. Theyre in shock from what is happening, from how quickly prices are changing  how suppliers are stopping deliveries https:t.coNx1aCm6rK2
Were moving very quickly here at Dartmouth with emergency graduate admissions for the displaced Ukrainian scholars. This is often the most flexible, the least bureaucratic line of admissions with precedents. I encourage you to do this. Were also working on undergrad  faculty.
Multiple videos and images circulating on social media were taken in previous years and are not linked with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, various fact-checkers and journalists report. Fact-checking organisations shared tips and toolkits to help with the verification of content online.
The Ukrainian Parliaments official Telegram account said the Antonov Airport in Hostomel was now "fully under the control" of Ukrainian troops.
BREAKING: We are deploying elements of the NATO Response Force. On land, at sea, and in the air.
First, we commit to ensuring that a certain number of Russian banks are removed from SWIFT.
Russians: This is a Russian warship. I propose you lay down arms and surrender to avoid bloodshed  unnecessary victims. Otherwise, youll be bombed.
Read our full FinancialTimes story on the sanctions here and follow all our coverage of the Russian invasion of Ukraine at https:t.compIBm11Y5Phttps:t.cosKfABV8Qof
Putin turns his attention to Finland and Sweden as Kremlin official warns both nations which share border with Russia that they will face 'military and political consequences' if they join NATO https:t.cohDxFfbo6II
BREAKING: Zelenskyy announces on Telegram a meeting between Ukrainian and Russian delegations on the Ukraine-Belarus border. Meeting without preconditions. pic.twitter.com2fsDwuX1bC
The Moscow bank run: a queue for a Tinkoff ATM in the Liga shopping center in Khimki. There are about 70 people in line. Eyewitnesses say the money in the ATM runs out within 40 minutes. bazabazon pic.twitter.comMTMkEiCRHJ
Russia blocked Twitter. 9 million Russians won't be able to acces Twitter after Russian advertisers were banned from Twitter. They also cannot make new accounts! Russia Twitter Ukraine Zelensky PutinIsaWarCriminal Putinhttps:t.coYtiPZDr6oX
Deputy Interior Minister Anton Gerashchenko also said Ukrainian troops had managed to retake the airport, calling it the first big victory!
87 Spread this information so the world would realise how important it is to assist Ukraine right now and without hesitation! It is difficult for Russia, but it is difficult for Ukraine as well if the West does not provide meaningul support! EPPGroup MFAestonia MoDEstonia
-Acknowledge there will be costs, sacrifices. We waited to long, the price is high, but it will only get higher. It's time to fight. 55
I've just watched several videos of captured Russian soldiers. I don't re-tweet material of that kind, but they are bewildered in the face of their angry Ukrainian captors. Losses of dead and prisoners are mounting, all of this will become known at home in Russia
The internal network of Belarusian railways has been attacked, all services are out of order and will soon be deactivated until Russian troops leave the territory of Belarus. StandWithUkriane
This is something that apparently was also an issue when Israel came through the Gaza Strip a few years ago.
In theirmatching mauve ties, RussiasVladimir Putinand ChinasXi Jinpinglast week declared a new era in the global order and, at least in the short term, endorsed their respective territorial ambitions in Ukraine and Taiwan. The worlds two most powerful autocrats unveiled a sweeping long-term agreement that also challenges the United States as a global power,natoas a cornerstone of international security, and liberal democracy as a model for the world. Friendship between the two States has no limits, they vowed in the communiqu, released after the two leaders met on the eve of theBeijing Winter Olympics. There are no forbidden areas of cooperation.
Strengthening sanctions, concrete defense assistance and an anti-war coalition have just been discussed with POTUS. Grateful to for the strong support to !
Putins first PM, 2000-4. Now a Putin critic, yes, but we might have expected war to create some sort of patriotic unity in Russia. That isnt obviously the case.
And it will make it impossible for the Central Bank to liquidate its assets. pic.twitter.com8H9eWkNCW9
U.S. experts described the lengthy statement, which was riddled with false and accusatory language, as startling ....
Putins policy is generating the policy outcomes that Russia fears  enhanced FinnishSwedish cooperation with NATO  Germany rearming with zero pushback from any of its neighbors. pic.twitter.comzfhgjn60qV
Oh look at Russians vote with their feet on how successful they think Putin will be at avoiding the serious sanctions:
doesn't work as a foreign policy analyst, is just a guy who self-describes asIntrovert Not Antisocial  Taurus   Real Madrid Fc  EDM  Tattoo Lover  Foodie  Sweet TalkerDirty Talker location unknown:
Julia, a teacher and Ukrainian volunteer, weeps as she waits to be deployed to fight Russian troops around Kyiv on Saturday. Ukrainian civilians have taken up arms and joined the battle to keep control of the capital. https:t.codstRTHIW8F pic.twitter.comIcvw3wb43m
^ Goes with the NYTimes' annotated version ofPutin's speech to the Russian people which I posted in full hereon this otherthread.
Baerbock sums it up neatly: "If our world is different, then our politics must be different too."
These were the men who were with Putin in 2014 when he made the decision to annex Crimea. They also, analysts say, reinforce Putins distorted views of Ukraine as a country ruled by drug addicts and neo-Nazis.
This is way too interesting to wait for independent confirmation! Even if this is propaganda, it's still fucking interesting:
"There is a fantastic welcome point at the main train station. Self-organized volunteers await every train from Lviv, offer accommodation with volunteers, transport, food, medical help..."
Azov of course is a movement, but aside from someone at Haaretz saying they might be happy about developments, i don't see any real proof of this. Do they use ultraright symbols remeniscent of the 30s40s? Sadly yes. Did they commit Nazi-like atrocities the last 8 years of conflict? Decidedly not. Prolly confusing them with what's still in place in Chechnya. So we're going to sit around holding useless philosophic discussions about symbolism while a superpower actually bombs and sends in troops into it's former colony? Thanks, hard pass. Give them weapons and ignore the patches. And yes, Haaretz could have pushed harder to give Ukraine their Iron Dome defense to protect an actual Jewish-friendly country and culture in the midst of hostile Slavic lands, including a supposed memory of Russian anti-Jewish atrocities there in the 30's. I guess "never forget" is selective memory after all.
The U.S. official said Russia has conducted "ground incursion from Belarus to the northwest of Kyiv, and we have seen at least some indications of air assault incursions into Kharkiv."
Glenn Beck and his researcher openby admitting they largely don't know what they aretalking about:
and that's why she made a excellent unelected Secretary ofState, while as an elected President she would have had half the population allout looking to crucify her, maybe more than half, depending on how well she controlledher natural personality. you think we have divisiveness now?
The body of a Russian soldier lies next to a Russian vehicle, in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on Friday.
Update: not two women, but a family. The father was not allowed to leave Ukraine. His wife does not drive, so she will arrive by train in a few days, if everything goes well...
Sweden provides military, technical and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine. Grateful to SwedishPM for her effective support. Building an anti-Putin coalition together!
Agreements between Moscow and Beijing, including the Treaty of Friendship of 2001, have traditionally been laden with lofty, if vague, rhetoric that faded into forgotten history. But the new and detailed five-thousand-word agreement is more than a collection of the usual tropes, Robert Daly ....told me. Although it falls short of a formal alliance, likenato, the agreement reflects a more elaborate show of solidarity than anytime in the past. This is a pledge to stand shoulder to shoulder against America and the West, ideologically as well as militarily, Daly said. This statement might be looked back on as the beginning of Cold War Two. The timing and clarity of the communiquamid tensions on Russias border with Europe and Chinas aggression around Taiwanwill give historians the kind of specific event that they often focus on.
But amazing it's all about Putin, not Russians. The Slavs are all pan-brethren, shared culture, good vibes. The Soviet legacy throwbacks like Putin are so out of touch - he thinks he's hip  sexy, but he's a decrepit ogre like Brezhnev, a bit of Photoshop makeover, every year needs more. Supposedly Putin still holds 70 support, but i think that's largely untested fiction. A little bit of knowledge in Russia can be a dangerous thing for Pootie.
Captured Russian soldiers say they were told that they were being sent for military exercises and had no idea about a war and were thrown into the front without much support or prep, so feel deceived.WITH VIDEO OF THEIR INTERROGATION. FromRFERFL.
Cannot ignore the political 5th column of Putinists, from the far right  left in EU to the tankies  Trump  his GOP followers in the US. They may have the right to support a brutal dictator's war in order to criticize Biden, but it's disgusting and anti-American. Do not forget.
In Novosibirsk, Russia, local residents are marching in protest against the Russian invasion of Ukraine:pic.twitter.comLjgAosDJXg
There are people like Azovbut I don't believe theyrule the country. Some of themalso appear to be happy about all of this.
-Replace Russian oil  gas. Pressure OPEC, increase production, reopen Keystone. You can't save the planet if you don't save the people on it.
The task of the landing party is to block Kyiv, communications, military control channels, captureblow up arsenals, and sow panic. The Russians want to create conditions for "uncontrolled columns of refugees" from Kyiv, which will block highways and roads.
When youve lost Orban and Erdogan, youre losing the PR battle. Just a matter of time until Putin loses his own people.
Meanwhile, he said a Russian assault aircraft crashed due to a "pilot error" in eastern Ukraine's Donbas region.
The Russian attack marks a turning point. It is our duty to do our best to help Ukraine defend against the invading army of Putin. That's why we're supplying 1000 anti-tank weapons and 500 stinger missiles to our friends in Ukraine. https:t.coYnfmf4IIqh
Baerbock now speaking: "A few weeks ago I said on arms exports that an "about turn" would change when the moment comes - and it has now come. We carried out diplomacy as long as we could, the Kremlin lied to us and made ridiculous everything that we pushed for."
confirming what i put on the other thread, including his tweet. BTW, "Chernobyl" is now trending on U.S. twitter.
In a blink of an eye Germany will spend 100bn euros on defense. To put this in context their entire defense budget is 53bn euros. Germany, Sweden, and the EU are sending lethal asst. This will dramatically grow EU's hard power capabilities. 2
"We have not seen the Russians thus far move into the western part of Ukraine," the official said. "We don't know exactly where things are going to unfold."
I'm on your side, guys. I just mentioned Azov to clarify that's what Putin is trying to refer to when he says "denazify" and they were largely quoted as saying "We don't like that Russia is invading but it will push people to sympathize with us."
Unfortunately, we are obliged to inform that as things stand the Chernobyl Zone, the so-called Exclusion Zone and all the Chernobyl nuclear power station have been taken under the control of the Russian armed groups, prime minister Denis Schmygal told UNIAN, Ukraines main news wire.
Message from Ukrainian government spokesperson - food is becoming a problem in areas under Russian assault. We are days away from the shelves running bare in Kyiv. The world must act to prevent a humanitarian disaster here before its too late. pic.twitter.com28ktAXqshS
In coordination with I will now propose new measures to EU leaders to strengthen our response to Russias invasion of Ukraine and cripple Putins ability to finance his war machine. https:t.coiU2waDzo9s
Or another article where we could have stopped the war by giving Putin everything he wants and validating what he stole. And it's those 4th wave lezzies' and global warming scolds' fault.
BREAKING: Danish PM Mette Frederiksen just announced that Denmark will send 2700 handheld anti-tank weapons and a number of spare parts to anti-air Stinger missiles Ukraine.
Ukrainian defence ministry is circulating phone numbers on social media 'for all those who lost a Russian soldier on Ukrainian soil' -to inform relatives back home of those killed or captured. A service for the desperate but also a potent infowar move https:t.colIBe0AtkoF
First, the where: determining the exact filming location, otherwise known as geolocation. The initial uploads of the video on Telegram and Twitter suggested this happened in the Cherkasy Oblast, so that's a good first place to start looking.
I just returned to Russia, switched on the radio. "DNR  LNR militia have liberated names of several villages completely unfamiliar to Russians" was nearly all they said about the war. No mentions of Kyiv, Kharkiv or any other cities, of Russian forces or casualties.
And then that Chechen war criminal Kadyrov has his trooos in Ukraine raising theat brutal Chechen flag - Putin always revealing the worst of who he is, but this time people paying attention. Even Erdogan closed off the Bosporus Straits to his ships.
-Ban all elements of Putin's global propaganda machine. Turn them off, shut them down, send them home. Stop helping the dictator spread lies  hate.
Wow, he's givingexplicit instructions, very serious warnings about how to avoid war crimes enabled by crazy men
Beyond security, the declaration also pledged collaboration on space, climate change, the Internet, and artificial intelligence. Politically, the document claimed that there is no one-size-fits-all type of democracy, and heralded both forms of authoritarian rule in Moscow and Beijing as successful democracies. Its a pretty striking step closer to an alliance and shows that theyre very much aligned in their vision of the world order in the twenty-first century, Alexander Vershbow, a former U.S. Ambassador to Russia, told me. Putindescribedthe broader strategic partnership with China as unprecedented. Xisaidthat their joint strategy would have a far-reaching influence on China, Russia, and the world.
U.S. has "continued to flow" military aid to Ukraine despite Russian air and missile strikes: senior defense official.
THEY BOTH, TOGETHER, WARNED "THE WEST" ONLY A FEW WEEKS AGO only 10 reads on Dagblog I see--ho hum so boring
The US asked China to help stop the invasion. The Chinese gave US intelligence to the Russians.
Main Ukrainian TV channel: Take off the street signs around Kyiv if you can. Russian occupants are disoriented and dont know their way around Kyiv, theyre driving around in circles
Smart move to reach out to families in Russia and break through some of the Kremlin-enforced silence. https:t.coq0pCqLmu0U
He just got up from doing safe gigs on MSNBC with Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon and decided out of the blue to go do freelance journo in the Ukraine!!! And is already seeing action.I think we can trust his reports from there:
President Zelensky confirmed the event and said the border guards died bravely defending the island and would be posthumously awarded the Hero of Ukraine medal, according to ukrpravdanews. https:t.coJv0siyIz9x
Instead they are cheerleading Russia, either because they are getting money from the Russian government on some level or they're not very bright. I think it's a combination of both.
As Putin besieges Kyiv, it's worth looking at how journalists are documenting war. Today's thread includes context, useful resources and reporting on the ground
Russian airstrikes have destroyed 74 ground targets belonging to the Ukrainian military thus far, including 11 airfields, three command centers and a naval base, Russian Ministry of Defense spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said Thursday.
Magomed Tushayev, one of Ramzan Kadyrovs top warlords, has been killed in action in Hostomel.
Tonight we have the political declaration from G7 and EU. The details will follow, and need studying.
Sean Penn is on the ground in Ukraine filming a documentary about Russias invasion, Vice Studios confirmed. The filmmaker appeared at a press briefing Thursday in Kyiv listening to government officials speak about the crisis. https:t.cok88WDgbtGw pic.twitter.commSJas55W2v
Russian troops have reportedly taken full control of the area around the Chernobyl nuclear power station, including the plant itself, according to Ukraines prime minister.
There are so many well-organized and well-armed checkpoints all across Kyiv. I dont see how advancing Russian forces could possibly invade this city.
Russias invasion of Ukraine brings a host of serious threats to public health beyond the military violence itself, experts warn. https:t.copQziNvXlwn
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ordered a general mobilization that calls up men of fighting age and reservists.
I realize Beck is not exactly a top commentator anymore but he has ties with top commentators like Dave Rubin, whose show is just as stupid,still. It's stuff like this that makes me doubt a GOP resurgence. They sound like amateur hour, like people who have no idea what they are talking about and just go for theatrics.
He said the countrys leaders had not fled Kyiv as Russian forces entered the city.https:t.coHwFvSbPkGT pic.twitter.comD4AXfeEPIs
They're fond of the MP-40, the Nazi weapon, but you can also buy a BB gun replica on Amazon.com.
$130 bln is gold, kept in Russia. $60 bln is renminbi, kept in China. All the rest - in G-7 countries
"I think they need an external enemy to keep themselves in check." - Vladimir Putin on the West
Simultaneously, sabotage groups already in Ukraine will seek to take out power grids and substations to disconnect much of Kyiv from electricity and communications, causing panic among the population.
Russias operations in Syria emboldened Putin to challenge the U.S.-led, rules-based international system that many countries, including in the Gulf, have benefited from. Brilliant arguments from Amb. William Roebuck Exective VP of GulfStatesInst. https:t.conSiPq37sSu
37 The next Russian weapons can be produced in 3-4 months  if even that. They have no raw materials. What was previously supplied mainly from Slovenia, Finland and Germany is now cut off.
In any case she won the election and had it stolen from her - i think it's okay to connect th dots 5 years later, and like the Belarus  Ukrainian electees, they and their respective countries were screwed, to Russia's benefit. And yet people still point at Hillary instead of Putin who had his fingers and money and intel workers all over it.
Airborne troops were filmed on the ground patrolling the perimeter of the airport after having seized the airporthttps:t.co0do2it0N2V pic.twitter.comVH6nWvrxMf
However, Konashenkov noted that the strikes are not being carried out against social facilities at Ukrainian military garrisons, such as homes, residential buildings and barracks, in order to avoid casualties among servicemen and their families.
The most pressing threat is a large military column headed toward Kyiv from the Northwest.
FM ABaerbock  BMWK Habeck: "After Russia's shameless attack, Ukraine must be able to defend itself. It has an inalienable right to self-defense. The German government is therefore supporting Ukraine in equipping it with urgently needed material. 12
Putin orders Shoigu and Gerasimov in brief televised remarks to put the nuclear forces on high alert. As many expected, he's wielding the nuclear threat to push back against sanctions and continuing Western support for Ukraine. pic.twitter.comhLcm9JneGv
There are movements of Russian military and special forces coming into Ukraine from many directions, according to the officials: from the northeast via Russia from the south via Moscow-annexed Crimea and from the north via both Belarus and Russia.
if true Weiss does a caveat upthread and it works,pretty horrible andwill be arecipe for terrorists allover the worldeveryone will have to continually super safeguard everything about their grids -
And even "white pride" isn't really that offensive if the group isn't centered around hurting people for not being white.
-Expose and act against Putin's lackeys in the free world. If Schrder and his ilk continue to work for Putin, bring charges. Ask the owners  advertisers of networks platforming Putin propagandists like Carlson why they allow it. 45
Explosions have been reported on Thursday in multiple cities in Ukraine and at least 40 people have been killed, according to an adviser of the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy. In a televised speech early Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he has ordered a special military operation in Ukraine. Zelenskyy has since cut diplomatic ties with Russia and has declared martial law.
which got me thinkingmaybe having a charmingactortype with high emotional I.Q. as a head of a nationis far fromthe dumbest choice in the world I'm thinking: Bill Clinton, Reagan....tho I didn't fall for Reagan's shtick I realize a lot of people did...
I'm sure the people in Siberia appreciate going to war in Ukraine while a pandemic is still raging.
Every one of you knows I did not discuss any of this with you before. I did not ask your opinion before. And this is happening spontaneously, because I wanted to hear your opinions without any preliminary preparation, he said. https:t.coruf6Dd1mnC
Just for avoidance of doubt: the state road agency is dismantling the road signs here's message below the "go fuck yourself" sign is clearly their illustrative joke, not real street signs. for now at least. pic.twitter.comvkIrr7yIh8
Very good thread on the psychology of current protests in Russia, and behind that, the possible dynamics of mass opinion. Scroll up and down from here, but this is a key point I have kept coming back to in thinking about events: https:t.coqZOCKAyxws
We will do what it takes to protect and defend every Ally, and every inch of NATO territory.
Modern neo-Nazis don't really even seem to be about anti-Semitism. Azov has weapons from Israel, and their symbolism is ancient stuff that the Nazis themselves actually borrowed. I'm JS.
"So missile, long range fires, and then there has been some insertion of troops both from the air and on the ground in the north," the official summarized.
This will coincide with a massive cyberattack on the authorities and other vital sites in Ukraine. Shortly preceding that, there will be an intensification at the fronts, with possible provocations along the entire border with Ukraine.
Like artappraiser, people with a genuine conservative disposition will find much more to their liking in the quiet guy. Maybe they'll vote Republican state Secretary of State but not for national leadership.
One angle that Republicans could go is that Mitt Romney, who used to be their guy, warned about Russian aggression once upon a time and Democrats just said "whatever."
UPDATE Eleven of the UN Security Council's 15 members voted for the motion to condemn Russia's 'aggression' against Ukraine, but Russia's veto blocks the measure
Important: Belaruss dictator Lukashenko is sitting in a seat that is not his. Sviatlana Tsikhanouskayas speech to Belarusians is brave. https:t.cof87h1ZKFdl
One trusted lieutenant is Nikolai Patrushev, head of the Russian security council, who has known Putin since the 1970s, when they were both KGB officers. Patrushev views the West as a crucible of decadence and has claimed that some European countries are legalising marriage with animals. Sergei Naryshkin, the head of the SVR foreign intelligence service, is another former KGB officer and a Soviet history expert. He often accuses opposition activists of working with western intelligence services.
Putin and his oligarch friends seek a divided world and the destruction of democracy. We must stand with the Ukrainian people against this war, and with the Russian people who are demonstrating against their corrupt, reckless president who started it. pic.twitter.comxVCM8gwQ6Q
JUST IN  Biden admin is sending $350 million in military aid to Ukraine, including anti-armor, small arms, various munitions, and body armor: Pentagon spokesman.
"We haven't seen a conventional move like this, nation state to nation state in Europe, since World War II," the official said, "It has every potential to be very bloody, very costly and very impactful on European security writ large."
Jaw-dropping. Borrell says EU military package may include "supplying fighter jets" for Ukraine's air force, EU has spoken w Ukrainian foreign minister "about the type of jets the Ukrainian military needs"  there are "member states...able to supply them" https:t.cohSTlGIrIdo pic.twitter.com6RdT5rJKiT
"He spends a lot of time alone stewing in his own fears and thoughts, said Tatiana Stanovaya, of the political analysis firm R.Politik. https:t.cohBteL5xnHk
Good looking Ukrainian blonde girl explains how to use an abandoned Russian BMP or Tank TikTok is the TikTok we did not know we needed. https:t.coI3W3zlR3Q0
The official could not give an exact estimate of how many Russian troops have crossed into Ukraine thus far but said that, at this early stage, it is certainly a minority of the 150,000 troops that were massed near the borders.
Talks between Russia and Ukraine are set to begin at this table later today, the Belarusian foreign ministry says. pic.twitter.comMb4nwsJFjK
If we had any doubt about the possible effects of this message of death and capture when it gets through to those at home, my colleague BBCSteveR reports access to Twitter has been severely restricted in Russia today
But it is beyond disgusting watching these dirtbaggray zone types support "denazification" Putin propaganda when they've spent years flirting with and even outright supporting the alt-right here in the US.
Ok, after years of warnings were ignored and hearing "Garry, you were right!" all damn day today, I'll repeat what I said in 2014: Stop telling me I was right and listen to what I'm saying now. My recommendations follow: 15
He didnt touch it during the Covid-19 economic crisis, and has forced Russia through years of effective austerity to save it up, as a protection against western sanctions.
It is Sergei Shoigu, the defence minister, who appears to have the closest relationship with Putin, though. The two go hiking together, and in 2019 they holidayed in Siberia for Putins birthday. A collector of ornamental swords, Shoigu, 66, oversees the work of the GRU military intelligence service, accused oftrying to assassinate Sergei Skripal, the former Russian spy, with novichok in Salisbury in March 2018.
As terrelljstarr and I said in our panel: no matter what the intelligence says, no matter if Russia gains territoryRussia Putin will never control Ukraine, and Ukrainians will never stop fighting. If you have ever been to Eastern Europe, you know this truth. https:t.coVkmxuLla7i
They're taking Putin at his word, that this isn't just about Ukraine, but is an attack on "the west," to start getting back what they supposedly took from the great Russian empire. As if empires mostly consist ofland, and the people on thoselands don't know what's good for them.
Apparently, thousands of Romanians have been waiting in their personal vehicles to pick up refugees at one of the NE borders with Ukraine.
But tonight it is clear that while Putin could still win his war in Ukraine, the costs to him, and to Russia, will be far, far higher than he could have imagined.
YupPutin has gone isolated, delusional and paranoid, surrounded by a very few yes men, not the shrewd operator he once was.
fromRiho Terras RihoTerras Member of European Parliament EPPGroup.EPIndustry, EPAgriculture. Deputy coordinator for EPArtifIntel. Former Chief of Defence of Estonia.
this other breaking news suggests probably just the usual bullying to advantage  a sop to the homelandpatriots who are going to be suffering for this
A senior defense official said they couldn't confirm reports that Russian troops seized control. "We do believe with some confidence that some Russian soldiers have moved through that area and may still be in that area, but we can't confirm ... that they've taken control," the official said.....
A favorite meme of dystopian fiction would come true, which would also be Putin being a big hypocrite on terrorism. So many Lessons learned from Syria? Not to mention 91101 - what worked about the operation and what didn't and why
Financial Times editorial, a paper more closely read by moverand shaker types across the pond than any of our rags, which are much more given to navel-gazing
Here is Styopa Chubenko 16. A young goalie from Donbas. Half Russian, half Ukrainian. In 2014, Putins goons arrested him, tortured for days - and executed with 5 shots in the head. Just for being pro-Ukraine. pic.twitter.comtlSTxbydzm
Ukrainian officials said they have reclaimed a key military airport on the edge of Kyiv that had been seized by Russian special forces.
77 The Ukrainians must avoid panic! The missile strikes are for intimidation, the Russians fire them at random to accidentally hit residential buildings to make the attack look larger than it really is. Ukraine must stay strong and we must provide assistance! StandWithUkraine
Our editorial -- which suggests Putin's invasion may endanger his domestic rule -- puts me in mind of the Delphic oracle's response to Croesus: "If Croesus goes to war he will destroy a great empire" -- meaning, his own https:t.co003TDSuDod
It looks at least in part like an effort to undermine morale and support in Russia for the invasion of Ukraine.https:t.cofv6Zbzr5H2
I wasn't alive for Washington at Valley Forge, but I was alive for Zelenskyy at Kyiv. ukraine
CNN PHOTO A Ukrainian civilian kneels in front of a Russian tank to stop its progress. StandwithUkraine pic.twitter.comlcVhzSVdhC
The director of the main synagogue in Odessa tearfully bids goodbye to the synagogue, asks people to pray for them as they evacuate during the Jewish Sabbath: pic.twitter.comKQOm0DgAif
I fear meeting Ukrainians and looking them in the eye, said a designer, Aleksei, 28, said. That is the scariest thing of all.https:t.co50lbmZh64O
The brewery announced the plans after Ukraines Defense Ministry instructed civilians to make Molotov cocktails to resist invading Russian forces.
Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelensky, said on Twitter that Russian forces were trying to seize Chernobyl, the site of the worst nuclear accident in history. This is a declaration of war against the whole of Europe, he said. https:t.co2xkdcKe1ne
People attend an anti-war protest in Saint Petersburg, Russia, amid Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
Minister of National Defense of the Republic of Poland Mariusz Baszczak: The convoy with the ammunition that we are handing over to Ukraine has already reached our neighbors. We support Ukrainians, we stand in solidarity and we firmly oppose Russian aggression  pic.twitter.com2yfLPvsPsS
BREAKING: Ukraine's president says his country cannot negotiate with Russia in Belarus, considering the country is being used to attack Ukraine.
Baerbock: "No sanction can stop this insanity right now, But what sanctions can do is to show Putin that in the medium and long term, this war will ruin your country."
27 Russians didnt have a tactical plan. The war costs about $20 blnday. There are rockets for 3-4 days at most, they use them sparingly. They lack weapons, the Tula and 2 Rotenberg plants cant physically fulfil the orders for weapons. Rifles and ammo are the most they can do.
It's a dead letter - Putin screwed the pooch, and the vast unified agreement of Western powers is not something China's going to lose face on or lose political influence over, though they'll get what trade  other advantages as they can.To give an idea how bad this is, both Taibbi and Snowden have unconditionally said they were dead wrong - which for all my criticisms here i do respect, no hedging their bad call. unlike many others whose "i was wrong" is just a pivot to "I'm still really right but it's because my detractors are so so wrong" - is Taibbi going to come out of what seems a Kremlin-leaning bubble?.
67 Russias whole plan relies on panic  that the civilians and armed forces surrender and Zelensky flees. They expect Kharkiv to surrender first so the other cities would follow suit to avoid bloodshed. The Russians are in shock of the fierce resistance they have encountered.
At a reception in 2015, I had a chance to ask Putin about his planning for the occupation of Crimea. "I was even surprised at how well it went!" he told me with a smile. The West must make sure he does not find it so easy this time. https:t.coVD8WkOInUc
from the "very powerful ANTIFA woman who is followed by Barack Obama on Twitter" onthe whole strange bedfellows thing that allows someone like Putin to complain about "Nazis" there -
-Recall all ambassadors from Russia. There is no point in talking. The new unified message is "stop or be isolated completely".
Poland right now has a pretty right-wing government, despite that, I've seen plenty of evidence now that this is the caseall alongthe border:
LATEST: Almost 200 Ukrainians have died since Russia launched it's attack earlier this week, Ukraine's health minister says. https:t.coZp1YZLXGKI
Putins only contact with the world is through his inner circle. He cant stand it if any of them have their own stance. For him, this would be a catastrophe, Gleb Pavlovsky, a former Kremlin spin doctor, said.
Western sanctions agreed tonight are designed to stop Putin being able to spend even a single rouble worth.
If Trump could rule with 40 popularity, Hillary could rule with 40 popularity. Let them suck it - i don't give a fuck. "She's so divisive because we make up shit about her". I'm totally convinced still.
This cash pile was the reason the Kremlin - and some western analysts - were confident Russia could survive sanctions on its banks, exports or big businesses, and weather the economic pain of the invasion of Ukraine.
-Bankrupt Putin's war machine. Freeze  seize Russia's finances  those of him and his gang.
THREAD 17 Intel from a Ukrainian officer about a meeting in Putins lair in Urals. Oligarchs convened there so no one would flee. Putin is furious, he thought that the whole war would be easy and everything would be done in 1-4 days. EPPGroup generalben edwardlucas politico pic.twitter.com8AoelUDWM9
Financial Times European Diplomatic Correspondent. Former Moscow Bureau Chief, before that in Warsaw, London and Mumbai:
President ZelenskyyUa knows that Belarus isn't Lukashenka or Putin. He addressed our people: "Be Belarus, not Russia. You're making this choice today. You're making it right now". Come out today at 14:00  make the "referendum" a protest against the regime, violence,  the war. pic.twitter.comddlgtxoITt
The sad thing is that if we hadnt expanded NATO, Putin would have tirelessly devoted himself to world peace and the brotherhood of man.
On the countrys internet, still mostly uncensored, Russians saw their vaunted military sow carnage in a country in which millions of them had relatives and friends. https:t.cof80MIKw76S
