Whats going on in Russia ongoing thread
20220320
http://dagblog.com/comment/315531
Kamchatka is 12 bigger than California - has a half million people. Krasnoyarsk is 6x the size of Cali - has 2.9m. Sakha is 19x Cali's size, has less than a million. Prollymuch of Russia is an invitation for China to attack for raw resources.
Casual wear giant Uniqlo will suspend operations in Russia, parent company Fast Retailing said Thursday, days after its president defended staying open in the country following Moscow's invasion of Ukrainehttps:t.coLPSEtlyCeH
Apple Pay and Google Pay no longer work on Moscow's metro system, leading to long queues as people fumble about for cash pic.twitter.comezaLZneKiJ
Russia held an online open lesson for children Thursday to shape domestic opinion toward the invasion of Ukraine that has triggered worldwide condemnation and anti-war protestshttps:t.coBZdWClBfbx
AcrossUkraine, residents reported that their close family members in Russia were repeating the official Kremlin position to them, denying the attacks and the extent of the violence, reporter Valerie Hopkins wrote. Some examples:
Vile Lavrov: "The children's hospital we bombed was being used as a shelter for nationalists."
Polina Loseva and her boyfriend, Roman Zhigalov, in their temporary apartment in Tbilisi, Georgia, after leaving Yerevan, their first stop after Moscow.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
Here, Spencer put two flags between his first and last name. They show up in the embed code as little"EU" letters and two squares. I deleted those before I hit publish and voila, here's the tweet:
The vast destruction visited on the city of Kharkiv and many smaller towns in the northeast usually merits at best a passing reference, or is blamed on Ukrainian forces.
TikTok is now suspending its service in Russia, taking away one of the last remaining social media services that Russians can turn to for non-state propaganda. https:t.cotO5kpqRcyo
Oracle stops working with Russia. If Microsoft does it as well, it will paralyze the country more effectively than your worst virus https:t.coo1MkGpPYsB
Elvira Nabiullina, the head of the Russian central bank, and Maxim Oreshkin, Putin's economic advisor, look like they are thinking hard about what to do with the western sanctions. pic.twitter.comj9l2QzSBnJ
Has anyone else noticed how Israel is wisely avoided this entire situation? A lot of Israelis are from that part of the world.
Letter Z, Symbol of Support for War, Spreads Across Russia - The New York Times https:t.coChSXHFijuN
"The Russian army is the last bastion against the satanic new world order". Literal quote from the official Russian Officer's Handbook. Captured by Ukrainian GUR, document appears authentic. pic.twitter.comoAd3QaHUj7
Kremlin sent this actor onto 'the streets of Mariupol' to falsely claim that the Ukrainian military is using civilians as human shields.
FIFA has decided to ban Russia and its teams indefinitely, thereby ejecting them from World Cup Qualifying. UEFA is following in the same direction which means that Spartak Moscow can no longer continue in the Europa League.Ukraine football FIFA sanctions UEFA Russia pic.twitter.comOuJsIFpPlY
"We don't take this decision lightly," Mastercard said in a statement. Cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by Mastercard's network, and any of its cards issued outside the country will not work at Russian stores or ATMs.
edit to add, if you're interested, here's the problem you ran into trying to embed the tweet here - which Peracles figured out right away and taught me. When a tweetincludes symbols or emojis, Dagblog software can't read those the way Twitter codes them. BUT it's easy to fix!If you delete them in your pasted embed code, the embed goes through and they appear anyways!!!
by Neil MacFarquhar, a reporter who has been around the block a bit on this kind of thing.
Ukrainian officials, including those from the military and intelligence agencies, have warned against the potential spread of deepfake media of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy created through machine learning. Fact-checkers at Snopes identified one such video by looking at the source of the footage, reporting that, Zelenskyy has recorded several videos using the same background on his social media profiles and on the official social media pages of the Ukrainian government. This deepfake, needless to say, was never posted to these pages.
That followed stories over the weekend of Russian relativesdescribing shock and angerat finding out that their husbands, brothers and sons had been sent to fight in Ukraine.
Russian state television talkshows are describing videos of missiles striking Ukrainian cities and reports of Russian soldiers killed in action as fakes, as the countrys media try to account for photos and video emerging fromUkrainethat contradict official reports of the invasion.
there is another big story today of police evicting activists from an oligarch's house in London...
A month ago, I didnt want to move to another country, she said. But now, I dont want to go back. Its not the country I want to live in anymore.
maybe even more important that the U.S., because both sides will still talk to them. Both Zelenskyy  Putin welcome their input...
Looks like her mother in pic 2 from a different staged prop video above in thread pic.twitter.comRjiBCuwXF1
512 I am from the USSR myself. I was born there. And the main phrase from there - from my childhood - was "fight for peace." I call on everyone to take to the streets and fight for peace.
But some on the left have shrieked "WW3! Nuclear war!" before any confrontation, taking the "you must back down, concede, or Putin could start the unthinkable" which has helped keep us from standing up for anything. Granted the incrementalism was relatively acceptable up to last week, aside from holding a sock puppet US presidency for 4 years - that sucked big time
Uniglo caved - it is interesting that so many companies end up seeing writing on the wall of the benefit of doing so, it's like a world poll, where you better get out of that market or you'll be sorry?
Though Russia also has one of the highest excess mortality rates, around 750k extra deaths
Moscow police are stopping people and demanding to read their text messages, reporter says https:t.coHiX6J93QSx
28. Such a sequences of events unfolded in 2014 during a Ukrainian presidential election. Russia tried to hack Ukraine's central election commission so that it would present a far-right candidate, who in fact got less than 1 of the vote, as the winner.
Not going to obey any of your international institutions? Or incompetence of military staff? Only Putin knows for sure...
Readthe full story about the Kremlins effortsto sanitize its war on the main state news channels.
"We, the multinational people of the Russian Federation, are united by a common destiny for our land." pic.twitter.comDGWgxsKIVv
Wow: instructional memo sent out on 33 by Russias Department of Information and Telecommunications Support to Russian media organizations: It is essential to use as much as possible fragments of broadcasts of the popular Fox News host Tucker Carlson. https:t.co0NqWqtiSCw
1 If you are in Russia, you may not be able to access RFERL content. The Kremlin has imposed unprecedented censorship. Here's how to bypass it.
The Lumen cafe in Yerevan, Armenia, has become one of the hangouts for young Russian professionals who left their country after Russia invaded Ukraine.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
The Treasury Dept. announces it will be essentially blocking transactions with Russias central bank in the U.S. and any of those transactions happening in dollars overseas. kaylatausche reports. https:t.cofrW2mI0DdI pic.twitter.comMmh1arKgVV
For some, the anguish of leaving their country is compounded by the feeling that the world increasingly equates all Russians with their president.
BREAKING: Deutsche Bank reversed their previous decision to stay in Russia and announced today their intention to wind down their Russia business. I cant understand why they thought they could remain and not face the wrath of the world. https:t.coYCaHdgPxDQ
I just got drunk in the airport to get some courage, he said. I probably should have left earlier, but Im in love with my country.
Zvezda, a Russian intelligence front staged this video to falsely show that military are 'peace-keeping', giving Kharkiv region residents handouts abandoned them.
The solace for young Russians like me is that Putin is also digging his own grave in Ukraine  Sergey Faldin  The Guardian - https:t.conshsllXOo3
^ highly recommend reading the FULL NYTimes article at the link at the bottom above, much more detail and lots of photos
Amid tearful farewells for thousands of Russian men called up for potential deployment to Ukraine, pro-war hawks raged over the release of Azov Regiment fighters.
Theres an enormous wave of information, said the Russian MP Boris Chernyshev. People are showing fakes, theyre showing what are allegedly our dead soldiers. All of that needs to be stopped.
Before the war broke out, only about 3,000 to 4,000 Russians were registered as workers in Armenia, according to officials. But in the two weeks following the invasion, at least an equal number arrived almost every day in this small country. While thousands have moved on to other destinations, government officials said late last week that about 20,000 remained. Tens of thousands more are looking to start new lives in other countries.
likely Covid or problems caused by Covid such as lack of treatment due to crowded hospitals
Sergey Naumeno, 36, and his wife, Natalya Vinagradova, 38, working from their new temporary apartment in Yerevan. Many Russian professionals who have left are able to work remotely from almost anywhere.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
"Jerusalem views the gaps between the sides as shrinking,with Zelensky cooling down on NATO and willing to negotiate on the status of the Donbass and Crimea.Russia has backed down from calling for a full demilitarization of Ukraine..."Some hopeful signs. https:t.cooSH7YFUV8X
Navalny not just speaking through his wife now! 12 tweets in English, here's the first 6
On behalf of Oracles 150,000 employees around the world and in support of both the elected government of Ukraine and for the people of Ukraine, Oracle Corporation has already suspended all operations in the Russian Federation.
Russias central bank on Feb. 28 raised its key policy interest rate to 20 from 9.5 as it tried to contain the fallout of Western sanctions imposed in retaliation against Moscows invasion of Ukraine https:t.co7ThZx5IkDU
Most of the Russians interviewed said they left becausecrushing international sanctionshad made it impossible to work for companies from other countries or with foreign clients, or because they feared that Russia could close its borders.
For the first time on Tuesday, the Russian defence ministry said it planned to strike targets in Kyiv, days after its missiles rained down around the city as part of the beginning of the invasion. Soon, Russian missilesstruck a TV tower in Kyiv, a sign that bombardments of Ukrainian cities are soon going to become far more widespread.
First, Russia's current 2014 military doctrine says that nuclear weapons could be used in response to "an aggression against Russia with conventional weapons that would put in danger the very existence of the state." See https:t.cob8lzPuSl9B 2
"We don't want to live in this fascist Ukraine. They are murderers, they are fascists who wear swastikas"PutinLies PutinHitler pic.twitter.comYpmhXjEJ9r
US mission to UN accuses Russian diplomats of espionage activities, but Moscows envoy slams move as hostile.
My parents, my grandma and grandpa are watching TV and totally believing the TV line so it hurts to speak with them, said Kate, the aid worker. At one point, I realized I loved them too much to argue. So I said, lets not talk about it.
BREAKING: Mastercard and Visa are suspending operations in Russia, in the latest blow to the country's financial system after its invasion of Ukraine. https:t.cowGo7iGPs12
A Russian millionaire-politician's daughter writes with passion that the "difficulties" Russians now face will make them more patriotic. She posted these comments from...Dubai https:t.coO1AcW7yVcX
Remember in these street interview videos, people in Russia dont say what they really think, but I do like the woman who says all the other countries are turning away from Russia because they fear competition from us. https:t.co3b8dZ7zZPc pic.twitter.comPoIbHl07Ez
Republic Square in Yerevan. Before the war broke out, only about 3,000 to 4,000 Russians were registered as workers in Armenia, according to officials.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
8 "We received an order to ban the use of the words 'war,' 'occupation,' 'invasion.' However, we continue to call war war. We are waiting for the consequences," says novayagazeta editor Dmitry Muratovhttps:t.coq76L2xjNuq
the rallies -- in Moscow, Izhevsk, and other cities-- are to mark the 8th anniversary of Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea Peninsula. The annexation was hugely popular in Russia.
So, something about those sanctions, a lot of neighboring countries, including Ukraine, use Russian banks. Could harm those it wasn't intended to harm.
Video footage of captured Russian soldiers being interrogated has shown that most were conscripts and had no idea they were being launched into a full-scale war.
The background music and the sunlit interior are calming counterpoints to the frantic departures from their country, where they left behind parents, pets and the sense of home that all but vanished when Russia invaded Ukraine last month.
JUST IN: Following intense pressure, Coca-Cola just announced they are joining McDonalds and Starbucks in ending business in Russia, per abc.
Relatives parrot the official Kremlin position: that Putins army is conducting a limited special military operation to de-Nazify Ukraine. Putin has called Pres Zelensky, a native Russian speaker w Jewish background, a drug-addled Nazi in an attempt to justify the invasion.
The rate at which media are being shut here, friends are fleeing, travel cut off, economy is in free fall, the price of Russias war at home has been to turn itself into one of the unrecognized, pariah states it has used to terrorize its former Soviet neighbors. One big Donetsk.
Supersize me ! There's a long queue forming in Moscow outside the huge and historic McDonalds on Pushkin Square after the US fastfood giant announced it was closing in Russia. pic.twitter.comC8mZCzFhpc
I want to be with the rest of the world, not with Russia, said Mr. Zhigalov, the web developer. But we cannot be with the rest of the world because it feels like being Russian now is seen as a bad thing.
Operators of some of the worlds largest crypto trading platforms are being enlisted to help thwart any attempts to sidestep the stiff restrictions levied by the U.S. and its allies after Russia invaded Ukraine last week https:t.con1kHAfQFkh
Words like war or invasion to describe the actions of the Russian military are forbidden under anew lawthat President Putin signed on Friday. The law mandates up to 15 years in prison for any coverage the state deems false information about the military campaign.
Captured Russian soldiers: We will be dead if we are sent back home https:t.coi7H3gR5fob via Yahoo
In the days since the attack, my colleagues have reconstructed the lives of the four victims: Tetiana Perebyinis and her two children, 18-year-old Mykyta and 9-year-old Alisa, along with Anatoly Berezhnyi, a 26-year-old church volunteer trying to help them to safety.
Komsomolskaya Pravda, the pro-Kremlin tabloid, says that according to Russian ministry of defense numbers, 9,861 Russian soldiers died in Ukraine and 16,153 were injured. The last official Russian KIA figure, on March 2, was 498. Fascinating that someone posted the leaked number. pic.twitter.comLHrBWIQ49z
78. The goals of the invasion described here are destruction of the Ukrainian government, control of all Ukrainian territory, the end of Ukrainian sovereignty, and a solution to the Ukrainian question. https:t.coC0PG7zam2w
Putin is chairing his emergency economic meeting to respond to US, UK, and EU sanctions. He calls the west the empire of lies pic.twitter.comCdNW8qipAj
68. No doubt most such material was never published or quickly removed. This article seems to have slipped through. It was written for approved Russian media on the assumption of a quick Russian victory, and so reveals the goals of the invasion. https:t.coL9kyyZTvvF
Instead, they thought that they were going on another military exercise, which has caused outrage
Russian finance minister Siluanov says about half the countrys gold and foreign currency reserves, around $300bn in total, have been frozen by sanctions. A huge hit to Russia, and one at the higher end of the range of damages estimates. https:t.coKfBlsmv6iy
Russian's unemployment is about to explode. "There were signs that something extraordinary was taking place: the Moscow Exchange, Russias largest stock market, has halted trading until 5 March". https:t.co0A2Rnb3btP
MUST-READ. MauraReynolds politico: "There are people who are saying were on the brink of a World War III."
LIke it or not, I think this will be a huge deal as far as sending the message to ordinary proles that most of the world disagrees with what their countryisdoing. The Kremlin propagandists will have to spin another narrative to explain why this is happening,big time.
Visa said it's working with clients and partners in Russia to cease all Visa transactions. https:t.coaxNIy9dNeG
Most of those who have come to Armenia work in I.T. and other sectors that rely on unfettered internet and international banking links, the countrys economy minister, Vahan Kerobyan, told The New York Times.
I dont know who took footage of Lukashenko explaining to Putin Ukraines plan to attack Belarus and then spliced him into what looks like a porno, and Im not totally sure what it means, but Im very here for it. pic.twitter.coma699UoAzKS
Tobacco companies are suspending shipments of products to Russia and reducing production. These are the brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall, Rothmans and Glo.
Sanctions imposed by the West have rattled the foundations of Russias financial system. For many Russians opposed to the war, those hardships paled in comparison to the moral cost of seeing their country launch an unprovoked invasion. https:t.cobe8OHiPfVW
the 1000-1200 per day for the last 2 12 months of 2021, 800 per day since July 1.
It is not a war on Russian TV, said Stanislav Kucher, a veteran Russian television host and former member of the presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights. Mr. Kucher moved to the United States after his shows were repeatedly shuttered.
In Irpin, however, a team of Times journalists happened to be nearby when the mortar shells landed, and one of them, Lynsey Addario, took the photograph of the family. I thought, you know, its disrespectful to take a photo, but I have to take a photo  this is a war crime, Lynsey told CBS Evening News. I think its really important that people around the world see these images.
Sergei Shoigu, the defense minister, says the most volunteers are from the Middle East, where 16,000 people apparently want to fight for Donetsk and Luhansk. pic.twitter.com8aur4Wt8JC
meantime at Moscow's Luzhniki stadium, there is a sizable crowd gathered for a pro-government rally. Some Russian and foreign media say public-sector employees were forced to attend https:t.coKOblSnOPNw
Statement of ICC Prosecutor KarimAAKhanQC on the Situation in Ukraine: I have decided to proceed with opening an investigation. Read more https:t.cokaeoq4oEuq
What do people in America think of Russians? she asked earnestly. Do they hate us?
that's a thread if you don't have access to Bloomberg, you can get the gist of it on Twitter
How many Russians did those "Nazis" kill vs plain old Covid-19 215k in 8 months
Apple halts ALL sales in Russia: iPhone maker imposes freelance sanctions on the pariah state in move that Ukraine hopes will anger young people and drive more protests against invasion https:t.coHrxQZycGHi
If you think that we will stop on Ukraine, think again. Let me remind you that Ukraine is just a stop in ensuring strategic security of the Russian Federation' Vladimir Solovyov, key voice of the Russian propaganda on state-owned Russian television channel.stoprussia pic.twitter.comRUbQqGM66U
A Pro-Kremlin rally to mark the 8th anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea is about to take place at the Luzhniki stadium in Moscow. Reuters and others have reported that state employees have been pressured to attend the event pic.twitter.comrAtYA78Hxq
Since Russia launched an offensive on neighboring Ukraine last month, support and opposition to the war has divided Russian households, Beardsworth13 reports https:t.co188k46eHdx
Russian news channels originally followed Vladimir Putins lead in calling the war aspecial operation in the Donbas, but on some state-run channels there have been references now to the beginning of a war.
Everyone should go read AlexHollings52 piece about why not all hypersonic missiles are made equal:https:t.coEwD6JDaPlm
The Kremlin has approved a list of countries who have been unfriendly to Russia. They include:
The same sordid and filthy narratives were used when Putin's Russia was already targeting hospitals and schools in Syria.
"Everyone is fucking stunned," says one source close to the Kremlin. Another source says no one in the presidential administration expected a full-scale waror the sanctions. "You can't resign," said first source. "You can only resign right to jail."
The business exodus from Russia serves as a powerful condemnation of Vladimir Putin. It also underscores the fact that his invasion wont just devastate Ukraine but will also have severe economic consequences for the Russian people. https:t.coDpu9Q31YS6
Russian Covid casesdown to 87k a day, but deaths remain steady at 750day - 4th in the world for deaths, they've been over 700 per day for 8 months now and these are undoubtedly underreported. Still over 2 million infected at the moment. Just as backdrop to current events and faith in government.
The artists set to represent Russia at the Venice Biennale have pulled out and thousands of others are signing antiwar petitions despite the risks to their careers and the possibility of arrest. https:t.coc5LjAgtTxk pic.twitter.com6KgG8g4dG8
The first real rumblings in the 1980s of dissent against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan came from soldiers' mothers and it steamrolled into a powerful forcehttps:t.coG1kd8kcedA pic.twitter.comndoDFM5SR0
This agitprop is devilishly clever, I couldn't decide whether it should go on my "Creating a Narrative" thread or this one I include Ostlund's comment because it does showone of the ways it could be used
Visa, Mastercard and PayPal have all cut ties with Russia,leaving only the Russian Mir bank card, which is accepted in Armenia and a very few other countries, for electronic payments.
Ms. Poymenova teaches web programming for a Cyprus-based online school. Their plan was to find an affordable apartment in Georgia.
I dont have any stable ground under my feet, she said. We are here now, but we dont know where we will be in a week or a month, or even tomorrow.
BREAKING: Shell is ending joint ventures with Russia's Gazprom and any involvement in Nord Stream 2 project
The 2 p.m. News on Saturday on Channel One, one of the two most popular channels along with Rossiya-1, was typical in this tale of two wars.
Many of those who left are entrepreneurs or freelancers in industries that relied on foreign clients, who have cut ties with them, even for work outside of Russia.
Ms. Loseva and her boyfriend, Roman Zhigalov, a 32-year-old web developer who works for the same company that she does, sat at a table in the crowded cafe with friends who were looking for a place to stay. Dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt, she leaned against Mr. Zhigalov, closing her eyes as he put his arm around her shoulder.
Opposition to Putin's war is alive on Moscow's streets. But no trace of it is covered on Russian TVhttps:t.cogmXLdEx0IC
A Russian state TV channel went off message Monday night as participants denounced the war in Ukrainehttps:t.coe7HBePQ7lm
"We see how heroically our guys are acting, and fighting, in the course of this operation." the Kremlin has prohibited Russians from using the word 'war' or 'invasion' to describe Russia's invasion of Ukraine pic.twitter.comIkcBglWkAH
Call Russia : If youre a Russian speaker this could be the most important phone call ... https:t.cozqD1V3GmvG via YouTube
VERY IMPORTANT POINT how western intel about what Putin intends is backed up by mistakes by his own propaganda producers:
so no mo consumer credit!!! very serious. even for cards issued in other countries, will no longer work there
^ Il Duce without the intellectualpretensions. And of course since it's about mother Russia and not Rome, with the Russian Orthodox Church instead of Roman Catholicism.
But the plunge in the ruble, which at one point hadlost about 40 percent of its value againstthe U.S. dollar, and the soaring housing costs in Armenia, which are priced in dollars, have left some who lived in stylish apartments in Moscow contemplating moves from budget hotels to even cheaper hostels with bunk beds and shared bathrooms.
",    ,  .  . -  " Like it or not, my beauty, you have to put up with it.https:t.co4k0RPROq6p
Like many of the men who left, her husband, Evgeny, feared that he could be conscripted and forced to fight in Ukraine. The couple scrambled to find a flight out of Moscow after most airlines had cut ties with Russia, eventually spending almost all the money they had on tickets for a flight to Yerevan.
For the new arrivals in Armenia, a sense of controlled panic overlays the guilt of leaving their families, friends and homeland, along with the fear of speaking openly and the sorrow of seeing a country they love doing something they hate.
The London stock market has doled out severe punishment on some of Russia's largest companies, reducing their shares to penny stocks. https:t.co3zBROH2jkc
At other tables in the small cafe, young Russians tapped on laptops or checked their Apple watches. Some logged into Zoom meetings others searched for places that they could afford to rent with their savings inaccessible.
Via the NYT: "They didn't just take away our future," Polina Borodina, a Moscow playwright, said of Russia's war in Ukraine. "They took away our past." https:t.cogr9JPjdKkK
Meanwhile Ramzan Kadyrovs men made themselves a PR video from Ukraine. They speak Chechen hence the Russian subtitles. https:t.coxNsKkpGCXm pic.twitter.comw4zILewAMT
Tens of thousands of other Russian exileshave traveled to Georgia and Turkey. But Armenia, a former Soviet republic which has remained neutral in the conflict, has offered the softest landing. Unlike the reception in Georgia, none of the Russians interviewed said they had encountered hostility. Here, they can enter the country without visas or even passports and stay up to six months, and Russian is widely spoken.
A Binance spokesperson said the exchange isnt moving to block all Russian users, but has taken steps to identify crypto wallets of sanctioned individuals and is prepared to act against any with accounts.
Here you see terminally ill children from hospice and their parents making a Z formation. Yes, Russians are forcing terminally ill children dying from cancer, and their families to declare their support to Russian invasion of Ukraine. See letters  ? Hospice for Kids pic.twitter.com3yeHMPWXl0
A lot of people say that Mark Zuckerberg is really a robot, but this picture of Vladimir Putin looks somewhere between a wax figure and a badly rendered video game cut scene:
Yulia Navalnaya, the wide of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, has spoken out against the war.
Australia, UK, EU countries, Iceland, Canada, Liechtenstein, Monaco, New Zealand, Norway, Korea, San Marino, Singapore, USA, Taiwan, Ukraine, Montenegro, Switzerland, Japan https:t.coYQi2SPyYJb
I have translated and added subtitles to the latest video speech by Vladimir Putin from two hours ago. Please dont let it go in vain - I want everyone to see what a speech of true fascism looks like.
Some more on the disinformation, misinformation and propaganda from Russian-backed outlets that has been spreading over the last week:
Set a timer  wont be long now before Russia blocks YouTube, which was the last real outpost for free public expression in the country. https:t.co4FRr7v8PD3
Konstantin Chistokhin, 33, was staying at a hostel in Yerevan. I wanted to move away from Russia a long time ago, with no future, low salaries. Now the war in Ukraine is a catastrophe for Russia and the Russian people, he said. I left my home five days ago and now I am trying to rebuild my life.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
The shows have come to dominate state television programming. Its very unusual. On Channel One they dont have any entertainment shows throughout the whole day. Right from nine oclock in the morning until 9pm, its just nonstop Vremya Pokazhet and Bolshaya Igra The Great Game, you know, that one where they think theyre sort of dividing up the world. ....
We're back to the Soviet era and Pravda, which oxymoronically means "Truth". People in Ukraine can't convince their relatives in Russia that they are being attacked. https:t.cozAapYTcDrS via YouTube
And why would Iran take any agreement seriously with this going on? I dunno, maybe ask Israel?
We will all live to see and regret the conversion of modern Russia into a heavily armed, aggressive, chauvinistic theocracy.  Christopher Hitchens, 2009.
BREAKING: Russia's foreign ministry says the BBC was being used to 'undermine the internal political situation and security in Russia'
Some of the recent Russian arrivals in Armenia said they have contracts that will pay them for at least a couple of months of working remotely if they can find a way to get the money. Others said they had been relocated to Armenia by U.S. and other I.T. firms, which continue to pay their salaries. But many have been left scrambling to access enough money to scrape together apartment deposits.
overall what comes across from the article is that she is one of the few foreigners in Moscow
Alex, who did not want to say what industry he worked in, said he cried as he listened to voice messages from Ukrainian friends who had been called up to fight.
And yet Putin has the energy and lack of focus to go chasing moonbeams in Ukraine.
The Russian soldiers have been plagued by poor morale as well as fuel and food shortages. Some troops have crossed the border with MREs meals ready to eat that expired in 2002. https:t.cofuQayDLdOl
Check out whole thread. "Galeev"is far from an I.R. know-nothing, though others may disagreeGalina Starovoitova FellowWoodrowWilsonCenterMLitt in Early Modern History, St Andrews. MA in China Studies, Peking University
To give you an idea of how sweeping the wartime censorship laws are in Russia: Novaya Gazeta, Nobel laureate Dmitry Muratovs paper, published a picture of Ovsyannikovas protest that looks like this pic.twitter.comydzuVQ19eR
American officials have urged major crypto exchanges to take a targeted approach focused only on those that have been sanctioned.
The BBC and Bloomberg News are suspending reporting in Russia after the countrys new free-speech crackdown. CNN said it stopped airing there. https:t.coT9db3gZmGx
PLEASE retweet this widely. Navalny from his prison cell urging Russians to take to the streets. That's the only way this nightmare ends. Please retweet  send screenshots to friends  colleagues in Russia. You have no reason not to do this. Help Ukraine. StopPutinNOW https:t.coYZp9Nzup7D
The deluded and dense Putin seems to be starting to see the writing on the wall:
For many Russians, there is also the pain of a generational divide with parents and grandparents who grew up in the former Soviet Union.
deplatforming, withdrawals censorship  law and policy changes relating to media during the Russian invasion of Ukraine: towcenter have creted a timeline acookiecrumbles work which we will be updating fequently CJR https:t.cohfY328LCYW tag us wmissing items pic.twitter.comb9qayi4Yvf
Three major Hollywood studios have halted film distribution in Russia in light of the invasion of Ukraine. TheBatman will not open this weekend in Russia. https:t.colC5z24ezf3
Facebook and multiple media websites were partially inaccessible in Russia on Friday, as authorities crack down on critical voices and fighting rages in Ukrainehttps:t.coI9b6MHT4cK
One of the Russian bloggers cries that in two days her Instagram will stop working
By Sheelah Kolhatkar, a staff writer atThe New Yorker, where she writes about Wall Street, Silicon Valley, economics, and politics-
The defunct Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant sits inside an exclusion zone that houses decommissioned reactors as well as radioactive waste facilities. https:t.coOYtvGSJAbw
Too many deathsCOVID has killed more than a million Russians and likely many more as COVID19 rips thru RU. So far excess mortality is running high in Russia 144 mil pophigher per capita than many others.
On Channel Ones Vremya Pokazhet Time Will Tell, pundits and officials took on the reports that hundreds of Russian soldiers had died, in a sign that the information about casualties could no longer be kept from the public.
President Zelensky walked to a hospital today to visit wounded Ukrainian soldiers and award them with state honors for their sacrifices. pic.twitter.comLI0JScdkX7
I was so scared, she said of her decision to leave with her husband, a manager of a sports training center. I was afraid of being arrested if I went out to protest. And to live there and do nothing, I dont want to live like that.
A deepfake video of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is the first used in "an intentional and broadly deceptive way" since Russia's invasion, expert says. TheCube https:t.co9D98WIUXep
eBay has suspended all transactions with Russian addresses due to the shutdown of payment providers and major delivery services.
At another cafe, 35-year-old Alex, his blond hair pulled back with a hair tie and arms tattooed with milestones in his life, said he spent four hours at the Moscow airport while his flight was delayed, drinking gin and tonics.
More Kremlin actors allegedly in Mariupol making propaganda for Russia TV  SM in support of Putin's 'denazification' of Ukraine
312 I cannot, do not want and will not remain silent watching how pseudo-historical nonsense about the events of 100 years ago has become an excuse for Russians to kill Ukrainians, and for Ukrainians to kill Russians while defending themselves.
They just tell us, Sorry guys. We hope to work together in the future but right now, we cannot, Ivan, the video game developer, said of his European partners.
Psaki statement on possibility of Russia seizing assets of U.S.  international companies, Twitter thread starts here
Mr. Mustafin at the airport in Yerevan with his rescue dog, Mukha.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
I've read a LOTof stuff now along these lines by knowledgeable and pragmatic people, and that's part of the problem as he cant back down, andall he's got left is brutal crude stuff. Syria allover again but worse this time. He wants the Russian 'empire'to be a contender but it's all strings and mirrors in his head, there's no there there even things like population,not just weapons
We have seen reports that Russia may be considering seizing the assets of U.S. and international companies that have announced plans to suspend operations in Russia or to withdraw from the Russian market.
Consider 700-800 deaths a day since the 1st of the year, which is better than
For others, I refer you to his recent talkspy pieces on two other top Putin henchmen. https:t.co2yeGQkXxIx
These guys were sitting around, smoking cigarettes, drinking beer, playing music, he said. The next day, they had to go get a gun and defend their country. These were people who had never held a gun before. Its horrible.
this is a good example of the ripple effect from the sanctions that they are dealing with Bank of China-Singapore is probably not doing this for ideological reasons:
The mythbusting is one of the adjustments that TV propaganda shows have had to make as evidence of the growing destruction in cities such as Kharkiv and Kyiv makes it increasingly difficult for the government to present the fiction of a concentrated offensive in the Donbas region.
Kate, 26, who works at an aid agency, said the night before she and her boyfriend left Moscow, they went from A.T.M. to A.T.M. for three hours, unsuccessfully trying to withdraw dollars. At every cash machine, people with bodyguards would push to the front of the line and withdraw $5,000 at a time until the machines were empty, she recalled.
Perfect - i imagine the security services are in the best place to take Putin out.
Putin rails against the decadent west but is the richest man in the world, with a $1 billion palace on the Black Sea with spa, theatre, teahouse, wine cellar, casino, hookah lounge, pole-dancing disco, helipad, hockey rink, church, pool  gym. He couldn't be more self-indulgent.
But among those who have fled Russia are also bloggers, journalists or activists who feared arrest under the countrys draconian new law that makes it a crime even to use the word war in connection with Ukraine.
The blank signs are beginning to have extraordinary symbolic power, perfect way to call out the union of atrocity and absurdity that is the Putin tyranny - great
Putins longtime advisor and Russian climate envoy Anatoly Chubais stepped down and left the country.
A Russian whistleblower has described the war as a total failure that could be compared only to the collapse of Nazi Germany https:t.coT6Op3yRWVU
Just a day afterRussian President Vladimir Putin promised that conscripts and reservistswere not being sent to fight in Ukraine, Russias Ministry of Defense has admitted they actually are. In a Wednesday statement, the ministry said some had even been taken prisoner in Ukraine after joining the Russian invasion. Comprehensive measures are being taken to prevent conscripts from being sent into combat areas and to release captured servicemen, the statement claimed.
She does not care at all about the thousands of dead people, including her compatriots. Obviously, her biggest worry right now is that she won't be able to post pictures of food from restaurants. pic.twitter.comLSdBiSlwHr
Look, it's one thing when Macron is sitting opposite you, but there are seven people at the other end of this table. How does he know which one is speaking? If they snicker and pass notes, can he see them? pic.twitter.comB0LxDCyJZ6
If we dont find one, we will come back here. And if we dont find one here, we will go to Turkey. And if there is nothing, we will go to Serbia, said Ms. Poymenova. We just want a peaceful life, but it is very hard when your country is making such a disaster.
With repressions ramping up at home and with European countries off-limits, Kyrgyzstan's capital Bishkek has become one of several destinations for fleeing Russians, felixlight reports https:t.coFdcA0zDxMz
The table is extremely long but the economic team are all crunched together as far away from Putin as possible pic.twitter.compUFJFZdISr
Moscow underground. Sometimes the act of resistance doesnt have to be loud or bold, it just has to be. Ukraine SlavaUkraini pic.twitter.comMvZc9wscUj
This comparison is sure to catch the attention of Russias officials. tvrain was nearly destroyed for speaking once too flippantly about the Leningrad Siege. https:t.cogdw73oMjoU
I think you have totally got that wrong! totally! Intimately involved with negotiations including flying to Moscow to meet with Putin this last sabbath, actuallyand the citizenry seems real proud of that-it's a big dealin all their media of course it's complicated because it's involved with Iran negotiations too, and Russia is still at thattable...
This is how the Russian Embassy in London has responded to the bombing of the maternity hospital in Mariupol. Utterly obscene. pic.twitter.coml4Udc1SmM0
News bulletins are fairly uniform from one television channel to the next. The operations in Ukraine are basically described as a peacekeeping mission by the military to rescue the Russian-speaking residents of the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk from the terrible war crimes perpetuated on them by the Ukrainian government. The West is described as completely unsympathetic to their plight.
Four people lay near an intersection in Irpin, a Kyiv suburb, on Sunday. All were dead or soon would be, from the force of Russian mortars. There had been no Ukrainian forces where the mortars landed, suggesting Russia might have been targeting a civilian escape route near Kyiv.
Its Russias Channel One news broadcast from the well-guarded Ostankino studio. The woman shouts Stop the War. Her sign also says:
I seem to be attracting a few more Russia propaganda trolls than usual. Please don't engage with them. Just block them.
Not since the frigid days of the Cold War have so many doors closed on Russia and its people. From culture to commerce, sports to travel, the world is shunning Russia in myriad ways to protest its invasion of Ukraine. https:t.cod4LY4EfHrm
the kids Russia is left with after he's gone are not going to be all right:
On TV debate shows, guests have begun to speak openly about the governments desire to take Kyiv. Its just a question of time before they surrender or they are destroyed, said Igor Korotchenko, a hawkish military journalist who featured prominently on one of the marathon sessions of 60 Minutes, a talkshow. The fall of Kyiv is also a question of the coming three, four, five days, I dont know exactly.
Angry Russian mothers have accused Vladimir Putin of deploying their sons as "cannon fodder" in his invasion of Ukraine
And of course all of this is being done in the name of Russian Orthodox Church. Shelling of residential districts, carpet bombings, launching ballistic missiles upon Ukrainian cities. All in the name of Orthodoxy pic.twitter.comNIezOwF0LA
Its a really good piece, Filip, part of All the Vozhds Men, I presume -
My translation of Maxim Osipovs honest, self-interrogating piece on the consequences of this war for Russia, Russians, and the Russian language is now up LAReviewofBooks: https:t.coFSagt4XU3C https:t.co0wR5hAEMJT
412 It's the third decade of the 21st century, and we are watching news about people burning down in tanks and bombed houses. We are watching real threats to start a nuclear war on our TVs.
Marina Ovsyannikova, the woman who ran onto a live state TV news broadcast, even recorded a message beforehand. In it, she says her father is Ukrainian. She calls for anti-war protests, says shes ashamed about working for Kremlin propaganda, and she denounces the war absolutely. pic.twitter.comnOpUY9bH74
Russia could drop a nuclear bomb in Western Europe, and the Traitors Coalition Dissident Right and Dirtbag Left will continue to yammer about NATO expansion, the Donbas region, and wokeness in America and the EU. I genuinely dont think there is a limit to their insanity.
^ undoubtedly this is why so many countries are jumping on the bandwagon against Putin after sorting out all the facts they have - HE REALLY DOES WANT TO DESTROY "THE WEST" they don't have to rely just on arguments from Ukraine or the U.S. or whatever, they've basically also got the same story backed upfrom the horse's mouth
If this song were what was going on in Russia, I think everyone would be a lot more chill.
We may see China buy Russia for a song in the largest Belt and Road deal of all time, after the West dropped the price. https:t.coMmSe20t7Lk
related,I did note with interesta segment on MSNBC that I saw about this growing movementyesterday
This is KGB style projection, describing exactly what Russians soldiers are doing in Ukraine. There is receipts pic.twitter.comjFyE5AX1lX
Putin says Russia is going to recruit volunteers to fight against Ukraine and help them make it to the combat zone.
To the Moscow of one month ago, you are already a memory, a different era. This city I have loved still looks the same but it is another place. My thoughts from the last few days. https:t.coEZV8WgiEfw
If this is accurate, it might be a sign of splintering within the security establishment--and, according to Erica Chenoweth, that's one of the signs of regime weakness. https:t.coeTE3z8M6rq
Serhiy Perebyinis with photos of his wife and children.Lynsey Addario for The New York Times
Putins gamble seems to be that he can be in charge of what comes next... That is a foolish lack of appreciation for the power nato  the other countries have to contain his incursion in that lies his miscalculation. -KarenGreenberg3 CNSFordhamLaw https:t.cofkzCIh4SNU
Putin seems to have scrapped the Long Table style of holding meetings and has had his officials dial in via video link, with the screen at his end of said table.
A Russian spy chief is said to have been placed under house arrest in a sign that President Putin is seeking to blame the security services for the stalled invasion of Ukraine https:t.coFtlYZ5g4YV
Most of those who left oppose the war because they are connected to the world and they understand whats happening, said Ivan, part-owner of a Cyprus-based video game development firm. He and many other Russian exiles interviewed in Armenia said they did not want to give their full names for fear of repercussions at home.
At the Yerevan airport last week, Viktoria Poymenova, 22, and her boyfriend, Bulat Mustafin, 24, from the Russian city of Mineralnye Vody, wheeled out a tower of suitcases, bulging backpacks and two small carriers holding their small rescue dog, Mukha, and their tortoiseshell cat, Kisya.
Across Ukraine, I have been meeting people w close relatives in Russia who refuse to believe the extent of the violence their state is perpetrating.
88. Further anticipated is the creation of a unified Russian-Ukrainian-Belarusian entity, and the rebalancing of world order in a "new epoch" of Russian domination over a humiliated and divided West.
Bulat Mustafin, 24, and his girlfriend, Viktoria Poymenova, 22, from the Russian city of Mineralnye Vody, arrived in Yerevan on Monday. Their plan was to travel on to Georgia and find an affordable apartment.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
18. Russia has a history of aiming for quick and decisive strikes against Ukraine, failing, then revealing the aims of the operation in media prepared on the assumption of success.
Luxury's biggest brands have joined the call to close their Russian retail locations in the wake of Vladimir Putin's Ukraine invasion. https:t.coIskrh8hLrU
Seriously gutsy behaviour, the entire staff at the Russian TV channel resigned. Left the words "no war" on screen. Then played the Swan Lake Ballet - copying a move made when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1992. Bravo. https:t.couJ8ZPzSB68
In the video, Sergey Tsivilev, governor of the Kuzbass region in Siberia, stood forlornly on a stage in a school gym as angry soldiers' mothers accused the Kremlin of lyinghttps:t.coG1kd8kcedA
meantime, AvtozakLIVE dug up a social media post advertising today's rally at Luzhniki. The post offers people 500 rubles to attend plus hot food. pic.twitter.combijyefJXrL
Did Putin really think he could distract from these difficulties, excite the people by attacking fellow Slavs?
Meantime Zelenskymktg push invites comparisons with inept Trump public exposure. how was he even popular? Why do people like him? Strange.
I'm just a bit curious what would replace the Russian Federation if it collapsed. Maybe there'd be another Mongol invasion? I'm JK.
if this goes on much longer, dissidents will have to revisit the idea of samizdat
It hasnt changed that much but theyre having to admit now that it is a full-scale war and before it almost seemed like a surgical operation with no resistance, said Francis Scarr, a journalist for BBC Monitoring who has closely followed how Russian state television has presented the war.
To spend several days watching news broadcasts on the main state channels, as well as surveying state-controlled newspapers, is to witness the extent of the Kremlins efforts to sanitize its war with the Orwellian term special military operation  and to make all news coverage align with that message.
Cities suffer missile attacks, mothers fear for sons, but fathers, sisters, brothers respond w denial. https:t.coGLdl2BKAid
looks like "The West" includes Korea, Singapore  Japan as well as Australia  New Zealand:
The speed and scale of the exodus are evidence of a seismic shift that the invasion set off inside Russia. ThoughPresident Vladimir V. Putinrepressed dissent, Russia until last month remained a place where people could travel relatively unfettered overseas, with a mostly uncensored internetthat gave a platform to independent media, a thriving tech industry and a world-class arts scene. Life was good, the migrs said.
If so, it was part of Russias larger campaign to demoralize Ukraineby killing and wounding ordinary people, a strategy the Russian military has also used in Syria and Chechnya. Ukraine is now enduring these attacks every day, many of them undocumented.
612 Putin is not Russia. And if there is anything in Russia right now that you can be most proud of, it is those 6824 people who were detained because - without any call - they took to the streets with placards saying "No War".
No, i don't think we're on the verge of WoW III. I don't think China is really committing to bombs-away, and there's not the alliances that made the 2 Great Wars complex.
They are a major playa here. Here's the latest, I was gearing up to post it elsewhere:
"There are tens of millions of us. We will not be accomplices to war crimes. We will not be silent," she said in an Instagram post.https:t.cotDDNuYiWjZ
what Peter Dickinson, chief editor of Ukraine Business, thinks, published by Atlantic Council, March 10
This is a different kind of exodus tens of thousands of young, urban, multilingual professionals who are able to work remotelyfrom almost anywhere, many of them in information technology or freelancers in creative industries.
Mr. Mustafin, an engineer, worked as a technician for film projectors in cinemas, which are now unable to show films from Hollywood studios, since they have cut ties with Russia.
Remember Maria Butina? This convicted foreign Russian agent was returned to Russia. Now she is in the Duma making propaganda videos. https:t.cogpPkVllz3j
Fascinating analysis from TomScott with ref to the research done by Alexey Minyaylo on Russian attitudes to PutinsWar .peterjukes BylineTimes carolecadwalla BenPBradshaw RhonddaBryant https:t.coETQgjBBEbr
INTERESTING that MacNab and her followers would be considered a threat worth spending time on -
Indiscriminate attacks are growing after early Russian failures to take the cities. Earlier on Tuesday a rocketaimed at the centre of Kharkivkilled at least seven people. The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, called it an act of terrorism.
You will not see explosions, you will not see strikes on neighborhoods where civilians live, you will not see a lot in terms of troops, soldiers, heavy armored vehicles or anything like that, he added.
This war was something I thought could never happen, said Polina Loseva, 29, a web designer from Moscow working with a private Russian I.T. company that she did not want to name. When it started, I felt that now, everything is possible. Already they are putting people in jail for some harmless words on Facebook. It was safer to leave.
Splained even better on this Twitter thread, with ominous implications forUkraineand us all as long as Putin is in power:
48 Something similar seems to have happened with the invasion of 2022. Like the hack in 2014, the invasion did not lead to the expected result. This left Russian media with prepared material which, since it assumed success, reveals or confirms the goals of the Russian invasion
Reuters - Bank of China's Singapore operation has stopped financing deals involving Russian oil and Russian companies, amid concerns of western sanctions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, said a source on Monday with knowledge of the matter.
Some Ukrainians have reported that their loved ones in Russia refuse to believe thatRussian soldiers could bomb innocent people, or even that a war is occurring, according to anew report from a New York Times journalist in Lviv.
Svetlana from Cherkasy sends her relatives in Belarus and Tomsk "necessary information" every day. The response is that This is some kind of fake information that this cannot be the case at all, that no one can or will shoot at civilians, she said.
Says Russia has no ill intentions towards its neighbours and calls for international cooperation to return, for relations to normalize pic.twitter.comr00LJCeLlI
YEREVAN, Armenia  At the Lumen cafe in the Armenian capital, Russians arrive as soon as the doors open, ordering specialty coffees, opening up their sleek Apple laptops and trying to navigate a dwindling array of options for starting their lives over.
Russia is hemorrhaging outward-looking young professionals who were part of a global economy that has largely cut off their country.
Maria, a 30-year-old Russian travel guide editor who had arrived in Armenia the previous week, also worried about the hostility.
The Mother of Armenia statue in Yerevan. Armenia, a former Soviet republic, has offered the softest landing for thousands of Russian exiles.Credit...Daro Sulakauri for The New York Times
It is painfully clear to us that this war is absolutely pointless. Russians protest in Moscow against the war in Ukraine'
It started with the anchor quoting Mr. Putin, saying that the special operation was proceeding as planned. The destruction of the military infrastructure will be completed soon, he added
212 But let's at least not become a nation of frightened silent people. Of cowards who pretend not to notice the aggressive war against Ukraine unleashed by our obviously insane czar.
38. The hack failed, but Russian media had been prepared for its success and Russian television went on air with falsified results and even digital images that matched what the hack was supposed to produce. See RoadToUnfreedom
This week, in the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Exxon announced that it would discontinue its Sakhalin operations and not make any new investments in Russia. The exit ends a messy, prosperous friendship between Putin and Rex Tillerson. https:t.cow53DcWM5WZ
"Vladimir Vladimirovich, everything is going to plan," Shoigu tells him. "We report this to you every day this week." pic.twitter.comVxY0hY7lC3
Russian state news accidentally publishes article saying Russia has defeated Ukraine and restored its 'historical borders' https:t.coccCRpvYMWi
Russia's lower house of parliament unanimously passed legislation imposing 15-year prison sentences for "fake news" about Russia's military in an extraordinary session Friday, according to news agencies.https:t.cokHG1dS1zxd
Putin's daughter Catherine Tikhonova in Biarritz,France, changed the locks in the house and invited refugees from Ukraine.https:t.co2cSbwBiV4k
Kremlin has erected barricades to block access to the Red Square this morning. They wouldn't be anticipating protests on Manic Monday ? pic.twitter.comXVSc1JHswi
Fact-checkers identify deepfake video of President Zelenskyy after Ukrainian officials warned of Russia spreading fabricated media
