Biden Russia war a genocide trying to wipe out Ukraine
20220413
https://www.starbeacon.com/news/biden-russia-war-a-genocide-trying-to-wipe-out-ukraine/article_4d56fc70-bb4f-11ec-9f37-d3eb10b86b14.html
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau noted that "there are official processes around determinations of genocide" but added of Biden's using the term, "I think it's absolutely right that more people ... are talking and using the word genocide in terms of what Russia is doing and Vladimir Putin has done."
Macron said it's been established that the Russian army has committed war crimes in Ukraine.
He clarified the comments days later, saying: "I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man. I wasn't articulating a policy change."
"I am prudent with terms today," Macron said. "Genocide has a meaning. The Ukrainian people and Russian people are brotherly people. It's madness what's happening today. It's unbelievable brutality and a return to war in Europe. But at the same time I look at the facts, and I want to continue to try the utmost to be able to stop the war and restore peace. I'm not sure if the escalation of words serves our cause."
Just last week Biden said he did not believe Russia's actions amounted to genocide, just that they constituted "war crimes."
During a trip to Europe last month, Biden faced controversy for a nine-word statement seemingly supporting regime change in Moscow, which would have represented a dramatic shift toward direct confrontation with another nuclear-armed country. "For God's sake, this man cannot remain in power," Biden said of Putin.
"True words of a true leader POTUS," he tweeted Tuesday. "Calling things by their names is essential to stand up to evil. We are grateful for US assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities."
Biden's comments drew praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who had encouraged Western leaders to use the term to describe Russia's invasion of his country. French President Emmanuel Macron declined to take his rhetoric that far in comments Wednesday.
"Yes, I called it genocide," he told reporters in Iowa on Tuesday shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington. "It's become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
"More evidence is coming out literally of the horrible things that the Russians have done in Ukraine, and we're only going to learn more and more about the devastation and let the lawyers decide internationally whether or not it qualifies," he said.
A United Nations treaty, to which the U.S. is a party, defines genocide as actions taken with the "intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group."
At an earlier event Tuesday in Menlo, Iowa, addressing spiking energy prices caused by the war, Biden had implied that he thought Putin was carrying out genocide against Ukraine, but offered no details. Neither he nor his administration announced new consequences for Russia or assistance to Ukraine following Biden's public assessment.
DES MOINES, Iowa  President Joe Biden has now said Russia's war in Ukraine amounts to "genocide," accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to "wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
Biden said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russia's conduct met the international standard for genocide, as Ukrainian officials have claimed, but said "it sure seems that way to me."
Past American leaders often have dodged formally declaring bloody campaigns such as Russia's in Ukraine as genocide, hesitating to trigger an obligation that under international convention requires signing countries to intervene once genocide is formally identified. That obligation was seen as blocking President Bill Clinton from declaring Rwandan Hutus' killing of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis in 1994 as genocide, for example.
"The way they are targeting Ukrainian identity and culture, these are all things that are war crimes that Putin that is responsible for," Trudeau said. "These are things that are crimes against humanity."
