KINSELLA Allowing our gaze to wander from Ukraine helps Putin win
20220429
https://www.nugget.ca:443/opinion/columnists/kinsella-allowing-our-gaze-to-wander-from-ukraine-helps-putin-win/wcm/f1f19f74-03f6-4223-8fde-3a07e2fbd378
Remember that? Country in Eastern Europe, 40 million citizens. Has been invaded by Vladimir Putin, a war criminal, who has been murdering thousands of Ukrainian men, women and children since Feb. 22.
In politics, the successful players know all about this tendency. When a scandal breaks, for instance, they know that if they hunker down and stay quiet, the mob will usually move on. Theyll carry their pitchforks and torches to protest the next outrage.
It was in all the papers, Putins Ukrainian war. Everyone, everywhere, was paying attention to it.
In the political war rooms Ive run, I will therefore often say this to the assembled youngsters: We have a national memory of seven minutes.
In the era of smartphones  which are neither smart nor phones, anymore  thats a simple survival mechanism. To remain sane, a lot of us disconnect to avoid information overload.
Many of us, this writer included, are guilty of turning away from what is happening in Ukraine. And, indirectly, aiding and abetting Vladimir Putin as we do so.
If we all care less about Ukraine, so too will governments. Here in little old Canada, our national government  surprisingly, happily  has been doing a pretty good job supporting the heroic efforts of Ukrainians in this war. But, if the Trudeau government senses that our collective focus on the war has diminished, so will their efforts. Thats how politics works.
But the Russian slaughter in Ukraine? Not as many are paying as much attention to that one anymore. And  given that Putins criminality is getting dramatically worse at this precise moment  that is a problem.
Ukraine, and the valiant Ukrainian people, need more than our ammunition and armaments and aid.
Instead, many of us have pointed our clickers in the direction of the vomitous Johnny Depp and Amber Heard. Or the vainglorious Elon Musk buying Twitter. Or housing prices. Or an election in Ontario. Or the weather.
In politics, that can be good news or bad news. If you are grappling with some bad news see scandals above, you can be reasonably confident itll blow over soon enough. But if youve got a good story to tell  as Doug Ford, Steven del Duca and Andrea Horwath will all be labouring to do on the Ontario campaign trail over the next few weeks  short attention spans are pretty unhelpful, too.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A big problem, because Putin has been counting on us moving on from his campaign of wholesale slaughter against the Ukrainian people. Like the Nazis before him, the Russian autocrat knows that genocide is always much more efficient in the dark.
So, says Democratic Party thinker David Shenk, an overabundance of news and information  about everything from Johnny Depp to a genocidal war  becomes data smog. Theres too much of it, so Joe and Jane Frontporch just tune it all out.
So, turn off Johnny and Amber. Turn off Elon Musk. Turn off all of the other things that, at the present time, just arent as important.
Which, as noted, is what Vladimir Putin is counting on. He needs us to turn our attention away from Ukraine.
Its not that voters andor citizens are in any way dumb, I tell my war room charges. Theyre smart and intuitive and highly attuned to their own self-interest. Its just that they are also very, very busy. Getting the kids to hockey or soccer practice, getting to and from work, making ends meet, worrying about the rent or a mortgage payment, catching up on sleep. Theyre busy.
Many of us, this writer included, are guilty of turning away from what is happening in the country.
