Very difficult for Ukraine to give up ambitions to join Nato
20220317
https://www.bromsgroveadvertiser.co.uk/news/19998852.very-difficult-ukraine-give-ambitions-join-nato/
Mr Cameron called on the Government to get back to dedicating 0.7 of gross national income GNI to overseas aid, after it was cut to 0.5 last year.
The Financial Times reported that a draft proposal for a peace plan included promises for Ukraine not to seek to join Nato or to host foreign military bases.
But asked about the comments as well as the prospect of dropping the demand in order to agree a ceasefire, Ms Vasylenko said: I actually think that was taken out of context by many of the Western media.
It comes as former British prime minister David Cameron called on Mr Johnson to do more to support Ukraine with humanitarian aid.
So it would be very difficult to give that course up, that would mean changes to the constitution.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Mr Johnson said decisions about the future of the country had to be for the Ukrainian people and their elected leader to make, as he vowed Britain would continue to back Mr Zelensky.
Today, as the escalation of Russias aggression grows against Ukraine, the support for Nato grows with it.
She said she did not trust the Russian negotiators to keep their side of the deal in any agreement.
Chancellor Rishi Sunak has promised to return the UKs aid contributions to 0.7 by the end of this Parliament.
A Ukrainian MP has said it would be very difficult for her country to give up on ambitions to join Nato after Boris Johnson said there was no way Ukraine is going to join the defensive alliance any time soon.
But Mr Cameron said: Lets do more on humanitarian aid. We achieved 0.7 of GDP in our aid payments. Im sad weve got away from that. I hope we can get back there.
Ms Vasylenko, a member of Ukraines Holos party, told ITVs Peston programme: Joining Nato for Ukraine, its a course that we have decided to take and proscribed it specifically in our constitution.
Lets have a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet doing development. The Foreign Office ministers do a great job but itd be good to have someone whos 100 dedicated to humanitarian aid and development.
Addressing Mr Johnson and representatives from Baltic and northern European countries gathered on Tuesday in London, President Volodymr Zelensky expressed his frustration that Ukraine had not been allowed to join Nato, but said: This is the truth and we have simply to accept it as it is.
Lesia Vasylenko said joining the alliance was a course that we have decided to take and proscribed it specifically in our constitution.
What President Zelensky actually said today during his speech in Congress and during the many meetings that he was having is that Ukraine calls for a coalition of responsible leaders of the free world, and that coalition, he called it the U24  basically the Ukraine 24, of the countries who would be prepared to stand up to Putin and free the world, and Ukraine, from Putins aggression in 24 hours.
He said the Cabinet should have a dedicated aid minister, who would be 100 dedicated to the role.
But her comments come amid reports that negotiators from Kyiv and Moscow had discussed proposals to drop its wish to join the organisation as part of a peace deal.
In his nightly video address to the nation early on Wednesday, the president said Russias demands were becoming more realistic.
Mr Zelensky, since addressing the London summit, has suggested peace talks between the Ukrainian and Russian delegations had started to produce hope of a ceasefire.
However earlier, Mr Johnson  who will on Thursday return from a trip to Saudi Arabia to try and drum up extra oil production in the wake of Russias invasion of Ukraine  said: Weve made it clear to Russian President Vladimir Putin that there is no way Ukraine is going to join Nato any time soon.
