Between Solidarity and Whitewashing
20220502
https://visegradinsight.eu/between-solidarity-and-whitewashing/
Three days later, Russian troops used these territories to launch an unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, which has resulted in over 1600 Ukrainian civilians being killed to date. As the bombs started to fall, Ukrainians  mostly women, children, the elderly and other vulnerable groups  began to flee to neighbouring countries. The BBC has reported that more than ten million people have become refugees or have been internally displaced. At least 2.3 million refugees from Ukraine have come to Poland.
Yes. You will receive a receipt immediately after purchase and a VAT invoice upon request. The subscription amount includes tax. In case of a donation, there is no tax.
Democratic security comes at a price. What is yours? By subscribing or donating now gain access to analysis, forecasts and scenarios by leading analysts and reporters who monitor democratic risks and develop policy debate from Central Europe on Central Europe.
Polish societys reaction to the crisis and generous solidarity with Ukrainians has captured the imagination of the international community, as local authorities, civil society organisations and individual citizens moved swiftly to offer housing and material assistance at an unprecedented level. Admiration for this bottom-up movement led commentators to propose that the Polish nation be awarded the Noble Peace Prize.
On 21 February 2022, Vladimir Putin signed a decree recognising the Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic, which  alongside Crimea  had been annexed by Russia in 2014.
Yes. The payment is processed by STRIPE www.stripe.com entrusted also by Amazon, Zoom, Booking.com and used by other global NGOs and businesses in the world. We do not store your credit card details.
At any moment you can manage your subscription and account details. Sign in to modify or cancel.
The lack of strategic response from the Polish government risks losing much of the goodwill citizens, civil society and public institutions have garnered over their tremendous response to Russias War with Ukraine. Instead, the PiS government is trying to utilise Polands new positive international image for their own purposes and is ignoring the long-term consequences.
