How the Horrors of War Have Become a Permanent Feature of Virtual Reality
20220817
https://visegradinsight.eu/war-social-media-regulation-russia-ukraine/
Marcin Krl Fellow 20212022 at Visegrad Insight and an expert at the Open Contracting Partnership and Stefan Batory Foundation. Member of Consul Democracy Foundations Council. He is a lawyer specialized in access to public information and re-use of public sector information. He is the author of publications on freedom of information, technology, public administration, corruption, and public participation. Dziennik Gazeta Prawna listed him as one of the 50 most influential Polish lawyers in 2020.
On the one hand, high-speed access to information can even save lives and facilitate the mobilisation of hundreds of thousands of people to help Ukrainian victims. On the other hand, the amplification of war propaganda and the anti-Ukrainian narrative act to mobilise supporters of Russian aggression.
The face of social media is ambiguous  both in times of peace and war. We are learning how the internet affects our reality all the time, and it looks like it is not an easy process. What does the onslaught in Ukraine tell us about online platforms and their impact on very real politics?
Yes. You will receive a receipt immediately after purchase and a VAT invoice upon request. The subscription amount includes tax. In case of a donation, there is no tax.
Democratic security comes at a price. What is yours? By subscribing or donating now gain access to analysis, forecasts and scenarios by leading analysts and reporters who monitor democratic risks and develop policy debate from Central Europe on Central Europe.
Yes. The payment is processed by STRIPE www.stripe.com entrusted also by Amazon, Zoom, Booking.com and used by other global NGOs and businesses in the world. We do not store your credit card details.
At any moment you can manage your subscription and account details. Sign in to modify or cancel.
We idealise regulation too much. Social media  as the Russian aggression against Ukraine this time shows  have been permanently contaminated by an element of evil accompanying people throughout history. We can try to limit it, but this new model of war theatre has taken hold of our screens for good.
