Biden tells Ukraine leader US will respond decisively if Russia invades
20220103
https://mb.com.ph/2022/01/03/biden-tells-ukraine-leader-us-will-respond-decisively-if-russia-invades/
A senior US official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the tone was serious and substantive.
Under the Minsk agreement  brokered by France and Germany  Ukraine agreed to carry out political reforms while Russia agreed to end its support for pro-Russian separatist rebels.
Some 100,000 Russian troops are massed near the border of the country, where Putin already seized the Crimea region in 2014 and is accused of fomenting a pro-Russian separatist war which erupted that same year in the east.
In his call with Zelensky, Biden also stressed Washingtons commitment to the principle of nothing about you without you,' in an apparent reference to the need to include Ukraine in negotiations about its own future.
In Thursdays call, Biden warned Putin against invading Ukraine, while the Kremlin leader said anti-Moscow sanctions would be a colossal mistake.
The show of US support for Ukraine comes days after Biden warned Russian President Vladimir Putin of severe consequences if Moscow launches a military invasion.
After a 50-minute phone call  their second in just over three weeks  both presidents indicated support for further diplomacy.
Moscow describes the troop presence as protection against the expansion of NATO, although Ukraine has not been offered membership in the military alliance.
With a Russian military buildup on Ukraines borders, Biden made clear to Zelensky during a phone call that the United States and its allies and partners will respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said.
The US leader added, in remarks to reporters during a holiday stay in Delaware, that he had made it clear to President Putin that we will have severe sanctions, we will increase our presence in Europe, with NATO allies if Russia invades Ukraine.
Zelensky tweeted afterwards that he appreciated the United States unwavering support and that the call proves the special nature of the two countries relationship.
Discussing the call with Putin on Friday, Biden said: Im not going to negotiate here in public, but we made it clear he cannot  Ill emphasize, cannot  invade Ukraine.
Psaki also said in Sundays post-call statement that Biden reaffirmed the United States commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke Friday with NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg afterwards, Blinken urged Russia to engage meaningfully in the upcoming talks on the tense standoff between Moscow and Kiev.
High-ranking US and Russian officials are due to sit down on January 9 and 10 in Geneva to discuss the crisis.
WASHINGTON, United States  US President Joe Biden on Sunday reassured his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky that Washington will respond decisively if Russia moves to invade its pro-Western neighbor, the White House said in a statement.
But there was no disguising the depth of disagreement  or the dangerously high stakes on the fringes of eastern Europe.
Earlier this week, Biden spoke to Putin, the two leaders second conversation by phone in three weeks as tensions mount over Ukraine.
The US leader additionally expressed support for confidence-building measures to de-escalate tensions in Donbas and active diplomacy to advance the implementation of the Minsk Agreements.
