Foreign fighters in Ukraine sentenced to death by proRussians
20220609
https://mb.com.ph/2022/06/10/foreign-fighters-in-ukraine-sentenced-to-death-by-pro-russians/
LYSYCHANSK, Ukraine  Pro-Russian rebels sentenced to death two British fighters and a Moroccan who were captured while fighting for Ukraine, as a Ukrainian governor called for Western arms on Thursday to win the battle for a crucial eastern city.
The fiercest fighting is now focused on Severodonetsk in the Lugansk region, where Ukrainian officials say their outgunned forces are still holding out amid street battles, despite the city being mostly under Russian control.
Under the Geneva Convention, prisoners of war are entitled to combatant immunity, said a spokesman for Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
A lawyer representing one of them told the TASS news agency that they would appeal.
Four more people were killed in fighting in Donetsk and shelling took the lives of two in Kharkiv city, it said. Another person was killed in the Mykolayiv region in the south.
In Kyiv, Ukraines Interior Minister Denys Monastyrsky said the capital was in no immediate danger, but troops were keeping up a line of defence around the city all the same.
As soon as we have long-range artillery to be able to conduct duels with Russian artillery, our special forces can clean up the city in two to three days, governor Sergiy Gaiday said.
Ukraines Black Sea ports usually export millions of tonnes of grain each year but have been blocked since the invasion, while western sanctions on Russia have prevented Moscow selling much of its grain abroad, sending food prices soaring.
Foreign mercenaries  After being repelled from Kyiv weeks into their invasion, Russian President Vladimir Putins troops have refocused their offensive on the Donbas.
Kyivs forces were also gradually moving forward in the Kharkiv region in the northeast, he added.
Moscow has also called for Ukraine to demine to allow out blocked grain, but Kyiv has refused for fear of a Russian attack.
Putin, meanwhile, compared his actions to Peter the Greats conquest of the Baltic coast during his 18th-century war against Sweden.
It is our responsibility also to take back and strengthen, Putin said, in an apparent reference to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The FAO warned that poor countries will suffer the most from the crisis as they were paying more but receiving less food.
In his evening address to the Ukrainian people on Thursday, Zelensky said Severodonetsk and other Donbas cities are holding on.
Holding on  Western countries have provided weapons and aid for Ukraine since the February 24 invasion, while a number of people from abroad have come to fight against Russian forces.
By fighting Sweden he was grabbing something He was taking it back, he told young entrepreneurs in Moscow.
Britons Aslin and Pinner surrendered in April in Mariupol, the southern port city that was captured by Russian troops after a weeks-long siege. They later appeared on Russian TV calling on Johnson to negotiate their release.
Separatist authorities in the Donetsk region of the Donbas ordered the death penalty for Aiden Aslin, Shaun Pinner and Saadun Brahim after they were accused of acting as mercenaries for Kyiv, Russian media reported.
The death sentences come as Moscow concentrates its firepower on the strategic industrial hub of Severodonetsk, where Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said forces are holding on amid fierce fighting that he earlier said could determine the fate of the entire Donbas area.
The Ukrainian presidency said four people were killed in a Russian air strike on Toshkivka, a village around 25 kilometres 14 miles south of Severodonetsk.
Every day something burns  Zelensky on Thursday called for Russia to be expelled from the UNs Food and Agriculture Organization FAO, blaming Moscow for causing hunger and spurring the global grain crisis by invading his country.
Up to 100 Ukrainian soldiers were being killed every day in frontline fighting and as many as 500 wounded, Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said.
Moscow, which has repeatedly warned the West against getting involved in the conflict, said it had targeted a Ukrainian training centre for foreign mercenaries in the Zhytomyr region, west of Kyiv.
Africa has been hard hit by the shortage, and the African Union AU on Thursday urged Kyiv to demine waters around Ukraine-controlled Odessa port to ease exports, warning of serious famine and destabilisation on the continent.
During a trial that lasted three days, the men pleaded guilty to committing actions aimed at seizing power and overthrowing the constitutional order of the Donetsk Peoples Republic, Russian news agency Interfax said.
The regional governor of Lugansk  also part of the Donbas  said Western artillery would quickly help secure a Ukrainian victory for the bombarded city.
