Hunger striker in surreal reunion with best friend from Ukraine
20220501
https://www.ludlowadvertiser.co.uk/news/national/20107398.hunger-striker-surreal-reunion-best-friend-ukraine/
A hunger striker who secured a visa for her Ukrainian best friend has spoken of her relief after their reunion in the UK.
Ms Korniiuk said while she is happy to be in England she would prefer if it was under better circumstances.
Ms Platings, who went on hunger strike for 21 days after the visa application was made for her friend, said their reunion was amazing.
Then hopefully well all be able to visit her back in Ukraine when this is all over.
She said she stayed in Kyiv for the first three weeks of the invasion before moving to the west of the country.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
I hope that shell be able to make the most out of it and find that she makes friends over here and that she, instead of losing her country, she kind of gains another community that she can become close to.
She told the PA news agency: For me it feels really, really wonderful. Its a little bit surreal. And its kind of quite hard to believe.
The pair, who have been friends for three years after meeting in a restaurant, last saw each other at the beginning of February.
Mother-of-one Ms Platings, whose house is painted in the colours of the Ukraine flag, said it is both wonderful and surreal to have her friend by her side.
Her parents, grandfather and other family members are still in Kyiv, while her brother is working for the military.
Kristina Korniiuk, 34, of Kyiv, was granted a visa under the Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme and arrived at the Cambridge home of Rend Platings on Sunday, after a journey which took more than 24 hours.
Reflecting on the moment she saw her friend on Sunday morning, Ms Platings said: I think the first thing I felt was just really relieved, and the second thing was that I just couldnt believe that shes actually here.
Ms Platings, who has an eight-year-old daughter called Samantha, said she wants her friend to rest up and is then looking forward to her having a sanctuary and some kind of normality.
She said she is worried about her family in the Ukrainian capital, but realises it was her parents choice to stay there.
She told the PA: To tell you the truth Im too tired to be feeling anything.
She added: I tried really hard to convince them. Well I mean we are all adults and we have responsibilities for our lives, so they decided to stay and I couldnt convince them.
Dont get me wrong, I was happy, but its been more than 24 hours now, and its been a bus, then a train, then a sleepless night at the airport, then a plane here, then an hour drive from the airport.
Its just a shame it was in this situation, but on balance were happier that shes safe.
But you know what, Ive always wanted her to come and to show her Cambridge.
