Ukraine War Boris Johnson to hold talks with world leaders on sanctions on Russia
20220307
https://www.ludlowadvertiser.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19973556.ukraine-war-boris-johnson-hold-talks-world-leaders-sanctions-russia/
Elsewhere, US Secretary ofState Anthony Blinken is holding active discussions with allies to ban the import of Russian oil.
The PM will be joined byCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte.
We must come together under a six point plan of action to ensure Putin fails in his ambitions.
Adding that "The world is watching. It is not future historians but the people of Ukraine who will be our judge."
Ahead of the talks the UK government hasannounced asset freezes and travel bans on a number of oligarchs in recent days but has been accused of being too slow with sanctions linked to Mr Putin.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
"We must come together under a six-point plan of action to ensure Putin fails in his ambitions."
The talks come following the UK allocating an extra 74m to the Ukraine government to help with its financial pressures.
Plus new legislation that will target money-laundering byoligarchs that are close to Mr Putin is set to be passed in Parliament.
During the talks with world leaders, the PM is set to push for international leaders to take further actions to remove Russia from the Swift banking payment system and to encourage them to support his proposals to tackle Russian aggression.
The world is watching. It is not future historians but the people of Ukraine who will be our judge. pic.twitter.commHm0cKAc4H
In a tweet shared by Mr Johnson, he said "Putin must fail and must be seen to fail in this act of aggression.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set to hold talks with world leaders to agree on further sanctions on Russia.
Mr Johnson has set out a six-point place that will keep pressure on RussianPresident Vladimir Putin after the invasion of Ukraine.
