Ag Viewpoint  Its a slippery slope for ag producers
20220324
https://yorknewstimes.com/news/ag-viewpoint----its-a-slippery-slope-for-ag-producers/article_5f488c8c-ab78-11ec-8119-8316b833401b.html
On the other side of the balance sheet, McCarthy said, Percentage wise, inputs are close to 50 higher in a year.
As for commodities themselves, at CVA cash corn brought $4.44 a bushel on July 23 of last year, then rose to $5.06 at the beginning of 2022. The number was up nicely to $6.11 on the 11th of this month.
HENDERSON -- Daphne Hall gets giddy with delight over pumpkins  and squash and gourds, too.
Nic McCarthy, senior agronomist for Central Valley Ag, has the entire world of agriculture prices, costs, trends, predictions and global developments at his fingertips at headquarters in York.
For as long as commodity prices follow operational costs up the ladder, it appears local ag income has a good chance to prosper. But what if they dont? Ah  theres the gamble.
The inputs required to gain a proper yield on York-region fields  including this massive inventory of seed  are increasingly costly in the volatile, unpredictable world that has become reality for todays agribusiness producers.
NH3 anhydrous cost producers $744 per 2,000 pounds on July 23 of last year, but its a different story this month with that same quantity carrying a price tag of $1,464. UAN urea ammonium nitrate climbed from $417 to $703 over that same time. The corresponding prices for MAP monoammonium phosphate are $764 up to $999.
Everything is up when it comes to farm costs, says Central Valley Ag senior agronomist Nic McCarthy, but the opportunity is still there for area farmers large and small to have a healthy bottom line.
Machinery used to apply products farmers need to make a profit today are complex, expensive and a bit mysterious looking to non-ag savvy folks.
Gloom and doom aside, McCarthy said there remains room in the black at the bottom line for producers who anticipate the future properly and manage the present efficiently.
Inputs, he explained, is a catchall term for things like fertilizer, pesticides, seed and of course recently skyrocketing fuel prices. It takes a mountain of money to obtain those necessities and many others that raising a crop absolutely requires.
YORK -- Most people can remember a special time when a family heirloom or keepsake was passed down to them by a grandparent or a parent. For J
Supply chain constraints and the impact of just coming off COVID when inventory levels were very low for nearly everything, agriculture-related or otherwise, have stirred the pot mightily.
Always the gambling kind, livestock and crop operations face especially daunting challenges right now: Russia attacking Ukraine, short supplies of everything, shipping ports bottled up and stymied, obvious climate change, federal regulation, higher prices for the inputs required to support raising a crop and  on a happier note  upwardly trending prices paid to farmers for the bounty of their harvest.
We will continue to see volatility in the market, he assures. Transportation and labor continue to go up, as well. Those are outliers nobody is thinking about.
HENDERSON -- At the Henderson Home Show on Feb. 26, locals were swarming to 18-year-old Carson Otts honey booth to check out what the buzz wa
Jerod Heidtbrink of CVA spent a recent afternoon applying granular fertilizer south and east of York using the long booms on this complex and very specialized machine.
Canada, where 33 of potash was produced in those years, remains a solid source, but its sobering to consider the instability surrounding potash represents just one input upon which producers rely. When dramatic shortages occur  and by all accounts that pattern will not dissipate anytime soon  it is certain prices will skyrocket.
Central Valley Ags fertilizer and chemicals plant at the northeast corner of York is lined up and ready to go on the eve of the 2022 planting season.
Brandon Perry manages the plant through which inputs such as pesticides and fertilizer products pass on their way to the fields of area producers.
YORK  The York Public School Foundation will be starting a capital campaign for the construction of a new stand-alone animal lab building by 
Corresponding numbers on those dates for soy beans were $11.73, $11.95 and $14.26. Milo sold for $4.36 in July, $5.06 at years end and $6.01 on March 11. The same date sequence for wheat began at $6.46, went to $7.57 and on to $10.05.
HENDERSON -- The Henderson Community Garden is in preparation to provide locals with fresh produce for this upcoming summer. Last year, the 63
McCarthy provided statistics for the period 2018-2020 during which Russia 18, Belarus 17 and China 11 produced a whopping 46 of the worlds supply of potash. Russia and most likely war sympathizer Belarus will fall to zero. With the invasion of neighboring Ukraine being met with international disdain, Russias import and export markets have been sealed tight. Trade in either direction with China is routinely inconsistent and unreliable.
For a specific instance of ags globally complex and confusing times, consider potash just one product among many instrumental in farming.
The cash price for corn, he said, is up over $2.00 per bushel in the last year. Beans are up close to $3 and wheat nearly $4.
