Russias military aggression against Ukraine Council imposes sanctions on 26 persons and one entity
20220228
https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/02/28/russia-s-military-aggression-against-ukraine-council-imposes-sanctions-on-26-persons-and-one-entity/
The European Union condemns in the strongest possible terms the Russian Federations unprovoked and unjustified military aggression against Ukraine. By its illegal military actions, Russia is grossly violating international law and the principles of the UN Charter, and undermining European and global security and stability.
The new listings include oligarchs and businessmen active in the oil, banking and finance sectors, as well as government members, and high level military personalities, and propagandists who contributed to spread anti-Ukrainian propaganda and promote a positive attitude towards the invasion of Ukraine.
The Council today added 26 persons and one entity to the list of persons, entities and bodies subject to restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine.
With these additional sanctions, we are targeting all who are having a significant economic role in supporting Putins regime, and benefit financially from the system. These sanctions will expose the wealth of Putins elite. Those who enable the invasion of Ukraine will pay a price for their action.
Restrictive measures, which now apply to a total of 680 individuals and 53 entities, include an asset freeze and a prohibition from making funds available to the listed individuals and entities. In addition, a travel ban applicable to the listed persons prevents these from entering or transiting through EU territory.
Today's decision complements the package of measures announced by the High Representative after the video conference of EU Foreign Affairs Ministers of 27 February. This package also includes the provision of equipment and supplies to the Ukrainian Armed Forces through the European Peace Facility, a ban on the overflight of EU airspace and on access to EU airports by Russian carriers of all kinds, and a ban on transactions with the Russian Central Bank.
The relevant legal acts, including the names of the persons and entities concerned, have been published in the Official Journal.
