Special meeting of the European Council 24 February 2022
20220225
https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/european-council/2022/02/24/
The use of force and coercion to change borders has no place in the 21st century. Tensions and conflict should be resolved exclusively through dialogue and diplomacy.
In 2014, Russia annexed Crimea in violation of international law, a move strongly condemned by the EU. By November 2021, Russia had more military troops along Ukraine's border than at any time since 2014, generating great concern in Ukraine, Europe and across the world. In February 2022, President Vladimir Putin decided to recognise the non-government controlled areas of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts in Ukraine as independent entities and to send Russian troops into these areas, before starting the military aggression in Ukraine.
The European Council also called for taking forward the work on preparedness and readiness at all levels and invited the Commission, in particular, to put forward contingency measures, including on energy.
The European Council agreed on further restrictive measures that will have massive and severe consequences for Russia, in close coordination with partners and allies. These sanctions cover:
The EU has reacted swiftly and decisively to Russias recognition of Ukraines self-proclaimed separatist entities and deployment of its armed forces by adopting restrictive measures in response, including a package of sanctions adopted on 23 February.
The European Council condemned the involvement of Belarus in Russia's military aggression and called for the swift preparation of a further individual and economic sanctions package that will also cover Belarus.
The European Council also acknowledged the European aspiration and the European choice of Ukraine, as stated in the Association Agreement.
The European Council condemned in the strongest possible terms Russia's unprovoked and unjustified military aggression against Ukraine. By its illegal military actions, Russia is grossly violating international law and undermining European and global security and stability. The European Council underlined the right of Ukraine to choose its own destiny.
The Council will adopt without delay the proposals prepared by the European Commission and the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
The European Council stressed that the EU will continue cooperating closely with neighbours and reiterated its unwavering support for, and commitment to, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia and of the Republic of Moldova. It will continue strong coordination with partners and allies, within the UN, OSCE, NATO and the G7.
The European Council condemned in the strongest possible terms Russia's unprecedented military aggression against Ukraine and expressed full unity with international partners and full solidarity with Ukraine and its people.
The European Council reiterated its unwavering support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders.
The European Council also reaffirmed its full solidarity with Ukraine and that it will continue to support Ukraine and its people together with its international partners, including through additional political, financial and humanitarian support and an international donors' conference.
Today we see the devastating reality of full-scale war in Europe. Russia alone is to blame. It will pay a heavy price.
