35 dead as Russia escalates bombing near Poland
20220313
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/03/13/35-dead-as-russia-escalates-bombing-near-poland/
The 360 sq km 140 sq mile facility is one Ukraines biggest and the largest in the western part of the country.
Nineteen ambulances with sirens on were seen by Reuters driving from the direction of the Yavoriv facility after the reported strike and black smoke rose from the area.  Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailNigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkraineRussia fires hypersonic missile into Atlantic Ocean
It is terrifying how violent and inhuman it is, Olga, a refugee from Kyiv, told Reuters after crossing the border into Romania.
A Ukrainian defence ministry representative told Reuters the ministry was still trying to establish if any foreign instructors were at the centre at the time of the attack.
Ukraine, whose aspirations to join NATO are a major irritant to Russian President Vladimir Putin, held most of its drills with countries in the Western defence alliance at the base before the invasion.
A Russian air strike on a large Ukrainian military facility at Yavoriv near the border with NATO member Poland on Sunday killed 35 people and wounded 134.
Britain said the incident, just 15 miles 25 km from the Polish border, marked a significant escalation of the conflict.
Regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy said Russian planes fired around 30 rockets at the facility, adding that some were intercepted before they hit. At least 35 people were killed and 134 wounded, he said.
Ukraine said foreign military instructors have previously worked at the Yavoriv International Center for Peacekeeping and Security, but a NATO official said there were no personnel from the alliance there.
U.S. President Joe Biden has said NATO would defend every inch of its territory if Russias invasion of Ukraine spills over into member states of the Western defence alliance.
The Kremlin did not immediately reply to a request for comment on the reported missile strike so close to the border with NATO, and a short video briefing by Russias defence ministry spokesman on Sunday made no mention of such an attack.
In the weeks before Russia invaded on Feb. 24, the Ukrainian military trained there, but according to Ukrainian media, all foreign instructors left the training ground in mid-February, while leaving all the equipment.
Russias invasion of Ukraine, launched by Putin on Feb. 24, has sent more than 2.5 million people fleeing across borders and trapped hundreds of thousands in besieged cities.
Russia has attacked the International Center for Peacekeeping  Security near Lviv. Foreign instructors work here. Information about the victims is being clarified, Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said in an online post.
Ukraine reported renewed air strikes on an airport in the west, heavy shelling on Chernihiv northeast of the capital Kyiv and attacks on the southern town of Mykolayiv, where officials said nine people had been killed.
