Breaking Nigeria abstains from sacking Russia from UN Rights Council
20220407
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/04/07/breaking-nigeria-abstains-from-sacking-russia-from-un-rights-council/
Since Russias invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, the General Assembly has adopted two resolutions denouncing Russia with 141 and 140 votes in favor. Moscow says it is carrying out a special operation to demilitarize Ukraine.
The latest stance may be a careful balancing of Nigerias position on the Ukrainian crisis.
The resolution adopted by the 193-member General Assembly draft expresses grave concern at the ongoing human rights and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, particularly at reports of rights abuses by Russia.
Moscow is one of the most vocal members on the council and its suspension bars it from speaking and voting, officials say, although its diplomats could still attend debates. They would probably still try to influence the Council through proxies, said a Geneva-based diplomat.
Nigeria and many African countries abstained from joining the western nations to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council on Thursday.
The U.S.-led push garnered 93 votes in favour, while 24 countries voted no and 58 countries abstained.
Russia had warned countries that a yes vote or abstention will be viewed as an unfriendly gesture with consequences for bilateral ties, according to a note seen by Reuters. read more    Related News Nigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkraineThe right man for the jobWhy Nigeria is not making Progress - Obasanjo
The United States announced it would seek Russias suspension after Ukraine accused Russian troops of killing hundreds of civilians in the town of Bucha. read more
A two-thirds majority of voting members  abstentions do not count  was needed to suspend Russia from the 47-member council.
Russia was in its second year of a three-year term on the Geneva-based council, which cannot make legally binding decisions.
Suspensions are rare. Libya was suspended in 2011 because of violence against protesters by forces loyal to then-leader Muammar Gaddafi.
Last month the council opened an investigation into allegations of rights violations, including possible war crimes, in Ukraine since Russias attack.
The suspension done by the UN General Assembly came after reports of gross and systematic violations and abuses of human rights by invading Russian troops in Ukraine.
Nigeria had voted, along with 140 other nations, to condemn Russian invasion of Ukraine on 2 March.
Russia denies attacking civilians in Ukraine. U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said on Tuesday that while Bucha was under Russian control not a single civilian suffered from any kind of violence.
