Britain announces new sanctions on Russian officials
20220616
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/06/16/britain-announces-new-sanctions-on-russian-officials/
We will not tire of defending freedom and democracy, and keeping up the pressure on Putin until Ukraine succeeds.
Today we are targeting the enablers and perpetrators of Putins war who have brought untold suffering to Ukraine, including the forced transfer and adoption of children.
Beyond Ukraine, the measures had also been imposed on Russians supplying aircraft parts to the Myanmar Armed Forces.
Alexey Isaykin, president and board member of the Volga-Dnepr Group, a Russian transport company which had been tasked by Putin to create air bridges carrying critical goods, had also been sanctioned.
Each had been dealt an asset freeze preventing them from dealing with British banks or businesses, and a ban on flying to Britain.
The measures also applied to the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, who supports Putins war, and Sergey Savostyanov, the deputy of the Moscow City Duma.
And the new sanctions would limit the countrys military Junta, who were heavily reliant on Russian support.
Four colonels from the 64th Separate Motorised Rifle Brigade, a unit known to have killed, raped and tortured civilians in Bucha, were included in the sanctions list.        Related News Nigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failedBiden pledges $500m in military aid during Kyiv visit
So too were members of the so-called Salvation Committee for Peace and Order  an organisation collaborating with the Russian army to support the occupation of Kherson province.
The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office FCDO has said this came after Amnesty International exposed the role of Russian arms in Myanmar.
Lvova-Belova, who had been accused of enabling 2,000 vulnerable children to be violently taken from the Donbas region for adoption in Russia.
Britain announced a fresh wave of sanctions targeting Vladimir Putins allies, including on officials involved with the barbaric treatment of children in Ukraine.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the government would continue to level sanctions on supporters of the war until Ukraine succeeds.
