Morale flagging among Russian soldiers in Ukraine  US Sources
20220302
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/03/01/morale-flagging-among-russian-soldiers-in-ukraine-u-s-sources/
But in the south, the Russians have connected their forces along the coast from Crimea to the Russian border in the east, and have surrounded the city of Mariupol.
The official attributed the stalling of Russian march on Kyiv to the is problem, especially as the Russian force makes use of a large number of conscript soldiers.
However, the US believes the Russians intend to surround and capture the Ukraine capital, by siege tactics if necessary.
We do think that some of it has to do with their own sustainment and logistics, the official said.
We have picked up independently on our own indications that morale is flagging in some of these units, the official said.
The Pentagon believes that the advance of the 150,000-strong combat force Russia has committed to invading Ukraine  around 80 percent of which has so far entered the country  has moved much more slowly than planned, and now faces supply shortages.
We generally sense that the Russian military movement the overarching movement on Kyiv, is stalled at this point, the official told reporters.
There are signs of morale problems among the invading Russian soldiers in Ukraine, a U.S. official has said.
The official also said the Russian military advance on Kyiv has been hampered by Ukrainian resistance as well as fuel and food shortages, a senior US defense official said Tuesday.
And we also think that just in general the Russians themselves are regrouping and rethinking and trying to adjust to the challenges that theyve had.  Related News Nigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failedBiden pledges $500m in military aid during Kyiv visit
The US official said the Ukraine military continues to challenge the invasion force, and that the Russians have not gained control of the skies above the country.
In many cases, what were seeing are columns that are literally out of gas, the defense official said. Now theyre starting to run out of food for their troops.
Nor have the Russians succeeded in taking their first major target, the Ukraines second largest city of Kharkiv in the northeast, where the heaviest fighting has taken place.
Not all of them were apparently fully trained and prepared, or even aware that they were going to be sent into a combat operation, the official said.
Six days after Moscow invaded its ex-Soviet neighbor, the official said a massive Russian convoy north of Kyiv is barely moving.
