Panicky Russian troops flee Ukraines Chernobyl nuclear plant
20220401
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/04/01/panicky-russian-troops-flee-ukraines-chernobyl-nuclear-plant/
Another batch of Russian irradiated terrorists who seized the Chernobyl zone was brought to the Belarusian Radiation Medicine Center in Gomel today, Yaroslav Yemelianenko, who works for the Public Council at the State Agency of Ukraine for Exclusion Zone Management, posted on Facebook. There are rules for dealing with this territory.
It has been confirmed that the occupiers who seized the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and other facilities in the Exclusion Zone set off in two columns towards Ukraines border with Belarus.
Journalists on the ground have also reported ghost buses of dead soldiers being transported from Belarus to Russia under the cover of dark.
Not surprisingly, the occupiers received significant doses of radiation and panicked at the first sign of illness. And it showed up very quickly.
The occupiers announced their intentions to leave the Chernobyl nuclear power plant this morning to the Ukrainian personnel of the station, the agency said in a statement on Telegram, adding that a small number of Russians still remained at the facility.
Local reports suggest that seven buses with the zapped troops arrived in Gomel early Thursday.     Related News Ukraine's city of Kreminna falls to Russian forces900 civilians executed by retreating Russian forces in KyivRussian forces massacre over 10,000 in Mariupol: Mayor Boychencko
The debacle is the latest in a series of missteps by the Russian troops struggling to keep their footing in their increasingly failed war.
The troops, who dug trenches in a contaminated Red Forest near the site of the worst nuclear disaster in history, are now reportedly being treated in a special medical facility in Gomel, Belarus.
Energoatom, the Ukrainian agency in charge of the countrys nuclear power stations, said the Russian soldiers had panicked and fled, reports Daily Beast.
U.S. intelligence reported Wednesday that Russian forces began withdrawing from the defunct site. Russia said the withdrawal from Chernobyl was part of a pledge to scale back the invasion. But Ukrainian media says it is actually because the troops were irradiated from the contaminated soil.
Digging trenches in the forestconsidered the most contaminated area of the sitedrew widespread ridicule from Ukrainians who work at the site.
International concern grew immediately when Russian troops moved heavy military hardware through the area, kicking up radioactive dust without any protective equipment.
The forest is so named because thousands of pine trees turned red during the 1986 nuclear disaster.
Several hundred Russian soldiers have fled the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine after suffering acute radiation sickness from contaminated soil.
The area is considered so highly toxic that not even highly specialized Chernobyl workers are allowed to enter the zone.
The agency said it had also confirmed reports of Russian forces digging trenches in the Red Forest, the most polluted in the entire exclusion zone.
The Chernobyl facility fell to Russian control on Feb. 24, the first day of the invasion. Workers were on duty for more than 600 hours before being allowed a shift change.
