Putin has blood cancer reports
20220514
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/05/14/putin-has-blood-cancer-reports/
Also today, British tabloid, The Sun quoting Ukraines spy chief, Kyrylo Budanov said Putin is cancer-stricken and that a coup is already underway, to remove him.
Multiple reports on Saturday have reinforced earlier hints that Russian leader, Vladimir Putin may be suffering from cancer.
The unidentified oligarch was recorded discussing Putins health with a Western venture capitalist in mid-March in a recording obtained by New Lines, a US magazine.
Indeed the sources are linking the invasion of Ukraine to the disease, which has made the Russian strongman behave erratically.
The official told Sky News that Putin will be ousted from office within this time as his invasion continues to stall in the face of stiff Ukrainian resistance  with rumours continuing to swirl about the Russian presidents health.
Most of the active combat actions will have finished by the end of this year.
As a result, we will renew Ukrainian power in all our territories that we have lost including Donbas and the Crimea.
Budanov, 36, believes the tyrants calamitous war in Ukraine will hit a breaking point in summer and be over before the end of the year.
Claims from anti-Kremlin sources allege that Putin, 69, is due to have cancer surgery at any moment.
The Times of London reported today Putin is very ill with blood cancer, quoting an oligarch close to the Kremlin.
He says that there is deep dissatisfaction in Moscow about the state of the economy and, appearing to speak on behalf of other oligarchs, says we all hope that Putin dies.
He absolutely ruined Russias economy, Ukraines economy and many other economies  ruined them absolutely, the oligarch says.
Putins health has been subject to huge scrutiny in the wake of the war in Ukraine, and rumours continued to mount in the wake of last weeks military parade he was seen with a blanket over his legs.
The Russian says in the recording that Putin had surgery on his back linked to his blood cancer shortly before ordering the invasion of Ukraine.
The problem is with his head. One crazy guy can turn the world upside down.  Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailPutin models war as battle for Russias survivalAgain Zelensky rejects negotiations with Putin
