Retreating Russians left mines at homes on corpses  Zelenskiy
20220402
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/04/02/retreating-russians-left-mines-at-homes-on-corpses-zelenskiy/
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy warned his people early Saturday that retreating Russian forces left mines across the whole territory, including around homes and corpses.
Meanwhile, the Kremlin accused the Ukrainians of launching a helicopter attack on a fuel depot on Russian soil.  Related News Nigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failedBiden pledges $500m in military aid during Kyiv visit
Russia continued withdrawing some of its ground forces from areas around Kyiv after saying earlier this week it would reduce military activity near the Ukrainian capital and the northern city of Chernihiv.
Certainly, this is not something that can be perceived as creating comfortable conditions for the continuation of the talks, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, five weeks after Moscow began sending upwards of 150,000 of its own troops across Ukraines border.
He issued the warning as the humanitarian crisis in the encircled city of Mariupol deepened, with Russian forces blocking evacuation operations for the second day in a row.
Ukraine denied responsibility for the fiery blast, but if Moscows claim is confirmed, it would be the wars first known attack in which Ukrainian aircraft penetrated Russian airspace.
They are mining the whole territory. They are mining homes, mining equipment, even the bodies of people who were killed, Zelenskiy said in his nightly video address to the nation.
Still, Ukraine and its allies warned that the Kremlin is not de-escalating to promote trust at the bargaining table, as it claimed, but instead resupplying and shifting its troops to the countrys east.
Those movements appear to be preparation for an intensified assault on the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas region in the countrys east, which includes Mariupol.
