Russia hits Kyiv with missiles as UN boss Guterres visits
20220429
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/04/29/russia-hits-kyiv-with-missiles-as-un-boss-guterres-visits/
Russian forces are now entrenched in the east, where Moscow-backed separatists have held some territory since 2014, and also hold a swathe of the south they seized in March.
Russian President Vladimir Putin agreed in principles to U.N. and Red Cross involvement in evacuating the plant during separate talks in Moscow with Guterres on Tuesday.
Guterres discussions with Zelenskiy focused in part on evacuating Ukrainian fighters and civilians holed up in a steel plant in the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol, Russias main target in the eastern Donbas region.
The rockets shook a central district in Ukraines capital and one of them hit a residential building, injuring at least three people, Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said.
The West believes battles for Mariupol and other eastern and southern areas may determine the wars outcome.
Russia fired two missiles into Kyiv on Thursday during a visit by U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres, Ukrainian officials said.
But Thursdays blasts, heard soon after Guterres completed talks with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, highlighted concerns that Kyiv still remains vulnerable to Russian heavy weaponry.
Russia withdrew its invading forces from near Kyiv in early April after failing to capture the city, which has since hosted visits by top officials from the United States and its European allies.
Zelenskiy said they prove that we must not drop our vigilance. We must not think that the war is over.        Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailNigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failed
There was an attack on Kyiv  it shocked me, not because Im here but because Kyiv is a sacred city for Ukrainians and Russians alike, Guterres told Portuguese broadcaster RTP when asked about the blasts.
