Turkey says Russia Ukraine nearing peace deal
20220320
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/03/20/turkey-says-russia-ukraine-nearing-peace-deal/
Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin, speaking to al Jazeera television, said the two sides were getting closer on four key issues.
Ukraine and the West have dismissed Russian references to neo-Nazis in Ukraines democratically elected leadership as baseless propaganda, and Kalin said such references were offensive to Kyiv.
But he said Putin felt that positions on the strategic issues of Crimea and Donbas were not close enough for a meeting.
It has voiced support for Ukraine, but has also opposed far-reaching Western sanctions imposed on Moscow over the invasion.
Turkey also opposes Russian policies in Syria and Libya, as well as Moscows annexation of Crimea.
President Vladimir Putin has called Russias actions a special operation meant to demilitarize Ukraine and purge it of Nazis.
President Tayyip Erdogan has repeatedly said Turkey will not abandon its relations with Russia or Ukraine, saying Ankaras ability to speak to both sides was an asset.
He said he was hopeful for a ceasefire if the two sides did not backtrack from progress achieved so far.
Foreign ministers Sergei Lavrov of Russia and Dmytro Kuleba of Ukraine met in the Turkish resort town of Antalya earlier this month with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu also attending.
He cited Russias demand for Ukraine to renounce ambitions to join NATO, demilitarisation, what Russia has referred to as de-nazification, and the protection of the Russian language in Ukraine.  Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailNigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failed
Kalin said a permanent ceasefire could come only through a meeting between Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
NATO member Turkey shares a maritime border with Ukraine and Russia in the Black Sea, has good relations with both and has offered to mediate between them.
We can say we are hopeful for a ceasefire if the sides do not take a step back from the current positions, he said, without elaborating on the issues.
While forging close ties with Russia on energy, defence and trade and relying heavily on Russian tourists, Turkey has sold drones to Ukraine, angering Moscow.
Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 while part of the eastern industrial Donbas region was seized by Russian-backed separatist forces that year.
Kyiv and Moscow reported some progress in talks last week toward a political formula that would guarantee Ukraines security, while keeping it outside NATO, though each sides accused the other of dragging matters out. read more
But Cavusoglu, who also travelled to Russia and Ukraine last week for talks with Lavrov and Kuleba, told Turkish daily Hurriyet that there had been rapprochement in the positions of both sides on important subjects, critical subjects.
Turkeys foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu said in an interview published on Sunday that Russia and Ukraine were nearing agreement on critical issues.
