Ukraine warns about Russian nuclear plant grab operators work at gunpoint
20220304
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/03/04/ukraine-warns-about-russian-nuclear-plant-grab-operators-work-at-gunpoint/
How can you forget that? And if you have not forgotten, you should not be silent.
A building at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant was set ablaze during intense fighting, Ukrainian authorities said on Friday, triggering fears of a potential nuclear disaster. The blaze was later extinguished. read more        Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailNigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failed
You have to  take to the streets and say that you want to live, you want to live on earth without radioactive contamination. Radiation does not know where Russia is, radiation does not know where the borders of your country are.
As a result, a nuclear disaster of this scale may exceed all previous accidents at nuclear power plants, it said in a statement.
With the operators working at gunpoint, Ukrainian officials said the Russian seizure risked nuclear disaster.
Russian people, I want to appeal to you: how is this possible? After all we fought together in 1986 against the Chernobyl catastrophe, he said in a televised address, evoking memories of the worlds worst nuclear disaster.
Russian forces that invaded Ukraine last week have already captured the defunct Chernobyl plant north of Kyiv, which spewed radioactive waste over much of Europe after an accident there in April 1986.
You have to remember the burning graphite scattered by the explosion, the victims. You have to remember the glow over the destroyed power unit, the evacuation, he said.
Ukraines foreign ministry on Friday called on the international community to take decisive action after Russian forces in Ukraine seized Europes largest nuclear power plant.
Officials have said Zaporizhzhia plant in southeastern Ukraine is operating normally after it was captured by Russian forces in fighting overnight.
Analysts have said the Zaporizhzhia plant is a different and safer type, but Zelenskiy said that now was not the time to be silent.
But the ministry said any damage to a storage facility for spent nuclear fuel could release nuclear radiation.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy appealed to Russians on Friday to stage protests over Russian forces seizure of the largest nuclear power plant in Europe.
Russias defence ministry blamed the attack at the site of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on Ukrainian saboteurs, calling it a monstrous provocation. read more
