Ukrainian soldiers in Mariupol ignore Russian surrender ultimatum
20220417
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/04/17/ukrainian-soldiers-in-mariupol-ignore-russian-surrender-ultimatum/
Ukrainian soldiers resisted a Russian ultimatum to lay down arms on Sunday in the pulverised port of Mariupol, which Moscow said its forces had almost completely seized in what would be its biggest prize of the nearly two-month war.
The occupiers will be responsible for everything they did in Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on his Telegram account, posting images of destruction he said were akin to the terrible times of World War Two.
The Azovstal steelworks, one of Europes biggest metallurgical plants with a maze of rail tracks and blast furnaces, has become a last stand for the outnumbered defenders. read more
The city still has not fallen, he told ABCs This Week programme, adding that Ukrainian soldiers continue to control some parts of the city.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said troops in Mariupol were still fighting despite a Russian demand to surrender by dawn.
Zelenskiy accused Russia on Saturday of deliberately trying to destroy everyone in Mariupol and said his government was in touch with the defenders.
It was not known how many soldiers were in the steelworks. Satellite images have shown smoke and fire coming from the area, which is riddled with tunnels.
Russia said on Saturday it had control of urban parts of the city, with some Ukrainian fighters remaining in the Azovstal steelworks overlooking the Sea of Azov.
After failing to overcome Ukrainian resistance in the north, the Russian military has refocused its ground offensive on Donbas while maintaining long-distance strikes elsewhere including the capital, Kyiv.
About four million Ukrainians have fled the country, cities have been shattered and thousands have died since the start of the invasion on Feb. 24.        Related News Putin bombs Ukraine's Mariupol into "ashes of a dead land"Belarusian soldiers desert Putin to fight for UkraineUkrainian fighters in Mariupol vow no surrender to Russia
Capturing Mariupol, the main port in the southeastern region of Donbas, would be a strategic prize for Russia, connecting territory held by pro-Russian separatists in the east with the Crimea region that Moscow annexed in 2014.
All who lay down their arms are guaranteed that their lives will be spared, Russias Defence Ministry said.
