Ukraine damages another Russian ship makes gains in Kharkiv
20220513
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/05/13/ukraine-damages-another-russian-ship-makes-gains-in-kharkiv/
Reuters journalists have confirmed Ukraine is now in control of territory stretching to the banks of the Siverskiy Donets River, around 40 km 25 miles east of Kharkiv.
Ukraine said it has damaged a Russian navy logistics ship near Snake Island, a small but strategic outpost in the Black Sea.
This comes as Ukrainian forces also drove out Russian soldiers around the second-largest city Kharkiv.
Satellite imagery provided by Maxar, a private U.S.-based company, showed the aftermath of what it said were probable missile attacks on a Russian Serna-class landing craft near the island, close to Ukraines sea border with Romania.
Reuters could not independently verify the details. Russias defence ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Images also showed recent damage to buildings on the island, which became famous for the foul-mouthed defiance of its Ukrainian defenders early in the invasion.
Russian forces have been bombarding the steelworks, the last bastion of Ukrainian defenders in a city almost completely controlled by Russia after a siege of more than two months.
Thanks to the actions of our naval seamen, the support vessel Vsevolod Bobrov caught fire  it is one of the newest in the Russian fleet, said Serhiy Bratchuk, a spokesman for the Odesa regional military administration.
Regional authorities reported ongoing missile strikes around Poltava and shelling at Dergach, near Kharkiv, which killed two people.
We have started a new round of negotiations around a road map for an evacuation operation. And we will start with those who are badly wounded, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk told 11 television.
Renewed fighting around Snake Island in recent days may become a battle for control of the western Black Sea coast, according to some defence officials, as Russian forces struggle to make headway in Ukraines north and east.
Russia faced further setbacks on the battlefield as Ukraine drove its troops out of the region around the second-largest city Kharkiv, the fastest advance since forcing the Kremlins forces from Kyiv and the northeast over a month ago.  Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailNigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failed
In the capital Kyiv, wives and relatives of Ukrainian fighters holed up in the Azovstal steel plant in the southern port of Mariupol marched and chanted for their rescue.
Footage released by Ukrainian Airborne Forces Command appeared to show several burnt out military vehicles and a segments of a bridge seemingly destroyed and partially submerged in the river.
They have earned it. Why the others can walk in the streets with their loved ones and they cannot? Why nobody helps them?
I want all the defenders who are there to return home so that they can live a normal life with their children and relatives, said Maria Zimareva, whose brother is inside the steelworks.
