Ukrainian refugees soar to 15million Zelenskiy demands more weapons
20220306
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/03/06/ukrainian-refugees-soar-to-1-5million-zelenskiy-demands-more-weapons/
Washington is working with Poland as Warsaw considers whether to provide fighter jets to Ukraine, a White House spokesperson said.
We must go outside and drive this evil out of our cities, he said, vowing to rebuild his nation.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, who launched what he calls a special military operation on Feb. 24, reiterated that he wanted a neutral Ukraine that had been demilitarised and denazified, and likened Western sanctions to a declaration of war, adding: Thank God it has not come to that.
The United States has said it would give Ukraine more weapons and has repeatedly warned it could escalate sanctions, with President Joe Biden seeking $10 billion in emergency funding to respond to the crisis.
The scale and strength of Ukrainian resistance continue to surprise Russia, British military intelligence said in an update.
Ukraine and Western countries have decried Putins reasons as a baseless pretext for the invasion and have imposed sweeping sanctions aimed at isolating Moscow and crippling its economy.
Ukrainian negotiators said a third round of talks with Russia on a ceasefire would go ahead on Monday, although Moscow was less definitive.
British military intelligence said on Sunday that Russian forces were targeting populated areas in Ukraine but that the strength of resistance was slowing their advance.        Related News 50,000 Ukrainians flee to Poland, Moldova: UN agency
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, after meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken at the Ukraine-Poland border, said he expected new sanctions and weapons for Ukraine in coming days.
The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine was expected to reach 1.5 million on Sunday as Russias attack continued for an 11th day and Ukraine pressed for more sanctions and weapons.
Moscow and Kyiv traded blame over a failed ceasefire on Saturday that would have let civilians flee Mariupol and Volnovakha, two southern cities besieged by Russian forces.
In a televised address on Saturday night, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy called on people in areas occupied by Russian troops to fight.
