Ukraine Singapore imposes sanctions on Russia
20220305
https://pmnewsnigeria.com/2022/03/05/ukraine-singapore-imposes-sanctions-on-russia/
The restrictions bar Singapores financial institutions including its central bank, from dealing with Russias central bank as well as VTB Bank Public Joint Stock Company, The Corporation Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs Vnesheconombank, Promsvyazbank Public Joint Stock Company and Bank Rossiya.  Related News Putin says multipolar world order will eventually prevailNigeria, 140 countries demand Russia withdraw from UkrainePutin: West tried to destabilise Russia, but failed
For a small state like Singapore, this is not a theoretical principle, but a dangerous precedent. This is why Singapore has strongly condemned Russias unprovoked attack.
This is a rare move by the Asian financial hub in response to what it said was Moscows dangerous precedent in Ukraine.
The tiny city-state, an international shipping hub, rarely imposes sanctions of its own but said it would not allow the export of items that could inflict harm on or subjugate Ukrainians, or help Russia launch cyber attacks.
A statement on Thursday by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN, of which Singapore is a member, called for a ceasefire in the Ukraine crisis but made no mention of Russias involvement.
GIC continues to assess the Russian-Ukrainian situation and will ensure compliance, it said in an emailed response.
Singapore joined list of countries that have imposed ban on Russia over the invasion of Ukraine on Saturday with restrictions placed on operations of four banks and an export ban on electronics, computers and military items.
Asked by Reuters about its exposure to Russia, Singapores sovereign wealth fund GIC reiterated the new measures, which it said would also apply to the governments funds managed by GIC.
We cannot accept the Russian governments violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of another sovereign state, its foreign ministry said in a statement, which gave no timeframe for when the sanctions would take effect.
Singapores stand against Russias invasion is the strongest so far by a Southeast Asia country.
