As bad as the war in Ukraine is now its likely to get worse
20220301
https://www.butlereagle.com/20220308/as-bad-as-the-war-in-ukraine-is-now-its-likely-to-get-worse/
Sanctions may influence Russian decision-making down the road, said Richard N. Haass, president of the nonpartisan Council on Foreign Relations. But they wont stop the siege of Kyiv.
The Russian president has waged war against cities before and has been rewarded with success.
As the invasion has escalated, so, too, have economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and its allies. And, like Ukraines armed forces, the sanctions have had more punch than expected. The Russian ruble has plunged in value, and ordinary Russians have scrambled to ATMs to try to get their money out of endangered banks.
He predicted that the sanctions would stay in place as long as Putin is in power, if not longer, in a long-term war of attrition.
Putin came to power in 1999 largely by waging a savage war against separatists in Russias mostly Muslim republic of Chechnya. The resulting campaign killed tens of thousands of civilians.
The sanctions have clearly damaged Russias economy, but theres no sign that they have affected Putins calculus.
Sanctions hawks argue that in addition to punishing Putin in the near term, the measures serve a separate long-term U.S. interest by weakening Russia economically and militarily.
Putin has shown no interest in a negotiated outcome thats within the ZIP Code of reality, Haass told me. That could change, but only if three things occur: if his military suffers high battlefield costs, if the sanctions begin to exact a real economic cost and if popular unrest grows.
Putins intentions toward Ukraine should have come as no surprise. He has publicly demanded since 2007 that the country be returned to some form of Russian control. The CIA warned that he might invade Ukraine as early as 2008, Hill noted. She was a CIA intelligence analyst at the time.
And he may be willing to fight for a long time. His war in Chechnya lasted almost 10 years.
More Russian units have moved into Ukraine. Russian missile and artillery strikes on civilian neighborhoods have stepped up. Ukraines three biggest cities  including Kyiv, the capital  are in danger of falling.
I can imagine putting out  with the Ukrainians participating  some definition of a negotiated outcome that could produce some sanctions relief, Haass said. But were not there yet.
President Joe Biden, for one, isnt there yet. His spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said last week that sanctions relief isnt on the table.
Were in the middle of an invasion, so I dont think now is the moment where we are giving anybody that sort of an offramp, she said.
Doyle McManus is a columnist for the Los Angeles Times. Readers may send him email at doyle.mcmanuslatimes.com.
Every time you think, No, he wouldnt, would he? Well, yes, he would, Fiona Hill, a former White House expert on Russia, said in an interview with Politico.
Putins invasion of Ukraine is in its second week. Some Russian units are mired in mud, but the offensive is escalating overall.
The Western response is aimed at raising Putins costs until he  or Russias military brass, its oligarchs and the Russian public  decide that their losses from the war outweigh any benefits. That, too, could take a long time.
Sanctions will worsen Russias position in its long-run competition with western countries, Edward Fishman, a former State Department expert now at Columbia University, told me. We have zero interest in enhancing Russian power.
That kind of offer isnt likely to change Putins mind, but it could help increase pressure on him from his military and his oligarchs, as well as the Russian public.
Putin may not want to occupy all of Ukraines territory, she added, but he may want to divide it into a fractured, shattered Ukraine.
But an original goal of these sanctions was to persuade Moscow to change course. To accomplish that, the United States needs to offer Russians the prospect of at least some sanctions relief if they withdraw their forces.
Last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin spent 90 minutes on the phone with French President Emmanuel Macron, who asked him to declare a cease-fire in Ukraine.
