US offers no concessions
20220127
https://www.butlereagle.com/20220127/u-s-offers-no-concessions/
There is no change, there will be no change, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said. Also not up for negotiation will be the U.S. and European response to any Russian invasion of Ukraine, he said, repeating the mantra that any such incursion would be met with massive consequences and severe economic costs.
All told it sets out a serious diplomatic path forward. should Russia choose it, he said. The document weve delivered includes concerns of the United States and our allies and partners about Russias actions that undermine security, a principled and pragmatic evaluation of the concerns that Russia has raised, and our own proposals for areas where we may be able to find common ground.
The responses were not unexpected and mirrored what senior U.S. and NATO officials have been saying for weeks. Nonetheless, they and the eventual Russian reaction to them could determine whether Europe will again be plunged into war.
In separate written responses delivered to the Russians, the U.S. and NATO held firm to the alliances open-door policy for membership, rejected a demand to permanently ban Ukraine from joining, and said allied deployments of troops and military equipment in Eastern Europe are nonnegotiable.
Speaking to reporters in Washington, Blinken said Russia would not be surprised by the contents of the several page American document that U.S. Ambassador to Russia John Sullivan delivered Wednesday to the Russian Foreign Ministry.
Seeking possible off-ramps that would allow Russia to withdraw the estimated 100,000 troops it has deployed near Ukraines border without appearing to have lost a battle of wills, the U.S. response did outline areas in which some of Russias concerns might be addressed, provided it de-escalates tensions with Ukraine.
There was no immediate response from Russia but Russian officials have warned that Moscow would quickly take retaliatory measures if the U.S. and its allies reject its demands.
WASHINGTON  The Biden administration and NATO told Russia on Wednesday there will be no U.S. or NATO concessions on Moscows main demands to resolve the crisis over Ukraine.
