Vladimir Putin is the unabashed lord of war crimes in the 21st century
20220701
https://www.butlereagle.com/20220701/vladimir-putin-is-the-unabashed-lord-of-war-crimes-in-the-21st-century/
More to the point, Putin is pursuing a deliberate strategy of laying waste to cities, towns, and villages using long-range artillery, bombs, and rockets, since his troops are unable to defeat Ukrainian forces in close battle. He is trying to take over Ukraine chunk by chunk, at present in the eastern Donbas region, and in the south along the Black Sea.
When a 2,000-pound Russian missile slammed into a crowded shopping mall in the central Ukrainian city of Kremenchuk on Monday  killing at least 18 people buying bathing suits or blenders  that was par for the course for Russia.
Ukraine cannot withstand a long war of attrition, in which the Russians lay waste to the country with unlimited artillery, rocket, and air strikes.
That includes the 1994 Helsinki agreement by which Washington, London, and Moscow agreed to respect Ukraines sovereignty if it gave up the nuclear weapons it had acquired during the days of the Soviet Union, and the so-called Minsk negotiating framework that Moscow agreed to after invading eastern Ukraine in 2014. Putin scorned them both.
At the U.N. Security Council on Tuesday, Zelenskyy rightly called Putins Russia a terrorist state, listing scores of missiles unleashed on civilians in several Ukrainian cities, killing many women and children, just over the past four days. In any other part of the world these daily attacks would be called terrorism, Zelenskyy said.
This is not an accidental hit, this is a calculated Russian strike exactly onto this shopping center, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said after the Kremenchuk attack.
The latest Russian slaughter came as the leaders of the worlds seven richest democracies, known as the G-7, were meeting in Krn, Germany  just ahead of a NATO summit in Madrid. Ukrainian officials think Russian President Vladimir Putin was sending a grim message to both groups that he can win this war, despite Western sanctions. Never mind how many innocent civilians Russia kills.
In the words of one of Putins acolytes, former Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a sycophant, who like Donald Trumps Rudy Giuliani, says what even the boss wont acknowledge publicly: Who said that in two years Ukraine will even exist on the world map?
Judging by the G-7 meeting, Washington and its allies dont have the will, or the sense of urgency, to help Ukraine save itself and the West from Putins imperial lust.
This is not the normal carnage of war. Firstly, the battles in Ukraine are not the consequence of war, but of an unprovoked invasion by Russia. They are on orders of an all-powerful Putin, who  like Hitler  makes no secret of his imperialist ambitions to seize neighboring land he believes was wrongfully taken from historic Russia. That includes Ukraine, which Putin says has no right to be a state.
Vladimir Putin is the unabashed lord of war crimes in the 21st century. Or as his foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, put it last week, Russia is not squeaky clean. Russia is what it is. And we are not ashamed of showing what we are.
Of course, the Russians deny every atrocity, from the deliberate destruction of thousands of schools, hospitals, and civilian high-rise apartment buildings across the country.
Putins goal is to unilaterally annex these chunks into Russia, leaving an economically unviable rump Ukraine cut off from its agricultural and industrial heartlands, and its sea ports. Then he can regroup and try again to take Kyiv.
At the G-7 meeting, a frustrated Zelenskyy appealed to leaders for more military support to push Russia out of newly conquered territory in the east and south before winter, when the frozen ground will make it easier for Russian forces to move tanks, artillery, and supplies.
Trudy Rubin is a columnist and editorial-board member for the The Philadelphia Inquirer. Readers may write to her at: Philadelphia Inquirer, P.O. Box 8263, Philadelphia, Pa. 19101, or by email at trubinphillynews.com.
Neither angry rhetoric  nor more sanctions  will stop Russias war crimes in time to save Ukraine. How many Russian atrocities will it take to convince European leaders  and the Biden team  that there is only one way to halt Putin: Provide Ukraine with still-absent long-range heavy weapons to counter Putins bombs and missiles and push Russian invaders off its land.
As if the constant targeting of civilians is insufficiently criminal, Putins Russia has also blockaded Ukrainian ports, preventing the export of grain that is desperately needed to feed citizens of Africa and the Middle East.
Only the day before, Sunday, a barrage of Russian missiles pounded a quiet civilian neighborhood in the center of Kyiv, smashing a high-rise apartment building.
NATO allies like France and Germany, reeling from higher gas prices, nurture hopes that Putin can be coaxed somehow into negotiations. This is self-delusion. Putin has twisted and broken every agreement Russia has made with Ukraine.
The Wests drip, drip, drip of heavy weapons  always too little and too late to prevent Putins war crimes from the air  is helping to kill Ukraine slowly. As NATO nations meet, they must decide whether they want to permit Putins terrorist attacks to continue  or whether they will finally accelerate the shipments of weapons that Ukraine needs to win.
