Zelenskyys brilliant speech should impel Biden Congress
20220318
https://www.butlereagle.com/20220318/zelenskyys-brilliant-speech-should-impel-biden-congress/
So it isnt enough for President Joe Biden to praise Zelenskyy, or for all of Congress to erupt in bipartisan applause  or even for Congress to appropriate $800 million in new military aid for Ukraine.
Russia has turned the Ukrainian sky into a source of death for thousands of people  fired nearly 1,000 missiles, countless bombs.  They use drones to kill us with precision, the Ukrainian leader told Congress. Kyiv is under missile and airstrikes from Russian troops every day, but it doesnt give up.
The White House cant afford to permit Putin to succeed in this fashion. Nor can it afford to wait the months it will take for sanctions to fully kick in. Indeed, Putin may become more dangerous as his desperation grows.
But a desperate, angry Putin is throwing all of his manpower and conventional weapons into destroying Ukraine. If he cannot make the country cower, he appears ready to wipe it out and then drag on negotiations forever, while declaring victory. A destroyed Ukraine may even suit Putin better than an occupation, which Russian forces arent capable of carrying out.
Yet, swallowing his frustration, Zelenskyy showed incredible resilience before Congress. If this is too much to ask, he said, we offer an alternative. You know what kind of air defense systems we need. S-300 a Russian-made long-range air defense systemand other similar systems.
These were the words of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in his passionate virtual address to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday. Ukraine, he said, is fighting for the values America cherishes: democracy, independence, freedom.
Despite the astonishing skill of Ukraines army and civilian volunteers in holding off the Russian ground attack, Putins forces are deliberately slaughtering Ukrainian civilians from the air. Their goal: to terrorize the country and force Zelenskyy to surrender.
Then he showed a before-and-after video of once-peaceful Ukrainian cities  like Kharkiv, Mariupol and increasingly Kyiv  where hospitals, schools, cultural and business centers, and high-rise apartment buildings are being wiped out by Russian missiles and bombs.
Even Zelenskyys request for a humanitarian no-fly zone over western Ukraine  which remains relatively peaceful and a refuge for millions of fleeing Ukrainians  has been rejected. Many security experts and this columnist believe this option is worth exploring  by which NATO planes would make clear their purpose was peaceful and would protect refugee flows and a free city of Lviv.
While the Biden team should be commended for its large new package of military aid, and Congress for pushing the package forward in a bipartisan fashion, more must be done immediately to save Ukraine.
I have a dream, Zelenskyy told Congress. I have a need. I need to protect our sky. I need your decision, your help.
When the war started, the bipartisan expectation and that of U.S. intelligence officials was that Russian forces would swiftly conquer Ukraine. Ukrainian bravery and the skill of its armed forces changed that. Now Russian military failures, and Zelenskyys brilliant leadership, have led to speculation that Ukraine might win.
More than that, Ukraine is fighting for the post-World War II principle that powerful countries cant be permitted to invade, destroy, and annex peaceful neighbors as Adolf Hitler did  and as Vladimir Putin is trying to do now.
The U.S. goal must be to ensure that Ukraine does not lose this war on the battlefield or in future talks with the duplicitous Putin. That means we must heed Zelenskyys plea to protect our sky.
Yes, Ukraine could win  by compelling Putin to pull back and declare victory  but only if Washington shows a bipartisan determination to help Zelenskyy in the immediate future. Thats the only appropriate response to Zelenskyys brave and brilliant speech.
Instead, the administration must undertake a full-court press to get Zelenskyy S-300s, armed drones and anti-ship missiles to save the Port of Odesa. And, without publicity, get those MIG-29s to Ukraine. If Zelenskyy says he needs them, I believe him over Pentagon claims that he does not.
Today the Ukrainian people are defending not only Ukraine we are fighting for the values of Europe and the world, sacrificing our lives in the name of the future.
The good news is other NATO members possess them and might be willing to offer them to Ukraine. Those include Slovakia, Bulgaria and Greece, which has the largest number. Yet progress in obtaining these systems is too slow, as Russian missiles wreak more destruction daily.
Out of desperation, the Ukrainian leader appears to have given up his goal of a NATO no-fly zone over Ukraine. Biden once again rejected that request Wednesday both parties in Congress, as well as other NATO countries, have nixed it because they say it would require destroying Russian missile batteries and planes.
Remember Pearl Harbor, he urged. Remember Sept. 11, when evil tried to turn your cities into battlefields. Our country experiences the same every day, right now, at this moment, every night for three weeks now.
