Macron Putin told him Russia wont escalate Ukraine crisis
20220209
https://www.fredericknewspost.com/public/ap/macron-putin-told-him-russia-wont-escalate-ukraine-crisis/article_1ee440c2-aa54-5489-975d-9b78bafa6b62.html
He said France was giving $1.3 billion in financial aid to Ukraine and helping restore infrastructure in the war-ravaged east of the country.
The Kremlin wants guarantees from the West that NATO will not accept Ukraine and other former Soviet nations as members, that it halt weapon deployments there and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe  demands the U.S. and NATO reject as nonstarters.
We have a common view with President Macron on threats and challenges to the security of Ukraine, of the whole of Europe, of the world in general, Zelenskyy said.
Western leaders in recent weeks have engaged in high-level talks, and more are planned amid the backdrop of military drills in Russia and Belarus. On Tuesday, the Russian Defense Ministry said that six amphibious landing ships were moving from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea for exercises and two Tu-22M3 long-range nuclear capable bombers flew another patrol over Belarus.
Macron later flew to Berlin, where he briefed Polish President Andrzej Duda and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who said their stance was unified, with a joint goal to prevent a war in Europe.
U.S. President Joe Biden has said any prospect of Ukraine entering NATO in the near term is not very likely, but he and other alliance members and NATO itself refuse to rule out Ukraines future entry.
You get home delivery Monday through Saturday  plus full digital access any time, on any device  with our six-day subscription delivery membership.
Peskov said withdrawing Russian troops from Belarus after the maneuvers was the plan all along.
Macron also said it would take time to find a diplomatic solution to the rising tensions, which represent the biggest security crisis between Russia and the West since the Cold War.
Putin said after Mondays meeting that the U.S. and NATO ignored Moscows demands but signaled readiness to continue talking. He also reiterated a warning that NATO membership for Ukraine could trigger a war between Russia and the alliance should Kyiv try to retake the Crimean Peninsula, which Moscow annexed in 2014.
Our local business directory includes detailed information for featured businesses as well as customer reviews and direct links to related events.
Macron also said the presidential advisers of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine will meet Thursday in Berlin on the next steps. It will take time to get results, he said.
Membership includes access to newsletters, special offers and the ability to share your subscription with up to four additional household members.
Macron said Putin set a collective trap by initiating the exchange of documents with the U.S. Moscow submitted its demands to Washington in the form of draft agreements that were made public, and insisted on a written response, which was then leaked.
With our four-day Wednesday-through-Saturday home delivery package, you get home delivery of our popular Food and 72 Hours sections as well as the full Saturday-Sunday weekend paper.
Johnson said he was considering dispatching RAF Typhoon fighters and Royal Navy warships to southeastern Europe. Britain said Monday it is sending 350 troops to Poland to bolster NATOs eastern flank. It already has sent anti-tank weapons to Ukraine.
In the history of diplomacy, there was never a crisis that has been settled by exchanges of letters which are to be made public afterward, he said, adding thats why he decided to go to Moscow for direct talks.
With a digital-only membership subscription, you get individual access to all of our online content, 247, on any device.
Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to continue reading.
Macron met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy amid mounting fears of a Russian invasion. Moscow has massed over 100,000 troops near Ukraines borders but insists it has no plans to attack.
More than 100 U.S. military personnel arrived in Romania ahead of a deployment of about 1,000 NATO troops expected in the country in the coming days, Romanias Defense Minister Vasile Dincu said.
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.
Our short-term pass is the digital equivalent of buying a couple of papers at the corner store. You can access all of our digital content for 48 hours with each non-renewing pass.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, visiting the front line in eastern Ukraines Donbas region, said she wanted to get an impression of what it means that we still have war in the middle of Europe.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, in an article in the Times of London, also urged allies to finalize heavy economic sanctions that would take effect if Russia crosses into Ukraine. He said the U.K. is ready to bolster NATO forces in Latvia and Estonia as he prepared to meet the Lithuanian prime minister in London to show support for the Baltic nations.
Biden met Monday with Scholz, who also will travel to Kyiv and Moscow on Feb. 14-15. They threatened Russia with grave consequences if it invaded, and Biden vowed that the Nord Stream 2 Russia-to-Germany gas pipeline, which has been completed but is not yet operating, will be blocked. Such a move would hurt Russia economically but also cause energy supply problems for Germany.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter conflict since 2014, when Ukraines Kremlin-friendly president was ousted, Moscow annexed Crimea and then backed a separatist insurgency in the east of the country. The fighting between Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces has killed over 14,000 people.
Subscriptions renew automatically every 30 days for $19.99. Call 240-215-8600 to cancel auto-renewal.Most subscribers are served by News-Post carriers households in some outlying areas receive same-day delivery through the US Postal Service. If your household falls in a postal delivery area, you will be notified by our customer service team.
For some reason, I get a vision of Macron waving a paper in the air and declaring "I believe it is peace for our time.
NATO, U.S. and European leaders reject the demands that they say challenge NATOs core principles, such as shutting the door to Ukraine or other countries that might seek membership but they have offered to discuss other Russian security concerns in Europe.
His remarks on a visit to Kyiv came as the Kremlin denied reports that he and Putin struck a deal on de-escalating the crisis. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that in the current situation, Moscow and Paris cant be reaching any deals.
Zelenskyy said he would welcome concrete steps from Putin for de-escalation, adding he didnt trust words in general.
Lets not be naive, he said. Since the beginning of the crisis, France hasnt been inclined to exaggerate, but at the same time, I dont believe this crisis can be settled in a few hours, through discussions
This membership plan includes member-only benefits like our popular ticket giveaways, all of our email newsletters and access to the daily digital replica of the printed paper. Also, you can share digital access with up to four other household members at no additional cost.
According to the French president, Putin also said there wont be any Russian permanent military base or deployment in Belarus, where Russia had sent a large number of troops for war games.
In 2015, France and Germany helped broker a peace deal, known as the Minsk agreements, that ended large-scale hostilities but failed to bring a political settlement of the conflict. The Kremlin has repeatedly accused Kyiv of sabotaging the deal, and Ukrainian officials in recent weeks said that implementing it would hurt Ukraine.
Germany has given Ukraine about 1.8 billion euros in aid since 2014, part of which is helping those displaced by fighting.
Macron said both Putin and Zelenskyy confirmed they were willing to implement the Minsk agreements  the only path allowing to build peace ... and find a sustainable political solution.
U.S. officials have said that about 1,000 alliance troops will be sent from Germany to Romania, a NATO member since 2004. Romania borders Ukraine to the north. About 1,700 U.S. soldiers from the 82nd Airborne are also going to Poland.
At a news conference after meeting Zelenskyy, Macron said Putin told him during their more than five-hour session Monday that he wont be initiating an escalation. I think it is important.
U.S. officials have portrayed the threat of an invasion of Ukraine as imminent  warnings Moscow has scoffed at, accusing Washington of fueling tensions.
Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to read or post comments.
KYIV, Ukraine  French President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday that Russian President Vladimir Putin told him that Moscow would not further escalate the Ukraine crisis.
Litvinova reported from Moscow. Jill Lawless in London, Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv, Ellen Knickmeyer in Washington, Stephen McGrath in Bucharest, Romania, and Frank Jordans in Berlin contributed.
Plus you get access to the ePages, a digital replica of the printed paper, and all of our email newsletters.
And, as with all of our packages, you get full access to all of our online content, any day and on any device.
Macron said he had not expected Putin to make any gestures Monday, saying his objective was to prevent an escalation and open new perspectives. ... That objective is met.
After meeting Macron, Putin said without elaboration that some of the French presidents proposals could serve as a basis for a settlement of the separatist conflict, adding that they agreed to speak by phone after Macrons visit to Kyiv.
Subscriptions renew automatically every 30 days at $14.99. Call 240-215-8600 to cancel auto-renewal.Most subscribers are served by News-Post carriers households in some outlying areas receive same-day delivery through the US Postal Service. If your household falls in a postal delivery area, you will be notified by our customer service team.
Zelenskyy was mum on where Ukraine stands on implementing the Minsk agreements and whether he assured Macron that Kyiv is committed to do so, saying only that his country views Thursdays meeting very positively and hoped for a subsequent meeting by the four leaders.
