Israel hits out at Russia over Lavrovs Nazism remarks
20220502
https://www.freepressseries.co.uk/news/national/20108332.israel-hits-russia-lavrovs-nazism-remarks/
More than 70 years later, the Holocaust is central to its national ethos and it has positioned itself at the centre of global efforts to remember the Holocaust and combat antisemitism.
Asked in an interview with an Italian news channel about Russian claims that it invaded Ukraine to denazify the country, Sergei Lavrov said that Ukraine could still have Nazi elements even if some figures, including the countrys president, were Jewish.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, who has been more measured in his criticism of Russias invasion, also condemned Mr Lavrovs comments.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
That has forced Israel to tread lightly in its criticism of the war in Ukraine.
So when they say How can Nazification exist if were Jewish? In my opinion, Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesnt mean absolutely anything. For some time we have heard from the Jewish people that the biggest antisemites were Jewish, he said, speaking to the station in Russian, dubbed over by an Italian translation.
The Holocaust and the constant manipulation of its history during the conflict has sparked outrage in Israel before.
By trying to rewrite history, Moscow is simply looking for arguments to justify the mass murders of Ukrainians, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted.
In his bid to legitimise the war to Russian citizens, President Vladimir Putin has portrayed the battle as a struggle against Nazis in Ukraine, even though the country has a democratically elected government and a Jewish president whose relatives were killed in the Holocaust.
In a speech to Israeli legislators in March, Mr Zelensky compared Russias invasion of his country to the actions of Nazi Germany, accusing Mr Putin of trying to carry out a final solution against Ukraine.
Israel is home to a shrinking population of 165,000 Holocaust survivors, most in their 80s and 90s, and last week the country marked its annual Holocaust memorial day.
Nazism has featured prominently in Russias war aims and narrative as it fights in Ukraine.
In Germany, government spokesman Steffen Hebstreit said the Russian governments propaganda efforts were not worthy of comment, calling them absurd.
While it has sent humanitarian aid to Ukraine and expressed support for its people, Israel has been measured in its criticism of Russia and has not joined international sanctions against it.
Israel, which summoned the Russian ambassador in response, said the remarks blamed Jews for their own murder in the Holocaust.
It was a steep decline in the ties between the two countries at a time when Israel has sought to stake out a neutral position between Russia and Ukraine and remain in Russias good stead for its security needs in the Middle East.
Lavrov is propagating the inversion of the Holocaust  turning the victims into the criminals on the basis of promoting a completely unfounded claim that Hitler was of Jewish descent, it said in a statement.
Israels Holocaust memorial Yad Vashem called the remarks absurd, delusional, dangerous and deserving of condemnation.
Repeatedly reaching for the historical narrative that places Russia as a saviour against evil forces has helped the Kremlin rally Russians around the war.
Russia has a military presence in neighbouring Syria, and Israel, which carries out frequent strikes on enemy targets in the country, relies on Russia for security co-ordination there.
The comparisons drew an angry condemnation from Yad Vashem, which said Mr Zelensky was trivialising the Holocaust.
In some of the harshest remarks since the start of the war in Ukraine, Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid called Mr Lavrovs statement unforgivable and scandalous and a horrible historical error.
Israel has hit out at Russia over unforgivable comments by its foreign minister about Nazism and antisemitism  including claims that Adolf Hitler was Jewish.
The Second World War, in which the Soviet Union lost an estimated 27 million people and helped defeat Nazi Germany, is a linchpin of Russias national identity.
Equally serious is calling the Ukrainians in general, and President Volodymyr Zelensky in particular, Nazis. This, among other things, is a complete distortion of the history and an affront to the victims of Nazism.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said Mr Lavrovs remarks exposed the deeply rooted antisemitism of the Russian elites.
That paved the way for Mr Bennett to be able to try to mediate between the sides, an effort which appears to have stalled as Israel deals with its own internal unrest.
