People are picking up the pieces around Kharkiv after liberation by Ukrainian forces
20220510
https://www.wfdd.org/story/people-are-picking-pieces-around-kharkiv-after-liberation-ukrainian-forces
BEAUBIEN: Sergei, who's 49, says he spent half his life working hard - maybe, he adds, too hard - to build this house.
MALAYA ROHAN, Ukraine  The village of Malaya Rohan, east of Kharkiv, lies largely in ruins. Burned-out tanks are sandwiched between collapsed buildings. Hot tub-sized craters pock the roads. The school is shattered.
In the days after the invasion, sitting in his aunt's cold, dark basement, Shapoval says he was struck by how different Ukraine is from Russia. "It was only at that stage that I realized that we'd lived in a European village," he says. "We had European roots. We had European TVs. We had the European community here. Now we have simply nothing."
"Pretty much every building got some level of destruction," says Skorkina, who also spent most of the Russian occupation in a basement.
BEAUBIEN: This part of Ukraine is heavily Russian-speaking. Downtown Kharkiv is just 30 miles from the Russian border. But for Sergei, the invasion, he says, permanently shifted his focus to the West.
Shapoval never thought the Russians would actually attack Ukraine. His part of the country is heavily Russian speaking. Downtown Kharkiv is just 30 miles from the Russian border. People used to go shopping in Russia.
Miroshnyk, 77, is retired but worked for much of her life as welder in Malaya Rohan. Russians and Ukrainians got along well here, she says.
BEAUBIEN: He never thought the Russians were actually going to attack Ukraine. And then two days after the invasion, he had to flee to a basement in his aunt's house. Soon, the power went out. For weeks, Sergei and his family lived without lights or heat, he says, eating canned vegetables residents had stored in their cellars. He says the Russians were like beasts. They shot at people who tried to flee. He says one soldier raped a young girl. We can't confirm these allegations. But for Sergei, the Russian occupation of his village and his house fundamentally changed his vision of Russia.
Russian forces took over the village soon after launching the large-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24. Now, areas like this are finally being liberated as the Ukrainian military makes advances in the northeast. The battles have been going on since the invasion. A senior U.S. defense official said Monday that Ukrainians forces continue to gain ground around Kharkiv, pushing Russian forces to within two miles of the Russian border.
"They were like animals or beasts," he says of some of the invading Russian troops. They shot at people who tried to flee. They rammed over front gates with their vehicles rather than opening them. He says one soldier raped a young girl. NPR has not verified these allegations. But for Shapoval, the occupation fundamentally changed his vision of Russia.
BEAUBIEN: In the very first days of the invasion, Russia launched an offensive to encircle Kharkiv. Fierce battles broke out, particularly in the northern suburbs. Hundreds of thousands of people fled. Up until last week, Russian ground troops continued to fire shells into residential neighborhoods on the periphery of Kharkiv. An offensive by Ukrainian troops that started weeks ago has now pushed the Russian lines back to the point where their artillery can no longer strike the city.
"When our forces started to liberate the village, there was heavy bombs and heavy shelling," she says. "It was really bad. The walls, the ceiling, even the earth, the soil, was trembling because they were bombarding it so hard."
BEAUBIEN: But for Malaya Rohan, the damage has already been done. At a cultural center in the middle of the village, volunteers are distributing hot soup and cabbage salad. One of the organizers of the lunch, Larisa Skorkina ph, says the problems facing the village are massive.
"Putin is a liar," Miroshnyk says. "We always lived peacefully here. There are no Nazis here. He simply wants more land."
"I have a family in Russia right now and my whole ... life, I was speaking Russian," he says. "Now I feel disgust to speak Russian. I don't want to speak the language anymore."
Larisa Skorkina, helping to organize humanitarian aid distribution, says the entire village needs to be rebuilt. In the short term, the most pressing needs are reconnecting electricity, gas and water lines. Many residents also need food. Over the weekend, volunteers brought in buckets of hot soup and tubs of red cabbage salad for dozens of residents who'd remained throughout the occupation or recently returned.
LARISA SKORKINA: Through interpreter Pretty much every house got some level of destruction - some shrapnel, some damages to the roof, to the land, even to the courtyard. So we need to rebuild the whole city, the whole village.
JASON BEAUBIEN, BYLINE: In the village of Malaya Rohan on the eastern edge of Kharkiv, Shapoval Sergei ph is cleaning up. His house is a mess, caused by bomb blasts, shrapnel and Russian troops who camped in his living room.
MARTINEZ: These comments come as the Ukrainian military is making advances in the northeast part of the country around the city of Kharkiv. Those areas are finally being liberated after being occupied by Russian soldiers for weeks. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports.
SHAPOVAL SERGEI: Through interpreter Everything is ripped. Everything is destroyed. You can see ceiling is burnt out.
"Everything is ripped. Everything is destroyed," he says as he walks through the rubble in his hallway. "You can see the ceiling is burnt out."
Shapoval ended up living for weeks in the basement of his aunt's house. Soon after the invasion, the power went out. Shapoval and his family lived without lights or heat, he says, cooking potatoes over an open fire and eating canned vegetables they found in nearby cellars.
Miroshnyk spent the entire occupation living with a dozen other people in a basement. She says she wouldn't have left even if she'd been able to, because her husband and daughter are buried in the local cemetery.
BEAUBIEN: The power is still out. Parts of the village remain mined. Other parts are flattened. I asked what residents need in the short term, Skorkina says that besides food, everyone seems to have run out of matches, because they're still cooking over open fires, and powdered laundry detergent as they try to clean up. As Russian forces retreat further to the east, scenes like this are unfolding in villages and towns throughout the region. Ukrainian military officials, however, say Russian troops continue to hold key supply lines east of Kharkiv and are blocking Ukrainian efforts to advance all the way to the border.
Until last week, Russian ground troops continued to fire mortar rounds and artillery shells into residential neighborhoods in Kharkiv. By Saturday, Ukrainian troops pushed the Russian lines back to the point that a Ukrainian military spokesman said that for the first time in weeks, there had been no strikes on Ukraine's second-largest city.
And there are shortages of matches and powdered laundry soap. The matches have run out because so many people are still cooking over open fires, and they need more laundry detergent as they try to clean up.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said one of the reasons for his invasion of Ukraine was to liberate oppressed Russian speakers in this part of Ukraine. But Miroshnyk says there was no issue.
Shapoval, 49, says he spent half his life working hard  maybe too hard  to build this house. Now he'll have to work even harder to repair it.
"You can see the bullet holes here," he says, pointing to puncture marks in a wall.
Miroshnyk, who's also known as the local granny "Baba Marusya," says the alleged Nazis who Putin says he wants to get rid of in Ukraine simply don't exist.
Sergei Shapoval is one of the luckier residents. His house is still standing, though most of the windows are broken. A grenade went off inside and shrapnel ripped through his television. He and his family fled to a bomb shelter, the basement of his aunt's house, in the first days of the fighting. Russian troops took over his house and camped in his living room.
"We never had any problems like that before," she says. "If you want to speak Russian, speak Russian. If you want to speak Ukrainian, speak Ukrainian."
"They were saying to us that Russians are going to attack, but we simply refused to believe it," she says as she takes a break from cleaning up shattered glass in her granddaughter's house. "We know people from this village who are in Moscow, working there. It was simply unimaginable to us."
"I thought we were always like brother and sister before," she says. "And I was even going to Moscow to buy some supplies for my house."
SERGEI: Through interpreter I have a family in Russia right now. And here, all my life, I was speaking Russian. Now I feel disgust to speak Russian anymore. I will do whatever I need, but I don't want to speak this language anymore. And I don't want to know about them.
SERGEI: Through interpreter It's only at this stage I realize that we lived in a European village. We had European roads. We had European TVs. We had European community here. Now we have, simply, nothing.
Speaking to reporters via video, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Ukraine has the upper hand in its fight against Russia.
