War hacks How outgunned Ukraine finds ways to counter Russia
20220526
https://www.wfdd.org/story/war-hacks-how-outgunned-ukraine-finds-ways-counter-russia
Russia was also expected to dominate the information war. Yet Ukraine has often been a step ahead. It cut off Russian-based cell phones that the Russians brought them into the country.
To fight against Russia's larger military, Ukraine has had to be creative, from low-tech to high-tech. You could call them war hacks, and many seem to be working. NPR's Greg Myre has this story from Ukraine's capital, Kyiv.
MCDAID: I saw a very common - you say, like, an army marches on its stomach. And somebody responded to a tweet, saying, oh, an army now seems to march on its mobile networks.
MYRE: In the current fighting, Ukrainian artillery units are using a network of computer tablets on the battlefield. This allows them to better coordinate their attacks on the Russians. And the previously outgunned Ukrainians now have huge howitzers recently delivered by the U.S.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian artillery units are using a network of computer tablets on the battlefield. This allows them to better coordinate their attacks on the Russians.The previously outgunned Ukrainians now have huge howitzers recently delivered by the U.S., which has helped level the field to some extent. The Americans are also providing a week-long crash course in how to use them, having trained a couple hundred Ukrainian soldiers in recent weeks.
MYRE: This means using shoulder-held Stinger missiles to hit low-flying Russian helicopters and surface-to-air missiles to bring down high-flying jets. Russia was also expected to dominate the information war, yet Ukraine has often been a step ahead. It cut off Russian-based cellphones that the Russians brought into the country.
MYRE: Cathal McDaid is an expert on mobile phone security, based in Ireland. He's closely monitoring the war.
CATHAL MCDAID: You don't just switch off the roaming from a country - another country overnight.
YURI IGNAT: Through interpreter Our planes can't stand up technologically. It's obvious what the results of those dogfights would be, so we have to use what we have with maximal effectiveness.
HODGES: I'm not surprised that they are doing very well - getting new equipment and how quickly they're able to learn to use it.
And, in the case of Ukraine, its ingenuity. Greg Myre is an NPR national security correspondent. Follow him gregmyre1.
BEN HODGES: I quickly discovered that radar is better than I realized. The Ukrainians took it and were able to use it in ways that I did not know were possible. And it's not just the technical part, but it's also the tactical, how they employed it.
When the Russians started stealing Ukrainian cell phones, Ukrainian citizens reported the thefts. This allowed the Ukrainian officials to quietly listen in on the calls the Russians made on those stolen phones.
KORSHAK: Their army has developed the discipline to make the soldiers dig holes the moment they stop, wherever they are, any time that they could potentially be hit by Russian artillery. And that saves lives.
In the current fighting, the Ukrainians are receiving U.S. and Turkish drones that have proved highly effective against Russian armor and troops.
MYRE: When the Russians started stealing Ukrainians' cellphones, Ukrainian citizens reported the thefts. This allowed the Ukrainian officials to intercept calls the Russians made on those stolen phones. The Ukrainians, McDaid says, have learned many tricks from the Russians.
MCDAID: You know, there's planning - a lot of planning. A huge amount of planning goes on beforehand.
GREG MYRE, BYLINE: There are two things you need to know about military trenches. First, you'll never find a soldier who likes to dig one. Second, the deeper they are, the safer they are.
As a result, Russian pilots are often firing their missiles long distance  from the skies over Russia or the Black Sea  rather than venturing into Ukrainian air space."Our planes can't stand up technologically. It's obvious what the results of dogfights would be," said Lt. Col. Yuriy Ignat, spokesman for Ukraine's Air Force. "So we have to use what we have with maximal effectiveness. There's no alternative but to preserve our equipment and the lives of our pilots."
MYRE: When Russia invaded Ukraine back in 2014, Ukraine's army was simply outmatched. By all accounts, it has improved dramatically. Retired U.S. Army Lieutenant General Ben Hodges saw this firsthand. He became the commander of the U.S. Army in Europe shortly after that first Russian incursion. As American troops helped train the Ukrainians, he was immediately struck by their tech savvy when the U.S. provided radar equipment that detected incoming Russian artillery fire.
MYRE: In the air, Russia has far more fighter jets, which are a generation more advanced than the aging Soviet-era planes the Ukrainians are flying. Ukraine also has limited air defenses on the ground. Russia was expected to destroy the Ukrainian air force within days. Instead, Ukraine says it's now shot down 200 Russian aircraft. And as a result, Russian pilots are often firing their missiles long distance from the skies over Russia, rather than entering Ukrainian airspace. Ukraine's air force spokesman is Lieutenant Colonel Yuri Ignat.
MYRE: American Stefan Korshak knows the Ukrainian military well. He's been living in Ukraine for 25 years and covers the war for the KyivPost.
"I'm not surprised that they are doing very well getting new equipment, and how quickly they're able to learn to use it," said Hodges. In the air war, Russia has far more fighter jets, which are a generation more advanced than the aging, Soviet-era MiG planes the Ukrainians are flying. Ukraine also has limited air defenses on the ground.Russia was expected to destroy the Ukrainian air force within days. Instead, Ukraine says it's shot down 200 Russian aircraft. The Ukrainians have used shoulder-held Stinger missiles to take down low-flying helicopters, and the S-300 surface-to-air missile system to take down higher flying aircraft.
Retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Ben Hodges has seen Ukraine's military improve first-hand. He became the commander of U.S. Army Europe shortly after that first Russian incursion.As American troops helped train the Ukrainians, he was immediately struck by their tech savvy when the U.S. provided radar equipment that detected incoming Russian artillery fire."I quickly discovered that radar is better than I realized," said Hodges. "The Ukrainians took it and were able to use it in ways that I did not know were possible. And it's not just the technical part, but it's also the tactical, how they employed it."
He continued to be impressed by Ukrainian ingenuity in the years that followed."Then I saw where they were creating their own drones with a combination of military and off-the-shelf stuff," Hodges said in an interview from Germany, where he's now with the Center for European Policy Analysis.
KYIV, Ukraine  There are two important things to know about military trenches. First, you'll never find a soldier who likes to dig one. Second, the deeper they are, the safer they are."Digging a hole is not fun," said Stefan Korshak, an American who knows the Ukrainian military well. He's been living in Ukraine for 25 years and covers the war for the Kyiv Post. "Their army has developed the discipline to make the soldiers dig holes, the moment they stop, wherever they are, anytime they could potentially be hit by Russian artillery. And that saves lives," said Korshak. When Russia invaded Ukraine back in 2014, Ukraine's army was simply outmatched. Since then, Ukraine has had to figure out creative ways to defend itself and fight back, from low-tech to high-tech. You could call them 'war hacks.' And many seem to be working.
"I saw a great comment. You say 'an army marches on its stomach,' and somebody responded with a tweet saying, 'what an army now seems to march on is its mobile networks,'" said Mc Daid.
MYRE: And its ingenuity. Greg Myre, NPR News, Kyiv. Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.
HODGES: Then I saw where they were creating their own drones with a combination of military and off-the-shelf stuff.
"You don't just switch off the roaming from a country, another country, overnight," said Cathal Mc Daid, an expert on mobile phone security with Adaptive Mobile Security in Ireland, who is closely monitoring the war. "You know, there's planning, a lot of planning. Feasibility planning goes in beforehand."
