The international community condemns Russias recent actions regarding Ukraine
20220222
https://www.rri.ro/en_gb/the_international_community_condemns_russias_recent_actions_regarding_ukraine-2655333
The Kremlin leader's decision to sign the decree recognizing the independence of the separatist regions of Donetsk and Luhanskin eastern Ukraine has been strongly condemned by Romania. "This act is a flagrant violation of international law, of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Russia is also violating its obligations as a signatory to the Minsk Agreements, which are now devoid of meaning", Romania's President Klaus Iohannis said in a press release.
The Romanian government also condemns any attempt to question Ukraine's territorial integrity and considers questioning the status of a UN member a revisionist approach that threatens peace in Europe and the world.The decision by the Russian Federation to recognize the independence of the two separatist regions and to send peacekeepers to the Donbas has sparked a wave of international condemnation, and the UN Security Council has convened an emergency meeting to discuss the latest developments in Ukraine.
The United States and Britain have already announced that they will impose sanctions on Russia, and Germany has said Moscow's actions will not go unanswered. Brussels also announced, shortly after the signing of the decrees by Putin, that the EU would react with sanctions against those involved in this illegal action.
Bucharest considers that Russia, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, threatens, through its actions, the global peace and security guaranteed by the Security Council itself, by deliberately violating the principles of international law provided by the UN Charter and the Helsinki Final Act.The international community must firmly, immediately and unequivocally sanction this irresponsible decision of Russia, the head of state added, stressing that Romania reaffirms its strong support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and will act in coordination with its partners and allies to implement the appropriate measures in response to the current situation.
Russia's order to deploy "peacekeepers" in eastern Ukraine is "a nonsense", Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the US ambassador to the UN, said at the meeting. According to her, Moscow's recognition of the independence of the separatist regions in the east of Ukraine is part of Russia's plan to create a pretext for a large-scale invasion of Ukraine.
"Moscow continues to fuel the conflict in eastern Ukraine by providing financial and military support to the separatists. It is also trying to stage a pretext to invade Ukraine once again"."This further undermines Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, erodes efforts towards a resolution of the conflict, and violates the Minsk Agreements, to which Russia is a party", the NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said. MI
