Elon Musk Starlink terminal is now active in Ukraine
20220227
https://www.zmescience.com/science/elon-musk-starlink-terminal-is-now-active-in-ukraine/
elonmusk, while you try to colonize Mars  Russia try to occupy Ukraine! While your rockets successfully land from space  Russian rockets attack Ukrainian civil people! We ask you to provide Ukraine with Starlink stations and to address sane Russians to stand.
In desperation, Ukrainian First Vice Prime MinisterMykhailo Fedorov tweetedto Elon Musk for help with his Starlink fleet.
While costly to deploy, satellite technology can provide a much-needed internet source for people who live in remote, rural, or disrupted areas. The technology could also serve as a backup in the case of a natural or man-made disaster  which is exactly the case in Ukraine right now.
Meanwhile, the situation of embattled Ukraine remains critical, and having Internet connectivity and ensuring vital communication is quite possibly crucial for the fate of the country.
Fedorov tweeted his thanks to the billionaire, with the countrys official Twitter account Ukraine also acknowledging Musks actions, tweeting Thanx sic, appreciate it.
Without too many terminals, this is quite possibly a symbolic move rather than one that will make a major difference, but with Ukrainians with their backs against the wall, it could at least make a difference for some people.
As the Russian invasion of Ukraine continues to rage on, the war is being fought on multiple fronts  and one of these fronts is the internet. Russian forces have severely disrupted internet functionality in Ukraine, and there are legitimate concerns about the country or large parts of the country being essentially severed from the internet.
We could not verify how many such terminals are in Ukraine right now or how many more are en route. This remains a key question, and it is unclear whether Starlink can make a significant amount of terminals available to Ukraine on such short notice.
Remarkably, it worked. Within hours, Musk replied: Starlink service is now active in Ukraine. More terminals en route.
This does not mean Starlink internet is live for all of Ukraine. The move can only provide internet to those with Starlinks special receivers  these are the terminals Musk was referring to.
Starlink satellites are able to provide broadband Internet connections from space, and having the satellites deployed above Ukraine means parts of the country may enjoy internet connectivity without the risk of Russian interference.
