Biden calls Putin a war criminal
20220318
https://www.bworldonline.com/biden-calls-putin-a-war-criminal/
The United States announced an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine to fight Russia, with the new package including drones, anti-armor and anti-aircraft systems.
My priorities during the negotiations are absolutely clear: the end of the war, guarantees of security, sovereignty, restoration of territorial integrity, real guarantees for our country, real protection for our country, Mr. Zelensky said in a video address released early on Thursday.
In the darkest time for our country, for the whole of Europe, I call on you to do more, he said.
Vladimir Medinsky, Russias chief negotiator, told state TV: Ukraine is offering an Austrian or Swedish version of a neutral demilitarized state, but at the same time a state with its own army and navy.
Ukraines armed forces are conducting small-scale counter attacks on several fronts and Russian troops have not been able to gain ground because of a lack of resources, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said on Wednesday.
Thirteen buses carrying around 300 refugees from Mariupol have arrived in Russias Rostov region, Russias Interfax news agency cited the Russian defense ministry as saying on Thursday.
Ukraines foreign ministry said Russian forces dropped a powerful bomb on a theatre in the besieged southern port city of Mariupol, leaving many civilians trapped and an unknown number of casualties. Reuters could not independently verify the information.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has said Ukraine could accept international security guarantees that stopped short of its longstanding aim to join NATO. That prospect has been one of Russias primary concerns.
This raises serious concerns about what the intended target was in a city where civilians have already been under siege for days and telecommunications, power, water, and heating have been almost completely cut off, Belkis Wille from the rights group said.
The US Embassy in Kyiv said Russian forces had shot dead 10 people waiting in line for bread in Chernihiv, northeast of Kyiv. Russia denied the attack and said the incident was a hoax.
Maxar Technologies, a private US company, distributed satellite imagery it said was collected on March 14 and showed the word children in large Russian script painted on the ground outside the red-roofed building.
Moscow has yet to capture any of Ukraines biggest cities despite the largest assault on a European state since World War II. More than 3 million Ukrainians have fled and thousands have died as the war enters its fourth week.
US President Joseph R. Biden called Russian leader Vladimir Putin a war criminal in comments the Kremlin said were unforgivable as it insisted the war in Ukraine was going to plan amid talk of compromise at peace talks.
The Kremlin said negotiators were discussing a status for Ukraine similar to that of Austria or Sweden, both members of the European Union that are outside the NATO military alliance.
Neutral status is now being seriously discussed along, of course, with security guarantees, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said. There are absolutely specific formulations which in my view are close to agreement.
More will be coming as we source additional stocks of equipment that  we are ready to transfer, Mr. Biden said, later condemning Mr. Putin.
Moscow denies targeting civilians and Russias defense ministry said its forces had not struck the building, RIA news agency said.
In a speech on Wednesday to the US Congress by video link, Mr. Zelensky repeated a request for a no-fly zone over Ukraine, something the West wont introduce.
The United Nations top court for disputes between states ordered Russia on Wednesday to immediately halt its military operations in Ukraine, saying it was profoundly concerned by Moscows use of force.
The U.N. Security Council is due to vote on Friday on a Russian-drafted call for aid access and civilian protection, but diplomats say the measure is set to fail because it does not push for an end to the fighting or withdrawal of troops.  Reuters
Austria and Sweden, the biggest of six EU members outside NATO, both have small militaries that cooperate with the alliance.
KYIVLVIV, Ukraine  International outrage over Russias invasion of Ukraine grew on Thursday as US and Ukrainian officials said civilians waiting in line for bread and sheltering in a theater had been killed by Russian forces.
