Britain says Russia planning to replace Ukraine government
20220123
https://www.bworldonline.com/britain-says-russia-planning-to-replace-ukraine-government/
Earlier, RIA news agency reported that British foreign minister Ms. Truss would visit Moscow in February to meet her Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov, while Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and his British counterpart Ben Wallace have also agreed to hold talks.  Reuters
The British claims come a day after the top US and Russian diplomats failed to make a major breakthrough in talks to resolve the crisis over Ukraine, although they agreed to keep talking. Russia has made security demands on the United States including a halt to NATOs eastward expansion and a pledge that Ukraine will never be allowed to join the Western military alliance.
Mr. Murayev, 45, is a pro-Russian politician who opposes Ukraines integration with the West. According to a poll by the Razumkovs Centre think tank conducted in Dec. 2021, he was ranked seventh among candidates for the 2024 presidential election with 6.3 support.
Some of these have contact with Russian intelligence officers currently involved in the planning for an attack on Ukraine, the British foreign office statement said.
A foreign ministry source said it was not usual practice to share intelligence matters, and the details had only been declassified after careful consideration to deter Russian aggression.
Youve made my evening. The British Foreign Office seems confused, Mr. Murayev told Britains Observer newspaper. It isnt very logical. Im banned from Russia. Not only that but money from my fathers firm there has been confiscated.
The British statement was released in the early hours of Sunday, Moscow and Kyiv time, and there was no immediate statement from the Kremlin, or from Mr. Murayev.
We will not tolerate Kremlin plot to install pro-Russian leadership in Ukraine, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter. The Kremlin knows a military incursion would be a massive strategic mistake  the UK and our partners would impose a severe cost on Russia.
LONDON  Britain on Saturday accused the Kremlin of seeking to install a pro-Russian leader in Ukraine, and said Russian intelligence officers had been in contact with a number of former Ukrainian politicians as part of plans for an invasion.
The Russian Foreign Ministry dismissed the comments as disinformation, accusing Britain and NATO of escalating tensions over Ukraine.
Mr. Yanukovich fled to Russia in 2014 after three months of protests against his rule and was sentenced in absentia to 13 years in jail on treason charges in 2019.
The British ministry said it had information the Russian government was considering former Ukrainian lawmaker Yevhen Murayev as a potential candidate to head a pro-Russian leadership.
The British foreign ministry declined to provide evidence to back its accusations, which came at a time of high tensions between Russia and the West over Russias massing of troops near its border with Ukraine. Moscow has insisted it has no plans to invade.
Britain, which this week supplied 2,000 missiles and a team of military trainers to Ukraine, also said it had information that Russian intelligence services were maintaining links with numerous former Ukrainian politicians, including senior figures with links to ex-President Viktor Yanukovich.
Prime Minister Boris Johnsons Downing Street office also said the British leader was planning to ramp up pressure on Russia this week by calling for European counterparts to come together with the United States to face down Russian aggression.
We urge the Foreign Office to cease these provocative activities, stop spreading nonsense and finally concentrate its efforts on studying the history of the Mongol-Tatar yoke, the ministry said on its verified Facebook account.
US National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said in a statement: This kind of plotting is deeply concerning. The Ukrainian people have the sovereign right to determine their own future, and we stand with our democratically-elected partners in Ukraine.
