Chinas DJI halts Russia Ukraine sales to prevent use of its drones in combat
20220427
https://www.bworldonline.com/technology/2022/04/27/444903/chinas-dji-halts-russia-ukraine-sales-to-prevent-use-of-its-drones-in-combat/
ADJIspokesperson said on Wednesday its suspension of business in Russia and Ukraine was not to make a statement about any country, but to make a statement about our principles.
A company representative said last monthDJIwas aware of footage online that suggested the Russian military was using its products,but it had not been able to confirm this and the company had no control over the use of its products.
Privately heldDJIdoes not release financial information but research firmDroneAnalyst has estimated that it had hardware revenue of $2.9 billion in 2020.
Ukrainian officials and citizens have accusedDJIof leaking data on the Ukrainian military to Russia  allegations the worlds largestmakerof consumer and industrialdrones has called utterly false.
DJIabhors any use of ourdrones to cause harm, and we are temporarily suspending sales in these countries in order to help ensure no-one uses ourdrones in combat.
In contrast to the many Western firms that have pulled out of Russia to protest its invasion of Ukraine,Chinesecompanies have stayed there, in line with Beijings stance of refraining from criticism of Moscow over the conflict.
Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say this a false pretext for an unprovoked war of aggression.
The conflict has putChinesecompanies in a bind. Continuing to operate in Russia has drawn international criticism, but withdrawing would risk a backlash from theChinesepublic.
Telecoms equipmentmakerHuawei TechnologiesHWT.UL is also under scrutiny over whether it plans to stay in Russia. The company did not take any Russia-related questions at its annual analyst summit on Tuesday.  Reuters
SHENZHEN, ChinaDronegiantDJITechnology Co said it will temporarily suspend business in Russia and Ukraine to ensure its products are not used in combat, making it the first majorChinesefirm to cite the conflict in halting sales in Russia.
In February, ride-hailing giant Didi GlobalDIDI.Nreversed a decision to leave Russia and Kazakhstan after domestic social media users accused it of succumbing to U.S. pressure.
