Moscow steps up assault in Ukraines south eastern Donbas
20220501
https://www.bworldonline.com/world/2022/05/01/445616/moscow-steps-up-assault-in-ukraines-south-eastern-donbas/
Britain will continue to give the Ukrainians the equipment they need to defend themselves, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Saturday.
Britains Foreign Office warned on Sunday that Russia was using a troll factory to spread disinformation about the war in Ukraine on social media.
In his speech, Mr. Zelensky said Russia was gathering additional forces for new attacks against our military in the east of the country and trying to increase pressure in the Donbas.
A Russian missile launched from Crimea destroyed the runway at the main airport in the city of Odesa to the west, said regional governor Maksym Marchenko, but no one was hurt.
The United Nations has urged an evacuation deal. On Saturday a Ukrainian fighter inside said some 20 women and children had made it out.
We are getting civilians out of the rubble with ropes  its the elderly, women and children, said the fighter, Sviatoslav Palamar, referring to wreckage within the plant, which sprawls 4 sq km 1.5 sq miles.
Despite weeks of peace talks, both sides looked to be as far apart as ever on Saturday.
Moscow calls its actions a special operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of anti-Russian nationalism fomented by the West. Ukraine and the West say Russia launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
Mr. Biden praised the courage of journalists covering the Russian invasion of Ukraine in comments at the White House Correspondents Association dinner in Washington.
Moscow has turned its focus to Ukraines south and east after failing to capture the capital Kyiv in a nine-week assault that has flattened cities, killed thousands of civilians and forced more than 5 million to flee abroad.
DOBROPILLIAKYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines shelling killed and injured its own civilians in the southern region of Kherson, Russia said on Sunday, after pounding southern and eastern areas with missile strikes, while some civilians got away from a steel plant in besieged Mariupol.
A poison is running through our democracy with disinformation massively on the rise, Mr. Biden said on Saturday night. You, the free press, matter more than you ever did in the last century.
US President Joseph R. Biden is seeking a $33 billion aid package for Kyiv, including $20 billion for weapons.
The United States and its European allies have imposed sweeping sanctions on Russias economy and supplied Ukraine with weapons and humanitarian aid.
Mr. Palamar said Russia and Ukraine were respecting a local ceasefire, and he hoped the evacuated civilians would be taken to the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia to the northwest.
There was no comment from Russia or the United Nations on the evacuations. Hundreds of Ukrainians remain inside the steel works, Ukrainian officials say.
Russias defense ministry accused Ukraines forces of shelling a school, kindergarten and cemetery in the villages of Kyselivka and Shyroka Balka in the Kherson region, the Russian RIA news agency said on Sunday.
We cannot allow the Kremlin and its shady troll farms to invade our online spaces with their lies about Putins illegal war, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement.  Reuters
The airport could no longer be used, Ukraines military said. President Volodymyr Zelensky vowed to rebuild it, saying in a late-night video speech, Odesa will never forget Russias behavior towards it.
The ministry gave no further details. There was no immediate response from Ukraine to the report, which Reuters could not independently verify.
Moscows assault in the south aims in part to link the area with Crimea as it pushes for complete control of Ukraines eastern Donbas region, where Russian-backed separatists already controlled parts of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces before Moscows Feb. 24 invasion.
There was no comment on the strike from Moscow, whose forces have sporadically targeted Ukraines third-largest city, where eight people were killed in a recent Russian strike, Ukrainian officials said.
Russia declared victory in Mariupol on April 21, even as hundreds of Ukrainian troops and civilians took shelter in the Azovstal steel works.
Ukraine accuses Russian troops of carrying out atrocities in areas near Kyiv in early April, a claim denied by Moscow. Negotiators last met face-to-face on March 29, and have since spoken by video link.
Its forces have captured the town of Kherson, giving them a foothold just 100 km 60 miles north of Russian-annexed Crimea, and have mostly occupied Mariupol, the strategic eastern port city on the Azov Sea.
