US allies ready new Russian sanctions after Bucha killings
20220406
https://www.bworldonline.com/u-s-allies-ready-new-russian-sanctions-after-bucha-killings/
U.S.chipmaker Intel CorpINTC.Osaid it had suspended business operations in Russia, joining a slew of companies to exit the country.Read full story
The southern city of Mariupol has been under attack by Russian forces and constantly bombarded since the early days of the invasion almost six weeks ago, trapping tens of thousands of residents without food, water or power.
Newsanctionsset to be unveiled Wednesday are in part a response toBucha, the White House said.
EU executiveUrsula von der Leyen said the bloc was working on banning oil imports, as well. Europe, which obtains about a third of its natural gas from Russia, has been wary of the economic impact a total ban on Russian energy would bring.Read full story
Why did these animals shoot him so? Lahovskyi said, sobbing. This is not Russia, this is a monster.
In the small Russian city of Kaluga thousands of auto workers have been furloughed and food prices are soaring as Westernsanctionshit its flagship foreign carmakers.Read full story
Moscow denied targeting civilians inBuchaand described evidence presented as a monstrous forgery staged by the West to discredit it.Read full story
Reuters could not independently verify the details of Lahovskyis account or who was responsible for thekillingsinBucha.
The images and reports emerging of atrocities committed against civilians inBuchaand other regions of Ukraine is abhorrent and reprehensible, andNewZealand continuesto respond to Russian President Vladimir Putins mindless acts of aggression, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta said in a statement.
Lahovskyi and others grabbed shovels and dug a shallow grave on a grass verge. They used a carpet to carry the remains, placing him in a ditch before covering him with wooden boards and shovelling earth on top.
Proposed EU sanctions, which the blocs 27 member states must approve, would ban buying Russian coal and prevent Russian ships from entering EU ports.
On Tuesday, Ukrainian Serhii Lahovskyi buried the corpse of a childhood friend who had been shot through the mouth at very close rangeafterdisappearing when Russian troops occupied the town.Read full story
But signalling strengthening EU resolve, Germanys foreign minister said the coal ban was the first step toward an embargo on all Russian fossil fuel imports. Ukraine says banning Russian gas is vital to securing a deal to end the war in peace talks.
The United States has agreed to provide an additional $100 million in assistance to Ukraine, including Javelin anti-armour systems, the Pentagon said on Tuesday.
Most of the 160,000 remaining residents have no light, communication, medicine, heat or water. Russian forces have prevented humanitarian access, likely to pressure defenders to surrender. Reuters could not immediately verify the report.
The Kremlins position is rejected by Ukraine and the West as a pretext for an unprovoked invasion that has uprooted a quarter of the countrys population.  Reuters
Westernsanctionsover Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, the biggest assault on a European nation since World War Two, gainednewimpetus this weekafterdead civilians shot at close range were discovered in the northern town ofBucha, seized back from Russian forces.
LVIV, UkraineThe United States and itsallieson Wednesday preparednewsanctionson Moscow over civiliankillingswhich President Volodymyr Zelenskiy described as war crimes, as heavy fighting and Russian airstrikes pounded the besieged port of Mariupol.
Satellite images taken weeks ago show bodies of civilians on a street in the town, a privateU.S.company said, undercutting Russias claims that Ukrainian forces caused the deaths or that the scene was staged.Read full story
Reuters reporters saw at least four victims shot through the head inBucha, one with their hands tied behind their back.
Afteran impassioned address to the UN Security Council on Tuesday, Zelenskiy saidnewsanctionsagainst Russia must be commensurate with the gravity of the occupiers war crimes, calling it a crucial moment for Western leaders.
NewZealand said on Wednesday it would impose a 35 tariff on all imports from Russia and extend export bans on industrial products connected to strategic Russian industries.
Residents have recounted cases of several others slain, some shot through their eyes and one apparently beaten to death and mutilated.
Since launching its invasion Russia has failed to capture a single major city in what it calls a special military operation aimed at demilitarizing and denazifying Ukraine.
The measures, coordinated between Washington, Group of Seven advanced economies and the European Union, will target Russian banks and officials and bannewinvestment in Russia, the White House said.Read full story
Ukrainian officials say between 150 and 300 bodies might be in a mass grave by a church inBucha, north of the capital Kyiv.
