Black Sea grain export deal signed  markets expected to fall further
20220722
https://www.fwi.co.uk/business/markets-and-trends/crop-prices/black-sea-grain-export-deal-signed-markets-expected-to-fall-further
The deal was signed at a meeting in Istanbul between Oleksandr Kubrakov, Ukraines minister of infrastructure, Russias defence minister Sergei Shoigu, and UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres.
November 2022 UK feed wheat futures stood at 262t at 2pm on 22 July, down by 5.20t from when markets opened earlier this morning. Futures are now down by more than 30t on month-earlier levels.
UK spot ex-farm wheat prices collected by Farmers Weekly on 22 July were down by 5.93t on the previous week, averaging 237.5t. Ex-farm milling wheat was down by 10t on week-earlier levels to 282t.
Global grain prices had fallen further this morning in reaction to the possible signing of the agreement.
Feed barley prices also fell for ex-farm, dropping by 6.29t on the week to 209t.
Mr Wilcox said: There is potential for prices to go down a chunk further if grain exports from Ukraine open up. However if it doesnt, I strongly believe there will be a bounce back as the true implications of not being able to get all of that grain out of Ukraine hit, and markets become tighter.
Speaking to Farmers Weekly on Friday 22 July before the agreement was signed, Cefetra grain origination manager Simon Wilcox said the potential agreement was 100 behind the fall in prices earlier today.
Ex-farm prices for oilseed rape have slumped in the past week. Prices gathered by Farmers Weekly on 22 July averaged 502t, down by 40.67t on the same time last week.
Market drivers behind this drop are low water levels in continental Europe, making barge movements difficult, increased plantings in Canada, exchange rates and the ongoing talks in the Black Sea region.
Harvest pressures, lack of shipping, limited storage space and weather issues are also playing a part in putting downward pressure on the market, according to Mr Wilcox.
I think we have to expect this market to continue to be exceptionally volatile, he said.
Russia and Ukraine signed a deal this afternoon to allow grain exports from Black Sea ports.
Mr Wilcox said: Personally, Im not convinced even if they sign it, that practically they are going to be able to deliver it as there are so many issues around insurance. There is a whole raft of practical issues, but if the market reacts and believes that the 20m tonnes of wheat is now available to ship out then it fundamentally changes the supply and demand of the marketplace.
Paris milling wheat futures have been extremely volatile, with markets opening at 340.50t 289.87t before falling to 329t 280.80t and then rising again to stand at 336t 286.04t at 2pm.
