Farm machinery stolen by Russian troops remotely disabled
20220503
https://www.fwi.co.uk/news/farm-machinery-stolen-by-russian-troops-remotely-disabled
Some of the stolen machinery has reportedly been found abandoned at a farm near Grozny in Chechnya.
The ports of Berdyansk, Mariupol, Skadocsk and Kherson would be closed until Ukraine regained control of them, the statement said.
The looted farm machinery was taken from an Agrotek dealership in Melitopol, in the Zaporizhzhia Oblast region of south-eastern Ukraine, which has been occupied by Russian forces since early March.
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Sunday 2 May that Ukraine could lose tens of millions of tonnes of grain because Russia controlled its Black Sea shipping ports, triggering a food crisis that could affect Europe, Africa and Asia.
The machines were fitted with GPS equipment which has allowed their progress to be tracked. They were last located in the village of Zakhan Yurt in Chechnya.
Even if they sell the harvesters for spare parts, they will earn some money, the contact added.
Meanwhile, according to other reports Russian troops have been stealing grain from silos in the Melitopol region to take to Crimea.
Almost 4.5m tonnes of grain remains blocked at Ukrainian ports as exports have stalled since the Russian invasion, according to Martin Frick, director of the United Nations World Food Programme in Germany.
According to a report by CNN, the looters transported the machinery more than 700 miles to Chechnya.
The contact told the CNN: When the invaders drove the stolen harvesters to Chechnya, they realised that they could not even turn them on, because the harvesters were locked remotely.
The mayor of Melitopol, Ivan Fyodorov, posted a video last week showing trucks loaded with stolen grain leaving the city.
Ukraines ministry of agriculture has issued a statement saying the government has decided to close some of the countrys seaports due to an inability to ensure an adequate level of shipping safety.
However, because the machinery can be controlled remotely, it has been disabled, making it inoperable.
But according to the report, the theft has not gone entirely to plan for the Russian forces.
The looting started with two combine harvesters, worth about 240,000 each, a tractor and a drill. Since then, 27 bits of farming kit have been removed from the dealership.
A video posted on the Twitter site uaindustrial shows some of the stolen Ukrainian farm machinery, including John Deere tractors, a sprayer and Claas combines, being transported on flatbed lorries under the protection of traffic police.
Russian troops raided a John Deere dealership in an occupied Ukrainian city and stole 4m worth of tractors and combine harvesters.
But the contact said the looters had found consultants in Russia who were trying to bypass the protection.
