Ukraine war Farm machinery manufacturers pull out of Russia
20220311
https://www.fwi.co.uk/machinery/ukraine-war-farm-machinery-manufacturers-pull-out-of-russia
Operations in Russia have become increasingly challenging, including supply chain disruptions and sanctions, and we are suspending operations in our Russian manufacturing facilities.
Lely condemns Russias invasion and is immediately ceasing commercial activities in the region, said a spokesman.
The safety, welfare, and wellbeing of our employees in the region remain our top priority, and we continue to support and maintain close communication with our affected teams, providing necessary resources when possible.
Dutch machinery and equipment manufacturer Lely has also discontinued commercial activities in the two rogue countries.
We are also taking a critical look at the role and position of our partners with whom we co-operate in this area.
Caterpillar has also suspended operations at its plants in Russia due to the challenges of doing business there.
Machinery giant John Deere has suspended all shipments to Russia, as well as its ally, Belarus, for supporting the war.
We will continue to supply spare parts and consumables to our existing customers in these countries, considering that otherwise cow welfare and food supply in the region would be compromised.
A number of big-name global farm machinery companies have pulled their operations in Russia, condemning the country for its invasion of Ukraine.
We are complying with all applicable laws and evolving sanctions, while remaining focused on our employees, dealers and customers, said a statement.
Two weeks ago, we suspended shipments of machines to Russia and then subsequently, Belarus. We continue to monitor the situation closely while we fully abide by US and international sanctions.
Using contractors saves you time and money. Now you can book, track and pay all in one place. Register for early access today.
In a statement the company said: John Deere is deeply saddened by the significant escalation of events in Ukraine.
