Ukraine accuses Russia of using nuclear plant for deadly rocket attack
20220810
https://winnipegsun.com/news/world/ukraine-accuses-russia-of-using-nuclear-plant-for-deadly-rocket-attack/wcm/fd1426ce-2270-4aca-a042-2b8db17ddab1
More than 20 buildings had been damaged in the town on the other side of the Dnipro river from the power plant, he said.
Images supplied by Ukrainian officials showed the rubble-strewn corridor of a school with its windows blown out and a residential building pierced by a rocket.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The cowardly Russians cant do anything more so they strike towns ignobly hiding at the Zaporizhzhia atomic power station, he said on social media
Their ultimate goal is to exhaust and crush Russia with a protracted war and the cudgel of sanctions.
Ukraines state nuclear power firm has warned that containers with radioactive material might be shelled and said it is vital Kyiv retake the plant by winter. It accuses Russia of wanting to connect the facility to its power grid.
The new 3rd Army Corps was based in the city of Mulino, east of Moscow, the British Defence Ministry said in an intelligence bulletin. However, Russia would struggle to build up the numbers needed and the new force is unlikely to sway the war, it added.
The town Ukraine says Russia targeted  Marhanets  is one Moscow says its foes have used in the past to shell Russian soldiers at the Zaporizhzhia plant, which they seized in March.
After the United Nations atomic energy watchdog sounded the alarm over a potential nuclear disaster, the Group of Seven leading industrialized countries on Wednesday told Russia to hand back the plant to Ukraine.
Russia has not commented on the Ukrainian allegations of an attack on Marhanets and Reuters could not independently verify Kyivs version. Moscow says it does not deliberately target civilians in what it calls its special military operation aimed at safeguarding its security against NATO expansion.
Beijing is also involved in a standoff with the United States over Taiwan: China has been conducting huge military drills around the self-ruled island it claims as its own since the visit of U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
Valentyn Reznychenko, governor of Ukraines central Dnipropetrovsk region, said on Wednesday that the Russian attack on Marhanets was carried out with 80 Grad rockets.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
There are no indications that their demand will sway Moscow, which on Wednesday received powerful endorsement from China of its rationale for the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
Beijings ambassador to Moscow, Zhang Hanhui, accused Washington of backing Russia into a corner with repeated expansions of the western-led NATO military alliance and support for Ukraines alignment with the European Union.
Ukraine says around 500 Russian troops with heavy vehicles and weapons are at the plant, where Ukrainian technicians continue to work.
Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of imperiling the plant, Europes largest nuclear complex, with attacks nearby.
The war has crushed Ukraines economy, but there was some relief on Wednesday when overseas creditors backed Kyivs request for a two-year freeze on payments on almost $20 billion in international bonds. That should avert a messy default.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Winnipeg SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
As the initiator and main instigator of the Ukrainian crisis, Washington, while imposing unprecedented comprehensive sanctions on Russia, continues to supply arms and military equipment to Ukraine, Zhang was quoted as saying.
In another rare positive for Ukraine, the United Nations said it expects to see a big uptick in applications for ships to export its grain under a mediated deal intended to unblock exports and ease global shortages and price hikes.
The next issue of The Winnipeg Sun's Daily Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Ukraine said that would save around $5 billion as it manages its dwindling financial resources.
KYIV  Ukraine accused Russia on Wednesday of exploiting its capture of a nuclear power plant to fire rockets at a nearby town in an attack that killed at least 13 people and wounded many others.
The two-year debt freeze makes sense because even if the war ends soon, Ukraines situation is not going to improve overnight, said Stuart Culverhouse, chief economist at London-based research firm Tellimer. Creditors were even surprised that the country decided to be current on the bonds until now.
Andriy Yermak, President Volodymyr Zelenskyys chief of staff, said Russia was launching attacks with impunity from Zaporizhzhia knowing it was risky for Ukraine to fight back.
Britain, which is helping Ukraine with arms, intelligence and training, said on Wednesday it believed Russia had almost certainly established a major new ground force to back its war.
