Ukraine says Russia pounding Donbas failing to take targets
20220430
https://winnipegsun.com/news/world/ukraine-says-russia-pounding-donbas-failing-to-take-targets/wcm/6d5effed-8af8-4ba7-90d2-78c9918ca5d0
Russia declared victory in Mariupol on April 21 even as hundreds of Ukrainian troops and civilians took shelter in the Azovstal steel works. The United Nations has urged an evacuation deal, and on Saturday, a Ukrainian fighter inside said some 20 women and children had made it out.
Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, insists sanctions need to be strengthened and cannot be negotiated upon. He warned on Friday that talks could collapse due to what he called Russias playbook on murdering people.
U.S. President Joe Biden is seeking a $33 billion aid package for Kyiv, including $20 billion for weapons, and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Saturday his country would continue to give the Ukrainians the equipment they need to defend themselves.
We are getting civilians out of the rubble with ropes  its the elderly, women and children, said the fighter, Sviatoslav Palamar, referring to wreckage within the 4 square km plant.
Palamar said both Russia and Ukraine were respecting a local ceasefire, and that he hoped the evacuated civilians would be transferred to the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia to the northwest.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Moscow has turned its focus toward Ukraines south and east after failing to capture the capital Kyiv in a nine-week assault that has flattened cities, killed thousands of civilians and forced more than 5 million to flee abroad.
South of Bryansk in the Russias Kursk region, also on the Ukrainian border, several shells were fired from Ukraine toward a Russian checkpoint, Kursk Governor Roman Starovoit said. There were no casualties or damage, he added.
In the town of Dobropillia in Donetsk, the shockwave from a strike on Saturday blew in the windows of an apartment building and left a large crater in the yard.
Ukraine has not directly claimed responsibility for a spate of such incidents on Russian territory. But it described a series of blasts in Russias south on Wednesday as payback and karma for Moscows invasion.
Despite weeks of peace talks, both sides looked to be as far apart as ever on Saturday.
Moscow calls its actions a special operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of anti-Russian nationalism fomented by the West. Ukraine and the West say Russia launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
The United States and its European allies have imposed sweeping sanctions on Russias economy and provided Ukraine with weapons and humanitarian aid.
Officials in Russias Bryansk region, which borders Ukraine and Belarus, said air defences had prevented a Ukrainian aircraft from entering. The resulting shelling had hit parts of a Russian oil terminal, they said.
At around 9:20 a.m. this happiness flew to our house, another resident, Oleh, said sarcastically. Everything is destroyed.
There was no Russian comment on the evacuations. Hundreds of Ukrainians remain inside, according to Ukrainian officials.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Ukraine accuses Russian troops of carrying out atrocities as they withdrew from areas near Kyiv in early April. Moscow denies the claims. Negotiators last met face-to-face on March 29, and have since spoken by video link.
Thank God the four children were in the kitchen, he said, standing in the destroyed living room.
DOBROPILLIA  Russia carried out missile strikes across southern and eastern Ukraine on Saturday, Ukrainian officials said, and some women and children were evacuated from a steel plant in the besieged city of Mariupol after being holed up there for over a week.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Winnipeg SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Lavrov said that if Washington and its partners in the U.S.-led NATO military alliance truly wanted to resolve the crisis, they should stop sending weapons to Kyiv.
One resident, who gave only his first name of Andriy, said his partner was in a room facing the yard at the time of the attack and was knocked unconscious.
Its forces have captured the town of Kherson in the south, giving them a foothold just 100 km 62 miles north of Russian-annexed Crimea, and have mostly occupied Mariupol, a strategic eastern port city on the Azov Sea.
Moscows assault in the south is aimed in part at linking the area with Crimea as it pushes for complete control over Ukraines eastern Donbas region. Parts of Donbas two provinces, Luhansk and Donetsk, were already controlled by Russian-backed separatists before Moscows Feb. 24 invasion.
The next issue of The Winnipeg Sun's Daily Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
To the west in Odesa, which has so far been relatively unscathed in the war, a Russian missile strike launched from Crimea destroyed the runway at the main airport, said Maksym Marchenko, Odesdas regional governor.
Thank God no one was hurt. Anti-sabotage measures are being carried out in the region, Marchenko said. Ukraines military said the airport could no longer be used.
War has turned cities to rubble, killed thousands and forced 5 million Ukrainians to flee abroad
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said lifting Western sanctions on Moscow was part of the negotiations, but senior Ukrainian negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak denied this was the case.
There was no immediate comment on the strike from Moscow, whose forces have sporadically targeted Odesa, Ukraines third-largest city. Eight people were killed in a Russian strike on the city last week, Ukrainian officials said.
