Who would win in a rumble Elon Musk or Vladimir Putin
20220314
https://winnipegsun.com/news/who-would-win-in-a-rumble-musk-or-putin/wcm/e7b498f7-0a40-4d6d-9ba3-facb68a0acd5
The next issue of The Winnipeg Sun's Daily Headline News will soon be in your inbox.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Winnipeg SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Musk followed up with another Tweet in Russian, to see if Putin received his message. Translated, it said: Do you agree to this fight?
Musk, who is 50, once told Joe Rogan that he trained in karate as a kid, according to TMZ, and has dabbled in taekwondo, judo and jiu-jitsu.
Elon Musk has challenged the Russian leader to 'single combat' with the winner taking Ukraine
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The Tesla and SpaceX billionaire dared the Russian leader to a duel on Twitter on Monday, and he did so in Putins native language.
No word on whether Putin has accepted the challenge to put up his dukes or not. Or if Musk was serious.
Musk has provided Internet support to Ukraine during the war, as well as tech resources. He gave Ukraine access to SpaceXs satellite-internet system Starlink, a system of some 2,000 satellites designed to bring web access to underserved areas of the world.
The 69-year-old Putin, who likes to display his brawn and his abs and his ability to play hockey, had a honourary black belt in taekwondo. But the World Taekwondo governing body announced on Feb. 28 that is was withdrawing the honorary black belt it gave to Putin in 2013.
