Should the UK send British troops to Ukraine Tell us your thoughts on Russias invasion
20220225
https://www.kentlive.news/news/uk-world-news/should-uk-send-british-troops-6718764
RAC fuel spokesman Simon Williams said the increase in the cost of oil will inevitably lead to wholesale fuel prices going up, which will in turn push record pump prices even higher.
For more of the latest news and regular updates, click here to sign up to KentLive's Daily newsletter.
Boris Johnson has recently stated that diplomatically, politically, economically  and eventually, militarily  this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure.
As Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, we ask KentLive readers for their say on the situation as it unfolds
Take part in our survey and use the comments below to let us know what you think. Should the UK send British troops to help Ukraine?
Russias invasion on Ukraine is set to heighten the current cost of living crisis in the UK, with British citizens being warned of soaring fuel prices, up to a grim milestone of 1.50 a litre and rising food bills.
Putin aims to demilitarise Ukraine and prevent any further integration with European institutions. It is Putins claim that a NATO alliance in Ukraine would pose a threat to Russia.
Switching from Ukraine to Russia, Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelensky made an emotional appeal to Russians to reject an attack, saying they were being lied to about Ukraine and if they Russia attack, if they try to take our county - our freedom, our lives, the lives of our children - we will be defending ourselves."
The world will hold Russia accountable  for its unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine, says Americas leader, President Joe Biden who is said to be monitoring the situation from Washington, DC, and continues to get regular updates from his national security team.
There are other ways of aiding the European ally and they have been training Ukrainian forces for years.
Russia's aggression towards Ukraine has caused the price of oil close to $100 per barrel, but the UK is not as dependent as other European countries on Russian gas.
Yesterday Russian President Vladimir Putin launched missile strikes and explosions on Ukraine in a major military attack, despite months of denying planning such an attack.
Boris Johnson has announced that extra military support including lethal aid will be sent to Ukraine in light of the increasingly threatening behaviour from Russia after Putin sent troops into the Donbas region earlier this week.
The PM wants to diminish this dependence entirely and collectively cease dependence on Russian oil and gas he said in this speech today.
The Prime Minister has declared in a statement on Twitter that Russia has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction, with the Ukraine death toll reportedly at 137.
Direct involvement has been ruled out by Western leaders, but Johnson has told the people of the Ukraine that the UK would stand with them in a crisis that could go on for many months.
Sign up to our daily newsletter for all the latest Kent stories and breaking news delivered straight to your inbox.
Several parts of Ukraine including cities Kyiv and Kharkiv have been shelled and in a televised speech Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that the UK cannot and will not look away as Putin has unleashed war on our European continent.
Ukraine has deep social and cultural ties with Russia, as a former Soviet republic and Russian is a common language there, but Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelensky has vowed to fight for the country's freedom saying: "We're strong. We're ready for anything."
Over the last 7 years, Ukraine has moved towards European institutions, namely the EU and defence alliance North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO, after Russia seized part of Ukraines territory when its pro-Russian president was overthrown in early 2014.
Putins decision to launch military operations in Ukraine has applied pressure on the PM to push further in taking action. In his speech today, Johnson has declared a massive package of economic sanctions on Russia for its action in Ukraine.
He continued: If the oil price were to increase to 110 US dollars per barrel theres a very real danger the average price of petrol would hit 1.55 a litre.
Ukraine is not part of the NATO so the British government has been clear in its response that they will not involve British combat forces.
The president of Ukraine has since imposed martial law after Russia launched an invasion of the country. It came into force as of 5.30am on Thursday and will be in place for a period of 30 days initially.
