RussiaUkraine Talks Ends With No Progress Towards Ceasefire
20220310
https://www.nbcbayarea.com/news/national-international/foreign-ministers-from-russia-ukraine-meet-for-talks-in-turkey/2833846/
The brief meeting at a hotel conference room near the Mediterranean city of Antalya wrapped up by around 5 a.m. ET, and appeared to produce little progress toward ending the fighting, NBC News reported.
Lavrov claimed without evidence that the site had earlier been seized by Ukrainian far-right radical fighters who were using it as a base. He also alleged all the patients and nurses were moved off the hospital before the assault, even though images in the aftermath of the blast showed wounded civilians and the city council said a child was among the three people killed.
The Turkish minister said that during the three-way talks he pushed for a sustainable cease-fire.
Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, who took part as a facilitator in the talks, said the aim of the meeting was to pave the way for direct talks between Presidents Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelenskyy that would be facilitated by Turkeys president  with Russia agreeing in principle to such a meeting.
In the Russian governments first public comment on Wednesdays strike on a maternity hospital in the besieged city of Mariupol, Lavrov didnt deny or shy away from responsibility for the attack. He dismissed concerns about Russian military attacks on civilians as pathetic shrieks from its enemies.
Kuleba said Lavrov agreed to continue to seek a solution to humanitarian issues caused by the war, but there are other decision-makers in Russia who need to be consulted before a deal is brokered.
Kuleba attended the meeting Thursday with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Turkey to discuss humanitarian corridors and a cease-fire. It was the highest-level Russian-Ukrainian talks since the war began last month.
Until that can be established, we stressed the need for humanitarian corridors to remain open... We especially stressed the need for humanitarian corridors in Mariupol, he said.
NATO member Turkey, which has cultivated close ties with both Russia and Ukraine, is trying to balance relations with both nations. It has positioned itself as a neutral party, seeking to facilitate negotiations between the warring sides.
Talks between the top diplomats from Moscow and Kyiv produced no breakthrough on ending the war in Ukraine following Russias invasion, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said.
