Russia Claims Control of Pivotal Eastern Ukrainian City
20220626
https://www.nbcbayarea.com/news/national-international/russia-claims-control-of-pivotal-eastern-ukrainian-city/2935671/
Attacks were also reported inside Russia, in a revival of sporadic apparent Ukrainian strikes across the border. The governor of the Belgorod region in Western Russia said fragments of an intercepted Ukrainian missile killed four people Sunday. In the Russian city of Kursk, two Ukrainian drones were shot down, according to the Russian Defense Ministry.
Earlier, Zelenskyy said Kyiv's forces were still battling Russian soldiers on Lysychansks outskirts in a very difficult and dangerous situation.
The capture of Lysychansk would give the Russians more territory from which to intensify attacks on Donetsk. In recent weeks, Russian forces were thought to hold about half of Donetsk, but it's not clear where things stand now.
"These are homes and these are livelihoods and indeed lives that have been lost here in this town, he said.
If confirmed, Russia's complete seizure of Luhansk would provide its troops with a stronger base from which to press their advance in the Donbas, a region of mines and factories that President Vladimir Putin is bent on capturingin a campaign that could determine the course of the entire war.
As is typical with such descriptions, the Russian statement characterized the victories as the liberation of the Luhansk Peoples Republic. Separatists in Luhansk and neighboring Donetsk, which make up the Donbas and are home to significant Russian-speaking populations,declared independence from Kyiv in 2014and their forces have battled Ukrainian troops there ever since. Russia formally recognized the self-proclaimed republics days before its Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
Far from the fighting in the east, Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese on Sunday visited a town near the capital that was severely damaged early in the war. Albanese called the destruction in Irpin devastating."
Since failing to take Kyivand other areas in northern and central Ukraine early in the war, Russia has focused on the Donbas, unleashing fierce shelling and engaging in house-to-house combat that devastated Lysychansk, neighboring Sievierodonetsk and nearby villages. Few details emerged from either city during the battles, which decimated their populations as people were killed or fled.
Already Russian forces appeared to be pushing their advance in Donetsk, concentrating rocketattacks on the sizable Ukrainian-held city of Slovyansk, where at least six people were killed, regional government spokeswoman Tatyana Ignatchenko told Ukrainian TV.
Meanwhile, the exiled mayor of the Russia-occupied city of Melitopol said Sunday that Ukrainian rockets destroyed one of four Russian military bases in the city.
If Russia prevails in the Donbas, Ukraine would lose not only land but perhaps the bulk of its most capable military forces, opening the way for Moscow to grab more territory and strengthen its ability to dictate terms to Kyiv.
Russia claimed control Sunday over the last Ukrainian stronghold in an eastern province that is key to achieving a major goal ofMoscow's grinding war.
Russian forces maintain an advantage in the area, he acknowledged, calling it a Ukrainian military weak spot.
Kursk regional governor Roman Starovoit said the town of Tetkino, on the Ukraine border, came under mortar fire.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyy noted the withdrawal. But he added that Ukraine does not give anything back and vowed to return with more modern weapons. Citing his forces' success in recapturing other territory, he promised, There will be a day when we will say the same about Donbas.
Kramatorsk, another major city in the Donetsk region, also came under fire, the regional administration said.
The General Staff of Ukraine's military reported that its forces had withdrawn from Lysychansk in Luhansk province. President Volodymr Zelenskyy acknowledged the withdrawal but said the fight for the city was still raging on its outskirts.
We cannot give you the final judgment. Lysychansk is still being fought for, Zelenskyy told a news conference in Kyiv given alongside Australia's visiting prime minister. He noted that territory can move quickly from one side to the other.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu told Putin that Russias troops, with a local separatist militia, have established full control over the city of Lysychansk and now hold all of Luhansk, according to a ministry statement published Sunday.
Ukrainian and Russian forces fought fiercely for Lysychansk in recent days after the neighboring city fell last week. On Sunday evening, the General Staff of Ukraine's military confirmed on social media that its forces had withdrawn from Lysychansk to preserve the lives of Ukrainian defenders.
