20 Pictures of support for Ukraine in Stroud protest
20220227
https://www.stroudnewsandjournal.co.uk/news/19955643.20-pictures-support-ukraine-stroud-protest/
St Laurence's church was also opened as a quiet space for prayer, reflection, meditation and contemplation on behalf of the people of Ukraine, and for peace in the world.
Councillor Oldman said thousands of protestors had been arrested in Russia at demonstrations against President Putins invasion of Ukraine. Anti-war protest by ordinary Russians is being stamped out by a regime that has powers akin to those proposed by our own government the situation there is like our own Police  Crime Bill on steroids.
A demonstration in support of the people of Ukraine will took place in Stroud High Street yesterday.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The response from the UK has so far been wholly inadequate. We urge the government to immediately impose the strongest of sanctions on Russian economic interests, end once and for all the influence of Russian money in our democracy and launch an investigation into Russian interference in our elections.
Concerned residents took to the high street with banners and placards for a peaceful demonstration in support of the people of Ukraine following the invasion from Russia.
The Ukrainian peoples lives have been turned upside down by Russias dreadful act of aggression.
Organiser Adrian Oldman, co-coordinator of Stroud District Green Party, who is a Stroud Town councillor, said: At this dark time, many of us in Stroud will want to show our support for and solidarity with the people of Ukraine, both those living there, and those living locally in Stroud and the rest of Gloucestershire.
Green Party co-leader Carla Denyer said: We deplore the invasion of Ukraine and condemn the unprovoked aggression against a sovereign nation. This unprovoked and unjustified invasion of a European country will have a devastating impact on the lives of millions of innocent people.
The Green Party has called for immediate and stringent sanctions on Russia, including an import and export ban and the freezing of bank accounts of people linked to the Russian regime  and for help for Ukrainian nationals to seek asylum in the UK.
