Boris Johnson flies to Poland as more UK troops go on standby for eastern Europe
20220209
https://www.stroudnewsandjournal.co.uk/news/19912603.boris-johnson-flies-poland-uk-troops-go-standby-eastern-europe/
British officials warned any further Russian incursion into Ukraine would be a humanitarian disaster leading to a mass displacement of people, which would particularly affect countries like Poland and Lithuania.
Mr Johnson will also visit the alliance headquarters in Brussels where he is expected to reiterate an offer to strengthen its defences when he meets Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg.
He made clear that Nato could not accept a key Kremlin demand that there should be no further enlargement of the alliance.
Meanwhile 350 Royal Marines from 45 Commando are to begin deploying to Poland as part of a further strengthening of UK support to the country announced earlier this week.
However with large-scale Russian military exercises about to begin in Belarus, which also borders Ukraine, there are fears they could be cover for an attack.
After touching down in Moscow, Ms Truss said Russia must immediately withdraw its forces and respect Ukraines sovereignty or face severe consequences.
As an alliance we must draw lines in the snow and be clear there are principles upon which we will not compromise.
One thousand British troops are being put on standby in case of a humanitarian crisis in eastern Europe if the current Russian military build-up leads to war, Downing Street has announced.
Russia currently has an estimated 130,000 troops massed along the border with Ukraine, prompting fears that it is preparing for a full-scale invasion.
Boris Johnson flies to Poland on Thursday in a further show of support for a key Nato ally amid continuing fears of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Additional troops are being paced on readinessto provide a humanitarian response if required, although they could also be used to provide further support to allies in the region.
That includes the security of every Nato ally and the right of every European democracy to aspire to Nato membership.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
French President Emmanuel Macron, who met Mr Putin in Moscow earlier this week, said the Russian president had told him he was not seeking to escalate the situation.
At the same time Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is in Moscow for talks with her counterpart Sergei Lavrov as Western powers continue to urge President Vladimir Putin to draw back from conflict.
It includes doubling the number of UK troops in Estonia, deploying more RAF jets to create a squadron in southern Europe, and dispatching a Type 45 destroyer and HMS Trent, an offshore patrol vessel, to the eastern Mediterranean.
In December the UK sent 100 Royal Engineers to the country after Moscows ally Belarus engineered a refugee crisis on the border.
While there is no appetite among Western powers for direct military intervention in Ukraine, which is not a Nato member, they have warned of crippling sanctions in the event of any Russian incursion.
When Nato was founded, allies made an historic undertaking to safeguard the freedom of every member state.
Ahead of his visit to Warsaw, Mr Johnson insisted the West must stand firm in the face of Mr Putins coercive diplomacy.
