Russian diplomat warns Ukraine against provoking third world war as city falls
20220426
https://www.stroudnewsandjournal.co.uk/news/20093249.russian-diplomat-warns-ukraine-provoking-third-world-war-city-falls/
The illegitimate reason is they know people are trying to leave the country, and this is just another intimidation, terrorist tactic to make them not have faith and confidence in travelling on the rails.
When Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, its apparent goal was to seize Kyiv. But the Ukrainians, helped by western weapons, forced Russian President Vladimir Putins troops to retreat.
Mr Austins remarks appeared to represent a shift in US strategic goals since earlier it said the goal of American military aid was to help Ukraine win and to defend Ukraines Nato neighbours against Russian threats.
In an apparent response to Mr Austin, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said Russia has a feeling that the West wants Ukraine to continue to fight and, as it seems to them, wear out, exhaust the Russian army and the Russian military industrial war complex. This is an illusion.
It did not say how it knew the city, 355 miles southeast of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, had fallen.
Phillips OBrien, professor of strategic studies at the University of St Andrews in Scotland, said the war is settling into a campaign of incremental battlefield losses and gains.
Mr Blinken said Washington approved a 165 million dollar 130m sale of ammunition  non-US ammo, mainly if not entirely for Ukraines Soviet-era weapons  and will also provide more than 300 million dollars 235m in financing to buy more supplies.
The city of Kreminna has reportedly fallen and heavy fighting is reported south of Izium as Russian forces attempt to advance towards the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk from the north and east, the MoD said in a tweet.
The US has been rushing more weaponry to Ukraine and said the assistance from western allies is making a difference in the two-month-old war.
US defence secretary Lloyd Austin went further, saying the US wants to see Ukraine remain a sovereign, democratic country, but also wants to see Russia weakened to the point where it cant do things like invade Ukraine.
Russia also destroyed an oil refinery and fuel depots in Kremenchuk, in central Ukraine, Russian defence ministry spokesman Maj Gen Igor Konashenkov said. In all, Russian warplanes destroyed 56 Ukrainian targets, he said.
Philip Breedlove, a retired US general who was Natos top commander from 2013-2016, said the strikes on fuel depots are meant to deplete key Ukrainian war resources. Strikes against rail targets, on the other hand, are a legitimate effort to disrupt supply lines, he said.
Russia is failing. Ukraine is succeeding, US secretary of state Antony Blinken declared on Monday after he and the US secretary of defence made a bold visit to Kyiv to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
On Monday, Russia focused its firepower elsewhere, with missiles and warplanes striking far behind the front lines to try to thwart Ukrainian supply efforts.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter that Mr Lavrovs comments underscore Ukraines need for western help: Russia loses last hope to scare the world off supporting Ukraine. Thus the talk of a real danger of WWIII. This only means Moscow senses defeat in Ukraine.
The city council and mayor of Mariupol said a new mass grave was identified about six miles north of the city. Mayor Vadym Boychenko said authorities were trying to estimate the number of victims. It was at least the third new mass grave discovered in Russian-controlled areas near Mariupol in the last week.
Mr Lavrov said he would not want to see risks of a nuclear confrontation artificially inflated now, when the risks are rather significant.
In Transnistria, a breakaway region of Moldova beside the Ukrainian border, several explosions believed caused by rocket-propelled grenades hit the territorys ministry of state security. There was no immediate claim of responsibility or reports of injuries. Transnistria is a strip of land with about 470,000 people. About 1,500 Russian troops are based there.
Ukrainian authorities said at least five people were killed by Russian strikes in the central Vynnytsia region.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
In his nightly video address, Mr Zelensky said Ukraine was maintaining its resistance to make the occupiers stay in our land even more intolerable while Russia drains its resources.
Meanwhile, the UKs Ministry of Defence MoD said on Tuesday that Russian forces have taken the Ukrainian city of Kreminna in the Lukansk region after days of street-to-street fighting.
Ukrainian officials have said about 2,500 to 3,000 Ukrainian troops had been killed as of mid-April.
Moldovas foreign ministry said the aim of todays incident is to create pretexts for straining the security situation in the Transnistrian region. The US has said Russia might launch false-flag attacks against its own side to create a pretext for invading other nations.
Everyone is reciting incantations that in no case can we allow World War Three, he said in a Russian television interview.
Britain said it believes 15,000 Russian troops have been killed in Ukraine since Russias invasion began. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said 25 of the Russian combat units sent to Ukraine have been rendered not combat effective.
Mr Lavrov accused Ukrainian leaders of provoking Russia by asking Nato to become involved in the conflict. Nato has effectively entered into a war with Russia through proxies and is arming those proxies, he said. Nato forces are pouring oil on the fire, Mr Lavrov said, according to a transcript on the Russian foreign ministrys website.
Moscow now says its goal is to take the Donbas, the mostly Russian-speaking industrial region in eastern Ukraine. Both sides say that campaign is underway but Russia has yet to mount an all-out ground offensive or make any major breakthroughs.
Weapons supplied by western countries will be a legitimate target, Mr Lavrov said, adding that Russian forces were targeting weapons warehouses in western Ukraine.
Last week, Rustam Minnekayev, a Russian military commander, said the Kremlin wants full control of southern Ukraine to open the way to Transnistria.
An estimated 2,000 Ukrainian troops holed up in a steel plant in the strategic southern port city of Mariupol are tying down Russian forces, apparently preventing them from joining the offensive elsewhere in the Donbas. Over the weekend, Russian forces launched new airstrikes on the Azovstal plant to try to dislodge the holdouts.
Mariupol has been gutted by bombardment and fierce street fighting over the past two months. Russias capture of the city would deprive Ukraine of a vital port and give Moscow a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Five railroad stations in central and western Ukraine were hit, and one worker was killed, said Oleksandr Kamyshin, head of Ukraines state railway. The bombardment included a missile attack near Lviv, the western city near the Polish border that has been swelled by Ukrainians fleeing the violence elsewhere.
Russias top diplomat has warned Ukraine against provoking a third world war and said the threat of a nuclear conflict should not be underestimated as his country unleashed attacks against rail and fuel installations far from the front lines of Moscows new eastern offensive.
