Vladimir Putin could declare new world war in days UK defence secretary fears
20220429
https://www.examinerlive.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/vladimir-putin-could-declare-new-23821826
The UK defence secretary has warned Vladimir Putin could declare a new world war in the coming days.
It comes as around 8,000 British Army troops prepare to take part in exercises across Eastern Europe in a bid to combat Russian aggression. The move is one of the largest deployments since the Cold War.
Speaking to LBC, defence secretary Ben Wallace said Putin has "failed" in most of his objectives in Ukraine. But he warned this may lead him to declare war on the "world's Nazis."
"The scale of the deployment, coupled with the professionalism, training and agility of the British Army, will deter aggression at a scale not seen in Europe this century."
Troops from the Queen's Royal Hussars have been deployed for embedding in an armoured brigade in Finland, which shares an 830 mile land border with Russia. Exercises alongside American troops are also taking place in Poland.
He said: "I would not be surprised . . . that he is probably going to declare on May Day that we are now at war with the worlds Nazis and we need to mass mobilise the Russian people.
UK defence secretary Ben Wallace says Putin could declare war on the "world's Nazis" in the coming days
Ben Wallace said Putin may start a "mass" mobilisation of Russians and added he "would not be surprised" if the Russian leader used May Day bank holiday as a time to declare war on the "world's Nazis." When he launched his invasion of Ukraine on February 24, Putin said he was doing so to rid the country of "Nazis" as he labelled the war a special operation.
Are you worried about the prospect of World War 3? Let us know in the comments.
Ukrainian cities have since been pummelled by shelling in a devastating war which government minister Liz Truss has said could go on for 10 years, reports the Mirror.
Mr Wallace said: "The security of Europe has never been more important. These exercises will see our troops join forces with allies and partners across Nato and the Joint Expeditionary Force in a show of solidarity and strength in one of the largest shared deployments since the Cold War."
The Ministry of Defence MoD said the action had been planned before the invasion of Ukraine, but that the start of the war had enhanced those plans. Aircraft, tanks, artillery and armoured assault vehicles will join the exercises across Europe between April and June.
He continued: "Putin, having failed in nearly all objectives, may seek to consolidate what he's got . . . and just be a sort of cancerous growth within the country. We have to help Ukrainians effectively get the limpet off the rock and keep the momentum pushing them back."
Dozens of tanks will be deployed to countries ranging from Finland to North Macedonia this summer under plans that have been enhanced since the invasion of Ukraine. Mr Wallace said the "show of solidarity and strength" will see UK service personnel team up with NATO allies and those from the Joint Expeditionary Force alliance, which includes Finland and Sweden, for the exercises.
Commander Field Army Lieutenant General Ralph Wooddisse said the UK "makes a significant contribution to the defence of Europe and the deterrence of Russian aggression" as he labelled the series of exercises "fundamental to both."
