Ireland will not be found wanting on Ukraine  Irish premier
20220227
https://www.inverness-courier.co.uk/news/national/ireland-will-not-be-found-wanting-on-ukraine-irish-premier-41977/
There were also emotional scenes in Dublin Airport on Sunday, as a group of Ukrainian volunteers started the journey back home to help defend the country from Russia.
The latter component will include supplies such as personal protective equipment, medical kits and fuel.
In a tweet ahead of the formal announcement of the latest European response to the escalating crisis in Ukraine, Micheal Martin said: The world has been changed by this unjustified war on Ukraine.
The Department of Foreign Affairs in Ireland has told Irish citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia.
Asked on RTE radio whether diplomats or Defence Forces members might be able to help out or meet people at the border, she said: I think all of these things need to be kept under review.
We will continue to engage with them even though we dont have a consulate or we dont have an embassy on the ground.
He also indicated that a de facto ban on Russian aircraft in Irish airspace has already come into effect.
It comes as the EU announced that it will close its airspace to Russian airlines, fund supplies of weapons to Ukraine and ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets in response to Russias invasion.
A Department of Foreign Affairs spokesperson told the PA news agency: The EU Foreign Affairs Council will approve a package of assistance to the Ukrainian armed forces consisting of both lethal and non-lethal military equipment.
He said Ireland will make a full contribution and will focus on non lethal equipment.
Ireland had announced earlier on Sunday that it would close its airspace to Russian planes.
I think a lot of people who will initially seek to travel to Ireland, theyre Irish citizens, but also theyre people who might have family living in Ireland or they might have business connections or they might have friends.
I said on morningireland yesterday, MichealMartinTD gave Irelands strong support to this and for the strongest possible sanctions against Russia at EUCO
Mr Coveney tweeted: Lets hope this can be a first step to ending Russias war against Ukraine.
Tweeting after a meeting of of foreign affairs ministers concluded, he said: Weve just agreed at EU FAC a 500m package to support Ukraine Military, through the EPF European Peace Facility.
Further flight cancellations and uncertainty on travel routes from Russia are expected in the coming days.
Because, at the moment, theres a ban on airplanes being exported into Russia and aircraft parts, and that means, for example, that a plane going to Russia actually from any country cant bring new parts on the plane, even for itself.
In line with the commitment in the Programme for Government, Ireland will constructively abstain from the lethal equipment elements and will not contribute financially to this aspect.
In particular in Poland, in Warsaw, we have a lot of people who are engaging with people who are crossing the border, helping them and also helping those family members who are Ukrainian nationals.
In an interview with the BBC, he said Ireland would back calls for Ukraine to be a candidate for EU membership.
Instead, the countrys contribution is likely to cover items such as PPE, medical equipment and supplies.
Irish leaders have stressed in recent days that while the country will maintain its policy of military neutrality, it is not politically neutral in the Ukrainian conflict.
Justice minister Helen McEntee also said she expects that decision to be put into practice quickly.
What were making sure is that it is as easy as possible for them and their Ukrainian family members, or for those who are seeking to travel to join family members here, that it is as easy for them to do so.
She said on Sunday that her department had reacted quickly to put in place a visa waiver scheme for Ukrainian nationals hoping to enter Ireland.
EU FAC tonight:500m EPF support for Ukraine Military. Key Russian Banks out of Swift.Russian Aircraft banned from EU Airspace. More Oligarchs listed.Huge Humanitarian support, more needed. Strong sanctions on Belarus. Russian media to be banned in EU. StandWithUkraine
While weve had quite a small number of people, I think in the last few days, the vast majority of those who have come into Ireland are people who have family, who have friends, who have those connections.
What we can do is encourage people, where it is safe to do so, to travel to the border where its not, to try and find shelter.
Its people have shown such courage, in the face of great loss of life and destruction.
The Irish foreign affairs minister earlier said he hopes the world is seeing the first step towards the ending of war, ahead of talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials.
In an update to travel guidance, the department said: Due to the ongoing disruption to flight services to and from Russia, the Department of Foreign Affairs is advising citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia at this time.
Speaking on RTE radio, she indicated that the Irish government has not ruled out diplomats or Defence Forces members being sent close to the western Ukrainian border to support anyone trying to reach Ireland.
The measures, which commission president Ursula von der Leyen said she expected to be endorsed, would mark the first time the 27-nation bloc finances the purchase and delivery of weapons and equipment to a country under attack.
Mr Byrne predicted that the latest sanctions imposed by the EU will have an absolutely devastating effect on the Russian economy, and Russian President Vladimir Putins own personal resources.
What were doing now is making sure that, when people cross the border, because you have hundreds of thousands of people crossing into Poland, into Romania and other neighbouring countries, is that there is financial assistance and support to provide for our member state colleagues to be able to assist these people.
For the first time, the EU will finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and equipment to a country under attack.
Ireland will not be found wanting on support for Ukraine, the Irish premier has said.
I think it will be completely untenable for Russian airlines to fly anywhere into the Western world very, very soon.
Instead, we will provide a corresponding contribution to the provision of non-lethal support. Our understanding is that a number of member states, including Austria and Malta, are likely to take the same approach.
