Ireland brands Russian attack on Ukraine a murderous act of aggression
20220224
https://www.inverness-courier.co.uk/news/national/ireland-brands-russian-attack-on-ukraine-a-murderous-act-of-aggression-41719/
Our first thoughts are with them. We will work with the EU  UN to hold Putin and his regime accountable.
Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney said a strong response is needed from the international community.
In a series of tweets on Thursday morning, the minister said: Russia has launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. God help them.
At the emergency UN Security Council meeting Ireland condemned the decision of Russia to launch a military operation and called on UNSC members to assume their responsibility and to speak out in the strongest possible terms about this act of aggression.
I utterly condemn Russias indefensible attack on the sovereign people of Ukraine. Our first thoughts are with them. We will work with the EU  UN to hold Putin and his regime accountable. Russia will pay a high price for this outrageous act of aggression. We stand with Ukraine.
Russia has launched a full scale invasion of Ukraine. God help them.Rocket attacks  explosions across the country. Make no mistake: this is a shocking murderous act of aggression against a sovereign peaceful state. EU and world needs to respond strongly. dfatirl
Taoiseach Micheal Martin condemned the latest action by Vladimir Putin on Thursday, as the Department of Foreign Affairs urged all remaining Irish citizens in Ukraine to seek shelter in a secure place.
Russia will pay a high price for this outrageous act of aggression. We stand with Ukraine.
Russian leaders are lying to their own people to justify this illegal aggression. We utterly condemn Russia for this act of unjustifiable war in the heart of Europe.
Our thoughts  prayers are with the innocent people of Ukraine, as families wake up to shocking Russian attacks.
It advised citizens not to move around the country in the coming hours and to follow the advice of local authorities.
Rocket attacks  explosions across the country. Make no mistake: this is a shocking murderous act of aggression against a sovereign peaceful state. EU and world needs to respond strongly.
Mr Martin tweeted: I utterly condemn Russias indefensible attack on the sovereign people of Ukraine.
He added: Our diplomatic team in Kyiv has moved to a safe place and we stay in close contact with them. We are working with EU colleagues to ensure their safety.
