Russias actions will never be forgotten or forgiven Tanaiste warns
20220406
https://www.inverness-courier.co.uk/news/national/russia-s-actions-will-never-be-forgotten-or-forgiven-tanaiste-warns-45253/
As a country, we are heartbroken watching the scenes we see on television every night and were heartbroken to see what the people of Ukraine have had to endure now for 42 days.
Urgent initiation of investigations into Russian war crimes against civilians, including crimes of sexual violence against women that we are hearing such appalling reports about.
Mr president, we Irish are aware of the pain of separation, the loss of our people to distant lands.
A gallery of photographs from today's address by the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, at a Joint Sitting of Dil and Seanad ireann can be found here seeforyourself
Taoiseach, I would urge you to send protective defensive weapons to Ukraine, that we stop the Russia advance and that we drag them to the negotiation table and together we alter the course of history.
Earlier today, Tnaiste and Leader of Fine Gael, Leo Varadkar TD, remarks to both Houses of the Oireachtas following the address by the President of Ukraine seeforyourself Ukraine  LeoVaradkar pic.twitter.com745cNVDGK4
He made the remarks following an historic address by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to a joint sitting of the Houses of the Oireachtas.
Speaker of the Dail Sean O Fearghail said Ireland salutes Mr Zelenskys outstanding bravery and the resilience of the Ukrainian people.
At this challenging time, those forced to leave Ukraine are welcome here in Ireland, and they will be supported and assisted until such time as they are free to return to rebuild their damaged homeland.
There have been horrific accounts of rape and torture, the brutalisation by the powerful of vulnerable ordinary citizens in their war-torn country.
These are crimes against the Ukrainian people and these are crimes against humanity, and Russia must be held accountable for its barbarism and justice must be done.
She said it is long past time that the Russian ambassador to Ireland Yury Filatov should be expelled.
While Ireland is a militarily neutral country, we are not politically neutral. We do not stand idly by, he added.
Irelands deputy premier has warned Russia that its actions against the Ukrainian people will never be forgotten or forgiven.
He added that Mr Zelensky showed a burning desire for freedom and self-determination, for democracy and liberty.
For these reasons, we feel for the idealism of the Ukrainian people, their defiance and their determination to face down a new evil empire.
These human rights violations and grave breaches of the Geneva Convention demand investigation by the International Criminal Court and prosecutions to follow.
We have heard testimony of the vicious war crimes committed by the Russian military in Ukraine, and we have been set a challenge, and innocent civilians have been executed with their arms tied behind their backs, Ms McDonald added.
She told the Dail that Mr Zelensky outlined the atrocities against his country in the most harrowing, most heart-breaking of terms.
Mr Berry said: One hours drive from here, in the Curragh Camp, there are hundreds of anti-tank rockets, nearing the end of their shelf-life, that can very easily be transferred to the Ukraine defence forces.
In a direct message to Russian President Vladimir Putin, his government, diplomats, collaborators and his apologists across the world, Mr Varadkar said they have violated the human rights of the Ukrainian people.
In the long history of our own country, we have never invaded another but we do know what its like to have been invaded and to have the very existence of our national identity questioned too.
Independent TD Cathal Berry, who is a former deputy head of the Army Ranger Wing, urged the Government to hand over the anti-tank weapons currently stored in the Curragh military camp in Co Kildare.
Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald said Russia should be prosecuted for human rights violations against Ukrainian civilians.
Mr Varadkar said Mr Zelenskys words moved and inspired us and shamed us and the rest of the world for not doing more sooner.
We are calling for strong support for Ukraines expedited accession to the EU, have full embargo on Russian oil and gas, to join with the welcome move on coal.
You have raped and defiled the very principles of common humanity which bind us together in peace and harmony, he added.
We will also continue to welcome those forced to leave Ukraine seeking safety on foreign shores.
Mr Varadkar said Ireland will do all it can to help Ukraine in its struggle, and to shelter refugees who have fled the country.
In a powerful speech to the Irish Parliament, Leo Varadkar said that through modern media, the world has seen the atrocities committed during the invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces.
You have betrayed your own people and your own countrys rich history and culture, your own resistance to oppression over many centuries.
The reason that is so important is that we know the Russians are preparing a massive offensive in the east and that this offensive is likely to be successful, but it does not have to be this way.
