What the papers say  March 29
20220329
https://www.inverness-courier.co.uk/news/national/what-the-papers-say-march-29-44523/
The Times adds that Russian hardliners have been blamed for the suspected chemical poisoning of Mr Abramovich and two Ukrainian representatives. The alleged perpetrators are opposed to a peace deal with Ukraine which the billionaire is reportedly trying to broker, the paper reports.
Tomorrow's front page: Roman Abramovich went blind for hours and his skin peeled off after suspected poisoning at Ukraine peace talkshttps:t.coHVPiOpsy8m pic.twitter.com681Tm3mxTc
And the Financial Times splashes with a warning from the Bank of England chief that Britons are facing a historic shock to their wages because of surging energy prices.
The papers are dominated by reports Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich was poisoned at Ukraine-Russia peace talks.
Duke back on parade, declares Metro in response to news that the disgraced Duke of York is due to make his first public appearance  at his fathers memorial service  since settling his sex abuse case.
The Independent and The Sun claim Mr Abramovichs skin peeled off and he lost his sight for several hours in early March while meeting Ukrainian representatives in Kyiv.
Just published: front page of the Financial Times UK edition Tuesday March 29 https:t.coyjbp7aqZwP pic.twitter.comPKrhDkOM9v
According to The Guardian face-to-face peace talks are due to resume in Istanbul on Tuesday despite the alleged poisonings.
The Daily Telegraph writes that people who attended alleged lockdown-breaking parties at Downing Street and the Cabinet Office are bracing for an initial tranche of fines from Met Police.
Guardian front page, Tuesday 29 March 2022: Ukraine peace talks resume amid claims Abramovich was poisoned pic.twitter.comSkLMY8hVug
The Daily Mirror, the Daily Mail and the Daily Star say the Chelsea FC owner suffered symptoms of a suspected poisoning while acting as an unofficial negotiator. The papers also carry photos of Will Smith slapping Chris Rock at the Oscars.
Elsewhere, i reports a row between Boris Johnson and the Chancellor has gone nuclear over the PMs desire to construct six or seven full-scale nuclear power stations at a cost of 100bn.
