Russia ramps up attacks on cities in Ukraine
20220302
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/rci/en/news/1865930/russia-ramps-up-attacks-on-cities-in-ukraine
Children, women and defence forcesare losing their lives every hour,said the statement, which could not be independently verified.
The escalation of attacks on crowded cities followed an initial round of talks between outgunned Ukraine and nuclear power Russia on Monday that resulted in only a promise to meet again. It was not clear when new talks might take place  or what they would yield. Ukraine's leader earlier said Russia must stop bombing before another meeting.
The overall death toll from the seven-day war is not clear, with neither Russia nor Ukraine releasing the number of troops lost.
'The shelling does not stop,' says mayor of Mariupol, strategic port city in the south
The updates on sanctions came a day afterUkrainian authorities said that five people were killed in anattack on a TV tower near central Kyiv.new windowA TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
The attack followed a day after one in Kharkiv's central square that killed at least six people and shocked many Ukrainians for hitting at the centreof life in a major city.
President Volodymyr Zelensky's office reported that the site of aHolocaust memorial, which is adjacent to the TV tower, was also hit. A spokespersonfor the memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941, was damaged, but the extent would not be clear until daylight.
Ukraine's Defence Ministry, meanwhile, said it had evidence that Belarus, a Russian ally, is preparing to send troops into Ukraine.
Beijing opposes the sanctions, said Guo Shuqing, the chairman of the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission.
Russia renewed its assault Wednesday on Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, in a pounding that lit up the skyline with balls of fire over populated areas, even as both sides said they were ready to resume talks aimed at stopping the new devastating war in Europe.
Meanwhile, the U.S. presidentused his first State of the Union address to highlight the resolve of a reinvigorated Western alliance that has worked to rearm the Ukrainian military and adopt tough sanctions, which he said have left Russian President Vladimir Putin isolated in the world more than he has ever been.
On Wednesday, Ukraine's emergency service issued a statement saying theRussian invasionhas killed more than 2,000 Ukrainian civilians and destroyed hundreds of structures including transport facilities, hospitals, kindergartens and homes.
On Wednesday, a Russian strike hit the regional police and intelligence headquarters in Kharkiv, a city of about 1.5 million, killing four people and wounding several, the state emergency service of Ukraine said. It saidthat residential buildings were also being hit, but did not provide further details.
A ministry statement posted early Wednesday on Facebook said the Belarusian troops have been brought into combat readiness and are concentrated close to Ukraine's northern border. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has said his country has no plans to join the fight.
Throughout our history we've learned this lesson  when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos, Biden said. They keep moving. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising.
China won't join the United States and European governments in imposing financial sanctions on Russia, the country's bank regulator said Wednesday. China is a major buyer of Russian oil and gas and the only major government that has refrained from criticizing Moscow's attack on Ukraine.
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion. Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an invasion or war.
Russia previously told people living near transmission facilities used by Ukraine's intelligence agency to leave their homes. But Russian Defence Ministry spokespersonIgor Konashenkov claimed Wednesday that the airstrike on the TV tower did not hit any residential buildings. He did not address the reported deaths or the damage to the Holocaust memorial.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has decried Russia's bombardment as a blatant terror campaign, while U.S. President Joe Biden warned on Tuesday that if the Russian leader didn't pay a price for the invasion, the aggression wouldn't stop with one country.
A blast blew the roof off of the five-storey police building and set the top floor alight, according to videos and photos released by the service. Pieces of the building were strewn across adjacent streets.
Moscow, meanwhile, made new threats of escalation Tuesday, days after raising the spectreof nuclear war. A top Kremlin official warned that the West's economic war against Russia could turn into a real one.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Ukraine's president have agreed on a call that sanctions need to go further to exert maximum pressure on Putin in coming days, a Downing Street spokesperson said on Wednesday.
