Russian forces target Ukrainian cities diplomatic talks on pause until Tuesday
20220314
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/rci/en/news/1868873/russian-forces-target-ukrainian-cities-diplomatic-talks-on-pause-until-tuesday
A residential building is on fire after being shelled by Russian forces in eastern Ukraine.
Since launching its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, Moscow has waged a multi-pronged attack and encircled several cities. The fight for the southern city of Mariupol is crucial because its capture could help Russia establish a land corridor to Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
If you do not close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian missiles fall on your territory. NATO territory. On the homes of citizens of NATO countries, Zelenskysaid, urging Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet with him directly, a request that has gone unanswered by the Kremlin.
Meanwhile, air raid alerts sounded in cities and towns all around the country overnight, from near the Russian border in the east to the Carpathian Mountains in the west, as fighting continued on the outskirts of Kyiv.
NATO said Sunday that it currently does not have any personnel in Ukraine, though the United States has increased the number of U.S. troops deployed to NATO member Poland.
I understood in that moment, even if we are free of it, the waris still coming after us, she said.
Ukrainian authorities said two people died and seven were injured after Russian forces struck an airplane factory inKyiv, sparking a large fire. The Antonov factory is Ukraine's largest aircraft manufacturing plant and is best known for producing many of the world's biggest cargo planes. Russian artillery fire also hit a nine-storey apartment building in a northern district of the city, killing two more people, authorities said. A BBC report attributed to the Ukrainian emergency services later revised that death toll to one.Firefighters worked to rescue survivors, painstakingly carrying an injured woman on a stretcher away from the blackened and still smoking building.
Meanwhile, U.S. President Joe Biden is sending hisnational security adviser to Rome to meet with a Chinese officialnew windowover worries that Beijing is amplifying Russian disinformation and may help Moscow evade Western economic sanctions.
Millions more people have fled their homes, with more than 2.7 million crossing into Poland and other neighbouring countries.
The UNhuman rights officesaid on Monday it had confirmed the deaths of at least 636 civilians in Ukraine through to March 13, including 46 children. The actual toll is likely much higher, it said, since there have been delays receiving and corroborating reports from places with intense hostilities such as Kharkiv and Mariupol.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said suffering in Mariupol, where missiles struck a maternity hospital Wednesday, was simply immense and that hundreds of thousands of people faced extreme shortages of food, water and medicine.
On Monday, Russia's Defence Ministry said at least 20 people had been killed and 28 wounded when what it said was a Ukrainian missile with a cluster charge exploded in the capital of the eastern Donetsk region, without providing evidence.
With their advance slowed in several areas, they have bombarded several cities with unrelenting shelling, hitting two dozen medical facilities and creating a series of humanitarian crises.
The attack killed 35 people, Ukrainian officials said, and the base's proximity to the borders of Poland and other NATO members raised concerns that the Western military alliance could be drawn into the the largest land conflict in Europe since the Second World War.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyconfirmed on Monday afternoon that the talks via video conference were underway. Everyone is waiting for news. We will definitely report in the evening, Zelenskysaid in a new video address.
Ina Padi, a 40-year-old Ukrainian who crossed the border with her family, was taking shelter at a fire station in Wielkie Oczy, Poland, when she was awakened by blasts Sunday morning from across the border that shook her windows.
A convoy of 160 civilian cars left the encircled southern port city ofMariupolalong a designated humanitarian route, the city council reported, in a rare glimmer of hope a week and a half into the lethal siege that has pulverized homes and other buildings and left people desperate for food, water, heat and medicine. The city council didn't say how many people were in the convoy of cars headed westward for the city of Zaporizhzhia. But it said a ceasefire along the route appeared to be holding. Previous attempts to evacuate civilians and deliver humanitarian aid to the city of 430,000 were thwarted by continuing fighting.
A new round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials raised hopes that progress would be made in evacuating civilians from besieged Ukrainian cities and getting emergency supplies to areas without enough food, water and medicine.
Ukrainian officials said Russian forces shelled several suburbs of the capital, a major political and strategic target.
The base is less than 25 kilometres from the Polish border and has hosted NATO training drills, making it a potent symbol of Russia's longstanding fears that the expansion of the 30-member Western military alliance to include former Soviet states threatens its security  something NATO denies.
Rescuers help a man injured in the shelling of a residential building in Kiev on March 14, 2022.
A woman in front of the residential building hit by a strike in Kyiv on Monday.
Dead bodies, of civilians and combatants, remain trapped under the rubble or lying in the open where they fell, the Red Cross said in a statement. Life-changing injuries and chronic, debilitating conditions cannot be treated.
Later Monday, one of Zelensky's key advisers,Mykhailo Podolyaknew window, said on Twitter that negotiations were paused until Tuesday.
WATCH CBC's Chris Brown reports from western Ukraine, where Russiatargeted a military facility not far from the border with Poland:
More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the site. In addition to the 35 deaths, 134 people were wounded in the attack, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry said.
While Russia's military is bigger and better equipped than Ukraine's, Russian troops have faced stiffer than expected resistance, bolstered by Western weapons support that has frustrated Russian President Vladimir Putin.
WARNING:This video of the damage caused by astrike on a residential buildingincludes scenes depicting major injury and death:
Ukraine said Moscow's troops failed to make major advances over the past 24 hours. The Russian Defense Ministry gave a different assessment, saying its forces had advanced 11 kilometres and reached five towns north of Mariupol.
The hope for a breakthrough in talks came the day after Russian missiles pounded a military training base in western Ukraine that previously served as a crucial hub for cooperation between Ukraine and NATO.
White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the West would respond if Russia's strikes travel outside Ukraine and hit any NATO members, even accidentally.
Speaking Sunday night, Zelensky called it a black day and again urged NATO leaders to establish a no-fly zone over his country, a move the West has rejected for fear of starting a direct confrontation with nuclear-armed Russia.
A Russian rocket attack on a television tower in thewestern village of Antopolon Monday morning killed nine people, according to the governor of the Rivne region. The village is only about 160 kilometres from the border of NATO member Poland.
Russia also expanded its assault on Sunday to western Ukraine, striking the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security near Yavoriv, a military base which has long been used to train Ukrainian soldiers, often with instructors from the United States and other NATO members.
Russia's military forces kept up their punishing campaign to capture Ukraine's capital with fighting and artillery fire in Kyiv's suburbs Monday after an airstrike on a military base near the Polish border brought the war dangerously close to NATO's doorstep.
