Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky set to address Parliament amid Russian attack
20220315
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/rci/en/news/1869126/ukrainian-president-volodymyr-zelensky-set-to-address-parliament-amid-russian-attack
Parliament is not scheduled to sit until March 21, but House Speaker Anthony Rota approved a special request to hold the address. MPs and senators will be in the House for the event.
Zelenskyaddressed the British House of Commons earlier this month and is scheduled to speak to members of the U.S. House and Senate on Wednesday.
As Zelensky addressed Canadian parliamentarians, Moscow was announcing its ownround of sanctions targetingthe West  including one banningPrime Minister Justin Trudeau from enteringRussia.
His remarks came as Canada directed another round of sanctionsat Russia. Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly announced new restrictions on 15 Russian officials who she said enabled and supported President Vladimir Putin's choice to invade a peaceful and sovereign country.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau meets with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky during a bilateral meeting of the Ukraine Reform Conference in Toronto on July 2, 2019.
After Zelensky's speech, the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of the House will address the House, followed by the leaders of the three main Opposition parties and a member of the Green Party.
After Zelensky's speech, the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of the House addressed the House, followed by the leaders of the three main Opposition parties and a member of the Green Party.
Zelensky spoke about the suffering experienced by the Ukrainian peopleand said that 97 children have been killed inthe 20days since the beginning of the war.
He spoke via video link on Tuesday to Parliament,where he received sustained standing ovations from members of Parliament and senators.
Zelenky repeated his callfor a no-fly zone over his country to prevent the Russianairstrikes that have been killingcivilians.
His speech comes as Russia's offensive in Ukraine edged closer to central KyivTuesday morning. Shortly before dawn, large explosions were reported across Kyiv from what Ukrainian authorities said were artillery strikes.
Russian and Ukrainian negotiators also planned to resume talks Tuesday after they were paused on Monday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky delivered a powerful, personal appeal to Canada to do more to help his embattled country withstand the invasion by Russia.
Parliament is not scheduled to sit until March 21but House Speaker Anthony Rota approved a special request to host Zelensky's address.
In hisspeech, which was laced with references to Canadian cities and landmarks, Zelensky asked rhetorically how Canadians would feel if Russia laid siege to Vancouver or targeted the CN Tower in Toronto.
