Ukraine to ask US for more help as Russian airstrikes on Kyiv intensify
20220316
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/rci/en/news/1869372/ukraine-to-ask-u-s-for-more-help-as-russian-airstrikes-on-kyiv-intensify
Efforts are still needed, patience is needed, he said in his video address to the nation. Any war ends with an agreement.
The official said Russian troops were still about 15 kilometres from the centreof the capital.
Russian and Ukrainian representatives held talks on Monday and Tuesday. A key adviser to the Ukrainian president has said they were expected to continue Wednesday.
Ukraine's president was preparing to make a direct appeal for more help in a rare speech by a foreign leader to the U.S. Congress, as Russia continued its bombardment of the Ukrainian capital Wednesday.
He said Russian forces had been unable to move deeper into Ukrainian territory but had continued their heavy shelling of cities.
A woman and child evacuate a residential building in kyiv that was hit by missile fire.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, meanwhile, said a neutral military status for Ukraine was being seriously discussed at the businesslike talks.
A firefighter walks in front of a destroyed building after a shelling in a residential area of kyiv on March 15, 2022.
Previewing his speech to the U.S. Congress, Zelenskythanked President Joe Biden and all the friends of Ukraine for $13.6 billion in new support. He appealed for more weapons and more sanctions to punish Russia and repeated his call to close the skies over Ukraine to Russian missiles and planes.
In a statement that seemed to signal potential grounds for agreement with Moscow, Zelenskytold European leaders gathered in London that he realizes NATO has no intention of accepting Ukraine.
Developments on the diplomatic front and on the ground occurred as the number of people fleeing Ukraine amid Europe's heaviest fighting since the Second World War eclipsed threemillion.
In the war's third week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskysuggested there was still some reason to be optimistic that negotiations with the Russian government might yet yield an agreement.
A senior U.S. defence official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the Pentagon's assessment, said Tuesday the Russians were using long-range fire to hit civilian targets inside Kyiv with increasing frequency but that their ground forces were making little to no progress around the country.
NATO does not admit nations with unsettled territorial conflicts. Zelenskyhas repeatedly said he realizes NATO isn't going to offer membership to Ukraine and that he could consider a neutral status for his country but needs strong security guarantees from both the West and Russia.
Zelenskysaid Russia's demands were becoming more realistic after their delegations met Tuesday via video. The sides were expected to speak again later Wednesday.
What questions do you have about Russia's invasion of Ukraine? Send an email toaskcbc.canew window
Across the Kyiv region, he said, Kindergartens, museums, churches, residential blocks and engineering infrastructure are suffering from the endless firing.
We have heard for many years about the open doors, but we also heard that we can't enter those doors, he said. This is the truth, and we have simply to accept it as it is.
Russia has occupied the city of Ivankiv, 80 kilometres north of Kyiv, and controls the surrounding region on the border with Belarus, Kuleba said.
The UN said close to 700 civilians in Ukraine have been confirmed killed, with the true figure probably much higher. Zelensky told Canadian MPs in a video address on Tuesday that 97 children had been killed to date.
Russian forces have intensified fighting in the Kyiv suburbs, notably around the town of Bucha in the northwest and the highway leading west toward Zhytomyr, the head of the Kyiv region Oleksiy Kuleba said. He said Russian troops are trying to cut off the capital from transport arteries and destroy logistical capabilities even as they plan a wide-ranging attack to seize Kyiv. Twelve towns around Kyiv are without water and six without heat.
