UN demands Russia withdraw from Ukraine
20220302
https://ici.radio-canada.ca/rci/en/news/1866032/un-demands-russia-withdraw-from-ukraine
The 11th emergency special session of the United Nations General Assembly on Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Civilians wait for an evacuation train to flee Kiev to Lviv on March 2, 2022.
Russiacontinued to escalate its attacks on crowded cities, even as both sides are setto resume talks aimed at stopping the new devastating war in Europe on Thursday.
Most of the world lined up against Moscow in the United Nations on Wednesday to demand it withdraw from Ukraine, as Russian forces renewed their bombardment of Kharkiv,the country's second-biggest city, and besieged its strategic ports.
'The shelling does not stop,' says mayor of Mariupol, strategic port city in the south
The updates on sanctions came a day afterUkrainian authorities said that five people were killed in anattack on a TV tower near central Kyiv.new windowA TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
President Volodymyr Zelensky's office reported that the site of aHolocaust memorial, which is adjacent to the TV tower, was also hit. A spokespersonfor the memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941, was damaged, but the extent would not be clear until daylight.
In a move that aimed to politically isolate Russia,the United Nations General Assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution rebuking the Russian invasion of Ukraine and calling Moscow to immediately withdraw all forces. The vote was 141 to 5, with 35 abstentions. It came after the 193-member assembly convened its first emergency session since 1997.
Ukraine's Defence Ministry, meanwhile, said it had evidence that Belarus, a Russian ally, is preparing to send troops into Ukraine.
Beijing opposes the sanctions, said Guo Shuqing, the chairman of the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission.
Russia renewed its assault Wednesday on Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, in a pounding that lit up the skyline with balls of fire over populated areas, even as both sides said they were ready to resume talks aimed at stopping the new devastating war in Europe.
Meanwhile, the U.S. presidentused his first State of the Union address to highlight the resolve of a reinvigorated Western alliance that has worked to rearm the Ukrainian military and adopt tough sanctions, which he said have left Russian President Vladimir Putin isolated in the world more than he has ever been.
A ministry statement posted early Wednesday on Facebook said the Belarusian troops have been brought into combat readiness and are concentrated close to Ukraine's northern border. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has said his country has no plans to join the fight.
Throughout our history we've learned this lesson  when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos, Biden said. They keep moving. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising.
China won't join the United States and European governments in imposing financial sanctions on Russia, the country's bank regulator said Wednesday. China is a major buyer of Russian oil and gas and the only major government that has refrained from criticizing Moscow's attack on Ukraine.
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion. Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an invasion or war.
Russia previously told people living near transmission facilities used by Ukraine's intelligence agency to leave their homes. But Russian Defence Ministry spokespersonIgor Konashenkov claimed Wednesday that the airstrike on the TV tower did not hit any residential buildings. He did not address the reported deaths or the damage to the Holocaust memorial.
Countries that spoke up for Russia included Belarus, Cuba, North Korea and Syria. Assembly resolutions aren't legally binding, but they do have clout in reflecting international opinion.
Moscow, meanwhile, made new threats of escalation Tuesday, days after raising the spectreof nuclear war. A top Kremlin official warned that the West's economic war against Russia could turn into a real one.
Russia expects Ukrainian officials to arrive in Belarus for the next round of peace talks on Thursday morning, when a ceasefire is set to be discussed,Russian news agencies reported Wednesday. An initial round of talks between Ukraine and Russia on Monday resulted in only a promise to meet again.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Ukraine's president have agreed on a call that sanctions need to go further to exert maximum pressure on Putin in coming days, a Downing Street spokesperson said on Wednesday.
