Heres how you can help LGBTQ people in Ukraine after Russias invasion
20220408
https://www.gaytimes.co.uk/originals/heres-how-you-can-help-lgbtq-people-in-ukraine-after-russias-invasion/
To all our supporters in the world: Call on your governments to stand up and to take action against the war in Ukraine! We need to stop it now, we need to show how powerful we are all together, and Putin will stand no chance!
LGBTQ people are often disproportionately affected during times of humanitarian crisis and the war in Ukraine is no different. On 5 April 2022, GiveOut, a charity working to support the global struggle for the communitys rights, hosted a briefing on the situation for LGBTQ people as the situation progresses on the ground. GAY TIMES attended the event, which was chaired by Daniel Gerring, a trustee of GiveOut and Refugees at Home, and took place to give expert insight into the emergency response to the war and the situation for those trying to leave Ukraine. Olena joined virtually to share her experience, which was part of a wider discussion by a panel made up of Nancy Kelley from Stonewall, Sonia Lenegan from Rainbow Migration and Paul Jansen from OutRight.
GiveOut has activated our LGBTQI Emergency Fund to support OutRightIntls appeal which was launched in response to the unfolding situation in Ukraine. By donating through GiveOut, we can claim Gift Aid on all eligible donations. StandWithUkraine https:t.couIB2aa9JDq
We are working with partner LGBTQI organisations here in the UK, signposting LGBTQI Ukrainians to trusted LGBTQI support services.
Reliable figures on how many people have died as a result of Russias attack on Ukraine are hard to come by. The United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner estimated that 1,035 civilians were killed and 1,650 injured in the first month of the war alone  a figure which has likely risen substantially following recent allegations of Russia targeting them specifically.
Since then, the world has seen the fastest and largest displacement of people in Europe since the Second World War  with an estimated 10 million people having fled their homes in the country, according to the United Nations. More than 4.3 million of these have gone to one of the seven countries Ukraine shares a border with: Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Moldova, Russia and Belarus.
All panellists at GiveOuts briefing agreed that lobbying MPs is one of the easiest ways to help LGBTQ people in crisis both in Ukraine and other regions. Never underestimate the power of one or two incredibly stubborn parliamentarians who get absolutely fixated on an issue, Kelley told the audience. So, if anybody could make one parliamentarian in either House obsessed with LGBTQ refugees, that would make an enormous difference. You can find more information on how to contact your local MP by clicking here.
It is concerning, particularly this insistence that you have to stay in what the Home Office deems a safe country, Lenegan, the Legal and Policy Director at Rainbow Migration, explained at GiveOuts briefing. We know that some of the countries that are neighbouring Ukraine are not good for LGBTQ people in the slightest. You know, Poland, Hungary  it is not fair to expect people to stay there and it is completely understandable that instead they may seek to come to the UK and they may want to stay here.
A total of 209,000 packs of generic antiretroviral drug TLD have been secured by the World Health Organisation alongside Ukrainian authorities, the United States Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PEPFAR and other partners to supply HIV positive people with the help they need for at least the next 12 months, it was confirmed on 5 April. However, these drugs, as well as others in demand from people in the community, reaching those in need continues to be an obstacle that is proving difficult to overcome.
However, Lenegan explained that the UK is falling short when it comes to welcoming refugees into the country: What the UK has done so far is theyve set up three different schemes for Ukraininans, which I think is indicative of how much theyve really not planned ahead for this and theyre really chasing their tale with the fact that we have three separate schemes.
.WHO,PEPFAR, Ukrainian authorities and partners are ensuring the supply of antiretroviral drugs, covering most of the needs of every single person known to be living with HIV in Ukraine for the next 12 months. pic.twitter.comsUcKSK2vci
As the UN works tirelessly to help those affected by the war, see how we can all take action to stand WithRefugees. https:t.cowZR5NdiGNt via Refugees pic.twitter.comMrRSvuCfDK
Here is a list of ways in which you can help LGBTQI Ukrainians: https:t.co7DyDYlAjBP pic.twitter.comHl3cDg6Ju4
Kelley, the CEO of Stonewall, raised the problems transgender people are facing when trying to leave Ukraine: Weve engaged directly and heard a lot from partners specifically around the position specifically of trans women, who dont have the correct gender markers on their identity documents and are finding it very difficult to exit Ukraine and are at risk of conscription.
What we do see now is that groups are asking for longer term support because we know that this is not a conflict or a war of aggression that will stop soon, said Jansen of OutRight as he emphasised the importance of people donating resources to help Ukrainians in danger, particularly groups who are adapting to the ever-changing situation.
Edward Reese, project assistant at KyivPride, spoke to GAY TIMES just two days after the war began: We hope, we believe and actually we know that we will win this war. Surely with some losses, but we will win. If we fantasise, if Russia comes over Ukraine, for sure, it will be the darkest times because right now in Russia it is darkest times for queer people.
LGBTQ people in Ukraine are facing a unique set of challenges since Russias invasion of the country. Heres what you need to know about their situation and what you can do to help.
For months, Western officials reported that Russia was planning an invasion of Ukraine that could begin at any moment  something Vladimir Putin adamantly denied. In the early hours of 24 February, however, Ukrainian officials stated that Russia had launched an all-out assault on the country, with troops crossing the border.
Drug supplies are becoming an increasingly clear issue arising for the population of Ukraine, which in turn is impacting LGBTQ people who rely on them. Estimates state that around 260,000 people are living with HIV in Ukraine half of which were taking antiretroviral treatment before the invasion, making it the second largest number in Europe after Russia. The appropriate drugs are needed to control the virus and prevent it spreading to other people, with disruption to it potentially resulting in harmful complications.
Its also concerning that the schemes that have been announced are for Ukrainian nationals only. So, we know that excludes LGBTQ people in particular who have gone to Ukraine because its safer, for example, than Russia. They are not covered by these schemes, so they dont have a route to the UK unless its via the Channel, basically.
Kelley called on businesses to start forming long-term partnerships with LGBTQ organisations in Ukraine and surrounding countries as this infrastructure is incredibly powerful for the LGBTQ community. In addition, she expressed the need for a protection system internationally and a humanitarian protection system that addresses the fact our communities exist.
Despite inclusive policies like same-sex marriage being constitutionally banned in Ukraine and the countrys ongoing issues with the far-right, Edward stated that the Ukrainian government is supporting gay rights in a way that makes most LGBTQ people feel protected  something that may not be the case if Russia successfully occupies the country.
The first one was the Ukraine Family Scheme, then Homes for Ukraine, and I think it was last week or the week before, theyve announced the Ukrainian Extension Scheme, which is for people who are already in the UK. The delays that we are hearing about already are hugely concerning in relation to the schemes for people who are outside the UK and wanting to come in.
As well as this, the government has supplied Ukraine with aid to help in its fight against Russias military and disinformation campaign. This includes support such as 25 million in financial backing for the Ukrainian military, an additional 4.1 million for the BBC World Service to help combat fake news, and giving the country some of the additional weaponry it needs.
He continued: I am thankful and grateful for our friends in Ukraine who never were humanitarian organisations, I think thats an important thing to note. These were LGBTQ organisations working on advocacy, on rights etc. and theyre now forced into a completely different ball game, which is humanitarian assistance, emergency assistance and theyre doing a brilliant job, as best as they can.
Around 12,000 people have safely arrived in the UK under these visa schemes as of 5 April, despite around 79,800 applications having been received for Homes for Ukraine and the Ukraine Family Scheme, the Home Office confirmed.
I never thought that I would be an internally displaced person, said Olena, a Ukrainian forced to flee her home because of Russias invasion. I never thought before that I would have this refugee experience. Since leaving Kyiv, she has worked to establish shelters for LGBTQ people in need and a crisis line for community members needing support.
There are an array of unique issues facing Ukraines LGBTQ community in the wake of Russias invasion that are impossible to succinctly sum up. Many face the decision of fleeing to a country where queer people are persecuted or remaining in Ukraine as the war continues. Although there is still a lot of work to be done on LGBTQ rights in Ukraine, Russias long history of persecution against the community, such as its gay propaganda law and anti-gay purges in Chechnya, has left queer people in Ukraine terrified of what the invasion could mean for their future.
On an individual level, the simple answer is to donate money. GiveOut has activated its LGBTQ Emergency Fund which will see donations go directly to OutRights appeal in a bid to give queer Ukrainians the support they need. Donations from the UK are particularly helpful as GiveOut is able to claim Gift Aid on all eligible contributions, meaning an extra 25p for every 1 given.
The UK, alongside a range of other nations, has imposed a number of sanctions on Russia in a bid to penalise those who have benefitted from Putins regime and ultimately bring an end to the war. These include, but are by no means limited to, a commitment to ending all imports of Russian coal and oil by the end of the year, prohibiting Russian flights from entering the UKs airspace, and sanctioning a number of individuals and businesses who are believed to be close to the Kremlin. Although some sanctions may seem insignificant, they are among the harshest actions a country can take against another  short of going to war or engaging with military action.
