The Ukraine Crisis Is Only Sort of About Ukraine
20220203
https://www.aei.org/foreign-and-defense-policy/the-ukraine-crisis-is-only-sort-of-about-ukraine/
Search engine optimization is a problem. Thats not a non-sequitur. Headlines about the military crisis Russian President Vladimir Putin has generated must all have the word Ukraine in them. But thats confusing us. Take a recent headline as one example among many: Vladimir Putin says the West has ignored Russias key concerns over Ukraine. That isnt what Putin said because Russias key concerns arent about Ukraine. Theyre about NATO. He didnt just say key concerns, either. Putin said he was dissatisfied with the failure of the US response to address our three key demands, not concerns. Youd think from this headline that Putin was mainly worried about something to do with Ukraine or at least claimed to be, and that he had asked the West to allay his concerns. Neither is the case.
done. But we shouldnt write them off  which Biden, to his credit, has not
consigning 44 million people to the dustbin of history in a fit of realism. We
was at in 1997  that is, before the admission of any of the Warsaw Pact states
made by a hostage-taker and serial liar should make us feel better about any of
borders are a threat, which would be funny if it werent so alarming, and hasnt
can decide not to go to war with Russia to defend them, as President Biden has
Headline writers and everyone else commenting about this crisis, please. Help us understand even if it lowers the SEO score.
Learn more: NATO Must Reinforce Its Eastern Flank Right Now  What's at Risk in Ukraine, and Why It Matters to America and Its Allies  Biden Could Have Stopped the Taliban. He Chose Not To.
and Lithuanian borders, even if the West meets his terms. Or to pull back the
losing those things, and then well need to make some hard choices. But it all
security interests. In return for a promise of nothing at all. As if a promise
annexation of Crimea is a done deal and must never be revisited. He has not
