The White Houses Pathetic Response to Putins Invasion
20220224
https://www.aei.org/op-eds/the-white-houses-pathetic-response-to-putins-invasion/
This is beyond belief. After his minor incursion gaffe, Biden drew a clear red line. He said that if any  and he repeated the word any  Russian units crossed those borders, that would constitute an invasion. Well, Putin did exactly that. He crossed the border  and Bidens red line. But instead of responding decisively, his administration pathetically twisted itself into knots, looking for excuses not to call it an invasion.
Worse, they actually made excuses for Putin, saying that his incursion was no big deal. A senior administration officialtoldreporters Monday, Russian troops moving into Donbas would not itself be a new step. Russia has had forces in the Donbas for the past eight years. The only change, this official said, was that Russia now looks like its going to be operating openly in that region. And according to The Post, another administration official defined a Russian invasion that would prompt a clear US response as crossing into Ukrainian territory that Russia has not occupied since 2014. Translation: Nothing to see here.
Worse still, Biden failed to deliver on his promise, made last week at a news conference with German ChancellorOlaf Scholz, to end the Nord Stream 2 pipeline if Russia invaded Ukraine. Biden haddeclaredthat if Russia invades, which means tanks or troops crossing the border of Ukraine again, then there will be no longer a Nord Stream 2. We will bring an end to it. Standing beside Biden, Scholz repeatedly refused to echo his declaration or even mention Nord Stream 2 by name.
Then, after belatedly acknowledging an invasion was underway, Biden failed to respond with the crippling sanctions he had promised. In his address, Biden announced personal sanctions on Russian elites and their family members, as well as some limited sanctions on two Russian banks. But he failed to announced any sanctions targeting Russias two most significant exports  oil and natural gas. Why? Because Germany now getsmore than half of its natural gas importsfrom Russia, while the rest of the European Union depends on Russia for about 40 percent. And because Biden knows that oil and gas sanctions could impact energy prices in the United States as well.
Indeed, while Biden failed to announce energy sanctions, he delivered an extended soliloquy on his determination to blunt the impact of sanctions on energy prices here at home. As we respond, my administration is using every tool at our disposal to protect American businesses and consumers from rising prices at the pump, Biden said. I am going to take robust action to make sure that the pain of our sanctions is targeted at the Russian economy, not ours. What kind of message of resolve is that? What Putin hears is that Biden is afraid to impose crippling energy sanctions because he does not want to be held responsible for driving gas prices up even further just months before the midterm elections. That will only embolden the Russian leader.
So far, he has been proved right. If Biden does not immediately reimpose sanctions on Nord Stream 2  killing the project once and for all  and place crippling sanctions on Russias energy and banking sectors, then American credibility will be shattered beyond recovery.
Remember the uproar last month when President Biden declared that the US response to a Russian invasion of Ukraine would depend on whether it was a minor incursion? Critics rightly pointed out that Biden had effectively given Russian President Vladimir Putin a greenlight to invade eastern Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky quickly rebuked Biden,tweeting, There are no minor incursions. Biden had to quickly backtrack, declaring the next day that any  any  assembled Russian units move across the Ukrainian border, that is an invasion.
In his address to the nation Tuesday afternoon, Biden finallyacknowledgedthat this is the beginning of a Russian invasion. Before then, The Postreportedthat Putins actions had forced the administration into an uneasy dilemma about whether that constituted an invasion. One senior administration official repeatedly refused to say whether Putins decision to send peacekeeping troops into the two Russian-backed separatist areas constituted a red-line invasion in the eyes of the Biden administration.
Well, on Monday Putin sent assembled Russian units across the border into eastern Ukraine. And what was the Biden administrations immediate reaction? To excuse Putins actions and downplay them as nothing more than a minor incursion.
Well, Russia just did what Biden said  sending its forces across Ukraines border. So, is Nord Stream 2 ended? No. On Tuesday, Scholzannouncedthat he was halting the certification of the pipeline, so he could re-evaluate this situation, in view of the latest developments. Halting and re-evaluating Nord Stream 2 is very different from ending it. In his speech Tuesday, Biden said that weve worked with Germany to ensure Nord Stream 2 will not, as I promised, will not move forward. He did not say there will be no longer a Nord Stream 2.
How does all this come across to Putin? As weakness. Putin has long believedBiden is bluffing when he threatens serious consequences just like he correctly assessed that the Obama-Biden administration was bluffing in 2014 when it warned of repercussions if Russia invaded Ukraine and annexed Crimea.
