RussiaUkraine updates Russian convoy nears Kyiv on day 6 of assault
20220301
https://www.fox35orlando.com/news/russia-ukraine-updates-what-to-know-on-day-6-of-russian-assault
The Russian economy is paying a price, with Western sanctions causing the ruble to tumble and leading some major companies to pull out of Russian investments.
Oil companies such as BP and Shell have pulled out of their stakes in Russian energy ventures. Norwegian Oil and Gas, an association for oil and supplier companies in the worlds third-largest natural gas exporter, followed suit Tuesday by suspending two Russian companies. And the French energy conglomerate TotalEnergies said it wouldnt fund any new projects in Russia, but it stopped short of abandoning its holdings there.
The comments came as the United States returned to its seat at the council, which was abandoned under President Donald Trump, who alleged that the 47-member-state body was too accepting of autocratic governments and too biased against Israel.
Russia shelled several key sites in Kyiv and in the country's second-largest city, Kharkiv, killing at least 11 people and wounding dozens of others, Ukrainian officials said. Among the sites hit were Kyiv's main TV tower and holocaust memorial.
The worlds biggest shipping company, A.P. Moller-Maersk, announced that all new bookings to and from Russia "will be temporarily suspended, with exception of foodstuffs, medical and humanitarian supplies." Britain and Canada closed ports to Russian ships.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
Hours later, more Russian shelling struck Kyiv's main TV tower and holocaust memorial, killing five people and injuring five others, according to Ukrainian officials. TV broadcasts were temporarily knocked offline, but some channels were up and running again a short time later.
It was the first time the Russian military hit the center of the city of 1.5 million people, though shells have been hitting residential neighborhoods for days.
Ukrainian researcher Maria Avdeeva explains the communication from President Putin to his Russian troops to escalate forces in Ukraine. Avdeeva says some soldiers are laying down their weapons after being lied to about the reason they are there.
KYIV, Ukraine - Russias invasion of Ukraine entered its sixth day on Tuesday, with a huge convoy of Russian tanks and armored vehicles inching closer to the capital of Kyiv and fighting intensifying there and in other big cities.
The U.N. refugee agency said Tuesday that about 660,000 people have fled Ukraine for neighboring countries since the invasion began. Agency spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo said "at this rate, the situation looks set to become Europes largest refugee crisis this century."
The United States and European Union have levied sanctions on Russias biggest banks and its elite, frozen the assets of the countrys Central Bank located outside the country, and excluded its financial institutions from the SWIFT bank messaging system  but have largely allowed its oil and natural gas to continue to flow freely to the rest of the world.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy blamed a Russian missile and called the attack a war crime: "it's frank, undisguised terror ...Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget."
Russias Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said Tuesday that the government had readied measures to temporarily restrict foreign investors from divesting Russian assets, saying the step would help them make "a considered decision" rather than succumb to political pressure of sanctions.
Russias central bank has taken drastic steps to prop up the plunging ruble, but foreign investment is flooding out of the country.
KHARKIV, UKRAINE - MARCH 01: A view of damaged Kharkiv governor's office and a wrecked vehicle is seen after the Russian army's missile attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine on March 1, 2022. Photo by State Emergency Service of UkraineAnadolu Agency via Getty
Western officials believe Russian President Vladimir Putin wants to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a compliant regime, reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
Sanctions are "going to cause the Russian economy to collapse," French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire told France Info radio on Tuesday. Nations have blocked some Russian banks from the SWIFT international payment system and are restricting Russias use of its massive foreign currency reserves.
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi, has said the U.N. expects the total to reach 4 million in the coming weeks. Poland has seen the most refugees, with Hungary, Romania and Moldova also accepting tens of thousands. Germany's national train company issued a special free ticket for Ukrainian refugees to reach relatives.
Maria Lisicka, who fled to Poland with her two children when shelling began in their western Ukrainian city of Lutsk, said she would do anything for her kids: "I didnt want to take them away, I wanted them to be at home, but what can be done? I want their psyche to be normal."
Russian shelling struck central Kharkivs Freedom Square just after sunrise Tuesday, badly damaging a regional administration building and other structures, and killing at least six people and wounding dozens of others, Ukrainian officials said.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken called on the U.N.s top human rights body to hold Russia accountable for the invasion.
The convoy was no more than 17 miles 25 kilometers from the city center on Monday, according to satellite imagery from the Maxar company.
In recorded remarks delivered to the Human Rights Council, the top U.S. diplomat also urged it to send a message to Russian President Vladimir Putin that he should unconditionally stop the "unprovoked attack" and withdraw its forces from Ukraine.
U.N. humanitarian coordinator Martin Griffiths said Tuesday that shelling and bombing have damaged pipes, electricity lines and basic services in Ukraine, and that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian families are without drinking water.
The Russian military convoy threatening Kyiv and its nearly 3 million residents is far bigger than initially thought, with satellite images showing it occupying much of a 40-mile 64-kilometer stretch of road north of the capital.
RELATED: Chef Jos Andrs, World Central Kitchen set up near Ukraine border to feed refugees
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy receives a standing ovation from the European Parliament. During his speech Tuesday via video link, Zelenskyy thanked the European Union for its continued support. He spoke about the devastation Ukraine is experiencing from airstrikes, bombs and missiles, but how the Russian invasion isn't going to quote "beak us, we are strong." Zelenskyy emphasized the Ukrainian people are "motivated" and "fighting for our rights, for freedoms, for life".
Russian forces have blocked the port city of Kherson, according to Ukrainian officials. And Russian artillery hit a military base in Okhtyrka over the weekend, killing more than 70 Ukrainian soldiers, the head of the region wrote on Telegram.
Although Ukrainian forces still control Kharkiv and the coastal cities of Kherson and Mariupol, all three are encircled, according to the U.K. Ministry of Defense.
Sanctions experts expect Russia to try to mitigate the impact of the financial penalties by relying on energy sales and leaning on the countrys reserves in gold and Chinese currency. Putin also is expected to move funds through smaller banks and accounts of elite families not covered by the sanctions, deal in cryptocurrency and rely on Russias relationship with China.
Meanwhile, the U.N.s the 193-nation General Assembly met Tuesday for a second day of speeches about the war. More than 110 member states signed up to speak. The assembly, which allows no vetoes, is expected to vote later in the week on a resolution coordinated by EU envoys, working with Ukraine.
With Russia playing such an outsized role in global energy markets as the third-largest oil producer, the International Energy Agencys 31 member countries agreed Tuesday to release 60 million barrels of oil from their strategic reserves  half of that from the United States  "to send a strong message to oil markets" that supplies wont fall short due to the invasion of Ukraine.
The draft resolution, obtained by The Associated Press, demands that Russia immediately stop using force against Ukraine and withdraw all troops.
A massive convoy of Russian soldiers is only a few miles outside of the Ukraine capital of Kyiv on the sixth day of Russia's invasion. Russian military forces also conducted numerous missile strikes in Kharkiv leaving rubble and destruction.
Kyiv's outgunned but determined troops have slowed Russias advance and held onto the capital and other key cities. But the attacks have taken a toll.
Russian strikes on the key southern port city of Mariupol seriously wounded several people. Separatist forces in Donetsk said they have established two corridors for the evacuation of civilians from Mariupol, which suggests that a large attack on the city could be imminent. The city is a key port on the Azov Sea.
