All NWT diamond mines pledge support to Ukraine
20220316
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/north/nwt-mines-ukraine-support-1.6386209
On Tuesday, Russia stepped up its bombardment of Kyiv while thousands of civilians fled Mariupol along a humanitarian corridor in what was believed to be the biggest evacuation yet from the desperately besieged seaport. On the diplomatic front, another round of talks began between Russia and Ukraine.
Also on Tuesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky thanked Canada for its support in his address to the House of Commons but said much more needs to be done, including additional sanctions and a no-fly zone.
A spokesperson for Rio Tinto  which operates Diavik Diamond Mine 300 kilometres northeast of Yellowknife  said in an email the company is cutting all commercial relationships it has with Russian businesses. He did notrespond to a question from CBC News about how much business the company does with Russia.
Moore confirmed ACDCdoes not have any business ties with Russia, noting that Ekati is its only mine and that its sales and marketing is done out of Belgium.
"Arctic condemns the Russian invasion of Ukraine in the strongest terms. We view Ukraine as a sovereign nation with a democratically elected government and support Ukrainians in defending their freedom against the tyranny of Vladimir Putin," said its president and CEO Rory Moore.
The spokesperson saidDiavikitself does not have ties to Russia and Rio Tinto does not have operations or team members in either Russia or Ukraine. The company says it hasmining infrastructure, sales offices and research labs in about 35 countries.
Arctic Canadian Diamond Company ACDCwhich operates the Ekati diamond mine, said in an emailWednesday afternoon it was arranging a donation to support Ukrainians  but didn't say how much the donation would be.
The spokesperson for Rio Tinto said the company is donating $5 million US to humanitarian agencies helping people who are impacted or fleeing the conflict. A spokesperson for De Beers Group, which operates the Gahcho Kudiamond mine, is donating $1 million US to provide support to Ukraine. Its parent company, Anglo American, has already pledgeda separate $5 million US.
"We have been shocked by the violence in Ukraine and inspired by the bravery of its people," the De Beers spokesperson said in an email, adding that the company only mines diamonds in Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Canada.
All three diamond mining companies in the N.W.T. say their operations in the territory havenot changed because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine  and they've all pledged to support people fleeing from the conflict.
