BC expecting thousands of Ukrainian refugees says premier
20220312
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/b-c-expecting-thousands-of-ukrainian-refugees-1.6382019
Horgan met with local Ukrainian community leaders and settlement organizations to discuss the needs of this refugee population which include translation and trauma counselling services.
While Horganestimates women and children will make up the majority of the Ukrainian refugee population, he says it's too early to tell the exact number and makeup of people coming to B.C.
Alexandra Dawley, with B.C. resettlement organization MOSAIC, says the Canadian government has introduced "unparalleled and uncommon" refugee resettlement measures for Ukrainian refugees.
Since Russian forces marched into Ukraine over two weeks ago, hundreds have been killed and injured and millions have been displaced from their homes, especially in the eastern part of the country.
The Canadian governmenthas created two new pathways for Ukrainiansto come to Canada  part of a plan to accept an "unlimited number" of people who want to leave.
Many of them could end up coming to Canada  which is home to the world's third largest population of Ukrainians  and to British Columbia specifically, according to the province.
"As far as short-term transitional housing, these Ukrainians are going to be coming in during a pandemic," he said, meaning all refugees will have to quarantine for 14 days in a hotel in the Lower Mainland.
However, for others, Horgan says, Canada is a desirable location due to the existing support systems within the Ukrainian-Canadiancommunity.
"People are renovating their basements as quickly as they can to prepare a suite or they're emptying out rooms filled with boxes to make sure there is a space for people if it's needed."
Thousands of Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion of their home country are expected to seek refuge in British Columbia, according to Premier John Horgan.
"We know this in our domestic activity, much less opening our doors to newcomers," said the premier. He pointed to a number of opportunities for temporary housing, including vacancies at ski resorts in the off-season and on-campus university student housing.
He says provincial premiers had a conference call earlier this week to discuss a "coast-to-coast response to what will become an emerging refugee crisis in Europe as a result of invasion by Vladimir Putin of the sovereign state of Ukraine."
"We're here to help and we're ready to go. We just need more clarity on the post-arrival stage."
Settlement offers from European countries are likely to be more attractive to Ukrainians hoping to stay closer to home in the hopes that Putin will withdraw and vacate their home country so they can return home.
The government is also introducing an "expedited path" to permanent residency for Ukrainians with family in Canada.
"They're going to need a place to go, whether it's short term in hopes of returning to Ukraine, or to put down roots in B.C.," said Horgan, who predictedat a Friday news conferencethe number of refugees to the province could potentially number in the tens of thousands.
To start, Immigration Minister Sean Frasersaid his department has created a new visa category that will allow a limitless number of Ukrainians to come to Canada to live, work or study here for up to two years.
Chris Friesen, the chief operating operating officer for ISS of B.C., says even though Canada has signaled it will not set a target for the number of refugees, getting an estimateof who is coming temporarily and permanently is important.
"We're seeing an increased effort to make sure that there's at least temporary safety for those who are from the Ukraine here in Canada and specifically here in B.C."
Both Horgan and the Immigration Services Society of B.C. say they need more information from the federal government about the timeline for refugees arriving inBritish Columbia.
