Demonstrations in solidarity with Ukraine held across Canada on Sunday
20220227
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/canada-ukraine-support-demonstrations-rallies-sunday-feb-27-1.6366456
In Hamilton, hundreds attended a solidarity rally where people waved Ukrainian flags and held signs calling for the world to "stand with Ukraine" as people driving by showed their support by honking.
"Usually it makes me cry when I see that someone not from Ukraine shows their support," said Olexsandra Bezruchko,who is from Ukraine and attended the rally.
"Most people here have family in Ukraine and we need to congregate and stay together in our own community to show support to one another," said MichaelShwec, the president of the Canadian Ukrainian Congress.
The colours of the Ukrainian flag were later projected onto the Peace Tower on Sunday evening.
In Russia, police detained more than 2,000 people at anti-war protests in 48 cities across the country on Sunday, a protest monitoring group said.
Demonstrations were held in more Canadian cities toshowof solidarity with Ukraine on Sunday, whichmarked the fourthday of Russia's wide-ranging invasion.
In the Prairies, protesters showed their support for Ukraine at rally in Saskatoon on Sunday.
"I feel scared for them," she said. "This is something that everybody kind of knew would happen, but never believed it actually would."
Hundreds gathered in Kitchener-Waterlooon Sunday, as many Ukrainian-Canadians in the areagrew increasingly worriedabout their loved ones caught in the conflict.
"My relatives are still there.... They're scared because they're seeking shelter right now instead of just having a great, wonderful Sunday."
"It's been hard to focus on school right now and to get everything done. Sometimes it's just hard to even believe and to process that it's happening in the 21st century because it shouldn't be happening."
"It's just scary every day to be like 'will they answer me the next day?'" she said.
In British Columbia, about 150 people in Prince George gathered on the city hall steps on Sunday as part of a rally organized by St. George's Ukrainian Church.
Thousands of Ottawa residents gathered outside the Russian Embassy in Sandy Hill on Sundayto stand united with Ukrainians and protest Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The people gathered heard from Mayor Lyn Hall, members of local First Nations communitiesand shared songs and prayers for those in Ukraine.
She said these are extremely difficult times as her brother and motherstill live in Ukraine.
The ongoing demonstrations taking place in Canada echo the sentiments of those opposing the war around the globe.
Some carried signs that read "Stop War" or "Stand With Ukraine." A group of children waved the Ukrainian national flag and cars honked their horns as they drove by.
Sophia Gryshchenko, whose extended family lives in Kyiv and in western Ukraine, said the last several days have been extremely difficult.
The event, billed as "Mega March for Ukraine,"wasorganized bythe Toronto branch of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress.
In Eastern Canada, a gathering in Charlottetownsaw scores of people meet at city hall Sunday morningto take part in a rally to show support for Ukraine.
Russia's ongoing attackhas prompted condemnation by many world leaders and triggered a raft of sanctions.
In Quebec,there was an outpouring of continued support for Ukraine at a rally in downtown Montreal onSunday. It wasthe fourth day in a row that Montrealers hadcome out to protest in opposition of the invasion.
In northern Canada, demonstrators congregated in downtown Whitehorse, flying Ukrainian flags and holding up signs.
"We're calling on all governments of the world to support creatinga n-fly zone over Ukraine."
Thousands of people marched in downtown Toronto on Sunday afternoon to protest the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Many Canadians gathered on Saturday as wellto show their support for Ukraine. Protests against Russia's invasion have been held around the world in recent days including in Russia itself, where police cracked down on protesters.
