Easter pysanky workshop in Thunder Bay uses artform to show resilience as Ukraine its culture under attack
20220415
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/thunder-bay/ukrainian-pysanky-easter-war-1.6416803
"It's something that people can celebrate with us and it transcends cultures. It transcends nationalities. You don't have to be Ukrainian to make a pysanka," Draper continued.
"So it turned out that my sister ended up making two dozen  and we were labelling them and packaging them up, and it wasn't until we were finished with the last package that she took her last breath. So the pysanky meant a lot, and still do," she said as her eyes welled with tears.
"To be able to share the richness of both the cuisine, the arts, the heritage  so people have an understanding and an appreciation of it, because I think that's what helps us all respect each other more," she said. "And pysanky is a very, very important part of Ukrainian culture."
Those at the workshop also sported shirts that read"Stand with Ukraine," and some woreblue-and-yellow ribbons over their hearts.
The method is something Karling Draper has been working to master through the years. Now, she volunteers at the event to help others with the process.
The art of pysanky has been around for centuriesand uses a traditional method of "writing" the eggs with melted beeswax through a stylus called akistka. The wax preserves the colours on the eggs as they sit in dye baths. Then, the process is repeated, creating a layered effect.
The creations are meant to tell a story with symbols of life and nature, and traditional folk patterns.
They both said making the pysanky would send strength to the people of Ukraineand show pride in the culture.
Paroschy-Harris said volunteers were baking Paska bread, a traditional braided Ukrainian bread, until after midnight the day before the workshop as part of the fundraiser.
As they huddled around tables,with candles burning in the centre, some chattedwhile others stayed focused on the task at hand.
"They will last forever if you take care of them properly and  I think there's a legend that says as long as pysanky are being written that evil will stay away from our lands," explained Draper.
"There's still a lot of fear and disbelief in some respects. But we try and celebrate the religious occasions like Easter, as we normally would," said Walter Warywoda, president of the Thunder Bay branch of the Ukrainian League of Canadians.
Both Draper and Paroschy-Harris said they believed creating the eggs this year was particularly importantas Ukraine and its culture are under attack.
But the workshop also took onnew meaning this year as the war in Ukraine continues it's beentwo months since Russian President Vladimir Putin sent troops over the border.
People in Thunder Bay, Ont., gathered earlier this month for a special workshop onpysanky orUkrainian Eastereggsand this year's session tookon new meaning as the participants turned to the artformto channelresilience.
"You end up with a magical piece of art," said Cathy Paroschy-Harris, as she carefully melted away beeswax from everyone's eggs in a little toaster oven.
The annual workshop usually raises funds for the Chaban Ukrainian Dance Group in Thunder Bay, but proceeds this year are going toward humanitarian efforts in Ukraine.
Coffee, freshly baked Ukrainian breadand the smell of blown-out candles filled the air as theyworked away at their pysanky.
"My mom recently passed away, and her dying wish when she passed away wasshe was in a long-term care homeand she asked that my sister and I make pysanky for all the staff," she explainedwhile holding a pysanka she had made with her mom over 20 years ago.
Cathy Paroschy-Harris,one of the workshop teachers and organizers, shared that the tradition each Easter has always been special. But this year's event was particularly emotional for her, on many levels.
"We can kind of keep that evil away from us here. But also we can send those thoughts to Ukraine as well."
