G7 warns Russia of massive consequences if Ukraine invaded
20211212
https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/g7-warning-russia-ukraine-1.6283048
Truss said Biden had made clear to Putin that the U.S. stance "carries the support of the G7 countries as a whole. And that should be very concerning for Vladimir Putin."
The G7 called on Russia to "de-escalate, pursue diplomatic channels, and abide by its international commitments on transparency of military activities," whileit praised Ukraine's "restraint."
Getting a unified response to global crises from the G7, a group of countries with disparate interests, has often proved tough.
"What we've set out is a positive agenda about making sure that countries have alternative sources of investment, alternative sources of trade," she said. "And that we're making sure that we abide by  and ensure others are abiding by  the rules-based international system" for trade.
Russia's movement of weapons and troops to the border region dominated weekend talks among foreign ministers from the G7 wealthy democracies in the English city of Liverpool.
"We cannot have short-term economic gain at the expense of our long-term freedom and democracy," she said.
G7 nations are also increasingly concerned about China's growing economic and technological dominance, especially in developing countries. The G7 has launched a "Build Back Better World" initiative to offer developing nations funding for big infrastructure projects as an alternative to money from China that, the West argues, often comes with strings attached.
The U.S. and its allies have played down talk of a military response to defend Ukraine, with efforts focusing on tough sanctions that would hit the Russian economy, rather than just individuals.
Foreign ministers from the United States, Canada and the rest of the G7, joined by the European Union's foreign affairs chief, issued a joint statement declaring themselves "united in our condemnation of Russia's military buildup and aggressive rhetoric towards Ukraine."
In the U.S., reporters asked President Joe Biden on Saturday about the possibility of sending combat troops to Ukraine, and he said that idea was never considered. "Are you ready to send American troops into war and go into Ukraine to fight Russians on the battlefield?" he said.
U.K. bank and financial authorities have long been criticized for allegedly turning a blind eye to ill-gotten gains.
"Any use of force to change borders is strictly prohibited under international law. Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response," the statement said.
The U.S. and it allies worry that the buildup could be precursor to an invasion, and they'vevowed to inflict heavy sanctions on Russia's economy if that happens.
Truss, who invited ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to the Liverpool meeting, said the G7 was "concerned about the coercive economic policies of China."
Britain, which isn't dependent on Russian gas, has also criticized the pipeline,but it faces tricky questions about London's financial district and property market, both hubs for Russian money.
Truss insisted Britain has "very strong anti-corruption and anti-money laundering rules," but she also suggested that Russian money and Russian gas came at a high price.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, the conference host, said the G7 was sending a "powerful signal to our adversaries and our allies."
Biden, who spoke to Russian President Vladimir Putin on a video call last week, said he had made clear that in the event of an invasion, "the economic consequences for his economy are going to be devastating. Devastating."
The statement promised a "common and comprehensive response" but contained no details. Truss said the G7 was "considering all options" when it came to economic sanctions. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on NBC's Meet the Press on Sundaythat "we are prepared to take the kinds of steps we've refrained from taking in the past" if Russia didn't step back.
China's muscle-flexing in the Indo-Pacific region and the ailing Iran nuclear deal were also on the agenda for the meeting of top diplomats from the the U.S., Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Japan at the dockside Museum of Liverpool.
"So I think President Putin has to factor that in, too, as he's thinking about what he's going to do next," he said.
Moscow denies having any plans to attack Ukraine and accuses Kyiv of its own allegedly aggressive designs.
A unified stance towardChina continues to prove elusive, however, with the U.S. and Britain generally more hawkish than other G7 members.
The Group of Seven economic powers told Russia on Sunday to "de-escalate" its military buildup near the Ukrainian border, warning that an invasion would have "massive consequences" and inflict severe economic pain on Moscow.
Germany plans on getting gas from Russia soon through the contentious Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which bypasses Ukraine  though Blinken said it was hard to see the pipeline becoming operational "if Russia has renewed its aggression on Ukraine, if it takes renewed action."
