It will take time to get results Macron says after talks in Russia Ukraine
20220208
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/macron-ukraine-russia-talks-feb8-1.6343316
U.S. President Joe Biden has said that any prospect of Ukraine entering NATO "in the near term is not very likely," but he and other NATO member nations and NATO itself refuse to rule out Ukraine's entry into the alliance at a future date.
Macron met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky amid mounting fears of a Russian invasion.At a news conference after meeting Zelensky, Macron said Putin told him during their more than five-hour session Monday that "he won't be initiating an escalation. I think it is important."
According to the French president, Putin also said there won't be any Russian "permanent military base" or "deployment" in Belarus, where Russia had sent a large number of troops for war games.
Germany has given Ukraine about 1.8 billion euros more than $2.6 billion Cnd in aid since 2014, part of which is helping those displaced by fighting.
Peskov said withdrawing Russian troops from Belarus after the manoeuvres was the plan all along.
Macron also said the presidential advisers of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine will meet Thursday in Berlin on the next steps. "It will take time to get results," he said.
Last month, Global Affairs Canada warned only against non-essential travel to Ukraine, but stepped up its warning late Monday, suggesting growing concerns that a conflict is imminent.
Biden met Monday with Germany's leader, who also will travel to Kyiv and Moscow on Feb. 14-15. They threatened Russia with grave consequences if it invaded, and Biden vowed that the Nord Stream 2 Russia-to-Germany gas pipeline, which has been completed but is not yet operating, will be blocked. Such a move would hurt Russia economically but also cause energy supply problems for Germany.
"Avoid all travel to Ukraine due to ongoing Russian threats and the risk of armed conflict," the advisory said. "If you are in Ukraine, you should leave while commercial means are available."
Macron said he had not expected Putin to make any "gestures" during their talks Monday, saying his objective was to "prevent an escalation and open new perspectives.... That objective is met."
Putin said after the meeting that the U.S. and NATO ignored Moscow's demands, but signaled his readiness to continue talking. He also reiterated a warning that Ukraine membership in NATO could trigger a war between Russia and the alliance should Kyiv move to retake the Crimean Peninsula, which Moscow annexed in 2014.
More than 100 U.S. military personnel arrived in Romania ahead of a deployment of about 1,000 NATO troops expected in the country in the coming days, Romania's Defense Minister Vasile Dincu said.
Zelensky was mum on where Ukraine stands on implementing the Minsk agreements and whether he assured Macron that Kyiv is committed to do so, saying only that his country views Thursday's meeting "very positively" and hoped for a subsequent meeting by the four leaders.
He said France was giving 1.2 billion euros roughly $1.7 billion Cdn in financial aid to Ukraine and helping restore infrastructure in the war-ravaged east of the country.
Macron said both Putin and Zelenskyconfirmed they were willing to implement the Minsk agreements  "the only path allowing to build peace ... and find a sustainable political solution."
"In the history of diplomacy, there was never a crisis that has been settled by exchanges of letters which are to be made public afterward," he said, adding that's why he decided to go to Moscow for direct talks.
Western leaders in recent weeks have engaged in multiple rounds of diplomacy talks to try to de-escalate the crisis, and more meetings are planned. High-level talks have taken place against the backdrop of military drills in Russia and Belarus. On Tuesday, Russia's Defence Ministry said six large warships were moving from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea for exercises andtwolong-range nuclear capable bombers flew another patrol over Belarus.
Macron's remarks on a visit to Kyiv came as the Kremlin denied reports that he and Putin struck a deal on de-escalating the crisis. Kremlin spokespersonDmitry Peskov said that "in the current situation, Moscow and Paris can't be reaching any deals."
"We have a common view with President Macron on threats and challenges to the security of Ukraine, of the whole of Europe, of the world in general," Zelenskysaid.
The Canadian government iswarning against any travel to Ukraine and on Monday urged all Canadians currently in the country to leave as concerns about war with Russia escalate.
U.S. officials have said that about 1,000 alliance troops will be sent from Germany to Romania, a NATO member since 2004. Romania borders Ukraine to the north. About 1,700 U.S. soldiers from the 82nd Airborne are also going to Poland.
Macron later flew to Berlin, where he briefed Polish President Andrzej Duda and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who said their stance was unified, with a joint goal "to prevent a war in Europe."
Macron said Putin "set a collective trap" by initiating the exchange of written documents with the U.S. Moscow submitted its demands to Washington in the form of draft agreements that were released to the public, and insisted on a written response, which was then leaked to the press.
After meeting Macron, Putin said without elaboration that some of the French president's proposals could serve as a basis for a settlement of the separatist conflict, adding that they agreed to speak by phone after Macron's visit to Kyiv.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, visiting the front line in eastern Ukraine's Donbas region, said she wanted "to get an impression of what it means that we still have war in the middle of Europe."
French President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday that Russian President Vladimir Putin told him in their marathon talks a day earlier that Moscow would not further escalate the Ukraine crisis.
Zelenskysaid he would welcome concrete steps from Putin for de-escalation, adding he didn't "trust words in general."
