Ottawans with ties to Ukraine watch worry from afar
20220225
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/ottawa/ottawa-ukraine-fearful-devastated-by-russian-invasion-1.6363599
"Should there be a surge in demand for consular assistance, we are prepared," said Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Jolyin a statement.
Korbutiak'smother and father fled Ukraine as youngsters during the Second World War more than seven decades ago, and she stillhas strong ties to the countryand its people.
Alexander Kohulko and Maria Feilyk came to Ottawa just 10 months ago, but their families are in Ukraine.
"The situation in Ukraine has rapidly deteriorated and poses serious challenges. As a result, we are temporarily suspending operations at both our embassy and our consulate in Ukraine. Canadian personnel are now safely in Poland."
"I'm devastated. I'm sad. I'm heartbroken," said Korbutiak."I have a friend who lives in Kyiv and he's in his car trying to get out."
Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war in a televised address Thursday morning. Then the Russian military invaded Ukraine by air, land, and sea in the biggest attack on a European state since the Second World War.
"It's a very tight community," she said. "It feels strange that I was at the embassy, standing with Ukraine, and then this. It's a shock."
"It's a fear that Putin can destroy us as a nation and destroy what we built in 30 years of independence in Ukraine," Feilyk said.
Joly said Canadians should continue to avoid all travel to Ukraine and those who are there should "shelter in place" unless it is safe for them to leave.
"In terms of the effectiveness of those sanctions, that remains to be seen thus far," said Dani Belo, an assistant professor at Webster University in St. Louis and afellow at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.
As she works away inside her small spa and shop in downtown Ottawa, Oresta Korbutiak is distracted by the news unfolding in her parents' homeland.
Belo noted there have been a number of rounds of sanctions imposed on Russia already.
Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland said targeting oligarchs  the Russian business leaders who plundered a post-Soviet Russia of its wealth and resources  is the best way to put pressure on Putin.
Staff in Global Affairs Canada's Ottawa office, as well as offices in major European countries, areon standby to support as needed.
Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced "wide-ranging" sanctions"against Russia, economic measures the Canadian government says were carefully co-ordinated with other G7 countries and are meant to hobble Russia's economy.
"The effectiveness of those sanctions has been rather limited, and they did not achieve the outcomes we wanted," he said.
As for Korbutiak, she'dmade plans before COVID-19 to take her parents back to Ukraine to celebrate their 60th wedding anniversary. Due to the pandemic, the trip didn't happen.
Ambassadors and heads of G7 diplomatic missions also gathered at the Ukrainian EmbassyThursday afternoon to support the country's sovereignty.
Throughout Thursday, individuals and groups also gathered in front of the Russian Embassy in Ottawa, holding signs and waving the Ukrainian flag.
"I just called my mom and said to wake up and to pack all the stuff and be prepared to evacuate," said Kohulko. "Everybody is afraid, but nobody really prepared for scenarios that happened today."
Hours before that declaration,Korbutiak had joined other Ottawans with links to Ukraine in front of the country's embassy to show support.
Holding a sign reading "Stop Putin's War,"Feilyk agreed that no one backhome really expected this invasion, even though there were warnings.
Those targeted by the sanctions include members of the Russian elite and their family members, major Russian banks and other individuals and entities.
