Protests denouncing the invasion of Ukraine go on this weekend in Montreal
20220227
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/russian-consulate-ukraine-invasion-1.6366152
Yulia Belyaykova, another attendant at the Russian consulate Saturday who was raised in Moscow, said she's ashamed and angry to see what's happened.
Marina Monossova, who was born in Moscow, said she's having a difficult time processing what has been happening over the past few days since the invasion began.
"For me we are one piece, one nation," she said, emphasizing Putin's actionsdon't represent the citizen's of either countries.
"Most people here have family in Ukraine and we need to congregate and stay together in our own community to show support to one another," said MichaelShwec, the president of the Canadian Ukrainian Congress.
"I'm very scared because my family and friends are all in Ukraine, hiding intheir houses and wherever they can," he said.
It's also the fourth day in a row that Montrealers have come out to protest in opposition ofthe invasion,with many gathering atPlace du Canada on Sunday afternoon.
Attacks from Russia escalated on Sunday when missiles launched from Belarushit anairport in Zhytomyr in northern Ukraine, an adviser toUkraine's interior minister said.Earlier in the day an oil terminal and gas pipeline were set ablaze.
Many in attendance at the protest Sunday also attended mass at the Ukrainian Catholic Parish Of The Assumption Of Blessed Virgin Mary in Rosemont-La Petite-Patrie.
The mayor confirmed toAP that nine civilians in the capital Kyiv had been killed so far, including one child.Ukraine's Interior Ministry said Sunday that 352 civilians have been killed, including 14 children.
Throughout the weekendthe chants of "Shame on Putin, shame on Russia!" could also be heard from the Russian consulate office in Montreal.
"I really believed in the future of my country," she said. "It came by surprise, a horrible surprise."
In his homily that morning, Reverend Ihor Oshchipkofocused on the importance of forgiving even our enemies in times of war.
More than 368,000 Ukrainian refugees have crossed into neighbouring countries since the launch of the invasion on Thursday, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi wrote in a recent tweet.
Ukrainian forces also battled Russian troops on the streets on KharkivSunday, a key northeastern city of 1.4 millionnot far from the Russian border, while the capital ofKyivimposed a strict 39-hour curfew in anticipation of a full-scale Russian assault.
On Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced a delegation would be meeting Russian officials for talks at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border.The Kremlin said talks had started Sunday.
"We're powerless, we're only united in our protest. That's what makes me devastated," she said.
"I have the need to express what's in my heart," she said Saturday outside the consulate."It's a feeling of rage, of shame, of guilt It's hard to express."
On Sundayprotests in solidarity with Ukrainecontinuedin Montreal as the invasion of the country by Russian forces entered its fourth day a move that has prompted condemnation by many world leaders anda raft of sanctions.
"We're calling on all governments of the world to support creatinga no fly zone over Ukraine."
Thirteen-year-old Earoslave Keseleukattended the mass with his family, and took the time to prayfor his grandparentswho remain in Ukraine.
On Saturday, protesters threw red dye on the snow facing the office to draw attention those who will dieas a result of the invasion by Russian soldiers.
She moved to Canada after President Vladimir Putin came into power, and never supported his presidency. She never expected Russia would move to invade the country.
