Rallies for Ukraine in Edmonton demonstrate wars devastation
20220411
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/edmonton/rallies-for-ukraine-in-edmonton-demonstrate-war-s-devastation-1.6415432
Another attendee of the protest at the theatre, Natalia Ratushna, said she hoped to combat Russian misinformation about the war, citing high support for the invasion of Ukraine amongst some Russians.
Slava Francis, another protest attendee, said she's worked to bring five members of her family to Canada from Ukraine since the war began in February. She'sstill worried about othersleft behind in the country.
Multiple rallies were held in Edmonton on Sunday to highlight the devastating impact of the ongoing war in Ukraine.
"The civilized world must do its best to make Putin's regime fail," Chernihosky said. "Fail, first of all, in the war field, and then fail economically, politically."
Protesters gathered to demandfurther sanctions on Russia in light of revelations of violenceagainst civilians in the Ukrainian city of Bucha and other parts of the country.
Igor Chernihovsky, who attended the protest at the legislature, said western nations need to do more to isolate Russia from the rest of the world.
He said there are people in Canada who continue to support the Russian government,which has used disinformation to deflect criticism, even alleging some attacks against civilians were faked or carried out by Ukrainian forces.
"There is a lot of honest and good Russian people that feel ashamed for what the government is doing," Chernihovsky said.
In Bucha, in particular, the Russian government saidbodies of dead civilians were "staged" after troops withdrew. However, satellite evidence showed the bodies had been lying in the street for weeks before Russian forces left the area.
"I understand they are brainwashed but they have access to various information and can make up their own judgment," Ratushna said.
Chernihovsky said that Russians were welcome at the demonstration, and that one of the organizers, Svetlana Koshkareva, is from Irkutsk in Siberia.
Many attendees had personal connections to Ukraine. At the protest near the theatre, Alexandr Weber said he was there because hisfather is Ukrainian.
Some protesters formed a flash mob, lying on the groundnear the Walterdale Theatre, imitatingphotos that show dead civilians in Ukrainian streets. A similar protest was heldnear theprovincial legislature.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyand U.S. President Joe Biden are among several world leaders who have accused Russia of war crimes.
