Residents of Kyiv suburb say retreating Russian troops killed civilians for no apparent reason
20220403
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/ukraine-russia-war-1.6406800
Residents say Russian troops would go from building to building, take people out of the basements where they were hiding from the fighting, check their phones for evidence of anti-Russian activity and take them away or shoot them.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz saidinternational organizations should be given access to the areas to independently document the atrocities.
Leaders in France, Germany, Italy, Greece, the Czech Republic and Poland expressed outrage at the images. Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala called the images "horrifying" and saidRussia has been committing war crimes.
Bodies of civilians lay strewn across the northern town, which was controlled by Russian soldiers for about a month.
The governor of the Kharkiv region says Russian troops fired on a convoy of buses that was trying to transport patients from a hospital that had been heavily damaged in shelling a day earlier.
He described a column of dark smoke rising from the targetsand flames from the buildings.
Residents of the Ukrainian town of Bucha, near the capital Kyiv, have given harrowing accounts of how Russian troops shot and killed civilians forno apparent reason.
Iryna Venediktova, Ukraine's prosecutor general, said the bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces.She said 140 of them have undergone examination by prosecutors and other specialists.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to UkrainianPresident Volodymyr Zelensky, said on Sunday that scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of the Kyivsuburbs of Irpin, Bucha and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. He compared the scene to "a horror movie."
Work on evacuating Mariupolwas to continue on Sunday with buses attempting to come close to the besieged city, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
Dmitry Polansky, Russia's first deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, on Sunday requested that the UNSecurity Council convene on Monday to discuss what he called a "provocation by Ukrainian radicals" in the town of Bucha.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser saidauthorities have found evidence of serious war crimes by Russian troops on the outskirts of Kyiv.
In a message posted by Italian news agency ANSA, Italian photographer Carlo Orlandi said Odesa woke to military sirens at 5:45 a.m. on Sunday, followed immediately by the sounds of bombs falling on the port city from two aircraft.
Johnson called the attacks in the towns of Irpin and Bucha "despicable" and saidhe "will do everything in my power to starve Putin's war machine." Johnson added that the U.K. will step up its sanctions and military support for Ukraine, but he did not provide details.
Mariupol is Russia's main target in Ukraine's southeastern region of Donbas  an area that'sbeen partly controlled by Moscow-backed separatists since 2014 and tens of thousands of civilians there have been trapped for weeks with scant access to food and water.
"We strongly condemn the murder of civilians in Ukraine, remain committed to holding the Russian regime accountable, and will continue to do everything we can to support the people of Ukraine," Trudeau said on Twitter.
The Russian military says it has struck an oil processing plant and fuel depots around the strategic Black Sea port of Odesa.
Synyehubovhad said said four people were wounded in a Russian missile strike on Lozova, in the south of the Kharkiv region.
Earlier on Sunday,Synyehubov said Russian artillery and tanks carried out more than20 strikes on Kharkiv and its outskirts over the past 24 hours.
The military's General Staff said in Sunday's statement that Russian units have withdrawn from areas in the country's north to neighbouring Belarus, which served as a staging ground for the Russian invasion.
Gov.Oleh Synyehubovsaid Sunday that about 70 patients needed to be taken away from the damaged hospital in the town of Balakliya about 75 kilometressoutheast of the city of Kharkiv but that the buses were not able to enter the town. He said there was preliminary information that one of the bus drivers was killed.
Vereshchukalso said on Sunday that2,694 people were rescued from conflict zones in Mariupol and the region of Luhansk, which is also located in the Donbas region.
The fall of the southern port city would help Russia establish a land bridge from the Donbas to Crimea, a southern region annexed by Russia in 2014.
"What we can see is a dense screen of dark smoke, and one explosion after the other,"Orlandi said.
Russia's Defence Ministry has rejected the claims of atrocities against civilians in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv as a "provocation." The ministry says that "not a single civilian has faced any violent action by the Russian military" in Bucha.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesperson Maj.-Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian ships and aircraft fired missiles on Sunday to strike the facilities, which he said were used to provide fuel to Ukrainian troops near Mykolaiv.
Other European leaders also condemned the reported attacks on Ukrainian civilians in response to images of bodies in the streets and some of the dead with their hands tied behind their backs.
Arestovych said Ukrainian authorities will investigate the alleged war crimes and track down the perpetrators.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken described the images as "a punch in the gut," while United Nations Secretary General Antnio Guterres called for an independent investigation.
French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian saidhis country will work with Ukrainian authorities and the International Criminal Court "to ensure these acts don't go unpunished."
The Ukrainian military said its airborne forces have taken full control of the town of Pripyat, just outside the decommissioned Chornobyl nuclear power plant and the section of the border with Belarus. It posted a picture of the Ukrainian soldier putting up the country's flag, with a shelter containing the Chornobyl reactor that exploded in 1986 seen in the background.
At a logistics compound that residents say was used as a base by Russian forces, the bodies of eightmen could be seen dumped on the ground, some with their hands tied behind their backs.
He said some victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound, and some of the bodies had signs of torture. He accused Russian troops of raping women and trying to burn their bodies.
Vereshchuk saidUkrainian officials were in talks with Russia to allow several Red Cross buses to enter the city. The Red Cross abandoned earlier attempts due to security concerns. Russia blamed the Red Cross for the delays.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russia's attack on Ukrainian civiliansprovides "yet more evidence that Russian President Vladimir Putin and his army are committing war crimes in Ukraine."
