Russias Gazprom further cuts gas flow to Europe by half amid turbine dispute
20220718
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/gazprom-russian-gas-europe-1.6531274
Siemens Energy said the transport of the serviced turbine to Russia could start immediately, and the ball was in Gazprom's court.
The disruption has raised the possibilityof gas rationing on the continent, with the European Union proposing to member states last week that they cut gas use by 15 per cent between August and March.
Russia tightened its gas squeeze on Europe on Monday as Gazprom, Russia's state-owned energy corporation,said supplies through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to Germany would drop to just 20 per centof capacity.
Gazprom said on Monday it had received documents from Siemens Energy and Canada but "they do not remove the previously identified risks and raise additional questions."
The European Union has repeatedly accused Russia of resorting to energy blackmail, while the Kremlin says the shortfalls have been caused by maintenance issues and the effect of Western sanctions.
However, Germany said it saw no technical reason for the latest reduction, which comes as Russia and the West exchange economic blows in response to what Moscow calls its special military operation in Ukraine.
Russia is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia and the world's largest exporter of natural gas. Europe imports about 40 per cent of its gas and 30 per cent of its oil from Russia.
Russia had already cut flows through Nord Stream 1 to 40 per cent of capacity in June, citing the delayed return of a turbine that was being serviced by Siemens Energy in Canada an explanation that Germany rejected as spurious.
Russian President Vladimir Putin had foreshadowed the latest cut, warning the West this month that continued sanctions could trigger catastrophic energy price rises for consumers around the world.
Gazprom said flows would fall to 33 million cubic metres per day from 4 a.m. GMT on Wednesday  a halving of the current, already reduced level  because it needed to halt the operation of a Siemens gas turbine at a compressor station on instructions from an industry watchdog.
The German company said it saw no link between the turbine issue and the gas cuts implemented or announced by Gazprom. Gazprom did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
The servicing of that first turbine is still a matter of dispute as the excuse makes its way back to Russia through a tangle of paperwork and conflicting statements.
It then shut Nord Stream 1 altogether for 10 days of annual maintenance this month, restarting it last Thursday at 40 per centof normal levels.
Politicians in Europe have said Russia could cut off gas flows this winter, which would thrust Germany into recession and lead to soaring prices for consumers already grappling with higher prices for food and energy. Germany was forced last week to announce a $15 billion US bailout of Uniper, its biggest company importing gas from Russia.
The Kremlin said earlier that Moscow was not interested in a complete stoppage of Russian gas supplies to Europe, which is straining to fill its underground storage before the peak demand winter season.
The pipeline, which has a capacity of 55 billion cubic metres a year, is the single biggest Russian gas link to Europe.
"The German authorities provided Siemens Energy with all the necessary documents for the export of the turbine to Russia at the beginning of last week. Gazprom is aware of this,"itsaid.
Furthermore, Gazprom said there were still questions over EU and UK sanctions, "the resolution of which is important for the delivery of the engine to Russia and the urgent overhaul of other gas turbine engines for the Portovaya compressor station."
"What is missing, however, are the customs documents for import to Russia. Gazprom, as the customer, is required to provide those."
