Russian soldier pleads guilty at war crimes trial to killing Ukrainian civilian
20220518
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/ukraine-war-crimes-trial-russian-soldier-pleads-guilty-1.6457510
Asked more broadly about war crimes allegations against Russian forces in Ukraine, Peskov said, "We consider it impossible and unacceptable to throw such terms around. Many of the cases that Ukraine is talking about are obvious fakes, and the most egregious ones are staged, as has been convincingly proved by our experts."
Vadim Shishimarin, a 21-year-old Russian tank commander, entered his plea in a Kyiv district court hearing its first war crimes trial against a Russian soldier who took part in Moscow's Feb. 24 invasion.
Russia has denied targeting civilians or involvement in war crimes and accused Kyiv of staging them to smear its forces.
In a trial that has huge symbolic importance for Ukraine, Shishimarin is charged with murdering a 62-year-old civilian in the northeast Ukrainian village of Chupakhivka on Feb. 28. If convicted, he faces up to life imprisonment.
The Russian soldiers then drove into the village of Chupakhivka where they saw an unarmed resident riding a bicycle and talking on his phone, they said.
After guards led Shishimarin into the court in handcuffs, he was asked by the judge if he accepted the charge against him. He confirmed that he did.
Ukraine has accused Russia of atrocities and brutality against civilians during the invasion and said it has identified more than 10,000 possible war crimes.
A Russian soldier accused of war crimes in Ukraine pleaded guilty on Wednesday to killing an elderly unarmed civilian.
Prosecutorssaid Shishimarin was ordered by another serviceman to kill the civilian to prevent him reporting on the Russians' presence and fired several shots through the open window of the car with an assault rifle at the civilian's head.
Ukrainian state prosecutors have said the soldier and four other Russian servicemen fired at and stole a privately owned car to escape after their column was targeted by Ukrainian forces.
Asked about the trial, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Reuters, "As before, there is no information about the trial and the ability of Russia to provide assistance is also limited due to the absence of our diplomatic mission."
