Some Russians in Sask disavow their countrys invasion of Ukraine
20220308
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/russians-saskatchewan-disavow-invasion-ukraine-1.6376268
"It's easier for me to call for people to be united standing here in Saskatchewan," he said. "But when people are in the middle of the war zone, when they're getting bombed every day, they're not going to have much sympathy left."
"That's not the country I love. That's not the country I was born and raised in."
The humanitarian crisis in Ukraine has deepened as Russian forces intensified their shelling and food, water, heat and medicine grew increasingly scarce. TheUnited Nations refugee agency says 1.7 million people have now fled Ukraine.
"It's an absolutely devastating feeling, not to be ashamed of my motherland, but just to be ashamed of the consequences that the government and the regime are imposing on the whole world now," Kougiya said.
Kougiya, along with his wife, two daughters and brother, were among hundreds whoattended a Support Ukraine Now rally outside of city hall in late February.
"The people that came from the ex-Soviet Union are the best people in the world. They have the biggest heart in the world," Kougiya said in an interview with CBC News.
He saidhe has also been drawing attention to the thousands of people who have been detained at protests across Russia againstPutin's invasion of Ukraine.
Kougiya was born in St. Petersburg, Russia. He has been in Canada since 2007, and is an administrator for the Saskatoon Russian Folk Centre. His parents and brother are also here in Saskatoon, while his wife's family is in Russia.
Gennadiy Chernov is another Saskatchewan resident from Russia who is against the war. He has lived in Regina for 16 years and is an associate professor in the faculty of journalism at the University of Regina.
He said that so far, his friendships haven't been fractured, but it's something he worries about.
"Because 99 per cent of Russian people  they're not responsible for this tragedy," Kougiya said.
He calls Russia's invasion of Ukraine  which is now in its 13th day  "the worst thing that I could imagine between the countries."
"I was born in Russia. My thoughts are very divided now. I want the war to stop right now, at all costs," he said. "But at the same time, all my thoughts are with my friends, with my wife's family, with all the good people in Russia that are going to struggle for a lot of time."
"My daily activities, my work, other stuff I do, were paralyzed in a sense," Chernov told CBC News on Monday.
Western sanctions have crippled Russia's economy and sent the value of its currency tumbling. On Monday, Canada announced a further round of sanctions against 10 Russian individuals.
Chernov said he has been informing people in Regina of the humanitarian aid that Ukranians need.
