St Patricks Day celebrated in Windsor after twoyear hiatus
20220317
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/windsor/st-patricks-day-windsor-2022-1.6387853
St. Patrick's Day is also a busy one for alocaltroupe of Windsor dancers.They are members of the Emerald Isle Dance Society and they'll be performing all over Windsor-Essex today.
"We've missed the people, we missed each other,we didn't have any practice time in that two-year window." said Ferguson.
Nesathurai also people should also reference low-risk alcohol drinking guidelines to keep themselves safe while enjoying alcohol.
They're also taking the opportunity to raise money for Ukraine, as Russia continues its invasion of the county. The brewery will donate a portion of beer sales to the Windsor branch of the Ukrainian National Federation.
"We saw that and it really hit home. Brewers, if you talk tothem, were all pretty nice and peaceful by nature, pretty easy going, to see they had to switch to make Molotov cocktails it was kind of difficult for us," said Barsotta.
Any proceeds from pints soldbetween 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. will be donated.
The owners of Craftheads Brewery known for their local brew collaborations said they're excited to welcome back customers.
"This year will be different because we're old," laughed band memberAlan Ferguson, on CBC's Windsor Morning Thursday ahead of his show.
The band will hit the stage at Windsor Eat's new space at 400 Erie Street East from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. today. The outdoor, all ages event will offer live music, beer and wine, and tacos for sale.
"Very very busy, a little less so this year because of obviously more restrictions meant that less places were available ... still plenty busy and I'm really excited for it."
"Overall our message to people is enjoy St. Patrick's Day but do so in a way that's responsible and consistent with public health guidance.
The band had the opportunity to practice ahead of today, playing atChapter Two Brewing Company last week while raising money to go toward Ukraine.
"So we thought we had to do something to help out and do what we can."
BrewerJason Barsotta said the idea came after they saw a social media postof a brewery in Ukraine that had switched production to make Molotov cocktails
"We're dancing all over," said Elizabeth, of the seven shows she and her troupe will perform Thursday.
Windsor Band Tartan Army has been performing in Windsor-Essex on St.Patrick's Day since 1988, and the group had just celebrated20-straight years of performances before the pandemic hit in 2018.
"I think like every holiday, in the context of the pandemic, we have to usegood judgment,"said acting medical officer of health, Dr. Shanker Nesathurai.
As bars and restaurants enjoy the big day, the Windsor-Essex County Health Unit is reminding people to stay safe by washing their hands regularly, wearing a mask if they can't social distance and staying home if they're feeling sick.
