Supporting Ukraine in potential Russian invasion could hurt US economy says Biden
20220215
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/russia-ukraine-feb15-2022-1.6352004
Speaking after meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Putin said the West agreed to discuss a ban on missile deployment to Europe, restrictions on military drills and other confidence-building measures  issues that Moscow put on the table years ago.
He said Russia is open to discuss "some of those elements," but added that it would only do so in combination "with the main issues that are of primary importance for us."
Biden also said Tuesday that the U.S. has "not yet verified" Russia's claim that some of its forces have withdrawn from the Ukraine border. He said an invasion of Ukraine remains a distinct possibility.
He said the administration was working proactively to try to pre-empt supply issues by working with energy producers and shippers on contingency plans, and said he would work with Congress on unspecified "additional measures to protect consumers and address the impact of prices at the pump."
Asked if there could be a war in Europe, Putin said Russia doesn't want it but that Ukraine's bid to join NATO posed a major security threat to his country.
A series of cyberattacks on Tuesday knocked the websites of the Ukrainian army, the defence ministry and major banks offline, Ukrainian authorities said, as tensions persisted over the threat of a possible Russian invasion.
Biden spoke hours after Russia announced that some units participating in military exercises near Ukraine's borders would begin returning to their bases.
The ministry statement suggested Russian involvement: "It is possible that the aggressor resorted to tactics of petty mischief, because his aggressive plans aren't working overall," the Ukrainian statement said.
"The American people understand that defending democracy and liberty is never without cost," Biden said in remarks at the White House about the ongoing crisis. "I will not pretend this will be painless."
On Jan. 14, a cyberattack that damaged servers at Ukraine's State Emergency Service and at the Motor Transport Insurance Bureau with a malicious "wiper" cloaked as ransomware. The damage proved minimal  some cybersecurity experts think that was by design, given the capabilities of Russian state-backed hackers. A message posted simultaneously on dozens of defaced Ukrainian government websites said: "Be afraid and expect the worst."
Russia'sDefence Ministry released images of tanks and howitzers rolling onto railway platforms and more tanks rolling across snowy fields. It did not disclose where or when the images were taken, or where the vehicles were headed, other than "to places of permanent deployment."
But Biden continued to express skepticism about Russia's intentions. Biden warned again that if Russia invades Ukraine the U.S. "will rally the world to oppose its aggression."
Still, there was no indication the relatively low level, distributed-denial-of-service attacks might be a smokescreen for more serious and damaging cyber mischief.
Ukraine has been subject to a steady diet of Russian aggression in cyberspace since 2014, when Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula and backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
Putin's overtures soothed global markets that have been on edge amid the worst East-West tensions in decades. Washington and its European allies remained cautious, saying they want to see evidence of a Russian pullback. Biden said 150,000 Russian forces are now massed near Ukraine, an increase from an earlier U.S. estimate of 130,000 troops.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that he welcomed a security dialogue with the West as his military reported pulling back some of its troops near Ukraine.
At least 10 Ukrainian websites were unreachable due to the attacks, including the defence, foreign and culture ministries and Ukraine's two largest state banks. In such attacks, websites are barraged with a flood of junk data packets, rendering them unreachable.
U.S. President Joe Biden on Tuesday acknowledged the likelihood that U.S. and allied sanctions on Russia in retaliation for an invasion of Ukraine would have significant blowback on the American economy, including possible price hikes and disruption to the nation's energy supply.
Putin said he does not want war and would rely on negotiations as he presses his demand for the West to halt Ukraine's bid to join NATO. At the same time, he did not commit to a full pullback of troops, saying Russia's next moves in the standoff will depend on how the situation evolves.
