Surrey students make blue and gold ribbons to raise money for Ukraine
20220305
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/surrey-students-raise-money-for-ukraine-1.6373749
Dhillon says immersing herself in theproject has helped her understand the situation more thanwatching social media or YouTube videos. When these students sit down tomakeribbons and posters, they discuss world affairs, specifically how the situation in Ukraine impacts the rest of the world.
"One of our teachers is half-Ukrainian and we could tell she was sad," Saran said. She said learning more about the situation helped her feel more empathetic toward her teacher and she and other students engage with a classmate of Russian heritage who is also against the war.
CBC British Columbia has launched a Surreybureau to helptell your stories with reporterKiran Singh. Story ideas and tips can be sent tokiran.singhcbc.ca.
"When I first found out that Russia was trying to invade Ukraine, I wasn't really sure what was going on, and I wanted to know more," saidstudent Japjit Dhillon
The blue and gold of Ukraine's national flag has become a symbol of resilience and support for the country inCanada and around the world.
The students say the project is also part of a larger conversation about world affairs.
Students and teachers with Russian and Ukrainian backgrounds at LA Matheson have discovered it's also a wayto be able to talk to each other about the invasion.
Landmarks have been lit, elected officials have started wearing pins, and some have changed their social media profiles to represent the colours ofthe flag.
Kirat Saran and her fellow students say they were inspired by the Canadian government's pledge tomatch every donation made to the Red Cross for Ukraine up to a maximum of $10 million.
The were planning on handing them out at a rally in support of Ukraine this Sunday but started handing them out Friday to school staff and other students for a donation of"whatever they can give."
Now, some enterprising Grade 9students at Surrey's LA MathesonSecondary have decided to use thecolours to make ribbons and posters for a fundraising effort.
