Ukraine says Russian troops storming Donbas city in closequarter fighting with defenders
20220529
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/russia-ukraine-severodonetsk-fighting-1.6470017
Regions across Ukraine were pummelled overnight by renewed Russian airstrikes. On the ground in the eastern Donetsk region, fighters battled back and forth for control of villages and cities.
Striuk has estimated that 1,500 civilians have died in Russian attacks since the beginning of the war, as well as from a lack of medicine and diseases that couldn't be treated.
Civilians who reached the eastern city of Pokrovsk, about 130 kilometres south of Lysychansk, said they held out as long as they could before fleeing the Russian advance.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made a rare front-line visit to the city of Kharkiv as he sought to assert the strength of Ukraine's position there. Ukrainian fighters pushed Russian forces back from positions near the city, Ukraine's second-largest, several weeks ago.
Russia has kept up its bombardment of the northeastern city from afar, and explosions could be heard in the area shortly after Zelensky's visit. Shelling and airstrikes have destroyed more than 2,000 apartment buildings since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, according to the regional governor, Oleh Syniehubov.
On Saturday, he said, one civilian died and four were injured after a Russian shell hit a highrise apartment building.
The United Nations says more than 6.7 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded the country.
Serhiy Haidai, the regionalgovernor of Luhansk, said constant shelling created a "severe" situation in Lysychansk. "There are fatalities and wounded people," he wrote on the Telegram messaging app, without elaborating.
Russian forces made small advances in recent days as bombardments chewed away at Ukrainian positions and kept civilians trapped in basements or desperately trying to get out safely.
Russian and Ukrainian troops engaged in close-quarter combat in an Eastern Ukraine city on Sunday as Moscow's soldiers, supported by intense shelling, attempted to gain strategic footholds for conquering the region in the face of fierce Ukrainian resistance.
Immigration Minister Sean Fraser has said the three flights will bring about 900 Ukrainians approved for emergency travel into Canada.
The flight wasthe second federally chartered plane to arrive in the country over the past seven days after a first flight arrived in Winnipeg lastMonday. A third flight, bound for Halifax, is scheduled to land on Thursday.
Asecond charter flight carrying Ukrainian refugeestouched downat the Montral-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport on Sunday morning.
"The enemy is reinforcing its units," the Ukrainian armed forces' General Staff said in an operational update. "It is trying to gain a foothold in the area."
The two eastern cities span the strategically important SiverskyiDonetsRiver. They are the last major areas under Ukrainian control in Luhansk province, which makes up the Donbas together with neighbouring Donetsk.
Russia is focused, after failing to seize Ukraine's capital, on occupying parts of Donbas not already controlled by pro-Moscow separatists.
More than 300 Ukrainians flew into Montreal from Poland just before 11 a.m. ET after being approvedfor emergency travel to Canada.
Severodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Striuk said there was fighting at the city's bus station on Saturday. Residents remaining in the city, which had a prewar population of about100,000, risked exposure to shelling to get water from a half-dozen wells, and there was no electricity or cellphone service, Striuk said.
The deteriorating conditions raised fears that Severodonetsk could become the next Mariupol, a port city 280kilometresto the south that spent nearly three months under siege before the last Ukrainian fighters surrendered.
But some Luhansk supply and evacuation routes still functioned on Sunday, he said. He claimed the Russians had retreated "with losses" from around a village near Severodonetsk but conducted airstrikes on another nearby village located on the SiverskyiDonetsRiver.
"I feel boundless pride in our defenders. Every day, risking their lives, they fight for Ukraine's freedom," Zelensky wrote on the Telegram messaging app after visiting soldiers stationed in Kharkiv.
The federalgovernment has already welcomed thousands of Ukrainians since Russian forces first attacked on Feb. 24. According to federal government data, Canada has received just over 259,000 requests for temporary residency as of May 25, with 120,668 of those applications approved.
The Ukrainian army reported heavy fighting around Donetsk, the provincial capital, as well as Lyman to the north. The small city serves as a key rail hub in the Donetsk region. Moscow claimed Saturday to have taken Lyman, but Ukrainian authorities said their fighters remained engaged in combat in parts of the city.
Severodonetsk, located about 140kilometressouth of the Russian border, emerged in recent days as the epicentreof Moscow's quest to capture all of Ukraine's industrial Donbas region. Russia also stepped up its efforts to take nearby Lysychansk, where civilians rushed to escape persistent shelling.
However, Zelensky acknowledged that the battle for the east is "indescribably difficult." The "Russian army is trying to squeeze at least some result" by concentrating its attacks there, he said in a Saturday night video address.
In the wider Kharkiv region, Russian troops still held about 30 per centof the territory, while Ukrainian troops had recaptured another fiveper cent, the governor said.
Ukrainian regional officials reported Russian forces "storming" Severodonetsk after trying unsuccessfully to encircle the city. The fighting knocked out power and cellphone service, and a humanitarian relief centre could not operate because of the danger, the mayor said.
