Ukrainian organization calls for ban on Russian liquor sales in Alberta
20220228
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/russia-liquor-ucc-aglc-jason-kenney-kensington-wine-market-1.6366149
The Alberta chapter of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress UCC-APC has called on the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission AGLC to ban the sale of Russian-made products, as the country's invasion of Ukraine entered into its third day on Saturday.
CBC Calgary has reached out to Alcanna  the owner of both retailers  for confirmationbut has yet to receive a response.
"This means retail liquor stores cannot purchase products currently in Alberta in the AGLC central warehouse."
At a Ukrainian flag raising ceremony on Thursday at Calgary city hall, Premier Jason Kenney voiced his support for Ukraine and announced that the province would pledge millions tothe Ukraine Canada Foundation to assist with humanitarian relief efforts.
Liquor stores in Ontario, Manitoba, the N.W.T.and Yukon have all announced that they will remove Russian products from their shelves.
Vodka is the most common Russian-made product found in liquor stores, says Ferguson, although he pointed out that he hasn't stocked it at his store for years.
"We're hoping this becomes a three level boycott of Russian products, first with the AGLC, second the liquor stores themselvesandthirdly consumers need to choose to not purchase Russian products."
In a statement released on Sunday, the AGLCsaid that it would no longer accept new stock of Russian-made products, and that it would not sell any current stock to retailers.
"I can tell you that I've directed the AGLC to see if there's some way that we can remove Russian alcohol products from all of our shelves here in Alberta to see if there's any other way the government of Alberta can impede Russian exports commerce from this province."
Andrew Ferguson, owner of Kensington Wine Market, says he supports the intention behind the calls for the ban, but says he's concerned about who would be impacted most by the move.
For one thing, Ferguson noted that some of the targeted products mayhave already been paid for by importers, who could be Alberta or Canadian owned.
"Putting an onus on a small business to eat the cost of that product if they're selling it, that doesn't really seem fair."
Daniel Krys, a volunteer with UCC-APC said that snubbing Russian liquor is a small, concrete thing Albertans can do to show their support for Ukraine.
"Do I think they should stop the importation of things made in Russia? 100 per cent, that's an effective policy. But pulling everything off the shelf that was already made in Russia, I guess the question would be who's gonna pay for that? It's probably not the Russian government."
UCC-APC president Orysia Boychuk said that Liquor Depot Canada and Wine and Beyond would both "be removing Russian-made products from their stores."
