Ukrainian MP says Independence Day marked with little fanfare but a growing resolve to fight
20220824
https://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/ukraine-mp-independence-day-1.6560754
QA has been edited for length and clarity. Audio produced by Joana Draghici and Howard Goldenthal.
And making sure that the Russian Federation is finally adhering to international law and the rules and principles that have been allowing the world to develop since the Second World War.
This year though, all large public celebrations have been bannedover heightened fears of Russian attack.
Predominantly people are at home because we are not allowing the massive gathering of people because of the security alerts.
I remember the tears of my grandmother. My family comes from the western part of Ukraine, and my grandfather actually fought for independence and he was put to Stalinist camps.
So for the whole family, it was a very, very moving moment. Both with a lot of question marks, but with the dream of many, many generations of Ukrainians finally coming true.
We understand that Russia understands the language of force and power and unity. And I think that that leaves us with the possibility to get an upper hand on the military field.
Definitely, also, we are seeing a lot of tiredness, a lot of trauma, a lot of psychological pressure, a lot of pain as well that the society has to go through and had already to go through. But that does not undermine our readiness to still defend our country.
I am hopeful, because Ukrainians still have the very serious resolve to push back the invader. And they all understand how high of a price we are paying today to ensure that we are finally totally independent and we are reinstalling our territorial integrity and sovereignty.
Six months to the day that Russia invaded, Ukraineis marking its Independence Day  commemorating its separation from the Soviet Union in 1991.
Russia's representative to the United Nationsin Geneva told The Financial Times this week that Moscow sees no possibility of a diplomatic solution to end the war and expects a long conflict. So in your mind, where does that leave things?
And that means ... pushing Russians out of the country and then sitting down at the table and actually signing some peace agreements.That would ensure total restoration of territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine.
I really think that we are just destined to survive because we've been surviving so many atrocities, so many attacks already over our history.
Today also marks six months since the war began. Thousands of Ukrainian soldiers have been killed. What's driving Ukrainian forces to keep fighting?
You were in your teens when Ukraine declared independence in 1991. What do you remember about that time?
But a lot of people in Kyiv are actually going out to the central street of Kyiv, Kreshchatyk, where there is an exhibition, a big parade of destroyed Russian military vehicles that are put on display. And I think that this is a great message, that we can actually overcome this.
Ukrainian MP Ivanna Klympush-Tsintsadze spoke to The Current's guest host Nora Young about a sombre Independence Day in Kyiv, and what she thinks might come next in the war between the two countries. Here is part of their conversation.
There is hope, but there is a lot of pain, there is a lot of pressure. Unfortunately, a lot of air raid alerts are happening  I think four have been sounding during the day in Kiev.
So I really hope that with the support from the West, from the free world, we will be able to actually win.
Ukrainians have only grown in their resolve to fight back and to ensure that we are having the prospect, the ray of light at the end of the tunnel, the prospect of building our country the way  we want to see it.
