Ukraine Russia accuse each other of shelling around Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant
20220827
https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/ukraine-invasion-day-185-1.6564311
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyysaid on Friday the situation at Zaporizhzhia remained "very risky" after two of its six reactors were reconnected to the grid following shelling that caused the nuclear plant to be disconnected for the first time in its history.
"The Russians, preparing for the IAEA's visit, have increased pressure on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant's personnelin order to hush up their testimonies about the crimes of the occupiers at the station and using it as a military base," it said.
The Russian Air Force shot down a MiG-29 aircraft in the eastern Donetsk region, the ministry said, and destroyed another six missile and artillery weapons depots in the Donetsk, Mykolaiv and Kherson regions.
Ukraine's state nuclear company Energoatom energy agency said Russian troops again shelled the grounds of the plant complex in the last 24 hours.
Ukraine's armed forces said in a briefing note on Saturday morning that it had beaten back Russian assaults on three towns in the eastern region of Donetsk.
The Russian ministry, in its daily briefing, also said it had destroyed a large ammunition depot in Ukraine's Dnipropetrovsk region that had contained U.S.-made HIMARS rocket systems and shells for M777 Howitzers.
Moscow and Kyiv traded fresh accusations on Saturday of shelling around the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, which has been a focus of international concern that fighting in the area could trigger a disaster.
"A total of 17 shells were fired, four of which hit the roof of Special Building No. 1, where 168 assemblies of U.S. Westinghouse nuclear fuel are stored," the Russian defence ministry said in a statement.
Energoatom said on Friday evening that both of the plant's two functioning reactors had been reconnected to the grid and were again supplying electricity after they were fully disconnected on Thursday.
It said 10 shells exploded near a dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel and three more near a building that houses fresh nuclear fuel storage. It said the radiation situation at the plant remained normal.
The foreign ministers of the G7 countries have previously urged Russia to hand the plant back to Ukraine. Earlier this month UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said military equipment and personnel should be withdrawn from the plant and called for efforts to ensure it is not the target of military operations.
The UN's nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, wants to visit the plant in the south of the country, and agency chief Rafael Grossi said on Thursday that it was "very, very close" to being able to send officials there.
Energoatom's statement on Saturday said its staff at the plant had come under "increased pressure" ahead of the likely visit.
Moscow's defence ministry accused Ukrainian forces of shelling the plant complex three times in the last 24 hours.
Zaporizhzhia, Europe's largest nuclear power plant, has been controlled by Russian forces since early March. Ukrainian staff continue to operate it and in recent weeks the two sides have traded blame for shelling near the plant.
A separate Facebook post by Ukraine's southern command said it had hit Russian air defence systems in Kherson region with air strikes, and that Ukrainian artillery had destroyed two Smerch MLRS systems.
All three are on the approach to the larger town of Bakhmut, an important strategic outpost for Ukraine due to its size and road links.
