Ukrainians gather to celebrate Independence Day but its bittersweet amid war with Russia
20220824
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/ukrainian-canadians-independence-day-toronto-1.6561135
"We are celebrating that independence, albeit that the country and democracy itself in that country is under attack," Tory said.
In a new release about the exhibit, Kovalivsaid:"Russian missiles, tanks, massive shelling have been destroying the Ukrainian cities for half a year already, but no missile can destroy Ukrainian courage and spirit. The exhibition is dedicated to the brave people of Ukraine, who are living through the hell of the war and resist the aggressor."
"I feel like this year it means something, especially with what's going on right now," said Barylko, whose Etobicoke eatery serves traditional Ukrainian dishes.
"Today, and for the past six months, this yellow and blue flag has been flying around the world in solidarity with Ukraine and its brave people. Here in Canada, the Ukrainian flag can be seen from coast to coast to coast," Joly said.
"I offered our continued support in Ukraine's fight for freedom and peace against a tyrant," he said.
"It's good to see that the world is seeing Ukraine for what it is, not for what Russia told the world it was."
OleksandraSheludko, a Ukrainian woman who has been in Canada since January, agrees, saying people her age were born in a free Ukraine.Sheludko is president of the Ukrainian students' club at Humber College.
On Wednesday night, Ontario Premier Doug Ford said the province is behind the Ukrainian people. Ford said he talked toYulia Kovaliv, Ukraine's ambassador to Canada, about what Ontario can do to help Ukraine.
Aug24, a national holiday in Ukraine,is the 31st anniversary of the country's declaration of independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.
For Tetyana Barylko, who ownsthe Barrel House Korchmarestaurant with her family, Independence Day wasspecial this yeardue to the war with Russia. She said Ukraine is clearly continuing to fight for its existence.
At the restaurant on Wednesday night, Barylko said people willraisea glass to the people back home who are fighting for their country. The restaurant has been collecting donations to buy bullet-proof vests, medical supplies and two drones for Ukrainian soldiers.
Tory said Ukraine is still independent despite more than 180 days of Russian aggression and atrocities.
Ukrainians in Toronto gathered to celebrate their country's Independence Day on Wednesday, but the occasion was bittersweet because it also marked sixth months since the Russians invaded.
"We just want peace. We just want to live our own lives as Ukrainians. We don't want Russia on our land. What did we do to deserve all these casualties?" she said.
"We have this spirit of independence in us. We want to fight for this independence and make sure our children have the sameindependence when they are living in the country," she said.
"That's all we want, independence, just freedom to live our own lives, to be able to dance freely to our own Ukrainian music. That's all we want."
Barylko, wearing a dressembroidered with traditional Ukrainian designs,said the restaurant was likelyto be packed on Wednesday evening as people celebrated.
The Times reportedthat Ukraine has lost about 9,000 soldiers, while Russia has lost up to 25,000.
"We're getting slammed with reservations.I feel like every call is either a reservation or asking if there is room."
According to a report in the New York Times on Wednesday, more than 5,500 Ukraine civilians have died in the war and the number of refugees is greater than 6.6 million.
"Thirty one years ago, and that's not that long ago, Ukrainians bravely chose independence for Ukraine. And today, Ukrainians are showing great courage once again."
Ford spoke at a preview in Toronto of an immersive exhibit titled Ukraine: Land of the Brave, which will open as part of the city'sBloor West Village Ukrainian Festival from Sept. 15 to 18. The exhibit, created by a group of Ukrainian artists, shows the effects of war on the country'scitizens.
Joly said Ukrainians are fighting for their freedoms and that fight has an impact of the freedoms of Canadians. Ukraine's security affectsEurope'ssecurity and Europe's security in turn affectsCanada's, she said.
Earlier on Wednesday, Toronto Mayor John Tory raised the Ukrainian flag at Toronto city hall with the help ofForeign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly.
"If Ukraine loses its independence, then we lose it as well. I couldn't imagine me not having a Ukrainian passport and not being able to say I'm Ukrainian. This country exists. I don't want to say I'm part of Russia."
