Ukrainianspeaking Ottawans rush to help those fleeing Russian invasion
20220306
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/ottawa/ukrainian-school-language-federal-job-1.6374345
"I know that all of us are desperate to help as much as we can," Kubin said.
Tamara Pastukh, principal of theUkrainian School of Ottawa, did not say whether she had applied but said she knows"many, many"others who have.
He said the government wouldaccept an"unlimited number" of Ukrainians to work or study in Canada for up to two years.
Atemporary federal government job postingseekingUkrainian speakersis spreading like wildfire among the Ukrainian-Canadian community, with fluent Ottawansoffering up their servicesto help the millions now fleeing the Russian invasion.
Kubinknows families that were torn apart in Ukraine, including mothers and children who left relatives behind but hope to one day return in peacetime.
Immigration Minister Sean Fraser announced Thursday the federal government would be waiving typical visa requirements for those fleeing Ukraine.
The original posthas sincebeen deleted,but the Ukrainian Canadian Congress told CBCNewsit circulated the job opening widely.
Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Canada posted the entry-levelpositionto its LinkedInpage earlier this week, seeking helpprocessingvisaapplications fromUkrainians fleeing the Russian invasion.
Julie Taub, an Ottawa immigration lawyer, said having a largeUkrainian population in Canada will make resettlement easier for those whocome.
According to Statistics Canada, around1.4 million Canadians trace their ethnic origins to Ukraine, making it the 11th largest ethnicity in the country.
"They will have people who speak their language, people who know Canada, know the cities they're migrating into," Taub said."If you come into a country and nobody speaks your language, it's far more difficult, for obvious reasons."
For YuliyaKubin, head of the parents'committee at Ottawa'sUkrainian school, the posting is an opportunity to continuework she already does in her spare time: helping family andfriends apply for visas.
"Anything thatwe can do,it feels like it's not enough. So, if we have one more opportunity, it is really important for us to take part and to help," Pastukh said.
A nurse at The Ottawa Hospital, Kubin isn't sure her qualifications match the position. But with her knowledge of Canada'simmigrationsystem and her ability to speakUkrainian, English, Russian and some French, she felt she could be anasset.
