Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky addresses Parliament as Russian forces edge toward Kyiv
20220315
https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/zelensky-canadian-parliament-address-1.6385218
"Imagine that Canadian facilities have been bombed similarly as our buildings and memorial places are being bombed," Zelenskysaid."A number of families have died. Every night is a horrible night."
"This is something that we need and you need as well, just like the rest of the world, to make sure there is peace in Europe and Ukraine."
That's something NATO leaders will have to grapple with when they meet for anemergency session next week in Brussels.
In the only hint of frustrationZelensky offered during his address,the Ukrainian leader said the West expresses its "deep concerns about the situation when we talk to our partners and they say, 'Please hold on, hold on a little longer.' "
"We must use every tool in front of us and I fear the tools we have are inadequate" to help Ukraine, May said before delivering a heart-rending appeal.
He repeated his callfor western nations to establish a no-fly zone over his country to blockthe Russianairstrikes that have been killingcivilians.
"Volodymyr, in the years I have known you, I have always thought of you as a champion for democracy and now democracies around the world are lucky to have you as our champion," Trudeau said.
She saidthe weekend missile strikes on a military base in western Ukraine further demonstrated the limits of a no-fly zone in this crisis.
"We have to acknowledge Russia as a rogue state and there has to be a trade embargo with Russia," Zelenskysaid tothe Joint Expeditionary Force.
NATO has steadfastly refused to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine, arguing that it could draw western air forces into direct confrontation with Russia.
"Your courage and the courage of your people inspires us all. You are defending the right of Ukrainians to choose their own future and in doing so, you are defending the values that form the pillars of all free democratic countries."
Zelensky spoke about the suffering experienced by the Ukrainian peopleand said that 97 children have been killed inthe 20days since the beginning of the war.
Former Green Party leader Elizabeth May was emotional during her speech, citing a letter she had received from a Green supporter in Ukraine who pleaded with her to urge Canada to back a no-fly zone. She said it "broke my heart" to write back and say that such a move would risk a wider war, including the possibility of a nuclear confrontation.
"If Ukraine falls, it's not just a tragedy for theUkrainian people,"Arel said."It is a profound threat to the international orderand to democracy."
"Basically what I am trying to say is that you will need to do more to stop Russia, to protect Ukraine, and by doing that to protect Europe from Russian threats. They are destroying everything: memorial complexes, schools, hospitals, housing complexes."
Russian and Ukrainian negotiators also planned to resume talks Tuesday after they were paused on Monday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky delivered a powerful, personal appeal to Canadatoday to do more to help his embattled country withstand the invasion by Russia.
Canada's government says that since Russia'sannexation of Crimea in 2014, ithas sanctioned over 900 individuals and entities.
Conservatives, she said, support Canada doing more along with allies "to secure Ukraine's airspace." At minimum, the skies over humanitarian corridors need to be protected, she added.
"The feeling is that if we were to consider something like a no-fly zone, that would take us in in the wrong direction," Julianne Smith, the U.S. permanent representative to NATO, told a conference call with reporters.
"What we learned from that was that Russia actually was able to instigate that attack from a Russian bomber in Russian airspace, begging the question about whether or not a no-fly zone in Ukrainian airspace would actually have a major impact on Russia's ability to attack Ukrainian territories," Smith said.
As Zelensky addressed Canadian parliamentarians, Moscow was announcing its ownround of sanctions targetingthe West  including one round that bansTrudeau, Defence Minister Anita Anand, Foreign Affairs Minister Melanie Joly, Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Wayne Eyre and a hostof MPsfrom enteringRussia. Deputy Prime Minister ChrystiaFreeland was banned following Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014.
His speech today cameas Russia's offensive in Ukraine edged closer to central KyivTuesday morning. Shortly before dawn, large explosions were reported across Kyiv from what Ukrainian authorities said were artillery strikes.
In introducing Zelensky to Parliament, Trudeau spoke about whatthe Ukrainian president's leadership has meant to the world.
"We want to live and we want to be victorious. We want to prevail for the sake of life," Zelenksy said from an undisclosed location. "Can you imagine when you call your friends and nations and you ask to please close the sky, close the air space, please stop the bombing? How many more cruise missiles have to fall on our cities until you make this happen?"
After Zelensky's speech, the Speakers of the Senate and the House andthe leaders of the NDP and Bloc Qubcois delivered remarks.
He spoke via video link on Tuesday to Parliament,where he received sustained standing ovations from members of Parliament and senators.
A senior government source told CBC News on Tuesday that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will attend an emergency NATO summit in Brussels scheduled for Thursday, March 24.
In hisspeech, which was laced with references to Canadian cities and landmarks, Zelensky asked rhetorically how Canadians would feel if Russia laid siege to Vancouver or targeted the CN Tower in Toronto. He listed off some of the historic sites in Ukraine that have come under bombardment.
Dominque Arel, chair of Ukrainian studies at the University of Ottawa, saidZelensky effectively illustrated to Canadians the consequences of Ukraine losing this war.
"President Zelensky, we do not want to let you down,"May said. "We fear we may inevitably let you down, but we will find every tool we can find and where there are not adequatetools, by God, let's invent them."
"You imposed severe sanctions. At the same time, we see that unfortunately this did not bring the end to the war," Zelensky said.
Interim Conservative leader Candice Bergen said that while the images coming out of Ukraine are "heartbreaking and painful," the courage shown by ordinary Ukrainians defending their homeland is inspiring.
The United States and NATO showed no sign Tuesday of budging fromtheir refusal to establish in a no-fly zone.
"Putin's brutal attack on Ukraineis an attack on all of us," Bergen said. "That is the lesson history has taught us and one we cannot ignore."
Speaking to northern European leaders earlier Tuesday, Zelenskypushed for a full trade embargo on Russia, saying the sanctions imposed to datehave not been enough to counter the Russian advance.
His remarks came as Canada directed another round of sanctionsat Russia. Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly announced new restrictions on 15 Russian officials she said "enabled and supported President Vladimir Putin's choice to invade a peaceful and sovereign country."
Parliament is not scheduled to sit until March 21,but House Speaker Anthony Rota approved a special request to host Zelensky's address.
Zelenskyaddressed the British House of Commons earlier this month and is scheduled to speak to members of the U.S. House and Senate on Wednesday.
She pointed out that during the 1956 Suez Canal crisis, then-Canadian foreign minister Lester B. Pearson invented modernpeacekeeping. It'sthat kind of creative thinking that is needed now, she said.
"At this critical time, North America and Europe must continue to stand together in NATO," said NATO Secretary GeneralJens Stoltenbergin a statement announcing what he called the "extraordinary" meeting.
