Colin Beattie MSP column Disbelief at the horror in Ukraine
20220309
https://www.eastlothiancourier.com/news/19978459.colin-beattie-msp-column-disbelief-horror-ukraine/
Russias attack of Ukraine represents the most critical moment for European security since the Second World War. It is very difficult to comprehend such heinous action being taken in the 21st century in Europe.
I HAVE watched the horror unfold in Ukraine with complete disbelief. I am deeply concerned by the actions of Russia and believe we need to do more to protect the innocent civilians in Ukraine from this conflict.
The UK Government has a duty here. It must, alongside our allies, implement the most severe economic sanctions and strategic measures as a consequence of Russias horrific assault on Ukrainian sovereignty.
The UK Governments immigration system is inhumane. We have seen how the system has let down those fleeing from Afghanistan and Syria, it needs to change. Safe and legal routes are possible
However, Scotland remains clear on its position: anyone seeking safety and refuge is welcome here. We now need actions, not just words, from the UK Government to help our Ukrainian friends.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The UK Government must act on its words and stand in solidarity with Ukraine. I am calling on the Home Office to reconsider their position and lift visa requirements for all Ukrainians seeking entry to the UK. We must allow entry and seek the paperwork later.
The EU announced it agreed unanimously amongst all member countries to take in Ukrainian refugees for up to three years without asking them to first apply for asylum. The UK Government must act similarly. Anything less is completely unacceptable. Instead of throwing more hurdles in the way of innocent people fleeing their countries, we should be removing these barriers.
The Scottish Government have little control over the entry requirements, with the issue remaining a reserved matter in which Scotlands stance is not recognised. An independent Scotland would have its own powers to set its own entry requirements.
