Morbius is not just another bat man Caitlyn Jenners new job and more trending topics
20220401
https://martinsvillebulletin.com/entertainment/morbius-is-not-just-another-bat-man-caitlyn-jenners-new-job-and-more-trending-topics/article_36525374-397a-5673-a5bf-a5580fab6dbd.html
In Florida, the Washington County Sheriff's Office said Thursday morning that two were killed and two injured when a tornado touched down in the western Florida Panhandle.
In a tweet, she said: "I am humbled by this unique opportunity to speak directly to FoxNews millions of viewers about a range of issues that are important to the American people." Learn more about it here:
Firefighters, meanwhile, have been trying to get handle on a wildfire spreading near Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee, amid mandatory evacuations as winds whipped up ahead of the approaching storm front. Read all about today's wild weather here:
Linebacker Bobby Wagner agreed to a five-year deal Thursday to join his hometown Los Angeles Rams.
A line of severe storms packing isolated tornadoes and high winds ripped across the Deep South overnight  killing at least two in the Florida Panhandle, toppling trees and power lines and leaving homes and businesses damaged as the vast weather front raced across several states.
The 72-year-old reality star - who was born as Bruce Jenner and became known for winning Olympic gold in Decathlon during the 1976 games in Montreal before transitioning into a woman whilst starring on 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' - is "humbled" to become part of the news network and to be able to "speak directly" to Americans.
Morbius, a Sony Pictures release slated for theaters Friday, is rated PG-13 for intense sequences of violence, some frightening images, and brief strong language. Running time: 104 minutes. Apparently not worth the watch?
The Biden administration is marking the International Transgender Day of Visibility on Thursday with a series of measures in support of transgender Americans as they face efforts to curb their rights across the country.
The Super Bowl champions outmaneuvered several suitors for Wagner, one of the NFL's top inside linebackers after his decade with the Seattle Seahawks. ESPN reported Wagner's deal contains $50 million guaranteed and could be worth up to $65 million.
Struggling with a rare blood disorder, Dr. M copters into Costa Rica to subject himself to a caveful of vampire bats. His research suggests a blend of human and bat DNA will cure him, and hell be able to save his similarly afflicted childhood friend nicknamed Milo played by Matt Smith of Doctor Who as he promised him years earlier.
The Razzies canceled a 2021 special category for Worst Performance by Bruce Willis despite initially defending a decision to move forward with it.
"Today, doctors informed his family that there is no further hope and have recommended end of life decision," Sizemore's manager said in a statement.
ATLANTIC CITY A WWE superstar was arrested at a city casino after a valet employee found a gun in her vehicle, police said Wednesday.
Chris Rock accused Will Smith of "practicing selective outrage" and mocked the infidelity rumors surrounding him and his wife Jada Pinkett Smi
The Seahawks released the six-time All-Pro anchor of their defense on March 9. Read about it here:
Fox News has hired Caitlyn Jenner to an on-air contributor role, the network said Thursday.
Pharrell Williams Something in the Water festival will be bigger than the inaugural one in 2019 with two very large stages, according to th
