Some flights to Ukraine halted or redirected as crisis brews
20220213
https://www.wwltv.com/article/news/nation-world/some-flights-to-ukraine-halted-or-redirected/507-c1c4f8f2-45c6-44f0-bafb-3decebeda86d
Reflecting the West's concerns, Dutch airline KLM has canceled flights to Ukraine until further notice, the company said Saturday.
President Biden was clear with President Putin that while the United States remains prepared to engage in diplomacy, in full coordination with our Allies and partners, we are equally prepared for other scenarios, the White House statement said.
My family has always been prepared, we have all the stuff gathered for like a couple of years now. Honestly, Im not afraid because the war wouldnt start like in a week, 21-year-old Yuliia Zaets said at a pro-government rally on Saturday.
While the U.S. and its NATO allies have no plans to send troops to Ukraine to fight Russia, an invasion and resulting punishing sanctions could reverberate far beyond the former Soviet republic, affecting energy supplies, global markets and the power balance in Europe.
Yuri Ushakov, Putins top foreign policy aide, said that while tensions have been escalating for months, in recent days the situation has simply been brought to the point of absurdity.
I believe that today in the information space, there is a lot of information, Zelenskyy said Saturday. We understand all the risks, we understand that there are risks. If you, or anyone else, has additional information regarding a 100 Russian invasion starting on the 16th, please forward that information to us.
Dutch sensitivity to potential danger in Ukrainian airspace is high following the 2014 shooting down of a Malaysian jetliner flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur as it flew over a part of eastern Ukraine held by Russia-backed rebels. All 298 people aboard died, including 198 Dutch citizens.
In an hourlong call Saturday with Russian President Vladimir Putin, President Joe Biden said an invasion of Ukraine would cause widespread human suffering and that the West was committed to diplomacy to end the crisis but equally prepared for other scenarios, the White House said. It offered no suggestion that the call diminished the threat of an imminent war in Europe.
Russia denies it intends to invade Ukraine but has massed well over 100,000 troops near its border and has sent troops to exercises in neighboring Belarus. U.S. officials say Russias buildup of firepower has reached the point where it could invade on short notice.
A 2015 peace deal brokered by France and Germany helped halt large-scale battles, but regular skirmishes have continued, and efforts to reach a political settlement have stalled.
Canada has shuttered its embassy in Kyiv and relocated its diplomatic staff to a temporary office in the western city of Lviv, Foreign Affairs Minister Melanie Joly said Saturday. Lviv is home to a Ukrainian military base that has served as the main hub for Canadas 200-soldier training mission.
Adding to the sense of crisis, the Pentagon ordered an additional 3,000 U.S. troops to Poland to reassure allies.
Biden has bolstered the U.S. military presence in Europe as reassurance to allies on NATOs eastern flank. The 3,000 additional soldiers ordered to Poland come on top of 1,700 who are on their way there. The U.S. Army also is shifting 1,000 soldiers from Germany to Romania, which like Poland shares a border with Ukraine.
The U.S. picked up intelligence that Russia is looking at Wednesday as a target date, according to a U.S. official familiar with the findings. The official, who was not authorized to speak publicly and did so only on condition of anonymity, would not say how definitive the intelligence was.
Further U.S.-Russia tensions arose on Saturday when the Defense Ministry summoned the U.S. Embassys military attache after it said the navy detected an American submarine in Russian waters near the Kuril Islands in the Pacific. The submarine declined orders to leave, but departed after the navy used unspecified appropriate means, the ministry said.
The Ukrainian charter airline SkyUp said Sunday its flight from Madeira, Portugal, to Kyiv was diverted to the Moldovan capital of Chisinau after the plane's Irish lessor said it was banning flights in Ukrainian airspace.
Russia is demanding that the West keep former Soviet countries out of NATO. It also wants NATO to refrain from deploying weapons near its border and to roll back alliance forces from Eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
Ukrainian presidential spokesman Serhii Nykyforov told The Associated Press that Ukraine has not closed its airspace. A statement from the Infrastructure Ministry said: Some carriers are experiencing difficulties associated with fluctuations in the insurance markets.
In addition to the more than 100,000 ground troops that U.S. officials say Russia has assembled along Ukraines eastern and southern borders, the Russians have deployed missile, air, naval and special operations forces, as well as supplies to sustain a war. This week, Russia moved six amphibious assault ships into the Black Sea, augmenting its capability to land marines on the coast.
MOSCOW, Russia  Some airlines have canceled or diverted flights to Ukraine amid warnings from the West that an invasion by Russia is imminent despite intensive weekend talks between Moscow and Washington.
In a sign that American officials are getting ready for a worst-case scenario, the United States announced plans to evacuate most of its staff from the embassy in Kyiv and urged all American citizens to leave Ukraine immediately. Britain joined other European nations in telling its citizens to leave Ukraine.
On Friday, Bidens national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, warned that U.S. intelligence shows a Russian invasion could begin within days. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has played down invasion concerns, urging the country to remain calm.
He said Biden mentioned the possible sanctions that could be imposed on Russia, but this issue was not the focus during a fairly long conversation with the Russian leader.
The Putin-Biden conversation, following a call between Putin and French President Emmanuel Macron earlier in the day, came at a critical moment for what has become the biggest security crisis between Russia and the West since the Cold War. U.S. officials believe they have mere days to prevent an invasion and enormous bloodshed in Ukraine.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter conflict since 2014, when Ukraines Kremlin-friendly leader was driven from office by a popular uprising. Moscow responded by annexing the Crimean Peninsula and then backing a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine, where fighting has killed over 14,000 people.
