William  Mary professor legal expert shares insight into Bidens ability to criticize Putin
20220318
https://www.wltx.com/article/news/nation-world/ukraine/william-mary-professor-shares-insight-russian-invasion-into-ukraine/291-54408772-e4e0-4628-9376-1c50a2aec468
The family of Jimmy Hill said he was gunned down by Russian troops, while in search for food with several other people.
Combs is a William  Mary Ernest W. Goodrich professor of law, and the director of Human Security Law Center. She told 13News Now Biden's remarks were a rhetorically powerful move.
Prior to Wednesday, the administration presumably held out against making the statement "war criminal" due to ongoing war crime investigations against Putin.
The Kremlin spoke back to Biden's remarks, saying that kind of statement from Biden was "impermissible, unacceptable and unforgivable," adding that the U.S. has "for many years bombed people across the world."
"I think President Putin is a master of the concept that 'the best defense is a good offense.' We have seen that at every stage of this invasion. and prior to that, in the invasion of Crimea," Combs said.
WILLIAMSBURG, Va.  Russia's advance into Ukraine appeared to stall on Thursday. However, the continued invasion and attacks on innocent civilians are painful reminders of the horrors in this war.
"The move in that rhetorical direction is simply a matter of one,the evidence is overwhelming at this point, and secondly, and it seemed to me like Biden was just speaking from the heart, speaking truth, calling a spade a spade," Combs said.
"I think he is trying to thread the needle by providing as much assistance as is reasonably possible without getting us into World War III," Combs said.
On Wednesday, President Joe Biden made this statement about Russian President Vladimir Putin: "I think he is a war criminal."
This all comes just after the first American life was lost in the war in Ukraine.
She also told 13News Now she didn't foresee legal pushback against Biden for making the "war criminal" statement.
The U.S. has committed to sending $800 million in military aid to Ukraine. That's in addition to a previous commitment of $200 million. However, Biden has firmly resisted imposing a no-fly zone.
"He actually laid the blame right at the feet of President Putin, calling him a war criminal. So it personalizes it," explained Dr. Nancy Combs, who specializes in international criminal law. "I also think it galvanizes support against President Putin."
