American Express suspends operations in Russia Belarus over Ukraine invasion
20220306
https://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/american-express-suspends-operations-russia-belarus-ukraine-invasion
Under this protocol, globally issued American Express cards will no longer work at merchants or ATMs in Russia. Cards issued by Russian banks inside the country will no longer work outside of Russia on the American Express global network.
A woman reacts as she stands in front of a house burning after being shelled in the city of Irpin, outside Kyiv. ARIS MESSINISAFP via Getty Images
Several Russian banks said they would soon issue cards using the Chinese UnionPay card operators system with its own Mir network, Reuters reported.
The move follows Visa and Mastercard which both announced Saturday they are suspending business operations in Russia in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
"In light of Russias ongoing, unjustified attack on the people of Ukraine, American Express is suspending operations in Russia," the company said in a statement.
Their actions come amid crippling sanctions imposed by the west on Russia  including President Vladimir Putin  in response to the humanitarian crisis unfolding in Ukraine. Putin has likened the sanctions to a declaration of war.
Many large corporations, including BP, Shell, General Motors, and Maersk, have said they are cutting ties or attempting to cut ties with Russia in recent days.
Eurasia Group President and 'The Power of Crisis' author Ian Bremmer on the most likely economic outcomes of Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
The U.N. human rights office said Saturday at least 351 civilians have been killed and 707 wounded in Ukraine since the start of the invasion, though the true number of casualties is likely much higher.
The company said it is also suspending operations in Belarus, which hosted Russian troops in the weeks leading up to the invasion of Ukraine.
American Express on Sunday said it will suspend operations in Russia over its military invasion of Ukraine.
FILE: The logo of Dow Jones Industrial Average stock market index listed company American Express AXP is seen in Los Angeles, California, United States, April 25, 2016. ReutersLucy NicholsonFile Photo
