Ukrainian Olympic gold medalist Oksana BaiulFarina leads rescue initiative amid Russia invasion
20220312
https://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/ukrainian-olympic-gold-medalist-oksana-baiul-farina
Oksana Baiul of the Ukraine finishes her winning routine during the 1993 Skate America competition in Dallas, Texas. Tony DuffyAllsport Getty Images
"People on the ground in Dnipro, there are civilians who are fighting for the country. They're asking me to find the money, to help them  they need power bars," she continued.
Ukrainian figure skater Oksana Baiul-Farina says the Russia-Ukraine crisis has been very difficult on civilians and athletes.
"We're not asking people to donate or give us money. We're just thinking of how we can create a platform here in the United States to help the athletes to come here and work."
Ukrainian figure skater Oksana Baiul-Farina told "Varney  Co." Friday that the Russia-Ukraine crisis has been "very difficult" on athletes and that shes doing everything she can to help her country.
Fox News senior strategic analyst Gen. Jack Keane discusses what would happen if the Russians were to successfully encircle Kyiv on Fox Business Tonight.
The Olympic gold medalist was born in Dniepropetrovsk, Ukraine, and was raised at the time her country was still part of the Soviet Union.
BIDEN CALLS FOR END TO NORMAL RUSSIA TRADE RELATIONS, BAN ON SEAFOOD, VODKA, DIAMOND IMPORTS
"That's what they want, because when they are fighting and sleeping on  ice-cold grounds, they can't make food  but they can have a power bar in their pocket, and they can take it out, open it  eat it  have energy  that's what they're asking me to help them with."
Last week, Baiul-Farina helped organize a peace rally at Las Vegas City Hall to support Ukraine, with nearly 200 in attendance, according to FOX 5 Vegas. She mentioned at the event that the United States "adopted her" when she was only 15 years old, but will always view Ukraine as her home.
Early Friday, Russian airstrikes hit her hometown in a direct attack on the Ukrainian city, Dnipro. Baiul-Farina said she was in contact with American athletes who were near the invasion, as sirens were blaring throughout the damaged city.
Putins invasion on Ukraine has been recognized as a humanitarian crisis and the Olympic gold medalist told FOX Business she is making this issue her top priority.
The first Ukrainian woman to win a gold medal at the Winter Olympics is leading the charge to rescue threatened athletes and civilians amid the Russian invasion.
Baiul-Farina has led several rescue initiatives since Russian President Vladimir Putin started launching multiple attacks on Ukraine in February.
"Ukrainians are asking me for help. We are trying to create a platform in the United States for them," she said.
