Complete coverage Ukraine war escalates as Russia appears headed for capital
20220225
https://pressofatlanticcity.com/news/world/complete-coverage-ukraine-war-escalates-as-russia-appears-headed-for-capital/article_2c347426-2bb8-5a05-aa31-894b554c20f3.html
The death toll has risen to at least 63 in the migrant tragedy off Italys southern coast after rescue crews recovered several more bodies. Ch
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
PLEASE BE ADVISED: Soon we will no longer integrate with Facebook for story comments. The commenting option is not going away, however, readers will need to register for a FREE site account to continue sharing their thoughts and feedback on stories. If you already have an account i.e. current subscribers, posting in obituary guestbooks, for submitting community events, you may use that login, otherwise, you will be prompted to create a new account.
Ukrainian forces braced for more attacks after enduring for hours a Russian barrage of land- and sea-based missiles, an assault that one senior U.S. defense official described as the first salvo in a likely multi-phase invasion aimed at seizing key population centers and decapitating Ukraine's government.
Ukrainian leaders pleaded for help as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee, and hotels in Kyiv were being evacuated amid early indications of an assault.
After using airstrikes on cities and military bases, Russian military units moved swiftly to take on Ukraine's seat of government and its largest city in what U.S. officials suspect is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.
Explosions were heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv Friday as Russian forces pressed on with a full-scale invasion that resulted in the deaths of more than 100 Ukrainians in the first full day of fighting and could eventually rewrite the global post-Cold War security order.
Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, have been asked to vacate their home in Britain.
Sign up for a digital subscription to The Press of Atlantic City now and take advantage of a great offer.
A Belarusian court has sentenced Ales Bialiatski, Belarus top human rights advocate and one of the winners of the 2022 Nobel Peace Prize, to 
Audio intercepts obtained of conversations between Russian soldiers in Ukraine and their loved ones give an intimate glimpse of how ordinary m
In unleashing the largest ground war in Europe since World War II, Putin ignored global condemnation and cascading new sanctions. With a chilling reference to his countrys nuclear arsenal, he threatened any country trying to interfere with consequences you have never seen, as a once-hoped for diplomatic resolution now appeared impossible.
The audio intercepts obtained by the AP show how deeply unprepared young soldiers  and their country  were for the war to come.
