Putin orders increase in Russian military in the face of Ukraine losses
20220825
https://pressofatlanticcity.com/news/world/putin-orders-increase-in-russian-military-in-the-face-of-ukraine-losses/article_c214b500-ffe8-571d-904e-c3400a21da37.html
The death toll has risen to at least 63 in the migrant tragedy off Italys southern coast after rescue crews recovered several more bodies. Ch
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
PLEASE BE ADVISED: Soon we will no longer integrate with Facebook for story comments. The commenting option is not going away, however, readers will need to register for a FREE site account to continue sharing their thoughts and feedback on stories. If you already have an account i.e. current subscribers, posting in obituary guestbooks, for submitting community events, you may use that login, otherwise, you will be prompted to create a new account.
 Fueling fears of a nuclear catastrophe, the Zaporizhzhia power plant in the middle of the fighting in southern Ukraine was briefly knocked out of commission by fire damage to a transmission line, authorities said. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the plant's emergency backup diesel generators had to be activated to provide power needed to operate the plant.
 The death toll from a Russian rocket attack on a train station and the surrounding area climbed to 25, Ukrainian authorities said. Russia said it targeted a military train and claimed to have killed more than 200 Ukrainian reservists in the attack, which took place Wednesday on Ukraine's Independence Day.
The audio intercepts obtained by the AP show how deeply unprepared young soldiers  and their country  were for the war to come.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a major buildup of his country's military forces Thursday in an apparent effort to replenish troops that have suffered heavy losses in six months of bloody warfare and prepare for a long, grinding fight ahead in Ukraine.
The move to increase the number of troops by 137,000, or 13, to 1.15 million by the end of the year came amid chilling developments on the ground in Ukraine:
Russia Announces Plans , to Bolster Military , Troop Numbers. On August 25, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree to increase the size of his country's military by 137,000 soldiers. . NBC reports that the news comes as Russia's invasion of Ukraine reached the six-month mark. . The move will increase the number of combat personnel in Russia's military by about 10, increasing from 1.01 million to 1.15 million. . According to a Russian government website, the order will take effect on January 1 of 2023. While the decree was reported on by Russian state media, no reason was given for the boost in troop numbers. . NBC reports that the news comes one day after Putin's defense chief confirmed that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has stalled. Russian forces now control large sections of Ukraine's south and east, where many of Moscow's forces have been amassing in the industrial Donbas region. August 24 marked six months since the invasion began, coinciding with Ukraine's Independence Day. . August 24 marked six months since the invasion began, coinciding with Ukraine's Independence Day. . The same day, Kyiv reported that at least 25 people were killed in a Russian rocket strike in Chaplyne in the Dnipropetrovsk region. According to Russia's defense ministry, over 200 Ukrainian soldiers and military equipment headed for the Donbas region were destroyed in the attack
Russia has put Ukraine and all Europeans one step away from a radiation disaster, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address.
Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, have been asked to vacate their home in Britain.
Sign up for a digital subscription to The Press of Atlantic City now and take advantage of a great offer.
Putins decree did not specify whether the expansion would be accomplished by widening the draft, recruiting more volunteers, or both. But some Russian military analysts predicted heavier reliance on volunteers because of the Kremlins concerns about a potential domestic backlash from an expanded draft.
A Belarusian court has sentenced Ales Bialiatski, Belarus top human rights advocate and one of the winners of the 2022 Nobel Peace Prize, to 
Audio intercepts obtained of conversations between Russian soldiers in Ukraine and their loved ones give an intimate glimpse of how ordinary m
The move will boost Russia's armed forces overall to 2.04 million, including the 1.15 million troops.
