Russia plans to decapitate Ukraine government US defense official
20220225
https://www.fijitimes.com/russia-plans-to-decapitate-ukraine-government-u-s-defense-official/
The U.S. official detailed three main axes of the Russian attack: 1 a Russian advance south into the northern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, the site of the heaviest fighting so far 2 a push north out of Russian-controlled Crimea to the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson 3 Two lines of Russian assault southeast and southwest from Belarus toward the capital Kyiv.
After President Vladimir Putin declared war in a pre-dawn televised address, explosions and gunfire were heard throughout the morning in Kyiv, a city of 3 million people.
The targets, thus far  have been primarily focused on military and air defense. So barracks, ammunition warehouses, nearly 10 airfields targeted, the official said.
The U.S. official said the United States had seen indications that Ukrainians were fighting back and the invasion had the potential for massive bloodshed.
It has every potential to be very bloody, very costly and very impactful on European security writ large.
The assault brought a calamitous end to weeks of fruitless diplomatic efforts by Western leaders to avert war, their worst fears about Putins ambitions realized.
These three axes are  clearly designed to take key population centers, the official said.
The Kremlins early push toward Kyiv supports the U.S. view the Russians aim to install their own method of governance.
The United States is sending 7,000 troops to Germany to help reassure NATO allies, some part of a larger contingent that had already been put on alert earlier this year, the official added.
The senior defense official said the United States had not seen an increased threat with regards to Russias nuclear forces.
The official said this appeared to be only the first phase of a large-scale Russian invasion that so far has used a limited number of the more than 150,000 Russian troops arrayed around Ukraine.
WASHINGTON, Feb 24 Reuters  The United States believes Russias invasion of Ukraine is designed to decapitate Ukraines government and one of the three main axes of assault is directed at the capital Kyiv, a senior U.S. defense official said on Thursday.
President Joe Biden referred to these troops in a speech earlier on Thursday. There are already about 90,000 U.S. troops in Europe and Biden has made clear they will not be going into Ukraine to fight Russian forces.
Previously, U.S. officials had told Reuters that a Russian invasion could last 10-15 days but this official declined to speculate on how long the Russian onslaught would last, saying putting a timetable on it would be a fools errand.
The Russian attack has included more than 160 missile launches by Russia so far, including short-range ballistic missiles, as well as medium-range missiles, cruise missiles and surface-to-air missiles.
