Ukraine to confront Russia at Intl Court of Justice on Monday
20220305
https://www.fijitimes.com/ukraine-to-confront-russia-at-intl-court-of-justice-on-monday/
Enough is enough, wrote Pellet, who was representing Russia in other international cases, including Ukraines ongoing suit against Russia at the ICJ over the 2014 annexation of Crimea.
The hearings are set to start Monday at 10 am local time 0900 GMT with Ukraine presenting its case. On Tuesday, Russia is scheduled to respond.
Kyivs suit argues there is no evidence that genocide has taken place or will take place in Eastern Ukraine. It asked the court to establish that Russia has no lawful basis to take action in and against Ukraine for the purpose of preventing and punishing any purported genocide.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has suggested in televised addresses that Russias invasion of Ukraine  which he calls a special military action  was justified by the need to protect people who have been subjected to bullying and genocide for the last eight years in Eastern Ukraine.
The court can order provisional measures to prevent a situation from worsening before it looks at more fundamental questions such as whether it has jurisdiction, or the merits of a case.
It has become impossible to represent in forums dedicated to the application of the law a country that so cynically despises it.
The Russian Embassy in The Hague could not be reached on Friday for comment on how it will respond.
THE HAGUE Reuters  Ukraine and Russia will face off Monday at the International Court of Justice ICJ in a hearing on emergency measures sought by Kyiv to order Moscow to suspend military operations, with Russias legal team weakened by the resignation of a key lawyer.
Russias legal team will be weakened by the absence of Allain Pellet of France, who announced his resignation in an open letter published this week.
The ICJ is the highest court for resolving disputes between states, and while cases there usually take years to resolve, it has a fast-track procedure to look at requests for provisional measures such as those Ukraine has requested.
The court is named in the treaty itself as the forum for resolving disputes related to it, and Ukraines suit argues that Russia has misinterpreted the treaty in several ways.
The case lodged by Ukraine at the U.N. court centres on the interpretation of a 1948 treaty on the prevention of genocide, signed by both Russia and Ukraine.
