US tells Russia to pull back from Ukraine or face painful sanctions
20211203
https://www.fijitimes.com/u-s-tells-russia-to-pull-back-from-ukraine-or-face-painful-sanctions-2/
I would like again to officially state that Ukraine does not plan any military offensive in Donbass. This is Russian propaganda nonsense in order to cover up Russias own preparations for a potential attack.
Russia has blunted the impact of sanctions imposed over its invasion of Crimea by reducing its borrowings on foreign financial markets and maintaining large currency and gold reserves.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Europe faced a critical moment and Russia was trying to shift the blame onto Ukraine.
Blinken declined to spell out what sanctions Russia might face and encouraged both Moscow and Kyiv to return to diplomacy and revive a 2014 peace plan for eastern Ukraine.
The Kremlin said it feared Ukraine was gearing up to try to recapture by force areas controlled by pro-Russian separatists in the Donbass region in the east of the country  something Kyiv denies  and accused it of very dangerous adventurism.
But the West has more potential leverage now if it were to target the newly built Nord Stream 2 pipeline under the Baltic Sea, through which Russia is keen to start pumping gas as soon as it gets the green light from a German regulator.
Should Russia follow the path of confrontation, when it comes to Ukraine, weve made clear that we will respond resolutely, including with a range of high impact economic measures that we have refrained from pursuing in the past.
We dont know whether President Vladimir Putin has made the decision to invade. We do know that he is putting in place the capacity to do so on short order should he so decide, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said.
Blinken was speaking in the Latvian capital Riga after conferring with foreign ministers from NATO and Ukraine on how to respond to what Kyiv says is a Russian build-up of more than 90,000 troops near its border.
The United States urged Russia on Wednesday to pull back its troops from the Ukrainian border, warning that a Russian invasion would provoke sanctions that would hit Moscow harder than any imposed until now.
