Oversampling my opinion
20220219
https://www.northcountrypublicradio.org/news/story/45401/20220219/oversampling-my-opinion
For a famous research center, clearly Pew hasnt done its research on me. Its rare that I go a day without filling out a survey, let alone a year. The process brings me joy on a level equaled by getting Wordle on the third guess, successfully changing the flapper in my toilet tank, or getting an extra 14 miles on my tank of gas. You could say Im easily entertained.
It's understandable that many people rely on the reassurance of surveys and reviews these days. We live in pretty uncertain times. Covid variants come and go. Mask mandates come and go. Russia is either about to invade Ukraine, pull back from Ukraine, or send a 15-year-old figure skater to Ukraine. You dont want an unexpected feature in an omelet pan to push you over the edge.
And thats good, because practically everyone wants my opinion about everything these days. My smart speaker piped up this week, asking me to rate  on a scale of 1 to 5  the 96-Pack of Multicolor Tea Light Candles we purchased five months ago. I gave them four stars, because while they were good tea lights, I reserve the five-star rating for the best tea lights. What would the best tea lights be? I assume that Ill know them when I see them.
NCPR provides this essential service.You provide your essential support.You put the "public" in this public service. Donations from you and your neighbors are a big part of what makes our quality journalism possible. Please make a donation now to support NCPR's continuing efforts to be everything you count on us to be.Donate Now
She would delight in answering yes to the last question, and getting a stunned response Really? from the caller, who would apologize and say, Well, I guess you cant take this survey. And my wife would walk away from the phone with a slightly smug expression on her face and ask me to change the toilet paper roll.
My wife, on the other hand, is okay without having her opinion regularly sampled. Back when we lived in Wisconsin and occasionally answered phone calls from numbers we didnt recognize, she would relish the opportunity to field a call from an opinion researcher. That was because the caller would typically run through a series of questions to qualify her for taking their survey:
So what does this accomplish for me, aside from allowing me to put off changing the toilet paper roll for six more minutes? I think its embedded in an inherent sense of optimism, a belief that the team that builds the NWS website really wants to know what I think will make it more useful how about a sunny day once in a while?. Maybe Amazon actually can take a sad song and make it better. At a time when so much seems like its out of my control, theres a sense of comfort in thinking I can influence the world.
So Ill probably fill out the Pew survey, provided I didnt delete the email. Even though it wont be the only survey I fill out this year, I really should think about other constructive ways to share my opinion. Maybe something like a weekly column.
I got an email yesterday from the people at the Pew Research Center, suggesting that if I only fill out one survey this year, it should be this one.
So I fill out surveys. I filled out the Census, even if I was disappointed not to get the long form. I tell the National Weather Service what I think of their website. I share my opinion about the Bundesligas image, Amazon Music, and how my health is doing since my Covid vaccine.
