Elon Musks Starlink Is Helping Ukraine Stay Connected
20220306
https://cleantechnica.com/2022/03/05/elon-musks-starlink-is-helping-ukraine-stay-connected/
With a whole new line of affordable Teslas on the roads, the pendulum will swing more keenly toward a common culture of zero emissions...
It is a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant. Putin's shelling of Europe's largest nuclear plant takes his reign of terror one step further. TheHague Zaporizhzhia StandwithUkraine
elonmusk SpaceX SpaceXStarlink  many thx! Starlink keeps our cities connected and emergency services saving lives!
Starlink Internet dishes are now in the hands of the bad ass Klitschko brothers in Kyiv. We stand with you Ukraine against Putins tyranny. Thank you bro elonmusk and spacex for making it happen  pic.twitter.comA8xzN9w7FA
Could Starlink also be under the threat of a cyberattack from Russia, like how Viasat was a few weeks ago?
Elon responded that Ukraine civilian Internet was experiencing strange outages and joked that it could have been bad weather. And that SpaceX is helping Ukraine fix it.
With Russian attacks on our infra, we need generators to keep Starlinks  life-saving services online  ideas? Honda ChampionGen westinghouse DuroMaxPower pic.twitter.comFkUZ6s08AO
Starlink is helping Ukraine stay online and Russia isnt too happy about this. Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has shared an important warning on Twitter pointing out that Starlink is the only non-Russian communications system that is still working in some parts of Ukraine. The probability of being targeted, he added, is high. Elon advised users to use it with caution.
Reuters reported six hours ago that Russian forces have seized Europes largest nuclear power plant. While seizing that plant, Russia shelled the plant and caused it to catch on fire. The fire, thankfully, was extinguished. The US Embassy in Kyiv stated that it was a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant.
Russia isnt too keen on Starlink helping Ukraine keep its emergency services connected.Dmitry Rogozin, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos, had several words on the matter. Katya Pavlushchenko, a space exploration enthusiast, shared a video of Rogozin and translated a part of it.
Tesla had an Investor Day event at its gigafactory in Austin, TX, today. Somehow, during this event, Secret Master Plan 3 got leaked to...
Before the much awaited Tesla Investor Day on March the 1, 2023, in Austin, Texas, there was much speculation about the revelations that would...
We cant ignore whats going on in the world, and this is a particularly big matter.
When asked by Toby Li if Starlink could be under threat of a cyberattack from Russia as Viasat was recently, Elon pointed out that almost all Viasat Ukraine user terminals were rendered permanently unusable by a Russian cyberattack on the day of the invasion. When John of Tesla Owners of Silicon Valley asked if there was anything to stop cyberattacks on Starlink, Elon replied, Game on.
I do read comments, and one of the more common ones is that this has nothing to do with EVs, clean energy, or cleantech. Youre right to some extent. However, whats happening in Ukraine is impossible not to talk about. And so is Elons response and the worlds response to Elon helping.
When Russia implements its highest national interests on the territory of Ukraine, Elon Musk appears with his Starlink, which was previously declared as purely civilian. Here is this mud  opened himself I warned about it, but our muskophiles said  he is the light of the world cosmonautics. Here, look, he has chosen the side. I dont even blame him personally. This is the West that we should never trust.
Over the years, Elon Musk has emphasized that Teslas greatest advantage would come from fast-paced innovation in manufacturing. This proved, once again, to be...
On March 2, Ukraines Vice Prime Minister, Mykhailo Fedorov, tweeted that Starlink is keeping Ukraines cities connected and helping emergency services save lives. He also asked for ways to help keep Starlink and life-saving services online. The conversation continued with Elon advising that solar panels and a battery pack are better than generators, and they do not give off heat signatures or smoke. They also dont run out of fuel. I briefly touched upon this conversation in another article. Fedorov has also asked Elon for help rebuilding Ukraine with full solar  storage.
Elon followed up on this discussion a day later with some updates. Starlinks software was updated to reduce peak power consumption so that it can be powered from a car cigarette lighter  similar to how one can charge their phone. He added that mobile roaming was enabled so that a phased array antenna would be able to maintain signal while on a moving vehicle.
Johnna owns less than one share of $TSLA currently and supports Tesla's mission. She also gardens, collects interesting minerals and can be found on TikTok
Ukraine civilian Internet was experiencing strange outages  bad weather perhaps?  so SpaceX is helping fix it
Since Russia invaded Ukraine, there have been over 2,000 Ukrainian civilians killed, Reuters reports. Many, especially Ukrainians, have called this genocide. Children, women, and defense forces are losing their lives every hour, the Ukrainian emergency services said in a statement.
I dont like whats happening in Ukraine. Russia is in the wrong. I also dont like that Elon Musk, who leads both Tesla and SpaceX, is often criticized wrongly for helping people and then accused of being a rich billionaire who doesnt care about people. Yes, he has flaws. Ive said this before. Everyone does. However, this doesnt make spreading lies and misinformation about him or anyone right. This is simply another example of Elon doing something purely to help other humans, even in the face of what must be severe risk from Putin and his mercenaries.
