Today Show Accidentally Marketed EVs  Or Did It
20220311
https://cleantechnica.com/2022/03/10/today-show-accidentally-marketed-evs-or-did-it/
However, lets be realistic  I doubt it was intentional, or if it was intentional, it was probably aimed at sliding past the viewer that the Mustang Mach-E was 100 electric while making points for how to save gas with a gas car.
The Tesla Model Y is 1 again in the electric vehicle market. Registrations were up 10 year over year YoY in January, to over...
Today Show host giving tips on how to save gas. Including turning off your car when stopped for more than 10 seconds to avoid idlingin a Mach-E. pic.twitter.comGFVGBJsaoS
Maybe Ive been watching too many conspiracy theories on TikTok at 4:20 am, but what if this was intentionally done to get people talking about EVs  more specifically, Fords Mustang Mach-E? If so, this was a brilliant marketing move. How many people would be talking about this video if it hadnt blatantly pretended a Mustang Mach-E has a gasoline engine?
The Today Show recently aired a video on how to save gas. Given Russias decision to go to war with Ukraine, leading to higher gas prices, this is a popular topic in the media right now. However, the vehicle that NBCs Senior Consumer Investigative Correspondent Vicky Nguyen used to demonstrate how to save on gas wasnt just any type of vehicle. It was a Ford Mustang Mach-E  a 100 electric vehicle.
Johnna owns less than one share of $TSLA currently and supports Tesla's mission. She also gardens, collects interesting minerals and can be found on TikTok
Redwood Materials reports that after the first year of operation, its battery recycling facility in California has been a success.
One of the key problems with the video was when Nguyen spoke about turning off the engine to conserve gas instead of letting it idle. In that part of the clip, she was sitting in the drivers seat of the Mach-E and explained, If youre safely parked somewhere for more than ten seconds, like maybe youre waiting to pick up your kids. Consider turning your engine off. She proceeds to press the Mach-Es onoff button. In actuality, with its electric powertrain, there is no real need to turn off the car.
USPS announced today it will purchase 9,250 Ford E-Transit electric vans with deliveries starting before the end of this year.
The US auto industry has been declining steadily for a few years at least. Compared to 2021, the American auto industrys annual sales were...
Of course, using an EV to demonstrate how to save gas  especially while at the pump  doesnt make any sense. Or does it?
No matter the reason for using an electric car to talk about gas savings tips in this way, it was just weird.
Perhaps its not common knowledge outside of auto circles, but EVs dont use gasoline or diesel  not at all. I know, Im preaching to the choir here and this is obvious to all of us, but there are some people who genuinely dont know the difference. Lets not shame them for not knowing.
