Kremlin Fifth Column Republicans Give Aid And Comfort To Putin
20220223
https://www.nationalmemo.com/kremlin
Genius. Wonderful. Smart. Thats what Donald Trump thinks of Putins open seizure of property from a U.S. ally. But Trump didnt stop there. He expressed a wish that some of those Russian tanks should come here.
On Monday, Russian authoritarian ruler Vladimir Putin moved additional Russian forces into Ukraine, declaring that two regions in eastern Ukraine were now independent republics. On Tuesday, Putin expanded the scope of the new nations he peremptorily formed out of the territory of a neighboring country, setting up an excuse to occupy a much larger area and engage in direct military conflict with Ukrainian government forces.
But as the world unites in opposition to Russian aggression, there is one notable exception: Republicans. From Donald Trump to Mike Pompeo to Josh Hawley, the same people who were in a hurry to overthrow democracy in America are using this moment to support the destruction of a democratic ally.
Its almost as if Trump believes that the puppet show Putin put on for his state-run media fooled everyone. Oh, gee, golly, we have to let Russia go in there and keep the peace for those poor independent republicans, yup, yup, yup.
Also on Tuesday, former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hustled out to sing his praises of Putin and undercut the U.S. position. In fact, hes doing it so well that Pompeo is getting repeat play on Russian state TV.
Sure. When has it ever been a good idea to stop the strong from beating up the weak? Thats certainly not in the Republican world view.
When theyre not spreading the news that Putin is strong, Biden is weak, and that the United States has no interest in promoting democracy, defending nations against aggressors, or upholding our word to allies, Republicans have taken some time out to make it clear that Ukraine totally deserves it. That corrupt that Kirk tossed into his statement was no coincidence. Its how Republicans are describing Ukraine in statement after statement. And theres this extraordinary claim from Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene.
A day earlier, Greene declared that she wanted to impeach Biden for threatening war with nuclear Russia.
Hawleys positionif it can be called a positioncan be summed up in these two self-contradictory statements:
Its not that Republicans dont want a war. Its that theyre already waging oneagainst democracy in the United States. This was what was on Steve Bannons mind on Tuesday as he grew concerned over how Russias invasion might interfere with issues of real importance.
Tucker Carlson, who has been carrying Putins water so long that he has almost almost developed a muscle, was reliably there for him on Tuesday, insisting that because Putin didnt call him a racist or start the pandemic, theres no reason to be mad at him.
And then there was Hawley. A column from Feb. 3 called Hawley Putins new favorite pet for adopting Russian talking points and urging the nation to turn its back on Ukraine. Or, as The Kansas-City Star puts it: Insurrection, racism, appeasement: Call it the Hawley Trinity.
Carlsons point is, of course, dont hate Putin  hate Biden. Its a point that the House Republicans underscored yesterday when they posted this response to Bidens speech announcing an initial set of sanctions against Russia, with more to follow.
In response to Putins actions, both the United States and European nations took swift actions. Sanctions have been placed on Russia, making it extremely difficult to finance the countrys debt in international markets. Additional sanctions have been placed on Russian state banks. And, most importantly, completion of the Nord Stream 2 pipelinea pipeline that would have carried 1.9 trillion cubic feet of natural gas from Russia to Germany each yearhas been halted. This pipeline would have been a major source of revenue for Russia, which has an economy that is heavily dependent on export of fossil fuels.
Appeasement is the order of the day for most Republicans in both politics and media. Heres Charlie Kirk to complain about Biden calling it a peacekeeping operation and invasion and following it up with what might be the Republican theme song of the day.
According to Democratic Rep. Tom Malinowski, most Republicans in Congress started out totally solid on Ukraine and wanted to push back against Russia. However, Theyre beginning to feel this pressure percolating from their base because Carlson is the guy that speaks to more Republicans every day than anyone else in America.
