VIDEO Why This Ukrainian Woman Offered Sunflower Seeds To Russian Soldier
20220225
https://www.nationalmemo.com/sunflower-seeds
Who are you? The woman asks as translated by The Independent armed soldiers during Russias invasion on Thursday.
Athletes across the globe are also issuing calls for support in Ukraine, which is especially meaningful as it may highlight the reality of the situation for folks who arent otherwise following the news.
For example, a number of allies have lit buildings with colors of the Ukrainian flag.
People in the region are not accepting Putins violent, unnecessary invasion, nor his televised calls to action. Weve seen reports of people protesting in the streets in Russia, for example, risking arrest almost immediately. People within Ukraine are protesting as well, as evidenced by a now-viral video of a woman standing up to heavily armed Russian soldiers with some deeply poignant words. Lets check out the video and context below.
Delusional, hateful, horrifying Russian President Vladimir Putin has invaded Ukraine. Most recently, Putin called for the Ukrainian army to overthrow its own leadership, describing Ukrainian leaders as drug addicts and neo-Nazis who have taken the Ukrainian people hostage, as reported by The Guardian. Among other factors, neo-Nazism is a serious problem in Russia, though, of course, Putin doesnt seem to care about that.
What the fk are you doing on our land with all these guns? She tells the soldiers to take some of her sunflower seedssunflowers being the national flower of Ukrainesaying they can put the seeds in their pockets, so at least sunflowers will grow when you all lie down here..
The woman clarifies that theyre Russian, then says, So what the fk are you doing here? She goes on to call them occupants and fascists.
As of now, both the European Union and the United States have announced sanctions against Russia. Weapons are being passed out to civilians in Ukraine to help protect their country. Here in the United States, advocates have been putting the important, necessary pressure on the Biden administration to allow Ukrainian refugees and provide relief.
Things in Ukraine are undeniably very bleak: families are hiding in shelters, saying goodbye to loved ones, and for some generations, reliving some serious trauma. But as highlighted on social media, there is still hope.
As captured in a video widely circulated by Internews Ukraine an independent news source based out of Ukraine, a woman is seen speaking to a Russian soldier. She appears to offer him sunflower seeds.
