Australia evacuates Kyiv embassy
20220213
https://thehill.com/policy/international/594024-australia-evacuates-kyiv-embassy
The evacuation of Australias embassy comes as concerns are mounting that Russia may carry outinvade Ukraine. Moscow has amassed more than 100,000 troops near the Ukrainian border, but Russia is denying having any plans to carry out an incursion.
Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne announced on Sunday that all staff at the embassy in Kyiv had been told to leave. She also said operations at the embassy were shuttered and moved to a temporary office in Lviv, a city in western Ukraine.
Additionally, Germany announced on Saturday that it would be reducing staff at its embassy in Kyiv amid the heightened tensions in the region.
White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters on Friday that a Russian invasion of Ukraine could begin any day now.
She saidthe decisions had been made due tothe deteriorating security situation caused by the build up of Russian troops on Ukraines border.
The U.S. State Department ordered most U.S. employees at the embassy in Kyiv to leave, citing the continued threat of Russian military action.
President Biden spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin for roughly an hour on Saturday amid the ongoing tensions between Moscow and Kyiv. The White House said Biden warned Putin that Russia would face swift and severe costs from the U.S. and its allies if Moscow undertakes a further invasion of Ukraine.
We continue to advise Australians to leave Ukraine immediately by commercial means. Security conditions could change at short notice, Payne wrote in a statement.
Russian military action in Ukraine will severely limit our ability to provide consular assistance to Australians, she added.
Additionally, Biden told Putin that an invasion of Ukraine would produce widespread human suffering and diminish Russias standing, according to the White House.
Biden said that while the U.S. is prepared to engage in diplomacy, in full coordination with our Allies and partners, the country is also equally prepared for other scenarios.
