Biden speaks with Zelensky after Putin recognizes separatist regions
20220221
https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/595206-biden-speaks-with-ukraines-president-after-putin-recognizes
Later on Monday, Biden convened a secure call at 3:17 p.m. with French President Macron and German Chancellor Scholz, which lasted approximately 30 minutes, according to a White House official.
Bidenmet privately with his national security team on Monday and is receiving regular updates on the crisis between Russia and Ukraine.
Discussed the events of the last hours with POTUS. We begin the meeting of the National Security and Defense Council, Zelenskysaid in a statement. He added that he has an upcoming conversation with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson scheduled as well.
Putin will sign a decree recognizing the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic, which are in eastern Ukraines Donbas region and controlled by Russian-backed separatists. The move marks a rejection of diplomatic efforts to cease fighting.
On the call, Biden reaffirmed the commitment of the US to Ukraines sovereignty and condemned Putins decision.
In response to Putins decision to recognize the areas as independent, the White House announced that Biden plans to sign an executive order blocking new U.S. investment, trade and financing from flowing into two Russian separatist-held regions in Ukraine.
He updated President Zelenskyy on the United States response, including our plan to issue sanctions. President Biden reiterated that the United States would respond swiftly and decisively, in lock-step with its Allies and partners, to further Russian aggression against Ukraine, the White House said in a statement.
The leaders strongly condemned President Putins decision to recognize the so-called DNR and LNR regions of Ukraine as independent. They discussed how they will continue to coordinate their response on next steps, the White House said in a statement.
President Biden on Monday spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky after Russian President Vladimir Putin announced he would recognize two breakaway territories in Ukraine as independent.
The U.S. has warned that an invasion could happen at any moment, given the substantial Russian military buildup of as many as 190,000 troops in and around Ukraine.
The presidenton Friday said he isconvinced that Putin has made the decisionto invade Ukraine, but emphasized that a diplomatic path forward will remain open.
In his speech from Moscow, Putin described his vision of a Ukraine that has historically been part of Russia and is now under the control of the West. He alsomade accusations against Ukraine, the U.S. and Western allies.
