Biden tells Zelensky US allies will respond decisively if Russia invades
20220103
https://thehill.com/policy/international/europe/587940-biden-tells-ukrainian-president-that-us-and-allies-will-respond
He also expressed support for confidence-building measures to de-escalate tensions in Donbas, as well as talks between Germany, Russia, Ukraine and France, which also convened in 2014 in an effort to end the war that broke out following Russias previous invasion of Ukraine.
The U.S. has said it is prepared to supply deadly arms to Ukraine to resist a Russian incursion, along with economic sanctions against Moscow.
She noted ongoing diplomatic efforts including the bilateral Strategic Stability Dialogue between the U.S. and Russia, as well asdiscussions throughthe NATO-Russia Counciland the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
In a statement, White House press secretary Jen Psaki saidthe leaders expressed support for diplomatic efforts, addingthat Biden made clear that the United States and its allies and partners will respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine.
Russia has said that it had deployed tens of thousands of troops to its border with Ukraine for its own security, and warned the West against expanding NATOby addingUkraine.
President Biden toldUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyon Sunday that the U.S. and its allies willrespond decisively if Russia again invades the so-called Donbas region in southeastern Ukraine.
Biden warned Putin of severe sanctions should Russia invade Ukraine, while Putin warned that such sanctions would be acolossal mistake.
I made it clear to President Putin that if he makes any more moves, if he goes into Ukraine, we will have severe sanctions, Biden said. We will increase our presence in Europe with our NATO allies. There will be a heavy price to pay for it.
Biden has recently had conversations withRussian President Vladimir Putin in an effort to lower the tensions between Russia and Ukraine  a videoconference call on Dec. 7 and a phone call on Dec. 31.
President Biden underscored the commitment of the United States and its allies and partners to the principle of nothing about you without you,' she said.
