Blinken Lavrov meet to discuss critical moment amid Ukraine invasion fears
20220121
https://thehill.com/policy/defense/590742-blinken-lavrov-meet-to-discuss-critical-moment-in-ukraine
We dont expect to resolve our differences here today. But I do hope and expect that we can test whether the path of diplomacy or dialogue remains open, Blinken told Lavrov during the meeting, The Associated Press reported. This is a critical moment.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met on Friday in Geneva in a high-stakes meeting at a critical moment in the tensions rising between Russia, the U.S. and Ukraine.
Russia has been amassing thousands of troops on the borderwith the former Soviet country as the international community continues to warn that tough actions will be taken againstMoscow if they invade.
In a press conference following the meeting, Blinken said the U.S. has agreed to provide, in writing next week, concerns the U.S. has and Russia has raised and ideas the U.S. has to reduce tensions. The two also agreed to continue to have conversationsfollowing the written proposal.
Lavrov said during the meeting he did not expect a breakthrough at these negotiations either. What we expect is concrete answers to our concrete proposals, according to the AP.
However, Blinken did tell Lavrov he had concrete ideas to address some of the concerns that you have raised, as well as the deep concerns that many of us have about Russias actions.
Blinken met with other allies ahead of the meeting with Lavrov, including the president of Ukraine.
Blinken said at the meeting he wants to use diplomacy to deescalate the situation but if that proves impossible, and Russia decides to pursue aggression against Ukraine, to a united, swift and severe response.
Military action has not been promised as a response to a potential Russian invasion of Ukraine, but Blinken andPresident Biden have talked aboutsevere economic sanctions.
Its a crisis with global consequences and it requires global attention and action, Blinken said in Berlinbefore his meeting with Lavrov.
Russia wants a promise from NATO that Ukraine will not be added to the alliance and wants western allies to remove military equipment and troops from eastern Europe.
The U.S. and allies have strongly rejected those terms as Russia continues to send troops near Ukraines border.
Blinken said a meeting between President Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin is also on the table if it is believed that will push the situation in the right direction.
