Blinken says hes convinced Putin will try to topple Ukrainian government
20220225
https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/595785-blinken-says-hes-convinced-putin-will-try-to-topple-ukrainian
Were committed to defending our NATO allies and if it comes to that, well do it. But right now, our focus is on Ukraine, our focus is on trying to prevent President Putin from going even further, but it looks like hes going for everything he can get, Blinken said.
Muir also asked Blinken if he believed it might be a possibility that American troops could be involved if Russian troops moved intoNorthAtlantic Treaty Organization NATO countries, beyond Ukraine.
Is it a possibility that Putin goes beyond Ukraine? Sure, its a possibility, but theres something very powerful standing in the way of that. Thats something we call Article 5 of NATO. That means an attack on one member of NATO is an attack on all members of NATO, Blinken answered. The Presidents been very clear that we will defend every inch of NATO territory. I think thats the most powerful deterrent against President Putin going beyond Ukraine.
And so, were doing what we said we would do all along. Were imposing massive costs. Were doing it with allies and partners. Were doing it together. Were doing it swiftly. And youve seen that already today, he added.
Since Putin ordered a military operation in Ukraine, the U.S. and its allies haveannounced new waves of sanctions against Russia, with Biden on Thursday saying U.S. sanctions would target Russian banks and impose export controlsrestricting Russian imports of sensitive U.S. technology.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced in a statement on Thursday that 137 people had already died since Russia launched its invasion, and 316 others were injured.
During an interview on ABCs World News Tonight, anchor David Muir asked Blinken if he was convinced that Putin was going to overthrow the Ukrainian government.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in an interview on Thursday that he is convinced Russian President Vladimir Putin will try to overthrow the Ukrainian government, remarks that come less than 24 hoursafter Russia invaded Ukraine.
Blinken answered that the U.S. was committed to supporting its NATO allies, saying if the situation required American assistance, Well do it.
You know the President has said all along U.S. troops will not fight in Ukraine against the Russians, but again, this hypothetical if he goes beyond Ukraine and into NATO given what you just cited, that means all bets are off the table here, Muir pressed the secretary of state.
