Cruz knocks Grahams call to assassinate Putin An exceptionally bad idea
20220304
https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/596874-cruz-knocks-grahams-call-to-assassinate-putin-an-exceptionally-bad-idea
This is an exceptionally bad idea. Use massive economic sanctions BOYCOTT Russian oil  gas and provide military aid so the Ukrainians can defend themselves. But we should not be calling for the assassination of heads of state, the Texas senator said in response.
But the best way for this to end is having Eliot Ness or Wyatt Earp in Russia  the Russian Spring so to speak  where people rise up and take him down because if he continues to be their leader, then hes going to make you complicit with war crimes, the senator added.
The only people who can fix this are the Russian people. Easy to say, hard to do, he continued in another tweet. Unless you want to live in darkness for the rest of your life, be isolated from the rest of the world in abject poverty, and live in darkness you need to step up to the plate.
A spokesperson for Graham said that the lawmakers were entitled to their opinions and referred The Hill to his interview on Fox News on Friday morning.
I find the statement of American politics unacceptable and outrageous. The degree of Russophobia and hatred in the USA towards Russia is off the charts. Its unbelievable that a countrys senator preaching his moral values as a guiding star to all mankind could afford a call on terrorism as a way to achieve Washingtons goals on the international arena, he said in response to a question about the tweet.
While we are all praying for peace  for the people of Ukraine, this is irresponsible, dangerous  unhinged, Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene R-Ga. said in a tweet. We need leaders with calm minds  steady wisdom. Not blood thirsty warmongering politicians trying to tweet tough by demanding assassinations. Americans dont want war.
The Russian people are not our enemy. Im convinced its a one-man problem surrounded by a few people, Graham said in response to a question asking him to expand on his tweet.
Lawmakers, including some Republicans, are slamming a tweet that Sen. Lindsey Graham R-S.C. issued on Thursday night where he appeared to be calling for the assassination of Russian President Vladimir Putin, with one senator calling it an exceptionally bad idea.
Mr. Ambassador, youre supporting a war criminal in Putin. Your countrys engaged in war crimes in front of the entire world. Youre bombing innocent civilians using banned munitions, he said.
Florida state Rep. Anthony Sabatini R, who is running for Congress,called Grahams statement Biden-level stupidity and recklessness, while Rep. Matt Gaetz R-Fla. sarcastically mused, When has Sen. Graham encouraging regime change ever ended badly?
Is there a Brutus in Russia? Is there a more successful Colonel Stauffenberg in the Russian military? The only way this ends is for somebody in Russia to take this guy out. You would be doing your country  and the world  a great service, Graham said in a tweet.
