Democrats divided over proposal to suspend federal gas tax
20220313
https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/597907-democrats-divided-over-proposal-to-suspend-federal-gas-tax
Democrats said the idea of suspending the gas tax was discussed at this past weeks retreat but got pushback from several colleagues.
Environmentalists in the Democratic caucus are also skeptical of the proposal when theyre making a push to shift the country away from fossil fuels and to renewable energy sources.
There is no guarantee that the oil companies pass that reduction on to the consumer, and its very hard to write a bill that requires them to pass it on to the consumer, she told reporters. If we can have a holiday that guarantees the consumer benefits rather than more profits for the oil companies, that would be a path we can take.
We have for as long as I can remember embraced the principle that those who use roads, highways and bridges have an opportunity to help pay for them. We are not even coming close to paying for the roads, highways and bridges that we need, said Sen. Tom Carper D-Del., the chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over the construction and maintenance of highways and bridges.
We have to have multiple strategies to lower gas prices. I recently signed on to a measure to up our biofuel production, and frankly our excess biofuel capacity is almost the same of what will be cut off from Russia, she added.
Whitehouse noted that major oil companies, including BP, Shell, ExxonMobil and Chevron, are planning to buy back an estimated $38 billion in stock, according to media reports.
This should be an option also, said Sen. Tammy Baldwin D-Wis.. I want to do everything I can to reduce the pain that Wisconsinites are feeling.
The measure sponsored by Sens. Mark Kelly D-Ariz. and Maggie Hassan D-N.H., who both face competitive reelection races, would suspend the federal gas tax of 18.4 cent per gallon until January.
Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf was one of six Democratic governors who wrote a letter to congressional leaders Tuesday calling for a suspension of the federal gas tax.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom, another Democrat, has floated the idea of a rebate to help drivers pay for rising gasoline prices. A gallon of regular now costs $5.72 cents in California, according to AAA.
Whitehouse and other Democrats would prefer to enact a windfall profits tax on oil companies and use the money to provide energy rebates for middle- and low-income families.
Kelly, a leading sponsor of the proposal, said it is gaining momentum among Democrats nervous about how voters will react to the surge in prices
Rather than lower prices for consumers at the pump, theyre going to push money through to stock buybacks that help executive bonuses and to shareholders, he said. Particularly while the industry itself seems to be using this crisis to gouge customers, for us to bail them off the hook seems very inappropriate.
There are a lot of steps  that we either considered or moved forward on that we may not have considered before. Thats the nature of the crisis were in, said Sen. Bob Casey D-Pa.. Theres no question that prices are very high, gasoline, food.
Carper is not a fan of the idea of transferring billions of dollars from the Treasury Departments general fund to make up for any shortfall in the Highway Trust Fund caused by suspending the gas tax.
Sen. Angus King I-Vt., who caucuses with Democrats, said hes undecided on the idea of a gas tax suspension but has concerns.
Suspending the federal gas tax, however, is getting pushback from Democratic senators worried about cutting off a key source of funding for roads and bridges.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi D-Calif. has warned that it would be very difficult to write a bill to ensure that consumers themselves see the savings from a suspension of the gas tax.
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan R is working with Democrats in the state legislature to adopt a one-month emergency suspension of his states gas tax. It would cut the cost of gas by 36 cents a gallon in Maryland.
Im skeptical of it, particularly since the domestic production costs for oil and gas dont seem to have skyrocketed, but the domestic oil and gas industry has taken advantage of the cartel-controlled world market prices to jack prices at the pump through the roof and pocket huge windfalls, said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D-R.I..
It came up a couple times, said Sen. John Hickenlooper D-Colo., who supports the idea. Theres still a certain level of divided opinion.
Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear, who is up for reelection next year, announced Thursday that he had joined his fellow governors in calling for a gas tax suspension.
The idea has never gained much traction among Senate Democrats because the tax is the main source of funding for the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for federal roads and bridges.
But anxious Democratic senators say the rising price of gas, accelerated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, has become a domestic crisis.
They are scrambling for ideas to keep mounting costs in check and discussed suspending the gas tax at their retreat this past week at Howard University in Washington.
I think were picking up support. I think most members of the Senate  not only in our conference  recognize how hard this is right now on the American people. The price of so many things has gone up. Ground beef in Arizona is about $5 a pound. Gasoline is over four bucks, he said.
At a time when people are directly impacted by rising prices on everyday goods, a federal gas tax holiday is a tool in the toolbox to reduce costs for Americans, and we urge you to give every consideration to this proposed legislation,they wrote.
Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, Jared Polis of Colorado, Tim Walz of Minnesota, Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico and Tony Evers of Wisconsin also signed the letter. All five are running for reelection, and Whitmer and Evers are in toss-up races.
A proposal to suspend the federal gas tax is gaining political momentum among Senate Democrats who are worried that high gas prices will hurt them in the midterm election.
