Democrat says Tucker Carlson viewers telling his office US should side with Russia
20220124
https://thehill.com/homenews/media/591081-house-dem-tucker-carlson-viewers-telling-his-office-we-should-be-siding-with
In an op-edpublished on FoxNews.comover the weekend, Carlson accused neocons in Washingtonofrecklessly stoking conflict between Russia and Ukraine for years and warning the United States could find itself in an all-out war with Russia iftensions are not deescalated.
Carlson, Foxs top-rated host, has argued there is little for the United States to gain by getting involved in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
Malinowski was elected to represent New Jerseys highly competitive 8th District in 2018 and is a member of the House Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security committees.
Were really going to fight a war over some corrupt Eastern European country that is strategically irrelevant to us? With everything else thats going on right now in our own country? Carlson wrote. No normal person would ever want to do anything like that. How can it really happen?
A House Democrat asserted Monday that people have called his office claiming to be Fox News viewers and telling him the U.S. should be siding with Russiaas tensions between Russia and Ukraineintensify.
My office is now getting calls from folks who say they watch Tucker Carlson and are upset that were not siding with Russia in its threats to invade Ukraine, and who want me to support Russias reasonable positions, Rep. Tom Malinowski D-N.J. said in a tweeton Monday afternoon.
People get their opinions by watching the news, thats nothing new, he said. What is new is we have at least one talk show host with a huge captive audience that is not exposed to any counter-programming elsewhere  I find that very concerning.
The Pentagon said Monday it was putting8,500 U.S. troops on higher alert over the ongoing tensions in Eastern Europe, while NATO leaders have also vowed a united response to Russian aggression.
President Biden said last week if Russia were to invade Ukraine, as it did in 2014,such an action would be met with swift and severe pushback from the United States.
Tensions between the U.S. and Russiahave increased in recent weeksas Russia hasamassed at least 100,000 troopsnear Ukraines border, leading to fears of a possible invasion.
During an interview with The Hill on Monday evening, Malinowski said the feedback, which he said came in a flurry of calls to his staff earlier in the day, is an example of the growing partisan divide in America and the medias role in it.
