ICE pauses deportations to Russia Ukraine amid invasion
20220303
https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/596801-ice-pauses-deportations-to-russia-ukraine-amid-invasion
Amid the ongoing humanitarian crisis occurring in Ukraine, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE has paused repatriation flights to Ukraine. ICE will continue to monitor the ongoing situation and make operational changes as necessary, the spokesperson said.
U.S. deportation flights to Russia, Ukraine and seven other European countries have been paused by Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE because of the Russian invasionof Ukraine, two people familiar told CBS News.
More thana million refugees from Ukraine have fled the country in the last week, according to data from the U.N. refugee agency.
Only the pause in deportation flights to Ukraine was confirmed by an ICE spokesperson to The Hill in a statement on Thursday.
Russias premeditated and unprovoked attack on Ukraine has resulted in an ongoing war, senseless violence, and Ukrainians forced to seek refuge in other countries, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said in a statement. In these extraordinary times, we will continue to offer our support and protection to Ukrainian nationals in the United States.
One person briefed on the matter told CBS News that, in addition to Russia and Ukraine, deportations to Belarus, Georgia, Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania and Slovakia had been suspended, and that the congressional officialshave been informed.
Earlier this week, a group ofSenate Democrats and Republicans wrote a letter to President Bidenurging for his administration to grant the status.
In light of Russias military invasion of Ukraine, we respectfully request that your Administration promptly take all necessary steps to ensure that Ukrainian nationals present in the United States are not forced to return to Ukraine, including the designation of Ukraine for TPS, the lawmakers wrote.
Forcing Ukrainian nationals to return to Ukraine in the midst of a war would be inconsistent with Americas values and our national security interests, the senators added.
DHS said that the TPS was being granted to Ukrainians using two of the three statutory bases for designation, ongoing armed conflict and extraordinary and temporary conditions.
Later on Thursday, the Department of Homeland Security DHS announced that the Biden administration would be granting temporary protected status TPS to Ukrainians within the United States for 18 months following a push from a bipartisan group of lawmakers.
