Jill Biden Senselessness of Russia war in Ukraine is staggering
20220314
https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/in-the-know/598094-jill-biden-senselessness-of-russia-war-in-ukraine-is-staggering
The 16th annual awards ceremony from the State Department honors women from around the world who have demonstrated exceptional courage, strength, and leadership in order to bring about positive change to their communities, often at great personal risk and sacrifice.
Millions more stay to help their country fight against Russias unprovoked, unjustified war, Blinken said.
Jill Biden is leading a salute to courageous women at an annual awards ceremony held in the shadow of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Sick kids fleeing on makeshift medical trains, the unthinkable bombing of a maternity ward, parents weeping over their childrens broken bodies in the streets, Biden said of images out of Ukrainefollowing Russias military offensive, which began last month.
Like all of us, my heart has ached watching videos of Ukraine, Biden said Monday at the International Women in Courage Award ceremony in Washington, D.C.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken told the audience that millions of Ukrainian women have fled their country with their families due to the ongoing conflict.
Women have been told that they are dangerous, Biden said in her remarks. And thats because they are  dangerous to corruption and injustice.
When we raise our voices, we have the power to shatter the shields of oppression. Thats why cowardly men stop girls from learning. Its why womens bodies become casualties of war, Biden said.
I saw many of them on the border with Poland just about a week ago, Blinken said, and its something that stays embedded in your mind and memory, as you see women coming across the border, children in tow, fleeing the Russian aggression.
There can be no true democracy, no true peace, no true prosperity, without womens voices, the first lady said.
The senselessness is staggering, Biden continued, before noting other horrors happening around the globe that never make the evening news.
