Live coverage  Russian push for Ukrainian cities accelerates
20220302
https://thehill.com/policy/international/596473-live-coverage-russian-push-for-ukrainian-cities-accelerates
The Spanishdefense minister said on Wednesday that Spain will be sending grenade launchers and machine guns to Ukraine amidRussiasongoinginvasioninto the country.
SWIFT said the banks will be disconnected on March 12, adding to the multiple other banks that were taken off this past week.
The Commerce Department is also restricting exports of oil and gas extraction equipment to Russia, which the White House said would degrade Russias refining capacity over time without reducing the global supply of energy.
But there is a certain margin of safety, there is potential, there are some plans, work is underway, he added.
The announcement referred to decisions made by FIFA and UEFA earlier this weekto suspend Russian teamsfrom competitions.
Our deepest thoughts are with those suffering the tragic human consequences of Russias invasion of Ukraine. Equality, diversity, mutual respect and global cooperation are the bedrock SWIFT stands on, and the ideals we stand for as a global and politically neutral cooperative, SWIFT said in a statement.
Any military or other action that could threaten the safety or security of Ukraines nuclear power plants must be avoided, the IAEA said. Operating staff must be able to fulfill their safety and security duties and have the capacity to make decisions free of undue pressure.
Igor Kolykhaev, the mayor of the city with 300,000 people, confirmed in an interview with the Times that the city was surrounded and the Ukraine army was not in the area.
It is very important because the equipment allows for a very individualized defense that can be used even by people who do not have much experience using weapons, she added.
Ash Wednesday marks the first day of Lent for Roman Catholics.The president, who is a well-known ice cream lover, said he gave up sweets for Lent.
Russia claimed that its forces control the southern Ukrainian city ofKherson, but that could not be immediately verified
Hundreds of structures, including transport facilities, hospitals, kindergartens and homes, have also been destroyed, according toReuters.
Ukraines Defense Ministry said on Sunday that roughly 4,300 Russian servicemen had been lost in the invasion.
Kherson is now under Russian control as the city was surrounded earlier in the day, a senior Ukrainian official said, The New York Timesreported.
The Times noted that it could not immediately verify Russias claim, adding that Oleksiy Arestovich, a military adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, said that the battle for the city, located northwest of Crimea, is ongoing.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced during a televised address on Wednesday that nearly 6,000 Russian soldiers have been killed since the start of the invasion.
During a video addresson Wednesday, Zelensky said that close to 6,000 Russian soldiers had died within six days.
Peskovs remarks came after a question about a comment made by President Biden during Tuesday nights State of the Union address.
Abramovich is likely concerned about impending sanctions imposed by the British government, and isreportedly conducting an immediate sale of hisU.K. assets.
I chose to stay in touch as much as I can and as much as its needed with President Putin to try and convince him to lay down his arms  and to prevent the spread and widening of the conflict, Macron said in a speech Wednesday, Politicoreported.
In line with our partners at FIFA and UEFA, EA Sports has initiated processes to remove the Russian National Team and all Russian clubs from EA Sports FIFA products: FIFA 22, FIFA mobile, FIFA online. Were also actively evaluating related changes to other areas of our games, EA Sports added.
Russias economy is experiencing serious blows, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said during a call with foreign reporters, according to CNN.
Destructive results of the vote in the U.N. for the aggressor convincingly show that a global anti-Putin coalition has been formed and is functioning. The world is with us. The truth is on our side. Victory will be ours !
Zelensky said that Russian forces destroyed us all by striking at residential buildings in Borodyanka.
Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov announced that dogecoin, which began as a joke and has been referred to as a memecoin, would be accepted as donations.
Ukraines emergency service said that the Russian invasion of the countryhas claimed the lives of over 2,000 Ukrainian civilians.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video address on Wednesday that Russian forces have an order to erase Ukraine as he spoke about the areas targeted by Russias military, including a Holocaust memorial site that was bombed.
I praise the approval by the UN GA with an unprecedented majority of votes of the resolution with a strong demand to Russia to immediately stop the treacherous attack on Ukraine. Im grateful to everyone  every state that voted in favor. You have chosen the right side of history, Zelensky tweeted.
Russian forces pressed their attacks on crowded Ukrainian cities on Wednesday after President Bidens warned during his State of the Union address that Russian President Vladimir Putin wouldnt stop with one country if he doesnt pay a price.
EA Sports stands in solidarity with the Ukrainian people and like so many voices across the world of football, calls for peace and an end to the invasion of Ukraine, the video game developer said in a statement on Wednesday.
Russia took control of its first city in Ukraine on Wednesday,a week after the invasion began.
President Biden said he received ashes from the cardinal for Ash Wednesday and they prayed together for the people of Ukraine.
Pope Francis has encouraged people to fast and pray for Ukrainians on Ash Wednesday and Biden said he agreed with the pope.
We start to accept donations in meme coin, Fedorov tweetedon Wednesday. Now even meme can support our army and save lives from Russian invaders.
Russia is claiming that its forces have seized the first major city in Ukraine almost one week after Moscows invasion was launched, though a military adviser to the Ukrainian president reports that the battle in Kherson rages on.
Twitter will comply with European Union sanctions on Russian state-controlled media, meaning content from suchpublishers will be withheld for users in EU member states, a Twitter spokesperson said Wednesday.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs said Tuesday the majority of the Ukrainians who returned were menliving in neighboring countries, according to a group of Ukrainian journalists who have organized a fact-checking service on the war.
Bryant said in a speech at U.K.s House of Commons that he was terrified of being sanctioned and that, the danger is that Mr Abramovich will have sold everything by the time we get round to sanctioning him.
Kishida, after a phone call with Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, told reporters that Japan will proceed to accept those who are seeking refuge in a third country in an effort to demonstrate solidarity with the Ukrainian people, according to Reuters.
Think of this number: almost 6,000 Russians died. Russian military. In six days of war, Zelensky noted in his speech. This is without counting the losses of the enemy last night. Six thousand. To get what? Get Ukraine? It is impossible.
The president also asserted that the sanctions in place against Russia thus far contributed to a 30 percent loss in the value of the ruble and to the Russian stock market losing 40 percent value in less than a week.
EA Sports announced it is removing Russian teams from its FIFA and NHL video games, citing decisions that professional sports leagues have taken in response to Moscows invasionof Ukraine.
According to the U.N., the bulk of Ukrainian refugees  453,982  have headed to Poland, with another 116,348 landing in Hungary. Moldova has taken in nearly 80,000 refugees, while nearly 70,000 Ukrainians have reached other European countries.
We continue to advocate for a free and open internet, particularly in times of crisis, the spokesperson said.
French President Emmanuel Macron says he will keep an open line of communication with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Russias economy is reeling and Putin alone is to blame, Biden said in his speech.
Outside of the EU, the platform said it will continue to focus on de-amplifying this type of state-affiliated media.
Russian officials reportedly acknowledged Sunday there had been casualties but this was the countrys first time offering a specific number.
The prime minister said his country is planning to first take in refugees who have friends and family in Japan. He added, however, that the country will not stop there and will respond from a humanitarian viewpoint, according to The Associated Press.
He said Japan will strengthen coordination with the Group of Seven countries and the international community, according to the news service. The promise to take in refugees was first made during the phone call with Morawiecki, Kishida said.
The Ukrainians that returned joined the Armed Forces, territorial defense forces, and other military formations.
Russia told an international watchdog on Wednesday that it controls the territory around Ukraines largest nuclear power plant.
The decision comes as a large number of countries, organizations and businesses are severing ties with Russia over the countrys invasion of Ukraine last week, and with Belarus for its support and cooperation with Moscow.
Think of this number: almost 6,000 Russians died. Russian military. In six days of war, the Ukrainian president said. This is without counting the losses of the enemy last night. Six thousand. To get what? Get Ukraine? It is impossible.
The Biden administration is restricting exports of key technologies to Belarus in response to its support for Russias invasion of Ukraine and leveling new sanctions on Russias defense sector, the White House announced Wednesday.
The region hasseen a rapid uptick in the number fleeing Ukraine, with 50,000 Ukrainians reportedly having left the country as of last Friday.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine AP  In a makeshift maternity ward in the basement of a Ukrainian hospital, new mother Kateryna Suharokova struggled to control her emotions as she held her son while doctors upstairs raced to treat victims of Russian shelling.
Secretary of StateAntony Blinkenis traveling to Europe to consult with NATO allies and other European partners as Russia continues its invasion of Ukraine.
Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich is reportedly in talks to sell English Premier League club Chelsea, amid fear of personal sanctions over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The U.S. has avoided imposing restrictions on Russias energy sector due to European reliance on Russian oil and gas and a fear additional shocks to the oil market could further raise gas prices domestically.
Children, women and defence forces are losing their lives every hour, the emergency service said in a statement, Reuters reported.
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida announced on Wednesday that Japan will accept refugees from Ukraine, as the number of people fleeing the country grows amid Russias invasion.
Nearly 900,000 Ukrainians have fled the country amid the Russian invasion that began last week, according to figures from the United Nations.
The World Bank announced on Wednesday it was ending all programs in Russia and Belarus, citing hostilities against the people of Ukraine.
The airline noted that while it does not operate flights to and from Ukraine or Russia, Russian airspace has been used for flights to Mumbai and Delhi. United said that some of those flights had to be canceled whilethey werererouted, but thatthe airline are still operating their India flights.
The U.K. has currentlysanctioned eight Russianssince the invasion of Ukraine, with theEUfreezing their assets and has since imposed travel bans on several others. Abramovich has not been sanctioned by Britain or the European Union.
Blinken will travel to Belgium, Poland, and Moldova, as well as the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia from March 3 to 8, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said in a statement.
Kharkiv Mayor Ihor Terekhov announced that four people had been killed during airstrikes on Wednesday as Russias invasion of Ukraine entered its seventh day.
Nine other people were injured as a result of the attack, Terekhov added, according to Reuters.
All sweets and you know me, I start off with dessert. No ice cream, nothing, Biden told reporters.
Since the start of the invasion, the Ukrainian government has already raised about $35 million through over 35,000 cryptoasset donations, CNBCreported, citing Elliptic, a blockchain analytics company.
United told The Hill thatits flights were avoidingRussian airspace beginning on Tuesday amid Russias invasion into Ukraine.
Ukraine will now accept donations to its military in the form of dogecoin and other cryptocurrencies as Russia continues to attack the country.
Seven Russian banks will be removed from SWIFT, the international banking network announced on Wednesday.
The city is not experiencing shortages in food and essential goods, the Russian Defense Ministry claimed in a statement regarding Kherson, according to The New York Times. Negotiations are ongoing between the Russian command, the administration of the city and the region to address issues of maintaining the functioning of social infrastructure facilities, ensuring law and order and the safety of the population.
I have worked in refugee crises for almost 40 years, and I have rarely seen such an incredibly fast rising exodus of people, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said Monday, when refugee figures were hovering around 500,000.
I was with the cardinal this morning. He came over and he gave me ashes. We both prayed for that, for the people of Ukraine, Biden told reporters, with ashes noticeably on his forehead.
Ukraines internal affairs ministry says 80,000 Ukrainians who were abroadhave returned to the country to fight against the invading Russians.
Earlier this week, Ukrainian officialsreported a civilian death toll of over 350 people, including at least 14 children.
A Kremlin spokesperson said that the Russian economy was taking serious blows amid sanctions imposed by foreign governments.
Kharkiv is a Russian-speaking city. Every fourth person in Kharkiv has relatives in the Russian Federation, Terekhov reportedly said in a video statement. But the citys attitude to Russia today is completely different to what it ever was before.
The assets he is looking to offload include his a $260 million London property empireand his stake in the Chelsea football club,British Member of Parliament Chris Bryant said, according toThe Associated Press.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy praised the United Nations General Assembly for voting to condemn Russias invasion.
We were all bombed in Kyiv last night. And we all died again in Babyn Yar  from a missile strike, he said.
After Russia invaded Ukraine last week, World Bank President David Malpass condemned the assault, saying the group was horrified by the shocking violence and loss of life as a result of the events unfolding in Ukraine.
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA held an emergency meeting after Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi was told by Russian authoritiesthat the nations forces control access to the Zaporizhzhya power plant, Bloomberg reported.
The country has been accepting cryptocurrency donations since Feb. 26 and started taking contributions in the form of bitcoin, ether and a stablecoin known as tether, CNBC added.
The European Union EU sanctions will legally require us to withhold certain content in EU member states, and we intend to comply, the spokesperson said.
Hundreds of Ukrainian nuclear power plant workers and nearby citizens on Wednesday blocked Russian troop access to a nuclear power plant, attempting to prevent Russian forces from advancing in the area, according to a video shared to social media and verified by CNN.
In this first shipment that will go aboard two planes, we expect to send 1,370 anti-tank grenade launchers, 700,000 rifle and machine-gun rounds, and light machine guns, Defense Minister Margarita Robles told Antena3 television, Reutersreported.
It is alone and in a deliberate manner that, reneging on his previous commitments  President Putin has chosen war, Macron said.Russia is not being aggressed, it is the aggressor.
The U.N. resolutionthat passedearlier Wednesday demands that the Russian Federation immediately, completely, and unconditionally withdraw all of its military forces from the territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders.
That number, however, stands instark contrast to the figures cited by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
In the video, the crowd of people is seen holding up Ukrainian flags and impeding roadway access to a facility in the Ukraine town of Enerhodarby standing in the way of the route and using garbage trucks to block streets, CNN reports.
I was anxious, anxious about giving birth to the baby in these times, the 30-year-old said, her voice trembling. Im thankful to the doctors, who helped this baby to be born in these conditions. I believe that everything will be fine.
