Officials warn diplomatic efforts are shrinking amid Russia tensions
20220213
https://thehill.com/homenews/sunday-talk-shows/594049-us-officials-warn-diplomatic-efforts-are-shrinking-amid-russia
He emphasized that a major military action could begin by Russia and Ukraine any day now, a statement the White House adviser first told reporters on Friday.
The White House said Biden warned Putin of swift and severe costs if Russia launches an incursion against Ukraine during a phone call on Saturday, while also noting that the U.S. remains prepared to engage in diplomacy.
The South Carolina Republican also seized the interview as an opportunity to knock the Biden administration for its handling of matters between Russia and Ukraine.
Intelligence obtained by the U.S. says that Russia is eyeing Wednesday as the target date for an invasion, according to The Associated Press.
National security adviser Jake Sullivan told CBSs Face the Nation that in the previous 10 days or so, the U.S. has observed a dramatic acceleration in the buildup of Russian forces and the disposition of those forces in such a way that they could launch a military action, essentially at any time.
Sen. Lindsey Graham R-S.C. told ABC that if Russia invades the Ukraine, you will destroy the U.S.-Russian relationship for decades.
And on Fox News Sunday, Kirby said good sources of intelligence are telling the U.S. that things are sort of building now to some crescendo opportunity for Mr. Putin.
Sullivan told CNN that the U.S. believes Russia could choose the diplomatic path, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi D-Calif. told This Week on ABC that lets hope that diplomacy works.
The latest alerts from top U.S.officials come as concerns are rising among NATOcountries that Russia is preparing to execute a military incursionto further invade Ukraine, a report that Moscow has denied despite amassing more than 100,000 troops near the border of the two countries.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told Fox News Sunday that the time component for diplomacy between Russia and Ukraine seems to be shrinking, a revelation that he said gives us all cause for concern.
And every president in the near term will be put in a box when it comes to dealing with Russia. So I hope Putin understands that, he added.
Biden had a call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky Sunday in which he reiterated the U.S. would respond swiftly and decisively, together with its Allies and partners, to any further Russian aggression against Ukraine, according to the White House.
Despite the possibility of an invasion becoming more imminent, top U.S. figures are holding out hope for a diplomatic solution.
Graham said the U.S. is talking way too much and were doing too little, while also saying Congress can do more amid the escalating situation. He said Congress needs to pass the sanctions bill that has been under negotiations for roughly three weeks.
Its certainly not a sign that things are moving in the right direction. Its certainly not a sign that Mr. Putin has any intention to de-escalate the tensions. And its certainly not a sign that he is recommitting himself to a diplomatic path forward, Kirby added.
Some U.S. lawmakers are also warning about what a Russian invasion could to do Moscows relationship with Washington.
Asked on Fox News Sunday if the U.S. should be doing more to pull Americans from Ukraine, Sen. Bill Cassidy R-La. said he agrees with Biden 100 percent.
Kirby, however, said Saturdays roughly hourlong call between President Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin, which did not lead to any breakthroughs, did not give us any cause for optimism.
U.S. officials warned on Sunday that while the diplomatic path to easing tensions between Russia and Ukraine remains open, the window of opportunity for negotiations and dialogue is shrinking as Moscow accelerates its military buildup near the Ukrainian border.
During an interview with CNNs State of the Union, Sullivan said Moscows movement in recent days has put troops in a position where they could launch a military action very, very rapidly.
Use some common sense. We should not be endangering our soldiers or Marines, etc., because somebody decides not to evacuate until after the fact. Get out! If theres a pending invasion, use common sense. Leave, he added.
