On The Money  Bidens economic approval falls deeper
20220326
https://thehill.com/policy/finance/overnights/599842-on-the-money-bidens-economic-approval-falls-deeper
Nearly two-thirds of Americans disapprove of President Bidens handling of the economy, according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.
Overall, 65 percent of those surveyed said they disapprove of Bidens handling of the economy, which includes 96 percent of Republican respondents and 36 percent of Democratic ones.
Respondents were also more likely than not to say that they think Bidens policies have hurt the economy more than they have helped it.
Thats it for today. Thanks for reading and check out The HillsFinance pagefor the latest news and coverage. Well see you Monday.
Despite the numbers on Bidens handling of the economy, less than half of respondents said they blamed the president for high gas prices. The Hills Maureen Breslinhas more here.
The company previously announced that it would end its premium services in the country and close its Russian office.
Todays Big Deal: Americans are not happy with President Bidens handling of the economy, according to a new poll. Well also look at a deal to ease Europes dependence on Russian energy and more trouble for car manufacturing.
Renewed chip shortages are a bad sign for the auto industry and consumers who have been hammered by skyrocketing car and truck prices, as the nations supply of vehicles is still not close to pre-pandemic levels.
A computer chip shortage is forcing General Motors to pause production for two weeks at a pickup truck factory in Fort Wayne, Ind.
Leaders in the United States and Europeannounced Fridaythat they have reached an agreement in principle over rules for the transfer of personal data across the Atlantic.
The previous agreement had been struck down in 2020 by a European court that determined it did not protect Europeans from American surveillance operations.
The goal is to prepare European countries for next winter and beyond so that they can maintain a steady flow of energy without relying heavily on natural gas provided by Russia, which has given Moscow significant leverage and has been a key sector of Russias economy.
Overall, we have seen better consistency in semiconductor supply through the first quarter compared to last year as a whole. This has translated into improvement in our production and deliveries during the first three months of the year, General Motors said in a statement.
The company, which hosts political and social commentary podcasts on its streaming platform, told The Hill it expects services to be fully suspended by early April.
The two sides announced a task force to reduce Europes dependence on Russian fossil fuels and strengthen European energy security following a meeting in Brussels between President Biden and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
Happy Friday and welcome to On The Money, your nightly guide to everything affecting your bills, bank account and bottom line.Subscribe hereand view the full edition here.
Spotify announced on Friday that it would fully suspend services in Russia because of the countrys new, restrictive law limiting journalism coverage.
The United States and European Commission on Friday announced measures to wean European nations off of Russian gas, the latest effort to deal a blow to Russias economy amid its invasion of Ukraine.
Fridays decision amounts to a full suspension of services in the country, which the spokesperson called a difficult decision to make.
The plant, which employs 4,000 workers, will be shut down from April 4-11, marking the first time since August 2021 that full-size truck production was paused in connection with the chip shortage.
In a statement, a Spotify spokesperson cited Russias new law passed earlier this month, which prohibits news agencies and people from publishing fake news about the invasion of Ukraine.
However, there is still uncertainty and unpredictability in the semiconductor supply base, and we are actively working with our suppliers to mitigate potential issues moving forward.
