Pence says we need to continue to arm Ukraine sanction every financial institution in Russia until Russia withdraws
20220224
https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/595604-pence-says-we-need-to-continue-to-arm-ukraine-sanction-every
Pence expressed concerns that Russian President Vladimir Putin would be moving his invasion across Ukraine with ambitions that I think go well beyond the so-called separatists areas, that it likely wont stop there.
No. 1, we need to continue to arm Ukraine. Theyre not a NATO ally. We dont have a mutual defense obligation, but we ought to be shipping more and more armaments, anti-tank missiles, Pence told Fox News host Sean Hannity.
Pence also described Bidens sanctions against Russia  which now include Russian elites and their relatives, sovereign debt, two Russian financial institutions, and Nord Stream 2 AG and its corporate officers and CEO  as weak.
The Ukrainian people want peace, Zelensky said.The government in Ukraine wants peace and is doing everything it can to build it.
Pences comments come as Putin gave an address in the early morning on Thursdayannouncing military operations in eastern Ukraine, NBC News reported.
The development came just hours after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made an emotional appeal for peace.
Neighbors always enrich each other culturally, the Ukrainian president said. However, that doesnt make them a single whole. It doesnt dissolve us into you. We are different, but that is not a reason to be enemies. We want to determine, build our future ourselves, peacefully, calmly and honestly.
This initial round of sanctions, weak as it is, is not enough to stop Putins ambitions to redraw territorial lines in Europe by force. What we ought to do is we ought to sanction every financial institution in Russia until the Russian military fully withdraws from Ukraine, Pence said.
Former Vice President Pence said in an interview aired on Wednesday that officials needed to continue to arm Ukraine and sanction every financial institution in Russia until Russian forces leave Ukraine.
