Pentagon puts 8500 troops on higher alert over RussiaUkraine tensions
20220124
https://thehill.com/policy/defense/591082-pentagon-puts-8500-troops-on-higher-alert-over-russia-ukraine-tensions
In addition, the European Union has vowed to speed up a financial package for Ukraine worth $1.4 billion.
The United States will act firmly in defense of its national interests in response to actions by Russia that harm us, our allies, or partners, press secretary John Kirby told reporters Monday.
In light of that and at the direction of President Biden, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has placed a range of units in the United States on a heightened preparedness to deploy, which increases our readiness to provide forces if NATO should activate the NATO Response Force or if other situations develop.
Kirby stressed that there has been no decision made to deploy and theres no intent to send troops to Ukraine. He said the heightened alert was about getting troops ready and reassuring NATO allies.
The Pentagon is readying up to 8,500 U.S. troops to potentially deploy to Eastern Europe as Russia ratchets up its aggression towards Ukraine.
The Pentagons prepare to deploy orders follow warnings from Western officials that a Russian invasion of Ukraine could be imminent as the Kremlin has amassed some 100,000 troops near its border with Ukraine.
All told, the number of forces that the secretary has placed on heightened alert comes up to about 8,500 personnel, Kirby said.
Moscow has also placed an unidentified number of its forces in Belarus under the claim of war games.
Biden has already threatened high economic costs on Russia if troops cross the border and said that an invasion of Ukraine could result in troops being sent to bolster NATOs defenses.
Austin also wants to be postured to be ready for any other contingencies as well, he added.
Were going to be ready, were going to be prepared to help bolster our allies with capabilities they might need, Kirby said. Were going to do this in lockstep with them  This is really about reassuring the Eastern flank of NATO.
Washington earlier this month sent two weapons shipments to Ukraine as part of a lethal aid package approved in December, and NATO countries are also sending ships, fighter jets and weapons to locations in Eastern Europe.
The commander-in-chief was set to meet virtually with European leaders on Monday afternoon to discuss the situation, which has grown more dire in recent days and prompted the State Department to reduced staffing at the U.S. embassy in Kyiv.
The Defense Department on Monday was still notifying military units it would send to Eastern Europe, but they would include additional brigade combat teams, logistics, medical, aviation, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, transportation and additional capabilities in the event of NATOs activation of the NRF or a deteriorating security environment, Kirby said.
To add to the sense of urgency, Austins order would also speed up military units deployment preparation. In some cases, units time to prepare to move would go from 10 days down to five days
Russia, meanwhile, has repeatedly denied it is planning an invasion and has accused the West of ratcheting up tensions.
He noted that the vast majority U.S. troops placed on alert would help the NATO Response Force NRF, a multinational force comprised of around 40,000 land, air, maritime and special operations forces the alliance can deploy on short notice as needed.
