Putins environmental crimes
20220328
https://thehill.com/opinion/energy-environment/600041-putins-environmental-crimes
Russias invasion has violated dozens ofUkrainian laws, including many criminal provisions, along withtreatiesand global norms. The violations of dozens of global treatiesinclude:
Iryna Stavchuk, Ukraines Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, agrees,telling the worlds leaderslast weekthat Russias war is a clear violation of international law, human rights, environmental and nuclear security, and global peace, which could lead to a global environmental catastrophe.
Russia is targeting Ukrainian energy facilities. Once again the dark legacy of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster weighs heavily on Ukrainians  which included tens of thousands of cancer cases,along withwidespread environmental damage during the decades of Russias control of Ukraine. Now, Ukrainians are witnessingunparalleledenvironmental destructionand theundoing of 18 years of progress.
Politicalleaders showed uppromisingthe end to corruption and a reversal of the look-the-other-waypolicies toward the environment that had created a country-wide landscape of contamination and pollution. Although the Chernobyl meltdown became a global parable about environmental woes and the perils of nuclear energy generally, most peoplebelieveda green revolution like thoseinthe U.S. and across Europe was in their near future.
Now, just as Ukraines environmental movement hasmatured, with many organizations approximating the influence of those in the West, the unthinkable happened.First aninvasion,and then Russian troops stormedthenuclear power plant in the city of Zaporizhzhia and took over the Chernobyl facility, including 22,000 spent reactor fuel assemblies and significant plutonium-239. The results could have been catastrophic and may still be.
These crimes and treaty violations will once again result in tragedy for the living and future generations in Ukraine.Theglobal financial costs ofthis willful wanton destruction will be huge, costly billions of dollars in additional costs,reducing the economic and health recovery for Ukrainians.Looking back on Earth Day 2005, when the legacy of environmental assault suddenly could be vanquished,replaced by the jubilance of a country celebrating a new orange and green era that included political freedom, accountability, and environmental progress thosememories, that promise, and decades of progress are on the minds of everyone who cares about Ukraine, its people and the planet.
It certainly felt like that dark legacy was in the rearview mirror on Earth Day 2005, justthree months after Ukraines Orange Revolution,when150,000 people, including 10,000 Chernobyl victims and their families, entered a plaza near Kievs Independence Square in a snowstorm.Independence Square was one of the main protest sites that Ukrainians occupied to protestthefraudulent electionof a corrupt billionaire ViktorYanukovych. Those protests and a Ukrainian Supreme Court decision led to new elections. In 2005, many believed that Ukraine was finally and wethoughtforever free. Of course, it took another 10 years for a second revolution The Revolution of Dignity tofinally send the now Russian-controlledYanukovychpacking into Russian exile andtosolidify some democratic gains.Those gains cameat a great price,and Russian war crimes and hostilities  fromtheCrimea takeover to the Donbas War  have led Ukraine to where we are today.
But on that Earth Day in 2005, thoughts were not about the distant future, but rather on what the environmental community could accomplish to createagreen future and to replace the Chernobyl legacy. The country was awash in optimism. The day was self-styled as the Green Revolution meets the Orange Revolution, and stores across Ukraine were decorated with green and orange flags. Not unlike the first Earth Day, which catapulted from the antiwar and civil rights activism, the Green Revolution, harnessed the energy of the countrys democracy and political movements, and across Ukraine  in schools, universities,cities and towns mpeople joinedinthepeaceful, hopeful, environmental events.
Other targets include power supplies for farms, creating biohazards for towns and warehouses containing hazardous materials.Intentional bombing of water supplies, sewage systems and other facilities have devastated local populations. Russian troops attacked major seaports sinking ships and fuel storage facilities, creating widespread contamination. Over a dozen globally important Ramsar wetlands, forests, protected areas, homes to endangered and threatened species have suffered graveimpacts.Forest fires are now closing in on Chernobyl, once again raising fears.Close to two decades of progress has been wiped out in a few weeks.
As the invasion continues, environmental crimes grow with damages that are extraordinary and purposeful. Russian missiles, targeting industrial facilities, have hit major fuel facilities spreading toxic pollutants, ash and slag in populated areas.The Russians targeted the Kyiv Reservoir and hydropower plant which would have flooded parts of Kyivhadit not been shot down.
In the wake of thousands of deaths of civilians, includingchildren, Russias ongoing environmental crimes in Ukraine may be viewed of minor importancegiven the enormity of war crimes perpetrated against Ukraine and its people.
The event empowered Ukrainian advocacy organizations, including environmental groups and Chernobyl survivors to express their concerns about environmental issues andreacha broad range of their fellow citizens.The event also launched a campaign aimed at passing legislation to deal with the countrysmostserious environmental issues. Since then, Ukraine has made additional progress to reverse decades of pollution and contamination.
