Putin doesnt fear NATO or Ukraine  he fears democracy
20220210
https://thehill.com/opinion/international/593627-putin-doesnt-fear-nato-or-ukraine-he-fears-democracy
Why does he fear democracy so much? Sure, Putin is a Cold War enthusiast, but his main priority is not to restore the eminence of old U.S.S.R. in Eastern Europe. Its to boost his own prospect for self-preservation. To Putin, this means consolidating all political powers in Russia inside his office and carefully guarding against the appeal of democratic challengers to his forever presidency.Last year, Putin amended the Russian constitution so he can remain President until at least 2036. This will make him Kremlins longest serving leader since Peter the Great, even longer than Stalin.
To understand why Putinsthreat to invade Ukraine  or any other independent state in Europe  matters, consider why he might do it.Putin wants you to believe its because NATO expansion to Ukraine threatens the Russian people and Russias security. He doesnt genuinely believe this. Its propaganda.
NATO has never posed a real threat to Putins supremacy inside Russia.But a well-functioning democracy on Russias border, which could inspire new democratic movements within Russia, would. And this threat could be especially dangerous for Putin if it re-focused Russians inward, at their own lamentable economy, instead of on Putins outward bluster that NATO is the greatest threat to their well-being.
The U.S. cheered Ukraine during three defining events in its democracy: first, when it held a referendum in 1991 and 90 percent of its population voted in favor of independence second, during the Orange Revolution in the winter of 2004, when people took to the streets of Kyiv to protest an election clearly rigged to benefit the Kremlin-backed candidate the pro-Western candidate survived an attempted assassination by poison, and third, when a groundswell of democratic protests in 2013 forced former President Viktor Yanukovych from power after his decision to back out of a popular trade agreement with the EU in fealty to Moscow. All three were clear rejections of Russia, in favor of democracy.
In 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait without any legal basis for doing so, the U.S. organized a coalition and mobilized in Kuwaits defense, with U.N. authorization. This sent a message to aggressors around the world that if they invade their neighbors, they could be destroyed.
Media have noted Tucker Carlsons growing influence in Republican circles on this question. Two years ago, he previewed his stance when I debated him on his show. He argued that NATO members Estonia and Latvia, are, like Ukraine, not worth defending if invaded by Russia. I countered, as I explain in more detail here, that its in Americas vital interest to support these sovereign nations  precisely because Putin is targeting them for their decision to turn away from the governance model on offer from Russia.
What Russia is posing to do now, after 30 years of Ukrainian independence, is a clear violation of international law. The lack of a response could usher the collapse of a rules-based order which the U.S. has nurtured since the end of WWII. The U.N. is already absent on the issue of Ukraines sovereignty because of Russias veto.
Putin fears an independent Ukraine with strong ties to the West for the same reason he sent troops to Kazakhstan last month to put down peaceful protests, poisoned and imprisoned Alexei Navalny, his political opponent in Russia, and directed Russian spy services to interfere in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Theres one common thread running through each of these endeavors  and nearly every other foreign policy initiative now championed by Putin: He wants to undermine democracy, wherever it is, or can take root, especially in countries on Russias border that hes worried he cant control.
As the world waits to learn if Putin will order a full-scale military offensive in Ukraine, Washington seems to be stumbling over a simple question: How much does Russian aggression in Europe matter to U.S. interests? One view is that Ukraines status is more important to Russia than to us, especially because Ukraine is not a part of NATO. Others go further, questioning whether even NATO members, guaranteed protection by Article 5, are worth defending.
It would also signal to other nationalist regimes with extraterritorial aspirations  including China, Iran, and Turkey  that they too could orchestrate cross-border offensives to stamp out democratic tendencies in their region without repercussion.
If Putin successfully invades Ukraine without serious consequences, it would send the opposite message  and might lead Putin to believe he can do it again, including to one of those NATO democracies in Eastern Europe that Tucker Carlson believes arent worth defending.
NATO is a defensive alliance. No member of NATO, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, has conveyed a credible threat to peoples or places inside Russias current borders. In fact, NATO sought a constructive relationship with Russia after the dissolution of the U.S.S.R., until Putin steered the country onto its present course. Putin is a careful study and knows that NATO isnt interested in gobbling up Russian territory or subjugating Russian people. Similarly, a sovereign and independent Ukraine presents no actual threat to Russian lands.
David Tafuri served as the U.S. Department of States Rule of Law Coordinator for Iraq at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad during the height of the war in Iraq.He also was an outside foreign policy adviser to President Obamas 2008 campaign. He currently is an international lawyerat Arent Fox in Washington, D.C. Follow him on TwitterDavidTafuri.
Because the true source of Putins ire is the adoption of more democratic institutions by sovereign states in Russias neighborhood, Putin is actually challenging not a particular nation or alliance, but the spread of democracy and rule of law.
When the sovereignty of nations striving for more stable democracies is threatened, U.S. commitment to democracy in general is at stake.
