Putin looking for guarantees NATO wont expand westward
20211201
https://thehill.com/policy/international/russia/583828-putin-looking-for-guarantees-nato-wont-expand-westward
While Western authorities and Ukraine have raised concerns about Russian military buildup along its border, Russian diplomats say they worry about Ukraines own buildup of troops in the eastern part of the country.
Specifically, Putin said at a Kremlin ceremony that his country wanted reliable and long-term security guarantees, according to The Associated Press.
Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has saidthere would be significant sanctions on Moscow should Putin order an attack,like it did in 2014 before annexing the Crimean Peninsula.
Blinken said the U.S. would respond resolutely should Moscow attack, including with a range of high-impact economic measures that we have refrained from using in the past.
We are prepared to impose severe costs for further Russian aggression in Ukraine, he added ahead of his Thursday meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba.
At a news conference on Wednesday following a meeting of NATOs foreign ministers in Latvia, Blinken warned that Russia has stepped up planning for potential military action in Ukraine, including positioning tens of thousands of additional combat forces near the Ukrainian border.
We dont know whether President Putin has made the decision to invade, he added. We do know that he is putting in place the capacity to do so on short order should he so decide.
In a dialogue with the United States and its allies, we will insist on working out specific agreements that would exclude any further NATO moves eastward and the deployment of weapons systems that threaten us in close vicinity to Russian territory, Putin said, noting that Moscow wanted more than just verbal assurances but legal guarantees, the AP reported.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that heis seeking guarantees that NATO would not expand near his countrys borders amid concerns that Russia might invade Ukraine.
