Russia denies accusations of false flag operation cyber attacks on Ukraine
20220219
https://thehill.com/policy/international/russia/595026-russia-denies-accusations-of-false-flag-operation-blame-for-cyber
Russiahas nothing to do with the events mentioned and, in principle, has never carried out and does not conduct malicious operations in the virtual space, the embassy wrote.
We paid attention to the frankly anti-Russian statements of the Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security E.Neiberger, who accused intelligence agencies of cyber attacks on  systems of the Ministry of Defense and a number of commercial banks, the Russian Embassy in the U.S. said in a statement on Twitter.
In addition, the State Department said Friday that an explosion that occurred inDonetsk and an evacuation of civilians in the area was an example of a false-flag operation that the Russian government could use as a pretext to justify an invasion in Ukraine.
Russian ambassador to Washington Anatoly Antonov on Friday also accused the U.S. ofdisseminating false information in a post to Facebook.
Allegations of Russias responsibility for the escalation cannot be regarded as anything other than an attempt to exert pressure and devalue Russian proposals on security guarantees, he said. The authors of these statements should better visit Ukraines contested eastern territories in person and learn about the tragic consequences of the military assistance provided to Ukraine by the United States and its allies.
Russia deniedit was responsible for cyber attacks on Ukrainian banks and the countrys Ministry of Defense and accusations that it is looking for a pretext to invade Ukraine.
The news comes amid allegations by the U.S. thatRussia was responsible for cyberattacks on Ukraines government and banks over the past week.President Bidens deputy national security adviser for cyber and emerging technologies,Anne Neuberger, said that wide-scale attacks were mitigated byUkrainian cyber efforts.
U.S. officials have countered that argument saying that Russia has used cyberattacks to further destabilize society in Ukraine,according toThe Washington Post.
