Russia moving additional troops into Donbas region Latvian prime minister says
20220223
https://thehill.com/policy/defense/595522-russia-moving-additional-troops-into-donbas-region-latvian-prime-minister-says
Intelligence from both NATO allies and the U.S. has indicated that an attack is imminent, though a NATO official warned that no one knows for sure exactly what Putins plans look like, CNN added.
Latvias prime minister on Wednesday said Russian troops had moved into the eastern region of Ukraine.
The official added that Putin has a full range of capabilities already moved to the Ukrainian border, including significant offensive missile capability, two dozen warships in the Black Sea and armor, artillery, certainly infantry.
He is setting up a rationale to take more territory by force, in my view, Biden said of Putin on Tuesday. This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
When asked if the additional troops to which he was referring had entered Ukraine since Russian President Vladimir Putin announced he was recognizing as independent two regions in eastern Ukraine,Kari confirmed that it seemed to be the case.
According to the information at my disposal, Putin is moving additional forces and tanks into the occupied Donbas territories, Latvian Prime Minister Arturs Krijnis Kari told CNN. By any definition thats a crossing of a sovereign territory into a neighboring country.
Yes, according to the information at my disposal, this is exactly what were seeing, he said to the outlet.
On Wednesday, a senior defense official told reporters at the Pentagon that Russian forces assembled along the border were in what we would consider forward positions, ready to go and added that the forces along the border were near 100 percent of all forces expected to be deployed.
Two other sources familiar with U.S. intelligence told CNN the troops Putin deployed for what he claimed was a peacekeeping mission had arrived in the Donbas region. A senior U.S. official added Moscow had one or two battalion tactical groups, which are each made up of roughly 800 troops.
Though the U.S., the United Kingdom, the European Union, Canada and other countries have all imposed sanctions against Russia, President Biden has said the U.S. would stand prepared to go further as with sanctions in the event of further aggression.
