Russian military threatens Ukraine nuclear power plant
20220227
https://thehill.com/policy/international/595999-russian-military-activity-increases-against-ukraine-nuclear-power-plants
An attack on Ukraines nuclear fleet, one of the worlds largest, could potentially have disastrous consequences.
Russias military presence has increased near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which resides in a town in the Zaporizhzhia region, Ukraines ministry of internal affairs has reported.
However, Ukraine gave up its nuclear arsenal after signing a treaty with Russia and the United States. In exchange for relinquishing its nuclear arsenal, security assurances were given by the U.S., U.K. and Russia that Ukraine would not be attacked.
The nuclear fleet includes four power plants and 15 reactors and provides about half of the countrys power.
Ukraine has reached out to the international community about thedanger while the ministry of internal affairs says the Ukrainian military is heading to the region to defend the plant.
Chernobyl is known as the site of the worst nuclear incident in history. In1986, several explosions occurred in the reactor, the core of which experienced a meltdown, and radioactive material was released into the atmosphere. Dozens died and thousands were evacuated from the area.
Russian forces have aimed one of their deadliest weapons, a multiple rocket launcher called Grad, at the nuclear power plant, according to the ministry.
The armed forces, national guard and civilian militia will do anything to prevent a catastrophe, we are ready to destroy the enemy. But we have to be ready for anything, said Vadim Denisenko, advisor to the minister of internal affairs.
Russian forces previously took control of the Chernobyl nuclear site on Thursday, less than 24 hours after the invasion of Ukraine began.
After Ukraine gained its independence following the fall of the Soviet Union, it inherited one of the biggest nuclear arsenals in the world.
The destruction of the reservoir could create a cascade effect that could destroy other dams and even damage the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, the ministry of infrastructure said in a statement.
On Saturday, theUkrainian ministry of infrastructure said Ukrainian forces had intercepted a Russian missileheadedforthe Kyiv Reservoir.
