Russia announces nuclear forces drills amid rising tensions with Ukraine
20220218
https://thehill.com/policy/international/russia/594871-russia-announces-nuclear-forces-drills-amid-rising-tensions-with
Secretary of State Antony Blinkenon Thursday detailed possible false flag operations Russia could use in order to justify invading Ukraine.
Violenceerupted in Ukraine this week as Russian-backed separatists began a shelling operation on the village ofStanytsa Lugansk in the Luhansk region, reportedly hitting a school building.
Biden will participate in a call with NATO leaders on Friday as NATO allies have bolstered their military presence, saying it is to deter Russian action.
Earlier this week, Russia claimed they were scaling back their military presence on the border, an announcement that has been deemed false by Western countries. U.S. officials told The Washington Post it was a deliberate ruse to mislead the world.
The drills will be used to display Russias nuclear arsenal, one of the biggest in the world, to other countries, The Associated Press reported.
We are aware that Russia is intent on creating a pretext to justify an invasion into Ukraine, Carpenter said. Therefore, we must resolutely rebutthefalse narrative about a Ukrainian escalation, which finds no evidence whatsoever in the reports of theOSCEsSpecial Monitoring Mission.
NATO allies have threatened harsh sanctions against Russia if it were to attack Ukraine, but the U.S. hasmaintained it will not send troops into Ukraine to fight.
Oksana Markarova, Ukraines ambassador to the U.S., called the act a brutal violation of the cease-fire agreement.
The announcement of the drills comes as the U.S. envoy to the Organization for Security and Co-operation OSCE in Europe said Russia has between 169,000 and 190,000 troops atUkraines border. On Jan. 30,that number was at 100,000 troops.
Colleagues, this isthe most significant military mobilizationin Europesince the Second World War, Ambassador Michael Carpenter stated.
Russia has announced nuclear forces drills for this weekend amid rising tensions with Ukraine and Western warnings of an invasion of the former Soviet state.
Multiple U.S. officials, including President Biden, have warned of a very high chance that Russia could invade Ukraine.
