Trump on Putin plan to recognize breakaway Ukraine regions This is genius
20220222
https://thehill.com/policy/international/595373-trump-on-putin-plan-to-recognize-breakaway-ukraine-regions-this-is
Russia has become very very rich during the Biden Administration, with oil prices doubling and soon to be tripling and quadrupling, he said. The weak sanctions are insignificant relative to taking over a country and a massive piece of strategically located land.
I went in yesterday, and there was a television screen, and I said, This is genius,' he said. Putin declares a big portion of the Ukraine  of Ukraine  Putin declares it as independent. Oh, thats wonderful.
In his interview, Trump repeated his false claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him and said if he had remained president, Putin would never have attempted something like this.
In an interview on The Clay Travis and Buck Sexton Show,Trump said Russian President Vladimir Putins recognition of the Donetsk and Luhansk peoples republics in eastern Ukraine on Monday was smart and pretty savvy.
FormerPresident Trump on Tuesday called Russias recognition of two breakaway territories in eastern Ukraine a genius move ahead of its military invasion.
Following his recognition of the two Donbas areas, which are controlled by Russian-backed separatists, Putin moved in troops, which ledto international condemnation.
The former president, who has been teasing a 2024 presidential run, also released a statementon Tuesday arguing that there was absolutely no reason that the situation currently happening in Ukraine should have happened at all.
I said, How smart is that? Hes going to go in and be a peacekeeper, added Trump, who regularly praised and sought close ties with Putin during his time in office. Thats the strongest peace force. We could use that on our southern border. Thats the strongest peace force Ive ever seen. There were more army tanks than Ive ever seen. Theyre going to keep peace, all right.
President Biden called the troop movement the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine and slapped Moscow with multiple sanctions on Tuesday.
It never would have happened with us. Had I been in office, not even thinkable, Trump said. You know what the response was from Biden? He didnt have a response.
If Russia goes further with this invasion, we stand prepared to go further as with sanctions, Biden said.
