Ukrainian fighter pilot Russians have a lot of losses
20220322
https://thehill.com/policy/international/599197-ukrainian-fighter-pilot-russians-have-a-lot-of-losses
Russia has more control over the skies than Ukraine because of limited air defenses but they have yet to dominate the airspace, the pilot added.
Russia has sustained heavy losses in the war and has still not gained complete control over the airspace in Ukraine, a Ukrainian fighter jet pilot told CNN on Monday.
Russian forces have bombarded Mariupol and Kharkiv  two sizable cities in Ukraine  but have failed to win any strategic points, and thousands of Russian troops are said to have been killed in the offensive.
While the U.S. and NATO havegiven financial and military aid to Ukraine, the military alliance has thus far declined to impose a no-fly zone in the country, citing fears it could spark a larger conflict between the West and Russia.
Juice said that, as a fighter pilot, hes given information about targets from command and then flies out to intercept and attack. Hes committed to defending his nation.
Juice told Cooper that about 90 percent of the damage to Ukrainian communities is conducted by aircraft or missile strikes.
Its just my job, I was trained for this, he told CNN. I was ready for this war.
Ukraine is successfully fighting off the invaders but has endured heavy attacks on multiple fronts. Fighting has broken out in the nations capital of Kyiv, a strategically significant area in the country.
The pilot, referred to only by his nickname, Juice, told anchor Anderson Cooper that Russians have a lot of losses nearly a month into the campaign.
As fighting drags on, Russia has resorted to deploying high-precision weapons, including hypersonic missiles,to attack Ukrainian facilities and vehicles.
Officials have predicted that Russias war in Ukraine is nearing a stalematebecause neither side can gain an edge over the other.
They have a fear of our air defenses, Juice said. They couldnt gain air superiority in our skies.
