Ukraine minister decries Russian war crimes on schools orphanages
20220225
https://thehill.com/policy/international/russia/595900-ukraine-minister-decries-russian-war-crimes-on-schools-orphanages
Consider this: Putin has launched a massive war of aggression in Europe during a still raging pandemic. On top of that, Russians bomb Ukrainian hospitals now, hewroteina tweet.
In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine early Thursday, theEuropean Union hascondemned Russias actions andannounced wide-ranging sanctions against the Kremlin, including sanctions targetingRussian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov directly.
The comment comes after Kuleba on Thursday condemned the reported Russian shelling of a hospital amid the ongoing invasion.
This is beyond evil. The only moral choice any government can make now is to support Ukraine by all means, Kuleba added.
Together with the Office of the Attorney General, we are collecting these and other materials, which we will immediately transfer to The Hague, Kuleba said.
Kuleba asked other world powers to immediately implement devastating sanctions against Russia, as well asto fully isolate Russia by all means, in all formats.
The Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs tweeted Fridayto decry reported Russian attacks on kindergartens and orphanages as war crimes.
In other posts on Twitter on Thursday, Kuleba called for the international community to respond to the Russian invasion.
The White House confirmed Friday that the U.S. will also impose sanctions against Putin and other top Russian officials.
Dmytro Kuleba said that the Russian attacks are violations of the International Criminal Courts Rome Statute and that Ukraine will take international action against Russia for its military actions.
The world must act immediately, he posted on Twitter at the time. Future of Europe  the world is at stake.
Kuleba added requests for the international community to provide Ukraine with weapons, equipment, financial assistance and humanitarian assistance.
