UN refugee chief Exodus from Ukraine fastestgrowing since WWII
20220306
https://thehill.com/policy/international/europe/597040-un-refugee-chief-exodus-from-ukraine-fastest-growing-since-wwii
In just seven days we have witnessed the exodus of one million refugees from Ukraine to neighboring countries, Grandi said last week. For many millions more, inside Ukraine, its time for guns to fall silent, so that life-saving humanitarian assistance can be provided.
Masses of Ukrainian residents left the country after Russian forcesinvaded the country, with U.S. intelligence agencies assessing that anywhere from 1 million to 5 million Ukrainians could be displaced.
More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have crossed into neighboring countries in 10 days,Grandi wrote on Twitter. The fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
Last week, the U.N. estimated that about 1 million Ukrainians had left the country since the start of the invasion, whichaccounted for2 percent ofthe countrys population.
The U.S. hassent Ukraine over$1 billion to helpthe nationsmilitary over the past year, and hassaid there will be more aid to come.
The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Filippo Grandi, said on Sunday that over 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have fled tonearby countries, adding that this is the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
Nearby countries, including Romania, Hungary and Poland, have agreed to acceptrefugees, though some countries may not have the capacity to take in the amounts set.
These are small countries bordering Ukraine, so even if theyre willing to host Ukrainians, they dont necessarily have the capacity, and so well need to see much more technical and financial support coming from other EU European Union countries and I would argue also the U.S, Daphne Panayotatos, advocate for Europe at Refugees International, told The Hill.
In the coming days millions more lives will be uprooted, unless there is an immediate end to this senseless conflict, the UN Refugee Agency added in a separate tweet.
