US defense official Russians meeting more resistance than they expected
20220225
https://thehill.com/policy/defense/595846-defense-official-russians-meeting-more-resistance-than-they-expected
The general assumption is they are going to move towards the northeast, towards Mariupol and the Donbas region, they said.
I cant give you an exact geographic location of where they are, but they are not moving on Kyiv as fast as what we believe they anticipated they would be able to do, the official told reporters.
Russia is continuing to advance into three major areas of Ukrainesince beginning an assault on the country early Thursday morning local time. Russian troops are advancing toward Kyiv from Belarus into the area around Kharkiv, Ukraines second largest city and from Crimea in the south toward Kherson, which sits on a major river, the official said.
The official said Russian troops havent taken any population centers and Russia does not have air superiority over Ukraine, as Ukrainian air defenses are still working and the country still has air and missile defenses.
TheU.S. assessed Russian forces have fired more than 200 missiles into Ukrainesince the start of theinvasion.
Russian forces moving toward Ukraines capital city of Kyiv are meeting more resistance than they expected, a senior defense official said Friday.
Russian forces moving toward Kherson have also appeared to split off to head to the northeast in the direction of Mariupol and the Donbas region, the official added.
The official also confirmed that there is a Russian amphibious assault underway to the west ofMariupol along the Ukrainian coast. The assault is coming from the Sea of Azov, with indications that the Russians are putting potentially thousands of naval infantry ashore there.
Most of the projectiles fired are short-range ballistic missiles but include a mix of medium-range and cruise missiles as well, the official said.
Some of these missiles we have assessed have impacted civilian residential areas, but the death toll is unknown, they said.
Of the total Russian forces amassed near Ukraine ahead of the invasion, Moscow has used about a third of their combat power as of Friday, the official said.
I cannot tell you at this time what the casualties are, and I cannot tell you at this time whether those civilian residential areas were deliberately targeted. All I can tell you is we have seen that they have been impacted by some of these missiles.
That does not mean that they will not commit more, Im just giving you a snapshot of what were seeing right now, they added.
In general, the Russians have lost a little bit of their momentum, the official later added.
