US says Russia lying about chemical plot to set up attack
20220311
https://thehill.com/policy/international/russia/597899-us-says-russia-lying-about-chemical-plot-to-set-up-attack
Ukraine does not have a biological weapons program. There are no Ukrainian biological weapons laboratories supported by the United States not near Russias border or anywhere, she said.
She added that the U.N. security council meeting revealed Russias objectives to the world, and exposed Russias lies, which she called a malicious effort to cover for the atrocities being committed by Russia as part of their illegal and unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
Greenfield also backed previous statements by U.S.officials warning ofRussias potential use of biological weapons in Ukraine and said, the intent behind these lies seems clear, and it is deeply troubling.
The former assistant secretaryof Statefor African Affairs said that China has also been spreading disinformation in support of Russias outrageous claims.
The U.S. ambassador to the United NationsLinda Thomas-Greenfield accused Russia callingFridays U.N. Security Council hearing to spreadliesand disinformation about Ukraine and chemical weapons.
Multiple administration officials on Wednesday pushed back againstRussian allegations that the United States was developing bioweapons in Ukraine as false and laughable.
Im not going to speak about the intelligence but Russia would pay a severe price if they use chemical weapons, Biden said.
According to Greenfield, Russia has a track record of falsely accusing other countries of the very violations that Russia itself is perpetrating.
The ambassadorexcoriated the pretext for the security council hearing and added, Russia is attempting to use the Security Council to legitimize disinformation and deceive people to justify President Putins war of choice against the Ukrainian people.
Greenfield told the international body that the U.S.believes Russia could use chemical or biological agents for assassinations as part of a false flag incident or to support tactical military operations.
Her remarks came shortly after the Russian permanent representative to the U.N., Vasily Nebenzya, alleged that there was a biological weapons plot byUkraine and the U.S to use migratory birds and bats to spread pathogens, The Guardian reported.
And we are deeply concerned that Russias calling for this meeting is a potential false flag effort in action exactly the kind we have been warning about, including from Secretary Blinken here in the security council last month, she said.
President Bidenon Friday warned that Russia would pay a severe price if it launched a chemical weapons attack during its invasionof Ukraine.
She added that the U.N. is not aware of any biological or chemical weapons programs in Ukraine.
The U.S. has serious concerns that Russia may be planning to use chemical or biological agents against the Ukrainian people.
