Zelensky emerges as global hero in Ukraine battle against Russia
20220227
https://thehill.com/policy/international/596036-zelenskyy-emerges-as-global-hero-in-ukraine-battle-against-russia
Zelensky has done so at great personal risk, as U.S. officials have made it clear they believe Russian President Vladimir Putin wishes to knock out Ukraines leaders with lethal military strikes. Zelenskys family has also remained in Ukraine.
Volodymyr Zelensky takes to the streets to rally Ukrainians against Russian aggression https:t.copvuZJKkZDI via YouTube
The world is standing up, frankly, in ways I havent seen since 911, he said.
I am here. We will not lay down any weapons. We will defend our state, because our weapons are our truth, he said in one clip filmed outside his office in Kyiv.
By sticking in Ukraine, he has become a leader for all Ukrainians to rally around as civilians take up arms to slow the Russian advance. And the risk to his own life is something that has resonated. Zelensky has said that Russia has marked him as its top target, believing that by killing the leader, support for the resistance would disappear. He pointedly noted that his family was Russian target No. 2.
Zelensky was previously perhaps best known in the United States for the role he played in the controversy surrounding former President Trumps first impeachment. Zelensky was pressured byTrump and his allies to investigate then-candidateJoe Biden and his family for corruption.
Sen. Rob Portman R-Ohio, during an appearance on NBCs Meet the Press on Sunday, noted that there has been extraordinary unity behind Ukraine, characterized by 40 rallies being held around the United States in solidarity with the country, including one he planned to attend in Ohio.
Sources who have spoken to people on the ground in Ukraine said there is a sense of surprise among many Ukrainians in terms of how Zelensky has met the moment. The political novice won election in grand style in 2019, but polls suggested he was getting mixed reviews from the public before the invasion.
Sen. Ben Sasse R-Neb. tweeted that Zelensky was a bigger man than Putin and that even the dictators cronies know.
Zelenskys decision to stay in Ukraine also stands in contrast to the U.S.-backed leader of Afghanistan, who fled Kabul in August as the Taliban took over the city and U.S. troops left.
In todays existential crisis facing his country, Zelensky has won praise across the political spectrum in the United States for sticking at home and producing a series of videos urgingUkrainians to resist the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has emerged as a hero tohis nations citizens and far beyond as the former actor and comedian first elected in 2019 remains in his country at great personal risk during its bombardment by Russia.
Zelensky, who agreed on Sundayto talks at the Belarus border with Russia to end the military conflict, has been his countrys man in the capital city of Kyiv, where he has issued a series of videos urgingUkrainians to resist the invasion.
He, to a certain extent, is alone, and its clear the Russians have put a target on his back he said. You need a real Churchill-type leader to excel in a moment like this. I think he is scrambling and trying to find the right message.
Samuel Charap of the RAND Corporation in an interview with CNN compared Zelensky to Winston Churchill, who rallied international opposition to the Nazis as his country was bombarded.
Sen. Amy Klobuchar D-Minn., meanwhile, tweeted video of the Ukrainian president taking to the streets to urge on hisnations citizens.
When the Biden administration offered to get Zelensky securely out of the country, he refused, asking for ammunition instead.
Zelensky has also emerged as a leader to those opposed to the Russian invasion around the world, including in Russia itself. Online tributes compare Zelensky favorably to Biden and Trump as well as Putin.
Our truth is that this is our land, our country, our children and we will protect all of this, he added, according to a translation posted by Al-Jazeera.
Zelensky is a bigger man than Putin. The whole world knows. Russian army knows.Even the dictators cronies know.
