The Holy Ones NFT Minting Is Live  And The Web 3 Gaming Ecosystem Is On The Way
20220305
https://www.japanherald.com/news/272359008/the-holy-ones-nft-minting-is-live---and-the-web-3-gaming-ecosystem-is-on-the-way
This early traction in their collection's sales has positioned The Holy Ones NFT to launch their Holy DAO before the end of March 2022. The Holy DAO is a Web 3 gaming ecosystem that builds Dapp and Metaverse games on behalf of The Holy Ones' NFT holders who have governance rights over the DAO. Once the Holy DAO is launched, DAO members will start accruing royalties from The Holy Ones games.
Finally, The Holy Ones have committed to helping Ukraine by donating 100 of the profits from every 100th Holy Ones NFT mint to the Ukraine efforts against the current Russian invasion.
March is a very eventful month for The Holy Ones, stay tuned on TheHolyOnesNFT on all social media to keep up to date with everything mentioned in this piece.
The Holy Ones boast 40 of their collection sold and are ready to launch the Holy DAO as well as new Holy Ones branded games by the end of the month of March 2022.
The RPS game is set to debut in The Holy Temple in Decentraland among other places, which is currently under development and is also expected to open to the public by the end of the month. The Holy Temple will be a hub for Holy Ones holders where they'll be able to play Holy Ones games, as well as convene for events and discussions on philosophy, religion and Web 3 discourse.
Further, The Holy Ones NFT avatars are currently metaverse ready and will be airdropped to community members within the week so the unique 11 Holy One characters can be worn throughout Decentraland. If holders are looking to clad themselves in even more Holy Ones wearables, the Holy Dripz metaverse collection has already been teased on social media and is expected to hit the market in the next few weeks.
The first Holy Ones Game, a wager-2-play version of Rock Paper Scissors RPS wherein players can wager on the outcome against each other or the house, is entering beta testing by the end of next week. A small whitelist of The Holy Ones NFT holders will be selected for testing, with RPS eventually being opened to the public before the month's end.
MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA  ACCESSWIRE  March 4, 2022  The Holy Ones NFT minting is still open on their website https:theholyones.io. To date, they have sold 2698 NFTs in their collection, with a floor price on OpenSea that has never dipped below the original Holy Ones' mint price since their launch.
