Ukraine British man fighting in Mariupol forced to surrender
20220413
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-nottinghamshire-60894476
There are now Russian reports coming out claiming the 36th Marine Brigade have surrendered, which Aiden's family understand is his unit, though his family have heard nothing further since his initial phone calls.
Now what has happened to him in Ukraine is uncertain. When Aiden spoke to his family it appeared his unit were communicating with the Russians in what appeared to be preparation for a negotiated surrender.
Mr Aslin is a former care worker who previously fought with Kurdish armed units in Syria against so-called Islamic State.
Aiden Aslin, from Newark in Nottinghamshire, has been fighting in Ukraine since he moved there in 2018, and became a marine in the country's military.
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnewsbbc.co.uk.
The UK's Foreign Office is working to verify reports of UK nationals like Aiden involved in the fighting. But given the situation, it is likely that the Foreign Office's powers will be quite limited.
The city's fate is likely to be critical for the next phase of the war.
The key question is what would happen if he were to be taken as a prisoner of war? His friends have appealed on social media for Aiden and his unit to be treated in accordance with the Geneva conventions.
In Russian hands, it would provide control of a clear swathe of territory connecting Moscow's two fronts in the south and east.
Russia has claimed more than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers have surrendered in Mariupol but Ukraine says the city is still standing despite being under siege.
The family of a British man fighting in Ukraine said he has told them he will have to surrender to Russian forces.
Ms Wood said her son "sounded OK" when she spoke to him, but called for the UK government to provide more support to Ukraine.
"He called me and said 'we have no food, no supplies, no ammo, we're completely surrounded, we have to surrender'," he said.
Aiden had been in communication periodically, sometimes sending video updates of himself to friends to post on social media, or just checking in to let his family know he was safe.
"He called me and said they have no weapons left to fight," she told the BBC.
His unit has recently been defending the besieged city of Mariupol, which has been heavily bombarded by Russia.
But his unit had become increasingly cut off as Russian forces bombarded the city of Mariupol in recent weeks, and Aiden's family and loved ones have had an extremely anxious wait as the situation deteriorated.
Brennan Philips, a friend of Mr Aslin who also spoke to him by phone, said he sounded "strong and in good spirits".
Aiden is no newcomer to the perils of conflict. Before joining the Ukrainian forces, he had previously left the UK to fight in Syria against IS, fighting with the Kurdish armed group the YPG.
To the Kurds he is a hero, although he and many others like him faced questioning by counter-terrorism police when they returned to the UK. Most cases were eventually dropped.
"I love my son, he is my hero - they put up one hell of a fight."
