Ukraine conflict Putins nuclear alert a distraction attempt UK says
20220228
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-60553356
The EU later unveiled an unprecedented new raft of further sanctions against Moscow, including banning all Russian aircraft from its airspace and barring state media outlets Sputnik and Russia Today from EU territory.
"It the UK's nuclear deterrent does keep us safe and that's why I would say to parents up and down this country we will not do anything to escalate in that area.
The UK's Ministry of Defence said its latest intelligence suggested "the bulk" of Russia's forces remained more than 30km 19 miles north of Kyiv, "having been slowed by Ukrainian forces".
The defence secretary said that Britain was also a nuclear power and that its deterrent had "kept our security for decades".
This long-planned invasion of his neighbour is not going to plan, although his forces are making some progress in the south.
So what comes next? On the sanctions, Moscow will retaliate in some form - possibly with a major cyber-attack on Western institutions.
Judging by previous Russian actions in Chechnya and Syria there will be scant regard for the safety of civilians, and Moscow still has some devastating weapons at its disposal that it has yet to use.
Have you been affected by the issues raised in this story? Only if it is safe to do so, share your experiences by emailing haveyoursaybbc.co.uk.
"This is predominantly about Putin putting it on the table just to remind people, remind the world, that he has a deterrent."
Beyond Ukraine's borders, the international reaction has been far swifter and more severe than he would have expected, inflicting serious damage on the Russian economy that could end up threatening his authority at home.
Russia's military assault has entered its fifth day, with cities across Ukraine on high alert after the capital Kyiv and major centres of Kharkiv and Chernihiv were targeted by Russian forces overnight.
Barring the unlikely chance of a peace deal, we can expect to see an intensification of the Russian offensive on Ukraine's cities.
All three cities remain under Ukrainian control, but Russia made some progress in the south, taking the port town of Berdyansk, and clashes are ongoing in the strategically important port city of Mariupol.
Mr Wallace said Mr Putin was engaged in a "battle of rhetoric" by trying to "remind the world" he had a deterrent.
Negotiators for Kyiv and Moscow are meeting for talks today on Ukraine's border with Belarus.
He said Russia was behind schedule on its invasion of Ukraine and Ukrainians were putting up a "very strong fight".
Meanwhile, Mr Wallace said Moscow's invasion of Ukraine was not going to plan, with "significant casualties" and protests against it in Russia.
Vladimir Putin putting Russia's nuclear forces on high alert is an attempt to distract people from "what's going wrong in Ukraine", Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said.
The EU said it would also fund the purchase and delivery of weapons to Ukraine.
Mr Zelensky said on Sunday that he did not expect a breakthrough from the talks but said his delegation would attend because of the "small chance to end the war".
Speaking to BBC Breakfast on Monday, Mr Wallace said he understood concerns over Mr Putin's order, revealing his own 12-year-old son had called him about it.
BBC Security Correspondent Gordon Correra suggests Mr Putin's aim is likely to try and deter Nato support for Ukraine by creating fears over how far he is willing to go - and creating ambiguity over what kind of support for Ukraine he would consider to be too much.
The government is looking at measures to support Ukrainian refugees, after its announcement for some family members of British nationals, according to BBC Political Correspondent Nick Eardley.
Mr Putin has said his order was due to aggression by the West and Nato.
He said that as a result, Russia's attack was likely to be become "more violent" and could see it "indiscriminately" bombing Ukrainian cities.
He said: "We don't see or recognise in the sort of phrase or the status he described as anything that is a change to what they have currently as their nuclear posture.
"President Putin will know that anything involving a nuclear weapon has an equal or greater response from the West," Mr Wallace said.
After a phone call with Mr Zelensky at the weekend, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said things "are not going all the way of President Putin" and Ukrainians had been "fighting heroically" and with "great success" to repel Russian forces.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSaybbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
The UN General Assembly - made up of 193 member states - is set to meet later to discuss the situation in Ukraine.
"We will not do anything to feed any miscalculation. We take it very, very seriously."
