Ukraine roundup Defiance in Mykolaiv and a wooden monastery ablaze
20220604
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-61688829
You can read more here about how the war in Ukraine is making Africa's food crisis worse.
To the south, the important Black Sea port city of Mykolaiv was one of the first cities attacked when the invasion began. Russian forces were pushed back from the city limits.
The Russian bombardment of the city has been compared to the battle of Mariupol, which was all but destroyed by a relentless Russian assault.
Mr Haidai said earlier that Ukrainian forces had managed to retake some of Severodonetsk from Russian forces, adding that Russia had suffered huge losses.
The resulting shortage of products has driven up the price of staple foods like wheat around the world. That's why the head of the African Union, Macky Sall, has described African countries as innocent victims of the war.
Russia blamed Ukrainian "nationalist" troops for setting fire to the building. Read more about the monastery fire here.
The war, particularly in the south, has had a devastating effect on Ukraine's ability to export food products from its Black Sea ports.
Kyiv and its allies say Moscow has imposed a naval blockade which prevents ships from operating in the region. Ukraine has also mined the coast to prevent a Russian amphibious assault.
"The Russian army is throwing all its power, all its reserves in this direction," said Serhiy Haidai, the regional governor.
"Thank God, we are holding on... they the Russians should know better than loitering on our land," Natalia Panashii told the BBC's Laura Bicker on a recent visit.
After russia's bombardment wooden All Saints Monastery of Svyatogorsk Lavra is on fire. It's affiliated w Moscow Patriarchate. On 30.05 russsia killed 4 monks here. Would Patriarch Kiril finally call president putin 2 end the war or would he continue blessing russia's army? pic.twitter.com3HI3sjQnf4
Elsewhere in the Donbas, fighting sparked a major fire at a famous wooden monastery - the Sviatohirsk Lavra Monastery in the Donetsk region.
But there is still shelling every day there, and if Russia accomplishes its goal of capturing the Donbas it could refocus its efforts to the south and try once again to take Mykolaiv.
"Another crime of Russian barbarians for whom there is nothing sacred," Ukrainian army officer, Yurii Kochevenko, said on Facebook.
On day 101 of the war, Ukraine said Russia was doing everything it could to take control of the key eastern city of Severodonetsk.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba quickly responded: "Calls to avoid humiliation of Russia can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it.
"We must not humiliate Russia," he told French media, so that "when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means."
Russia's focus on the Donbas does not mean the shelling has stopped in other parts of the country.
French President Emmanuel Macron landed himself in hot water with many Ukrainians on Saturday as he attempted to position France as a potential mediator in the war.
The city has seen extremely fierce fighting in recent days as Russian troops try to take control of the entire Luhansk region - one of two regions which make up the part of eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas.
Mr Sall was visiting Russian President Vladimir Putin in the Russian Black Sea resort of Sochi.
