Ukraine invasion Irelands response will not be found wanting
20220227
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-60544939
Mr Byrne said it would soon be "completely untenable for Russian airlines to fly anywhere into the Western world".
Mr Byrne also told the the BBC that Ireland would back calls for Ukraine to be a candidate for EU membership.
Ireland's humanitarian response to the invasion of Ukraine will "not be found wanting," the taoiseach Irish prime minister has said.
Instead, the government will contribute 9m 7.53m to the non-lethal EU fund aiding Ukrainian forces. This will include helmets, medical equipment, blood and fuel.
He said the Ukrainian people had shown "such courage, in the face of great loss of life and destruction".
Commission President Ursula von der Leyen also said the bloc would, for the first time in its history, "finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and other equipment to a country that is under attack".
"The sanctions on Swift are already having an impact and the sanctions on the Central Bank of Russia are absolutely unprecedented."
Mr Byrne told BBC Northern Ireland's Sunday Politics that Russian President Vladimir Putin was not going to be deterred by any sanctions in the short-term.
The Irish government had already taken the decision earlier on Sunday to close its airspace to all Russian planes.
"There could have been a clearer focus internationally on the level of economic sanctions - that approach may have caused Vladimir Putin to pause and think," he said.
"The EU is an organisation of peace and democracy and one of the weapons that we have is sanctions, and those sanctions are going to have a crippling effect on the Russian economy, make no mistake about that.
Irish broadcaster RT later quoted an Irish government spokesperson as saying Ireland would not take part in the financing of weapons to Ukraine, deciding to abstain in line with commitments made in the current Programme for Government, negotiated between Fianna Fil, Fine Gael and the Green Party.
Irish Minister for European Affairs Thomas Byrne said they would have a devastating impact on ordinary Russians as well as the president.
He tweeted: "Shocking Russian attacks on Ukraine overnight. Ireland will move to shut off Irish airspace to all Russian aircraft."
The EU-wide ban on Russia using its airspace was part of a further package of sanctions.
"Ordinary Russians will see a big impact on Monday morning when they go to their banks.
Irish Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney confirmed the airspace move on Sunday and had called on other EU countries to do the same.
"But what is clear is that the democratic world is working together and the latest sanctions will have an absolutely devastating effect on the Russian economy and Putin's own personal resources over the medium term," he said.
The US, European Union and UK have agreed to block "selected" Russian banks from Swift, an international payment system used by thousands of financial institutions.
In a social media post, Michel Martin said the "unjustified war" had changed the world forever.
East Belfast MP Gavin Robinson, who sits on the House of Commons' defence committee, said there was a missed opportunity to bring in sanctions earlier this year when Russian troops were amassing at Ukraine's borders.
The world has been changed by this unjustified war on Ukraine.Its people have shown such courage, in the face of great loss of life and destruction.Irelands humanitarian response will not be found wanting.The EU is unified and further sanctions  will hit Russia hard.
Mr Martin said that the EU was "unified" and that further sanctions would "hit Russia hard".
"It's under discussion, there's no question, but it'll be done on a European level," he said,
First, we are shutting down the EU airspace for Russian-owned, Russian registered or Russian-controlled aircraft.They wont be able to land in, take off or overfly the territory of the EU.Including the private jets of oligarchs. pic.twitter.como551M9zekQ
