Ukraine conflict Simple visual guide to the Russian invasion
20220225
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-60506298
Injured people - including a woman with bandages on her head - were seen after the air strikes.
A number of civilian areas have been targeted, including one apartment complex outside of Kharkiv - a city of 1.4 million people in north-eastern Ukraine.
Some in Kyiv are hunkering down in the city's metro stations and air raid shelters, while others are trying to escape.
Many are now trying to escape the country, with UN estimates suggesting over 100,000 people have already fled from their homes.
Nato says its forces are on standby and more ships and fighter jets are being sent to the region. Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says Nato will continue to take all necessary measures to protect and defend all allies.
Air strikes continued overnight and into the early hours of Friday, with attacks being reported across the country - including on the capital Kyiv.
Russian forces have launched a full-scale invasion of neighbouring Ukraine, attacking locations across the country. A number of people have been killed and thousands have fled their homes.
Streams of cars have been seen leaving major cities and are queuing to cross borders into neighbouring countries.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said the UK "cannot and will not just look away" at Russia's "hideous and barbaric" attack on Ukraine.
It used to be part of the Soviet Union but became an independent country in 1991.
Russian forces crossed Ukraine's borders early on Thursday morning and began bombing military targets near big cities.
Russians tanks were filmed on the outskirts of Kyiv on Friday morning. A second night of attacks followed with heavy gunfire and explosions in parts of the capital.
The US responds to Russias list of demands, refusing to rule out Ukraine joining Nato in the future. In response, President Putin accuses the West of ignoring Russias concerns.
He also tried to reassure the British public by promising to do "everything to keep our country safe" and work with allies "for however long it takes" to restore Ukraine's independence.
Russian troops begin arriving in Belarus for joint military exercises. Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko plays down their significance, saying they are normal exercises.
Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania and Moldova have all said they expect a wave of refugees from Ukraine.
Mr Putin announces a special military operation" by Russian troops is underway in Ukraine. Ukraine says it is a "full-scale invasion.
Satellite imagery suggests Russia is sending troops towards its border with Ukraine. Russia denies it is preparing for an invasion and accuses Nato of upping its activity in the region.
Russia says some of its troops are being withdrawn from areas near the Ukraine border - but Nato says it can see no evidence of a withdrawal.
President Putin recognises the independence of the two Russian-backed separatists areas in eastern Ukraine and says troops will be sent to support them.
Events in Ukraine have also seen global share prices fall and the price of gold rise - as investors worry about the possible impact of the conflict.
As a result of the conflict, oil prices have surged past $100 75 a barrel to hit their highest level for more than seven years, which will impact already-rising petrol prices in the UK.
He said the UK and its allies will launch a "massive package" of sanctions - commercial and financial penalties - to "hobble" Russia's economy.
In 2014, Russia invaded Crimea, in the south of Ukraine, and continues to occupy it.
Since 2014, Russian-backed separatists and Ukraine's armed forces have been fighting a war in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in which more than 14,000 people have died.
These maps and images help to explain what we know about what has happened so far.
President Putin this month recognised the two regions held by the Russian-backed separatists as independent states and ordered Russian troops there, tearing up a peace deal.
Russia says the crisis can only be solved if the West agrees to a list of demands, including a guarantee that Ukraine will never join Nato.
