Ukraine war Irish PM visits areas of wartorn Kyiv
20220706
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-62062722
"Our Irish friends fully appreciate the threats created by this Russia aggression against Ukraine and aggression against the whole democratic world.
"We discussed our joint responses to the energy crisis and preparation of the new sanctions package against the Russia."
"Russia's brutal war against this beautiful democratic country is a gross violation of international law.
A cleric showed Mr Martin the site and an exhibition of graphic photographs of exhumed bodies and pictures of civilians left dead on the streets of the suburb when Russian forces retreated.
He met the town's mayor and viewed apartment blocks gutted by fire during the Russian bombardment.
The taoiseach also held talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who thanked Ireland for its support.
The Irish delegation then travelled to nearby Irpin where the taoiseach was shown badly-damaged apartment blocks that had been hit by Russian shells.
Mr Martin's day-long itinerary in the city began with a trip to Borodyanka - a town on the outskirts of Kyiv that has widespread damage under Russian shelling.
Today, I met with President ZelenskyyUa in Kyiv. Having witnessed the devastation caused by the illegal invasion of Ukraine, I reiterated Irelands backing for continuing sanctions against Putins regime. We will continue to welcome and support civilians fleeing this war. pic.twitter.comcNds1WAamE
The taoiseach Irish prime minister has witnessed the devastation caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine while on a visit to Kyiv.
"I have always made clear from the outset our strong view that Ukraine belongs to the EU, the values that people are fighting and dying for today are European values," he added.
The state has given 20m euros 17.1m in humanitarian support and assistance to the country, as well as health equipment and medical donations worth more than 4.5m euros 3.8m.
"We are very grateful and we will remember this always as matter of principle, and the gesture of solidarity towards our people," Mr Zelensky said during a joint press conference with Mr Martin.
Afterwards, Mr Martin said: "It is difficult to comprehend the devastation and inhumanity of Russia's attacks on Irpin, Borodyanka and Bucha.
The Republic of Ireland has also taken in more than 36,000 Ukrainian refugees since Russia invaded neighbouring Ukraine at the end of February.
Michel Martin arrived in the Ukrainian capital on Wednesday where he was taken to nearby war-torn towns.
From there, Mr Martin visited the site of a mass grave in Bucha, an area captured by Russian forces in the early days of the war.
"I want to thank you for your remarkable leadership which is greatly admired in Ireland," he said.
"Clear how important it is for women and children to get to Ireland to escape trauma and brutality. We stand with Ukraine."
"It is an affront to everything that Ireland stands for, it cannot and will not be allowed to stand."
