UN alarm as Ukraine nuclear power plant shelled again
20220811
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-62505815
It said an administrative office near the welding area was hit and several radiation sensors were damaged. There was a small fire on some nearby grass, but no injuries.
In a statement on Thursday, Ukraine's nuclear agency Enerhoatom said that "Russian invaders again shelled the Zaporizhzhia plant and territories near the nuclear facility".
The facility and its surrounding area in central-eastern Ukraine saw shelling last week, with Russia and Ukraine also accusing each other over that attack.
They said Ukrainian forces were using multiple-launch rocket systems and heavy artillery. The claims by each of the side have not been independently verified.
However, Russia's UN representative said demilitarisation was not an option, suggesting that it would make the plant more vulnerable to "provocations" and "terror attacks".
Speaking at a meeting of the UN Security Council in New York City on Thursday, Mr Grossi again called for his International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA to be allowed in to inspect the plant.
Europe's largest nuclear plant shelled in Ukraine. Video, 00:00:38Europe's largest nuclear plant shelled in Ukraine
China and the US both called for UN experts to be allowed to urgently visit the plant, but similar demands in the past have so far not been acted upon.
"This is a serious hour, a grave hour and the IAEA must be allowed to conduct its mission to Zaporizhzhia as soon as possible," he said.
Ukraine says Russia has turned the site into a military base, launching attacks from there knowing that Ukrainian forces are unlikely to retaliate.
The Zaporizhzhia plant is in the city of Enerhodar, in the south-east of Ukraine along the left bank of the River Dnieper Dnipro in Ukrainian.
In his nightly address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned that "only the complete withdrawal of Russians from Zaporizhzhia guarantees the restoration of nuclear safety for the whole of Europe".
At a meeting of the UN Security Council called to discuss the situation, the head of its nuclear watchdog, Rafael Grossi, warning it was a "grave hour".
Earlier, the US also called for a demilitarised zone to be established around the plant: "Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous and irresponsible," a state department spokesperson said.
Each side said there were 10 hits on the office and fire station of Europe's biggest power plant on Thursday.
Meanwhile, UN Secretary General Guterres earlier warned: "Urgent agreement is needed at a technical level on a safe perimeter of demilitarisation to ensure the safety of the area".
Because of the shelling, it was impossible to change the personnel after their shift, so they had to continue work overtime.
More shelling of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant has been reported, with Ukraine and Russia again blaming each other for the attack.
