What is Nato and how is it helping Ukraine
20220125
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-18023383
But after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, they asked to be given entry to the alliance as soon as possible.
This is because Article 5 of the Nato charter says that if one member is attacked, all members should come to its defence.
Professor Tracey German, an expert in conflict and security at King's College London, warns it could be dangerous if Turkey and Hungary continue to block for Finland and Sweden's membership:
Turkey's government says both Sweden and Finland are harbouring Turkish citizens who it says are "terrorists" and is demanding they be extradited.
However, no Nato member has yet agreed to send Ukraine the jet fighters it has been asking for.
It takes a lot of time to train pilots, and the planes need a great deal of maintenance.
Nato countries also fear Ukraine could use these jets to strike targets inside Russia, which could draw them deeper into the war.
"Keeping them in this grey zone, where they have no defence from Nato's collective security guarantees, is putting them in an awkward situation," she says.
Nato countries say they are aiming to ramp up supplies of artillery shells and other ammunition to Ukraine, and are providing it with heavy weapons such as tanks and missile systems.
The organisation's original goal was to challenge Russian expansion in Europe after World War Two.
The anti-tank weapons that the US and UK have supplied, such as Javelin and Nlaw, were crucial in turning back Russia's advance on Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, in spring 2022.
Nato told Ukraine in 2008 that it could join the bloc at some point in the future, but declined its recent request for "fast-track" membership.
For seven decades, both thought it safer to be neutral countries rather than join Nato.
The US is sending 31 Abrams tanks, the UK 14 Challenger 2 tanks, Germany 14 Leopard 2 tanks and Norway eight Leopard 2 tanks.
The US and others have supplied air defence systems such as Patriot and Starstreak to shoot down Russian cruise missiles and drones over Ukraine.
The US has also sent armoured fighting vehicles such as the Stryker and the Bradley.
Finland has a 1,340km 833-mile land border with Russia, while Sweden faces it across the Baltic Sea.
All 30 of Nato's member states have to approve any new member, and 28 countries already have. Only Turkey and Hungary are yet to do so.
The two countries would add 280,000 troops to Nato's forces including reservists, and more than 200 combat aircraft.
Nato - the North Atlantic Treaty Organization - is a defensive military alliance. It was formed in 1949 by 12 countries, including the US, UK, Canada and France.
Russia has long argued that Nato's acceptance of these countries threatens its security. It has vehemently opposed Ukraine's request to join the alliance, fearing this would encroach too closely on its territory.
However, since Russia's invasion, Nato countries have stationed 40,000 troops in eastern Europe - on the territory of alliance members such as Lithuania and Poland.
Many of the alliance's member states have provided Ukraine with weapons and ammunition to help it defend itself against Russia..
If Ukraine was made a member, Nato countries would technically have to go to war with Russia.
In addition, the US and UK have sent Ukraine long-range missile systems such as Himars and the M142, which have been striking targets behind Russia's front lines.
Nato countries are not sending troops to Ukraine for fear of provoking a direct conflict with Russia.
Nato countries are also aiming to ramp up their supplies of artillery shells and ammunition to Ukraine, and are asking their domestic manufacturers to increase production.
After the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991, many of the Eastern European countries which used to be Russia's allies in the Warsaw Pact group were granted Nato membership.
Ukraine's President Vladimir Zelensky has asked Nato countries to provide fighter jets, but as yet none have been forthcoming.
Several Nato countries have provided howitzers and self-propelled guns, while Turkey has sold Ukraine several Bayraktar TB2 armed drones.
