Russia bombards outskirts of Kyiv as it regroups for Donbas offensive
20220330
https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/world/europe/2022-03-30-russia-bombards-outskirts-of-kyiv-as-it-regroups-for-donbas-offensive/
Russian forces were shelling nearly all cities along the regions front line on Wednesday, said the governor of Donetsk, which is part of the Donbas.
Southeast of Irpin,  which has seen intense fighting for weeks, frequent shelling and ordnance exploding on the ground and in the air could be heard. Ukrainians evacuating the area spoke of heavy shelling north of Irpin and shells landing in Irpin itself. Emergency workers retrieved bodies from the ruins.
Nearly five weeks into an invasion in which Russia has failed to capture any major city, the top UN human rights official said Moscow had bombed 50 hospitals, as well as homes and schools, across Ukraine in what may amount to war crimes.
Over the past week, Ukrainian forces have recaptured towns and villages on the outskirts of Kyiv, broken the siege of the eastern city of Sumy and pushed back Russian forces in the southwest.
Most of them already understood that they made a huge mistake when they came here. Therefore, I think they have no chance here, we will win.
This is yet another confirmation that Russia always lies, he told CNN, adding that 25 civilians had been injured in a colossal mortar attack in the city centre.
Britains defence ministry said Moscows pledge to focus on the Donbas was likely a tacit admission that it is struggling to sustain more than one significant axis of advance.
Two sources said the EU could have new sanctions against Russia ready as early as next week, with the magnitude of the measures dependent on Moscows stance.
Western sanctions have largely isolated Russia from world trade but Moscow is still the biggest supplier of oil and gas to Europe and its new demand for payment in roubles, rejected by the West, has raised fears of energy shortages in Europe. Russian sources told Reuters it might keep the contract currency as is, with final payment in roubles.
Ukraine and Western leaders had cautioned that Moscow's apparent peace gesture at Tuesdays talks in Istanbul was a cover for reorganising forces that had failed to take Kyiv.
Intensified bombardment could be heard in Kyiv on Wednesday morning from suburbs where Ukrainian forces have regained territory in recent days. The capital itself was not hit, but windows rattled from the relentless artillery on its outskirts.
Irpin itself was recaptured by Ukrainian forces this week. Reuters journalists who entered on Tuesday saw Ukrainian troops patrolling an abandoned  town of ruined buildings, with the body of an old man and a woman lying on the streets.
Ukrainians are not naive people, he said in an overnight address. The only thing they can trust is a concrete result.
Ukrainian defence ministry spokesperson Oleksandr Motuzyanyk said Ukraines armed forces had observed some movements of Russian forces away from the Kyiv and Chernihiv regions but did not consider this to be a mass withdrawal by Moscow.
The Donbas region, where Russia says it will now focus its efforts, includes Mariupol, where heavy fighting was again reported on Wednesday. The port city, which had a pre-war population of more than 400,000 people, has been laid to waste after a month of Russian siege and the UN says thousands of people may have died there.
Economy minister Robert Habeck urged consumers and companies to reduce consumption, saying every kilowatt-hour counts.
Ukrainian officials called Russia out for having said on Tuesday it would curtail operations near Kyiv and the northern city of Chernihiv to increase mutual trust for peace talks.
On Wednesday, US President Joe Biden and Zelensky  discussed additional US aid, sanctions and Kyivs peace talks with Russia in an hour-long call, the two sides said. The US intends to give Ukraine $500m in direct budgetary aid, Biden told his Ukrainian counterpart, according to a White House statement.
Ukrainian service members stand near the body of a Russian soldier on the front line near Kyiv,  Ukraine, March 30 2022. Picture: GLEB GARANICH REUTERS
Reuters could not verify the situation in Chernihiv. Russias defence ministry did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
Russia says it is carrying out a special operation to disarm its neighbour. Western countries say Moscows invasion was entirely unprovoked.
Biden also reviewed sanctions and humanitarian assistance that were announced last week, while Zelensky updated Biden on the status of negotiations with Russia, the White House said in a statement following the call.
Its not true, Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said in a video address to EU regional officials. The whole night we listened to sirens, to rocket attacks and we listened to huge explosions east of Kyiv and north of Kyiv. There are immense battles there, people died, still die.
Mala Rohan  Russian forces bombarded the outskirts of Kyiv and a besieged city in northern Ukraine on Wednesday, a day after promising to scale down operations there in what the West dismissed as a ploy to regroup by units  suffering heavy losses.
Russias defence ministry said on Wednesday its forces had achieved their objectives near Kyiv and Chernihiv and were regrouping to focus on the breakaway eastern Donbas region.
Chernihiv mayor Vladyslav Astroshenko said Russian bombardment of that city had intensified over the past 24 hours, with more than 100,000 people trapped inside with just enough food and medical supplies to last about another week.
Locals carry food found at a supermarket, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in the town of Irpin, Ukraine, March 29 2022. Picture: SERHI MYKHALCHUKREUTERS
Germany, Russias biggest gas customer, declared an early warning on Wednesday of a possible emergency if Russia were to cut off supplies.
A woman rides her bike past destroyed Russian vehicles close to the central train station that was used as a Russian base in Trostyanets, Ukraine, on March 29, 2022. Picture: CHRIS MCGRATHGETTY IMAGES
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says  Russia is amassing troops for new attacks in the Donbas region, and the Ukrainian army is getting ready to counter any attack.
About a quarter of Ukrainians have been driven from their homes and the UN said on Wednesday that the number who have fled the country had risen above 4-million. More than half of those refugees are children and the rest mostly women.
In the village of Mala Rohan in the eastern Kharkiv region, two burnt-out tanks with their turrets ripped off stood near damaged houses. A Ukrainian soldier who gave his name as Maksym said the Russians were being pushed back slowly but steadily.
