Sabina Higgins letter a slap in the face for Ukrainian refugees in Ireland
20220731
https://kildare-nationalist.ie/2022/07/31/sabina-higgins-letter-a-slap-in-the-face-for-ukrainian-refugees-in-ireland/
Mrs Higgins wrote to The Irish Times last week to criticise one of the newspapers editorials on the conflict.
Critics have suggested Mrs Higgins was drawing an equivalence between the actions of Ukraine and Russia.
Fine Gael senator John McGahon called on Mr Higgins to clarify whether he was aware of the letter before it was published or had any role in drafting it.
Mrs Higgins is entitled to her personal opinion and to express it, although I believe that she is totally wrong to try to see an equivalence in the positions of Ukraine and Russia, he said.
President Higgins has faced calls to state unequivocal support for the Ukrainian cause and oppose Russian aggression amid the furore created by Mrs Higginss letter.
Will be discussing my views on Sabina Higgins Letter and why I believe it was wrong to have it published on the website of https:t.coRjs6ihhpAi pic.twitter.com2WaftLeFhy
And I think the comments that she has made is a slap in the face to the 47,000 Ukrainian refugees who have come to this island of Ireland to seek safety and seek sanctuary.
It is incumbent on the president of Ireland to now express clearly the strong support of the people of Ireland for the people of Ukraine and that we hold Russia responsible for the war and ongoing barbarism.
She is a private citizen, she is entitled to promote whatever type of view she wants, but she is married to the president of this country, she does live in ras an Uachtarin and she does officiate at official events that are run by the state, Mr McGahon told RT Radio Ones This Week programme.
It is Russian tanks that have rolled into Ukraine. It is Russian missiles that have flattened Ukrainian cities. It is Russian soldiers that have murdered women and children in the streets of Ukraine.
A controversial letter about the Ukraine conflict written by President Michael D Higginss wife Sabina has been described as a slap in the face for the thousands of Ukrainian refugees who have settled in Ireland.
In the letter, she said the fighting would go on until the world persuades president Vladimir Putin of Russia and president Volodymyr Zelenskiy of Ukraine to agree to a ceasefire and negotiations.
Scrutiny of the letter intensified after it was reportedly published for a brief period on the Presidents official website. It appears to have been since removed from the site.
If you were to read that letter youd think that this is a dispute between two countries over a contested piece of land, he said.
And because of the high-profile nature of her position I believe her views on the Ukrainian invasion are open to critique. I believe theyre open to criticism.
