Bare Bones Brewery in Oshkosh releasing antiPutin beer with funds going to support Ukraine
20220310
https://www.postcrescent.com/story/entertainment/nightlife/beer/2022/03/10/bare-bones-brewery-oshkosh-releasing-anti-putin-beer-funds-to-support-ukraine/9446744002/
"If I'm being a 100 honest we wouldn't be using that label design," he said.
Bare Bones is brewing PutinHuylo, a dry-hopped strong ale clocking in at 8 ABV following a beer recipe from Pravda Brewery in Lviv, Ukraine.
Pravdaposted recipes of five beersand label artwork on its website. Brew For Ukraine encourages brewers around the world to make Pravda beers and donate proceeds to its relief fund.
Dringoli said they chose the strong ale because Ukrainians are strong people and it's not a style they regularly brew, making it something unique for Bare Bones beer drinkers.
But in order to have the labels ready when the beer finishes fermenting in two weeks, the printer needed artwork immediately.
Pravda, which reportedly stopped brewing beer to make Molotov cocktails to be used by the Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces, isn't afraid ofmaking statements with its beer labels.Earlier this month, Lakefront Brewery in Milwaukee released a Pravda beer with a label that includes "Putin is a Dick" written across an image of Putin's forehead to support Ukraine.
About 75 cases of Bare Bones PutinHuylo will be sold in 6-packs of 12-ounce cans for $12 with $6 going to the account set up by Pravda. Additionally, $4 of each pint sold on tap will be donated. Putin Huylo will be sold at Bare Bones taprooms inOshkosh and Menasha and possibly other select locations depending on interest from the distributor.
Wanting to do something to help the Ukrainian people under attack from theRussian military, Dringoli said head brewerJody Clevelanddid some internet sleuthing and found Pravda's Brew For Ukraine initiative. To date Bare Bones and Lakefront Brewery are the only Wisconsin breweries brewing Pravda beer.
OSHKOSH - A naked Vladimir Putin sitting on a throne surrounded by images of war isn't the beer label artworkthat Bare Bones Brewery owner Dan Dringoli would have chosen, but it's worth it if the strong aleinside the cans and on tap raises a couple thousand dollars to help people in Ukraine.
