Biden levels sanctions on Russia for beginning an invasion of Ukraine
20220222
https://www.postcrescent.com/story/news/world/2022/02/22/russia-ukraine-west/6890402001/
Blinken, however, said that the United States remains open to meeting with Russian officials only if Moscow demonstrates that its serious about engaging diplomatically.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced new sanctions against five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals in the latest international backlash to Putin's decision to send troops into eastern Ukraine.
We are not going to slam that door shut. We continue to believe that is the best way for this conflict to de-escalate rather than Russia continuing down the path to war, he said. They have given every indication they are on a different course.
What Russia has done has made a diplomatic path much harder to walk down and much less likely, Finer told Keilar.
The European Union on Tuesdayfollowed Germany's freezing of the Russia-owned Nord Stream 2 pipeline with sanctions against the Kremlin.
But Adam Schiff, the California Democrat who chairs the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, applauded the president for acting quickly in close coordination with our allies, to deliver significant consequences for Russias further invasion of Ukraine.
"Im going to take robust action to make sure the pain of our sanctions is targeted at the Russian economy, not ours, Biden said. We're closely monitoring energy supplies for any disruption.
Scholz said that the government had decided to reassess the certification of the pipeline, which hasnt begun operating yet, in light of the latest developments.
Russias U.N. ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, said Putin acted in response to Ukrainian aggression. He said Russia was open to diplomacy but wouldnt allow a new bloodbath in the Donbas."
"No, but think of it. Heres a guy whos very savvy," the former president said of the Russian leader. "I know him very well. Very, very well."
As Russia contemplates its next move we have our next move prepared as well, he said.
Undersecretary-General Rosemary DiCarlo opened the session late Monday with a warning that the risk of major conflict is real and needs to be prevented at all costs.
Germany meets about a quarter of its energy needs with natural gas, a share that will increase in the coming years as the country switches off its last three nuclear power plants and phases out the use of coal. About half of the natural gas used in Germany comes from Russia.
Additional U.S. forces and military equipment already stationed in Europe will be redeployed to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, Biden said Tuesday, after Russia confirmed it would not withdraw forces in Belarus.
The Biden administration cut off the Russian government, the Russian Central Bank and its sovereign wealth funds from U.S. financing. Sanctions also target a handful of Russian elites and their family members who shared in the corrupt games of the Kremlin.
Trump himself sent out another written statement attacking Biden, just as he has throughout the Ukraine impasse.
Three "very high net worth" individuals were also hit: Gennady Timchenko, Boris Rotenberg and Igor Rotenberg. Any assets the individuals hold in the U.K. will be frozen, and they will be banned from traveling to the country, while all U.K. individuals and entities will be prohibited from having dealings with them, according to Johnson.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said his government would reassess the certification of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which hasnt begun operating yet.
This should begin, but not end, with devastating sanctions against the Kremlin and its enablers.
McConnell reiterated on Tuesday how the U.S. and its allies must ensure a pipeline of support, including arms, flows to Ukrainians resisting Russian aggression.He added how the Biden administration must move with intention in the coming days.
A White House national security adviser said Tuesday that Russias invasion of Ukraine has made it harder to pursue a diplomatic solution to the conflict, butthe U.S. would not close the door on diplomacy.
He also called for an end to Ukraines NATO membership bid, suggestion Ukraine should be neutral. The Russian leader also called fora halt to weapons shipments there.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sought to project calm, telling the country in an address overnight: We are not afraid of anyone or anything. We dont owe anyone anything. And we wont give anything to anyone.
Asked about the former president's remarks, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the administration tries "not to take advice from anyone who praises President Putin and his military strategy, which I believe is what happened there, expresses an openness to lifting sanctions about the seizing of territory and Crimea, or at any point in time told leaders of the G7 that Crimea is a part of a Russia, regardless if they are a former president."
Putin on Tuesday received authorization from lawmakers to use Russian troops outside of the country, a move he said was necessary to formalize the military's deploymentin two rebel regions of eastern Ukraine.Russia recognized those provinces as independent on Monday,and Putinordered troops there to "maintain peace."
Ukraines U.N. ambassador demanded that Russia cancel its recognition of the independence of the separatist regions in the east, immediately withdraw its occupation troops and return to negotiations.
Biden said the first tranche of sanctions would cut off Russia from western financial institutions, and beginning on Wednesday the U.S. would impose sanctions against individual Russians.
President Joe Biden Tuesday said Russia's actionsin Ukraine will trigger massive sanctions, a response he has been threatening for weeks as President Vladimir Putin built up troops on Ukraine's borders. In a speech from the White House, Biden said the Russian leaderhas committed "a flagrant violation of international law."
We have no intention of fighting Russia, Biden said. We want to send an unmistakable message though that the United States together with its allies will defend every inch of NATO territory.
"I know Vladimir Putin very well, and he would have never done during the Trump Administration what he is doing now, no way," Trump said.
A U.S. official described the raft of sanctions announced by Biden as only the sharp edge of the pain we can inflict, vowing that more severe economic penalties would be in store if Putin escalates the invasion of Ukraine further.
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., expressedsupport for U.S. pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin.
This package of sanctions  will hurt Russia and it will hurt a lot, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after chairing a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Paris.
The sanctions are in addition to action Germany took to stopcertification of the Russian-owned Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, a potentially crippling blow to Russias plans to link its natural gas supply with Europe.
Gas prices in the U.S. have soared over the past year amid inflation at a40-year high.
He said Russias action on Monday has closed the door even further to diplomacy as it moved closer to war.
In a speech to lawmakers Tuesday in the House of Commons, Johnson said Moscow's actions "amount to a renewed invasion of that country." The prime minister described the measures as "the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do," adding the British government is prepared to impose more sanctions if the situation escalates further.
He added Western allies would continue to seek a diplomatic solution "until the last possible moment, but we have to face the possibility that none of our messages have been heeded and that Putin is implacably determined to go further in subjugating and tormenting Ukraine."
Chinas U.N. Ambassador Zhang Jun called for restraint and a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
The first set of sanctions takes aim at Duma legislators who voted in favor of recognizing separatist regions in Ukraine, as well as several Russian officials. They also sought to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
Now that we see the invasions beginning, and Russia has made clear its wholesale rejection of diplomacy, it does not make sense to go forward with that meeting at this time, Blinken said during an afternoon news conferencewith Ukrainian Foreign Minster Dmytro Kuleba.
The sanctions block the Russia-to-Germany Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline that is newly built but isn't operational. Additional sanctions will be put in place if Russia moves farther into Ukraine, he said.
Biden vowed that his administration would seek to ensure that economic sanctions against Russia would not hurt the U.S economy and spike gas prices further.
"The president should waste no time in using his extensive existing authorities to impose these costs, McConnell said. Our NATO and EU allies must likewise take action to impose significant costs on Putin.
A day afterPutin declared Moscow would recognizethe independence of Donetsk and Luhansk, Russian lawmakers ratified the arrangement, allowing for the Kremlin to provide military support there.
We must be prepared to impose additional costs on Putin if he carries through on his threats to further invade Ukraine." Warner, whojust returned to Washington after several days of meetings withpartners and allies in Europe. "My takeaway from those meetings is this:the West has never been as resolute or as unified in standing up to Putins brazen, reckless and illegal course of action."
And that served as the trigger for the U.S. to impose sanctions.Biden saidRussia "will pay an even steeper price" if aggressions continue.
"President Biden promised a 'swift and severe'response. He did not deliver," tweeted Nikki Haley, the United Nations ambassador during the Donald Trump administration.
I believe Putin is likely to go beyond the invasion of these two areas of Ukraine, Schiff said in a statement. Further sanctions should target the largest Russian banks  cutting them off from the worlds financial system  and in every other way raise the costs on Russia for its belligerence. Otherwise, we can only expect worse in the days and months ahead.
Russia's upper house of Parliament has granted Putin's request for a permission to use military force outside the country. Putin asked lawmakers toformalize a Russian military deployment to rebel regions in eastern Ukraine, a day after the Russian leader recognized their independence.
He claimed Russias 2014 annexation of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula should be recognized globally as legitimate, a reflection of the local populations choice, likening it to a vote for Kosovo independence. The annexation has been widely condemned by Western powers as a breach of international law.
"So there's a bit of a different tactic a bit of a different approach," Psaki continued. "And that's probably why President Biden and not his predecessor was able to rally the world and the global community in taking steps against against Russia's aggression."
Biden said he would be announcing sanctions far beyond the scope of what was implemented in 2014 in response to Putin's military actionsin the Russian-backed eastern Ukraine regions of Donetsk and Luhansk..
As I said last week, defending freedom will have costs for us as well here at home. We need to be honest about that, the president said. But as wedo this, I'm going to take robust action to make sure the pain of our sanctions is targeted at the Russian economy, not ours.
She added: "The Chinese communists and Iranian jihadists are watching too. Its a major leadership moment for Biden. So far, hes failing."
The $11 billion, Russian-ownednatural gas pipeline snakes westward from Russia to northeastern Germany for more than 700 miles under the Baltic Sea. The pipeline was launched in 2015 and follows a similar route to another pipeline, Nord Stream 1, which was completed in 2011.
The U.N. Security Council held an emergency meeting Monday night at the request of Ukraine, the United States and six other countries, including Russia, which holds the rotating council presidency.
More:How the Nord Stream 2 pipeline became a bargaining chip in the crisis between Russia and Ukraine
Notably, Biden s sanctions do not include one of the most severe penalties contemplated: cutting Russia out of the SWIFT financial system, which shuffles money from bank to bank around the globe. Theofficial said "it will remain an option that we can deploy depending on Russias next move.
Biden'sremarkswill come as a White House official called Russia's actions in eastern Ukraine an invasion.
Blinken and Lavrov were set to meet on Feb. 24. Blinken said the meeting was only set to happen if Russia did not invade Ukraine.
The Russian oligarchs targeted are: Aleksandr Vasilievich Bortnikov, director of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation Petr Mikhailovich Fradkov, chairman and CEO of PSB and Sergei Vladilenovich Kiriyenko, first deputy chief of staff of the Presidential Office. The individuals targeted dont include Putin, but the U.S. official said, All options remain on the table.
Russia just announced that it is carving out a big chunk of Ukraine, Biden said. Hes setting up a rationale to take more territory by force, in my view. This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin met Tuesday withUkrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kubela and promised "unwavering" support for Ukraine.
Speaking to CNNs Brianna Keilar, deputy national security adviser Jon Finer said additional economic sanctions against Russia were forthcoming on Tuesday in response to what he described as the beginning of Russias latest invasion into Ukraine.
Biden is scheduled to give an update at 1 p.m. from the East Room of the White House. The White House has promised swift and severe economic sanctions in response to any Russian invasion.
Putin ordered troops Monday to "maintain peace" in the provinces shortly after recognizing the Russian-backed areas as independent, stoking fears that a Russian invasion could be coming soon. Convoys of armored vehicles were seen rolling across the separatist-controlled territories late Monday. It wasnt immediately clear if they were Russian.
The moves are temporary, according to the Pentagon, which has 90,000 U.S. troops in Europe.
During a podcastinterview Tuesday, former president Donald Trumpall but praised Putin, saying it was "genius" to simply declare a "big portion"of Ukraine as independent and to move in with "peacekeeping" forces.
In January, McConnell said the U.S. should have armed the Ukrainian governmentwith whatever weapons they think they need to defend themselves against Putins forces.
We're executing a plan in coordination with major oil producing consumers and producers toward a collective investment to secure stability and global energy supplies," he said. "Thisll blunt gas prices.I want to limit the pain American people are feeling at the gas pump. This is critical to me.
Biden says the sanctions are designed to "cut off" Russia from international loans and other forms offinancial assistance it relies on. Penalties also will target Russian "elites" and their family members who profit from its military adventurism.
His foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, will be in Washington on Tuesday to meet with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, the State Department said.
The decision is a significant move for the German government, which had long resisted pulling the plug on the project despite pressure from the United States and some European countries to do so.
For the latest on the crisis between Russia andUkraine, check out our latest updates here.
President Joe Biden will speak to the nation about Russia and Ukraine on Tuesday afternoon as tensions escalate in the ongoing conflict.
In a press conference Tuesday, Putin said the move was needed to help in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
Along with other western allies, the U.S. is fully blocking Russia's fifth largest financial firm, holding $50 billion in assets, and a $35 million Russian bank that finances the activities of the Russian military.
The moves involve an infantry battalion of about 800 troops from Italy to Baltic states, eight F-35 fighters from Germany to several locations along NATOs eastern front, 20 Apache attack helicopters from German to Baltic states and 12 Apaches from Greece to Poland.
Biden, other Democrats and even some Republicans said Trump was way too friendly with the Russian leader, enabling him to gather strength for his current aggression.
Austin said the U.S. is working closely with allies to "find a way to avoid further conflict." Echoing earlier comments from deputy national security adviser Jon Finer, he added that Putin "can still avoid a full blown, tragic war of choice."
Key Democrats are supporting Bidens move with Senate Intelligence Committee hair Mark Warner of Virginia describing the as "agood first step.
Owned by Gazprom, a Russian state-controlled company, Nord Stream 2 was completed last year and has the capacity to handle 55 billion cubic meters of gas per year once it becomes operational.
U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said Putin has put before the world a choice and it must not look away because history tells us that looking the other way in the face of such hostility will be a far more costly path.
Even though the conflict is occurring thousands of miles away, Biden warned Americans in his speech Tuesday that the connective tissue of the global economy means sanctions against Russia could ripple through the U.S., potentially in the form of higher fuel prices.
"This is the beginning of the invasion and this is the beginning of our response, said Deputy National Security Advisor Daleep Singh.
Who in the Lords name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belongs to his neighbors? Biden said at one point.
The GOP leader, long considered a hawk on foreign affairs, has for months has been speaking to White House officials regarding action prior to a potential invasion by Russia.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin on Tuesday ordered U.S. troops and aircraft to redeploy within Europe to reinforce NATOs eastern flank. The order, directed byBiden, followed what the presidentlabeled Russias initial invasion of Ukraine.
"As he escalates his war against Ukraine, Putin must be made to pay a far heavier price than he paid for his previous invasions of Georgia and Ukraine, McConnell told reporters Tuesday.
During his address to the nation, Biden said shifting those resources was totally defensive move and not a signal that the U.S. is prepared to engage in combat with Russia.
Plan A is to utilize every tool of diplomacy to deter Russia and prevent further escalation, he said. And if that fails, Plan B is to fight for every inch of our land.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken will no longer meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov this week, saying Russia is rejecting diplomacy.
The last 24 hours has demonstrated just the opposite, Blinken said. If Moscow's approach changes, we remain I remain pretty much prepared to engage.
