Without word from federal government Wisconsin resettlement of Ukraine refugees faces uncertain future
20220301
https://www.postcrescent.com/story/news/2022/03/01/how-help-ukraine-wisconsin-cant-take-refugees-without-federal-ok/6974467001/
Lemke said that she consulted with Zori Martinez, who said they're waiting on instructions from the federal government.
"The Department will work with the U.N. Refugee Agencyand our overseas posts to determine whether Ukrainians who have fled to another country require resettlement to a third country because they are not safe in their current location," a State Department spokesperson said in an email Tuesday to the Green Bay Press-Gazette. "The United States willassess vulnerabilityas a central tenet of refugee admissionsto addressthe urgent need for resettlement across all regions. We alsowill not discriminate based on country of origin."
Those individuals and families await to be approved for resettlement by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
It took them a total of three days to arrive in the Ukrainiancity of Kovel', where the mayor, Ihor Chaika, personally met with refugees and his parents got a warm meal and a place to sleep.
"Ukrainians are subject to showing proof of COVID-19 vaccination requirement to enter the U.S. But many people's homes are destroyed and medical records including vaccination certificates are burnt," said Ivanov. "Many people cannot find their vaccination certificates in the government app program, which had suffered from outages. Many other people have simply lost their certificates in the chaos of escape."
Alejandro Mayorkas, the secretary of homeland security, temporarily lifted that requirement for Ukrainians"in light of recent geopolitical tensions, involving Ukraine." The exemption would help streamline those people in Ukraine who needto depart immediately and are accompanied by a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident.
Meanwhile, Russian forces over the last week have encroached on where Ivanov's parents huddled on the western edge of Kyiv. With rocket fire and explosions closing in around them, the two were left with no better option than to flee the city for good.
A member of the Green Bay community,Lemke said, had also called. They wanted to donate a quilt to a family in Ukraine but, according to Lemke,"there's no method yet for more formal action."
Over the last two weeks, U.S. military Humveesmoved into the southeastern borderlands of Polandin the city of Rzeszw, 30 miles west of Ukraine. There, thousands of soldiers from the U.S. Armys 82nd Airborne Division wait.
Like Ivanov, Zori Martinez hasn't slept much since last Wednesday. A child of refugees fleeing the Yugoslavia Wars, she knows the toll of escaping a war-torn homeland.
Their home, near a military draft center and an ammunition depot, rattled and shook with every missile launched at those military targets. They left virtually everything, including their COVID-19 vaccination cards, behind.
Another big difference is that Ukraine's neighboring countries have opened their borders tomany Ukrainiansin mass exodus, although many Black refugees and other migrants of color in Ukraine many of whom are students  are reportedly being blocked from fleeing to safety.
As his parents wait to cross into Poland, Ivanov, racked with insomnia, continues to send messages to Wisconsin and U.S. leaders. He said the border into Poland has been overwhelmed, with some taking as long as 80 hours to successfully cross.
RELATED:10 years after living in Ukraine to teach English, Wisconsin reporter returns to the region. Here's what she saw.
Friends told them there was an evacuation bus pickup point far from them and, with neither public transit nor taxis in operation, they doubted they could travel the distance on their own.
In Wisconsin, one of six local resettlement agencies across the state receives refugees, connecting them with services that can help embed them in their communities. Those settlements are International Institute of Wisconsin, Lutheran Social Services of Wisconsin and Upper Michigan, World Relief Fox Valley, Jewish Social Services,Multicultural Community Center in Wausau and Catholic Charities of Green Bay.
His parents and Ivanov's other relatives say their only hope was to fleeto a refugee camp in Europe, whether Hungary, Romania or Poland, where, they heard, U.S.soldiers were setting up shelters.
"I really hope that our Wisconsin congressional team will step up their efforts to authorize additional help to Ukraine," said Ivanov, a professor of Ukrainian history at the University of Wisconsin-Platteville.
To complicate matters, COVID-19 health and safety protocolshave changed the rules of global air travelinthe U.S., which requires all noncitizens and those with non-immigration visa status to be fully vaccinated, except under limited circumstances.
Natalie Eilbert isa government watchdog reporter for the Green Bay Press-Gazette. You canreach her atneilbertgannett.comor view her Twitter profile atnatalieeilbert.
It was different at the end of the Afghanistan War last fallbecause the United States evacuated Afghan people. Considered "evacuees," people in Afghanistanfit into a different category. There would be no time for a slow resettlement phase in which culture and education could be introduced in increments.
"That's one of the questions we submitted to our federal partners," said Bojana Zori Martinez,the Wisconsin state refugee coordinator. "We have been getting calls about how to get friends and family stuck there out. Unfortunately, I don't have an answer yet, but I hope to have one soon."
While Ivanov expressed a desire for the U.S. to push for expedited steps for Ukrainians to join loved ones in the United States, the future is uncertain.
Once the United States authorizes its refugee nations, federal officescoordinate with nine resettlement support centers overseas and nine national resettlement agencies in the United States.
"Whenever the federal government confirms, we are here to help," Lemke said. "Right now, know that we're all praying, of course,and are watching closely. It's a terrible thing to watch from afar, butwe've not been called on to be mobilized in any wayin terms of refugee resettlement, or even collections at this time."
Near theZhytomyr region, his parents told him they were packed in with other refugees on atrain. The rail cars were so stuffed with people that travelerswho hoped to board would sometimes have to wait 24 hours before a train arrived with adequate space.
Karmen Lemke, the director and mission leader at Catholic Charities in Green Bay, said all she can do is pray for those Ukrainians displaced by war.
"Any movement is better than no movement. People cross on foot, cars, packed buses and trains," Ivanov said. "Polish authorities are working tirelessly to handle a humanitarian catastrophe the scale of which is unprecedented for post-World War II Poland."
For Ivanov, Mayorkas's decision is "better than nothing," although the situation may remaindire well beyond April 1 when that exemption for unvaccinated Ukrainians expires.
U.S.Secretary of StateAntony Blinken announced on Sundaythe provision of nearly $54 million in humanitarian assistance to those affected by Russiasinvasion.
Without guidance from federal agencies, Zori Martinez said, state agencies aren't able to speed along the process of getting people out.
For Ivanov's parents, and so many other Ukrainians who hope to eventually be reunited with family members in the U.S., the process is long and cumbersome.
"I, too, am reliving all the things that have happened to me overseas: thesirens and bombs and seeing people suffer and suffering myself and all those things. It is very difficult, but we got to hang in there. We have to stay strong," she said.
As of now, the State Department said it's not considering the United States asan initialresettlement country for Ukrainians.
Among the half a million Ukrainian refugees who have crossed the border to Poland, Hungary, Romania, Moldova and other countries since the Russian incursion Thursday, those seeking to join loved ones living abroad in Wisconsin  or anywhere in the United States  face a complex systemthat could take years to navigate.
But they escaped right on time, as Russia's army completely closed in on where they once lived.
Refugees overseaswait in what the Wisconsin Department of Children and Familiescalls "lily pads," but according to Zori Martinez, the state refugee coordinator, there's no ballpark timeframe for how long someone may be in a post outside the United States.
Zori Martinez hears the message of suffering loud and clear. She said that she had a wonderful life as a girl until war ripped her world asunder and "everything was taken away."
Ukrainians under siege have neither fuel nor transportation out of bombardment zonesright now, nor do they know for certain what awaits them when they ultimately cross the western Ukrainian border.
Since 2002, Wisconsin has welcomed 83 Ukrainian refugeesdue to its cohort ofresettlement agencies, with the lion's share of Ukrainian refugees living inMilwaukee and Green Bay.
"By sheer miracle, they found a car ride to the evacuation bus, but getting there involved going through the area located inside the triangle of three airports, which were all under heavy rocket attack, paratrooper landing, explosions, sirens and the like," Ivanov said. "It was a 30-minute ride through Kyiv's outer triangle of hell."
"We are going to do whatever it takes and whatever we can in our great state of Wisconsin to support refugees from anywhere.Ukrainians and Afghans and others are no different," Zori Martinez said."We have great people in our state, and I know,judging by all the outpour of support, that we're going to be OK."
It begins with the U.S. president working with Congress to determine what countries can be authorized for refugee admissions.
Zori Martinez had a meeting on Friday with federal partners such as the Department of Health and Human Services, andother partners across the country, including refugee coordinators of other states. The question of Ukrainianresettlement was broached almost immediately, but, she said, federal officials said they would provide more information as soon as they have it.
PLATTEVILLE  Andrey Ivanov hadn't rested in a week, sincethe days leading up to Russia's invasion. His parents in Kyivescaped their home and headed to abomb shelterwhere they hunkered down with otherUkrainians.
