Humanity playing with a loaded gun
20220806
https://www.thedailystar.net/news/world/news/humanity-playing-loaded-gun-3089361
Three days after the Hiroshima bombing, Washington dropped a second atomic bomb on the Japanese port city of Nagasaki, killing about 74,000 people and leading to the end of World War II.
There are now fewer than 119,000 officially recognised survivors of the two nuclear attacks, according to government statistics from March.
Before dawn, survivors and their relatives began to gather at Hiroshima's Peace Memorial Park to pay tribute to the victims.
The Russian ambassador was not invited to the ceremony but visited Hiroshima on Thursday to lay flowers at the memorial site.
Today, "crises with grave nuclear undertones are spreading fast," Guterres said, repeating warnings he made this week at a nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty conference in New York.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine in February, President Vladimir Putin has made thinly veiled threats hinting at a willingness to deploy tactical nuclear weapons.
Around 140,000 people died when Hiroshima was bombed by the United States on August 6, 1945, a toll that includes those who perished after the blast from radiation exposure.
In a speech yesterday, Hiroshima Mayor Kazumi Matsui cited Leo Tolstoy, the Russian author of "War and Peace", saying: "Never build your happiness on the misfortune of others, for only in their happiness can you find your own."
"Humanity is playing with a loaded gun" as crises with the potential for nuclear disaster proliferate worldwide, UN head Antonio Guterres said in Hiroshima yesterday, the 77th anniversary of the first atomic bomb attack.
"We must ask: What have we learned from the mushroom cloud that swelled above this city?"
The United States remains the only country ever to have used nuclear weapons in conflict.
At an annual memorial, Guterres warned of the risk posed by crises in Ukraine, the Middle East and the Korean peninsula as he described the horrors endured by the Japanese city.
"Tens of thousands of people were killed in this city in the blink of an eye. Women, children and men were incinerated in a hellish fire," he said.
