Invasion intensifies
20220302
https://www.thedailystar.net/news/world/2022-russian-invasion-ukraine/news/invasion-intensifies-2974256
The emergency services said four people were killed in the city and there was now "mass shelling and bombing" in the centre.
In a video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russian forces wanted to "erase our country, erase us all".
In his first State of the Union address on Tuesday night, US President Joe Biden warned the sanctions campaign to cripple Russia's economy would escalate and its oligarchs were being targeted, reports AFP.
He said talks were under way between the Russian army and local authorities on maintaining order, protecting the population and keeping public services functioning.
As the civilian death toll mounts, there is growing opposition to the conflict within Russia, with thousands detained for taking part in anti-war protests.
Ukraine said more than 350 civilians, including 14 children, have been killed in the conflict and the International Criminal Court has opened a war crimes investigation against Russia.
Russian paratroopers also landed in Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-biggest city, triggering clashes in the streets, Ukrainian forces said.
Russian forces said they had captured a port on the Black Sea yesterday as Russian and Ukrainian troops battled for another city and US President Joe Biden vowed to make his Russian counterpart "pay a price" for the invasion.
The invasion has sent global markets into a spiral, with crude surging past $110 a barrel yesterday and equities sinking.
Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said yesterday Russian forces were in "full control" of Kherson.
The UN said 836,000 people have fled since the conflict began seven days ago, including many students and migrant workers from Africa and the Middle East who had been living in Ukraine.
"We left everything there as they came and ruined our lives," said Svitlana Mostepanenko, a refugee registering in Prague.
US satellite images, meanwhile, show that Russia has massed artillery and armoured cars near Kyiv, raising fears of an imminent assault.
Russian troops rolled into Ukraine last week to achieve Putin's mission of overthrowing Zelensky's government and "denazifying" the pro-Western country.
But Ukrainian troops have fought back hard and prevented Russia from capturing the country's biggest cities.
Western countries have already imposed crippling sanctions on Russia's economy. In the latest development, the EU banned broadcasts of Russian state media RT and Sputnik and excluded seven Russian banks from the global SWIFT bank messaging system.
The Russian army said it had taken control of Kherson, as its troops advanced and pounded cities across northern, southern and eastern Ukraine, defying sanctions and international isolation.
