Oil falls on Ukraine peace talk hopes China demand fears
20220329
https://www.thedailystar.net/business/news/oil-falls-ukraine-peace-talk-hopes-china-demand-fears-2993216
Oil prices on Tuesday extended losses from the previous day as Ukraine and Russia headed for peace talks and on concerns about demand as China's financial hub of Shanghai shut down to curb a surge in COVID-19 cases.
Worldwide demand has risen to nearly pre-pandemic levels, but supply has been hindered, as OPEC has been slow to restore supply after cuts enacted during the pandemic in 2020.
Ukraine and Russia were set to meet in Istanbul on Tuesday for their first peace talks in over two weeks. Sanctions imposed on Russia after it invaded Ukraine have curtailed oil supply and sent prices to 14-year highs earlier this month.
Brent crude futures were down 60 cents, or 0.5 per cent, at $111.88 a barrel at 0649 GMT, having fallen as low as $109.97.
"Oil prices are under pressure again on expectations for peace talks between Ukraine and Russia, which could lead to an easing or avoidance of Western sanctions on Russian oil," said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, general manager of research at Nissan Securities.
"A successful cease-fire could also raise the prospect of reviving an Iranian nuclear deal," he added.
U.S. oil exports have climbed since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and barrels of domestic oil that would typically go to the Cushing, Oklahoma, storage hub are instead being exported via the Gulf Coast, traders said.
Shanghai accounts for about 4 per cent of China's oil consumption, ANZ Research analysts said.
The group will likely stick to plans for a modest increase in oil output in May, several sources close to the group said, despite a surge in prices and calls from the U.S. and others for more supply.
The market is also waiting on a meeting on Thursday of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, collectively known as OPEC.
"Selling pressure grew on concerns that China may impose more restrictions in other places to contain the pandemic," said Tsuyoshi Ueno, senior economist at NLI Research Institute.
Offsetting concerns about tight supply, Shanghai's two-stage lockdown over nine days is expected to hit fuel demand in China, the world's largest oil importer.
US West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down 59 cents, or 0.6 per cent, at $105.37 after hitting a low of $103.46.
