Russia says does not want war over Ukraine
20220128
https://www.thedailystar.net/world/europe/news/russia-says-does-not-want-war-over-ukraine-2949276
The Kremlin said Putin would spend a "lot of time" discussing European security issues with Chinese President Xi Jinping when he visits Beijing next week for the opening of the Winter Olympics.
The United States and its allies have warned President Vladimir Putin that Russia will face swift and tough economic sanctions if he attacks Ukraine.
Russia has massed tens of thousands of troops near the Ukrainian border as it presses demands for a redrawing of post-Cold War security arrangements in Europe.
Lavrov said he expected to meet USSecretary of State Antony Blinken again in the next couple of weeks. Their last meeting, in Geneva on January 21, produced no breakthrough but both sides agreed to keep talking.
Russia has dismissed calls to withdraw, saying it can deploy troops as it sees fit on its own territory.
Lavrov said, without giving details, that the UScounter-proposals were better than NATO's. Russia was studying them and Putin would decide how to respond.
The head of Germany's BND foreign intelligence agency told Reuters that Russia was prepared to attack Ukraine but added: "I believe that the decision to attack has not yet been made".
Italy's government had urged companies not to take part in that call, at a moment when Western governments are trying to build unity over possible sanctions.
While the USand NATO responses have not been made public, both have stated they are willing to engage with Moscow on a series of topics, including arms control.
Russia on Friday sent its strongest signal so far that it is willing to engage with USsecurity proposals and reiterated that it does not want war over Ukraine.
The USambassador to Moscow, John Sullivan, told reporters that Washington had raised the possibility of "reciprocal transparency measures... including on offensive weapons systems in Ukraine, as well as measures to increase confidence regarding military exercises and manoeuvers in Europe."
Putin also plans a meeting with German business people, following talks with Italian executives on Wednesday at which he underlined the importance of energy ties between Russia and Italy.
Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia said his country had absolutely no interest in a war and that conflict would break out only if Belarus or Russia were directly attacked.
"If it depends on Russia, then there will be no war. We don't want wars. But we also won't allow our interests to be rudely trampled, to be ignored," Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told Russian radio stations in an interview.
Lavrov said the West was ignoring Russia's interests but there was at least "something" in written responses submitted by the United States and NATO on Wednesday to Russia's proposals.
The comments were among the most conciliatory that Moscow has made on the Ukraine crisis, which has escalated into one of the tensest East-West standoffs since the Cold War ended three decades ago.
"It's the equivalent of if you and I were having a discussion or a negotiation. If I put a gun on the table and say that I come in peace, that's threatening," Sullivan said.
No date has been set for the German meeting, which could also be controversial, especially as Ukraine has expressed frustration over Berlin's refusal to provide it with weapons to defend itself and what some countries sees as its ambivalence over possible sanctions against Russia.
He said the size of Russia's build-up near Ukraine would allow an invasion with little warning, and urged it to pull back its forces.
