Russia hits Kyiv Lviv
20220416
https://www.thedailystar.net/news/world/2022-russian-invasion-ukraine/news/russia-hits-kyiv-lviv-3005876
"The situation is very difficult" in Mariupol, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy told the Ukrainska Pravda news portal. "Our soldiers are blocked, the wounded are blocked. There is a humanitarian crisis...Nevertheless, the guys are defending themselves."
US media reported that Russia had sent a formal complaint to Washington about its support of Kyiv this week.
Zelensky warned Friday that Russia might use nuclear weapons out of desperation as its invasion falters, echoing recent comments by CIA director William Burns.
Russian air raids and missile strikes hit Ukraine's capital Kyiv and other major cities yesterday as Moscow launched more long-range attacks following the sinking of its Black Sea Fleet's flagship.
Despite the Russian attacks, in a sign of the improved situation in Kyiv, the Italian and French embassies both restarted working in the capital for the first time since the early days of the war, their ambassadors said.
Russian troops that pulled out of the north left behind towns littered with bodies of civilians, evidence of what US President Joe Biden this week called genocide - an attempt to erase Ukrainian national identity.
"The elimination of our troops, of our men in Mariupol will put an end to any negotiations" between Ukraine and Russia, Zelensky said in the interview.
In the diplomatic note, Moscow warned the United States and Nato against sending the "most sensitive" weapons, saying such shipments were "adding fuel" to the situation and could come with "unpredictable consequences", the Washington Post reported.
In the besieged port of Mariupol, scene of the war's heaviest fighting and worst humanitarian catastrophe, Russian troops pressed their advances, hoping to make up for their failure to capture Kyiv by seizing their first big prize of the war.
A month and a half into President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, Russia is trying to capture territory in the south and east after withdrawing from the north following an assault on Kyiv that was repelled at the capital's outskirts.
The governor of Kharkiv province in the east said at least one person had been killed and 18 were injured in a missile strike. In Mykolaiv, a city close to the southern front, Russia said it had struck a military vehicle repair factory.
The Ukrainian military said Russian warplanes that took off from Belarus had fired missiles at the Lviv region near the Polish border and four cruise missiles were shot down by Ukrainian air defences.
Ukraine says civilian deaths are impossible to count, estimating at least 20,000 killed in Mariupol alone.
Britain has been part of an international effort to punish Russia with asset freezes, travel bans and economic sanctions, and Moscow's new entry blacklist includes Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, and Defence Secretary Ben Wallace.
The United States pledged a new $800-million military aid package for Ukraine this week, including helicopters, howitzers and armoured personnel carriers, and on Friday the German government said it plans to release more than a billion euros $1.1 billion in aid as well.
In Mariupol, Reuters journalists in Russian-held districts reached the Ilyich steel works, one of two metals plants where defenders have held out in underground tunnels and bunkers. Moscow claimed to have captured it on Friday.
The attacks followed Russia's announcement on Friday that it would intensify long-range strikes in retaliation for unspecified acts of "sabotage" and "terrorism", hours after it confirmed the sinking of its Black Sea flagship, the Moskva.
Zelenskiy said about 2,500-3,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed so far and up to 20,000 Russian troops. Moscow has given no updates on its military casualties since March 25, when it said 1,351 had died.
Moscow said its warplanes had struck a tank repair factory in Kyiv. An explosion was heard and smoke seen in the southeastern Darnytskyi district. The mayor said at least one person had died and medics were fighting to save others.
Ukraine's defence is concentrated around Azovstal, another huge steel works that has yet to yield. Ukraine says it has so far held off Russian advances elsewhere in the Donbas regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, where at least one person was killed in shelling overnight.
Russia denies targeting civilians and says the aim of its "special military operation" is to disarm its neighbour, defeat nationalists and protect separatists in the southeast.
Russia yesterday said it was banning entry to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and several other top UK officials.
The western city has been relatively unscathed so far in the conflict and serves as a haven for refugees and international aid agencies.
If Mariupol falls it would be Russia's biggest prize of the war so far. It is the main port of the Donbas, a region of two provinces in the southeast which Moscow demands be fully ceded to separatists.
Kyiv and Washington say the ship, whose sinking has become a symbol of Ukrainian defiance, was hit by Ukrainian missiles. Moscow says it sank after a fire and that its crew of around 500 were evacuated.
Overall, around a quarter of Ukrainians have been driven from their homes, including a tenth of the population that has fled abroad.
