US West may not like India buying Russian oil but accept it
20220817
https://www.thedailystar.net/news/asia/india/news/us-west-may-not-appreciate-india-buying-russian-oil-they-accept-it-3097051
The Foreign Minister said India is not doing it in a "defensive way". "We are being very open and honest about our interests. I have a country that has a per capita income of two thousand dollars. These are not people who can afford higher energy prices," Jaishankar said.
Jaishankar made the remark in Bangkok, where he reached Tuesday August 15, 2022 to attend the 9th India-Thailand Joint Commission Meeting, and interacted with the Indian community, reports our New Delhi correspondent.
In May, Russia overtook Saudi Arabia to become India's second-biggest supplier of oil behind Iraq as refiners snapped up Russian crude available at a deep discount following the war in Ukraine
The US and European nations have imposed heavy sanctions on Russia since Moscow sent troops into Ukraine on February 24.
A senior Indian government official had said in June that India's crude oil imports from Russia had jumped over 50 times since April.
The United States and Western countries may not appreciate India buying Russian oil but they have accepted it as New Delhi has not been defensive about its stand, Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said.
He said oil prices are "unreasonably high" and so are the gas prices. A lot of traditional suppliers to Asia are diverting to Europe because Europe is buying less oil from Russia, he added.
India has raised oil imports from Russia after the Ukraine war despite criticism from the West, and continues to engage with Moscow for business.
"I do see that  not just in the United States but including the US  that they know what our position is and they move on with that," he said when asked about the impact of buying Russian oil on India's ties with the US.
"It is a situation today where every country will try to get the best deal possible for its citizens, to try to cushion the impact of these high energy prices. And that is exactly what we are doing," Jaishankar said in reply to a question.
He said it was his "obligation" and "moral duty" to ensure that the people in India get the best deal
"They may not always appreciate it but once it is there and you are not trying to be too clever about it, you actually have laid out your interest in a very direct manner, my sense is that the world somewhat accepts that as reality, Jaishankar said
He defended India's decision to buy discounted Russian oil amid Russia's war with Ukraine, saying many suppliers of India have diverted their supplies to Europe which is buying less oil from Russia.
