At Least 3 Dead After Russian Airstrike Hits Hospital In Ukraine
20220309
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/russian-attacks-childrens-hospital-ukraine_n_6228d5a4e4b047f85a440e8d
Despite often heavy shelling on populated areas, American military officials reported little change on the ground over the previous 24 hours, other than Russian progress against the cities of Kharkiv and Mykolaiv, in heavy fighting. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to assess the military situation.
Two weeks since the invasion began, the sides held their highest-level talks so far. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he hoped the meeting between Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba in a Turkish Mediterranean resort will open the door to a permanent cease-fire. But Kuleba said he did not have high expectations.
Nationwide, thousands are thought to have been killed, both civilians and soldiers, since Putins forces invaded. The U.N. estimates more than 2 million people have fled the country, the biggest exodus of refugees in Europe since the end of World War II.
We have a short window of time at the moment, said Yevhen Nyshchuk, a member of Ukraines territorial defense forces. Even if there is a cease-fire right now, there is a high risk of shells falling at any moment.
People streamed out of Kyivs suburbs a day earlier, many headed for the city center, as explosions were heard in the capital and air raid sirens sounded repeatedly. From there, the evacuees planned to board trains bound for western Ukrainian regions not under attack.
With sporadic gunfire echoing behind them, firefighters dragged an elderly man to safety in a wheelbarrow, a child gripped the hand of a helping soldier, and a woman inched her way along, cradling a fluffy cat inside her winter coat. They trudged past a crashed van with the words Our Ukraine written in the dust coating its windows.
Local authorities hurried to bury the dead from the past two weeks of fighting in a mass grave in the city. Workers dug a trench some 25 meters yards long at one of the citys old cemeteries and made the sign of the cross as they pushed in bodies wrapped in carpets or bags.
International Red Cross spokesman Jason Straziuso said safe passage corridors were welcome but have to be well planned, with details agreed on by all sides including the right to bring in food, clean water, medical supplies and other necessities.
Previous attempts to establish safe evacuation corridors over the past few days largely failed because of what the Ukrainians said were Russian attacks. But Putin, in a telephone call with Germanys chancellor, accused militant Ukrainian nationalists of hampering the evacuations.
This week, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova  without evidence  accused Ukraine of running chemical and biological weapons labs with U.S. support. White House press secretary Jen Psaki called the claim preposterous and said Russia might be trying to lay the groundwork for its own use of such weapons against Ukraine.
Authorities announced new cease-fires to allow thousands of civilians to escape bombarded towns. Zelenskyy said three humanitarian corridors operated on Wednesday, from Sumy in the northeast near the Russian border, from suburbs of Kyiv and from Enerhodar, the southern town where Russian forces took over a large nuclear plant.
Today Russia committed a huge crime, said Volodymir Nikulin, a top regional police official, standing in the ruins. It is a war crime without any justification.
Britains Armed Forces minister, James Heappey, said that whether hitting the hospital was indiscriminate fire into a built-up area or a deliberate targeting, it is a war crime.
In Zhytomyr, a city of 260,000 to the west of Kyiv, bombs fell on two hospitals, one of them a childrens hospital, Mayor Serhii Sukhomlyn said on Facebook. He said there were no injuries.
Such guarantees are vital for places like Mariupol, a city of 430,000 on the Sea of Azov, where Zelenskyys office said about 1,200 people have died during the nine-day siege.
Civilians leaving the Kyiv suburb of Irpin were forced to make their way across the slippery wooden planks of a makeshift bridge, because the Ukrainians blew up the concrete span leading to Kyiv days ago to slow the Russian advance.
Ahead of those talks, artillery fire was heard on the western edge of Kyiv, Deputy Interior Minister Vadym Denysenko said. He told Ukrainian TV channel Rada that residents had a rather difficult night on the outskirts of the capital in which Russian forces started by targeting military sites but then hit residential areas.
The attack a day earlier in the besieged southern port city wounded 17 people, including women waiting to give birth, doctors and children buried in the rubble. Bombs also fell on two hospitals in another city west of the capital.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine AP  An airstrike on a hospital in the port city of Mariupol killed three people, including a child, the city council said Thursday, as Russian forces intensified their siege of Ukrainian cities, as the top Russian and Ukrainian diplomats met for the first time since the war began.
WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT  Ukraine accused Russia of bombing a childrens hospital in the besieged city of Mariupol https:t.couOWQGmeQEy pic.twitter.comSlnSxMjZVB
The Biden administration warned Russia might seek to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine and rejected Russian claims of illegal chemical weapons development there.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk pleaded Thursday with the Russian military to allow access for repair crews to restore electricity to the plant, and to fix a damaged gas pipeline in the south that has left Mariupol and other towns without heat for days.
Some Ukrainian officials have called the medial facility attacked Wednesday a childrens hospital, others a maternity one. It was not clear if perhaps it hosted both services.
A childrens hospital. A maternity hospital, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address, switching to Russian to express horror at the strike. What kind of country is this, the Russian Federation, which is afraid of hospitals, afraid of maternity hospitals, and destroys them?
The fighting knocked out power to the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant on Wednesday, raising fears about the spent radioactive fuel stored there that must be kept cool. But the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency said it saw no critical impact on safety from the loss of power.
Two weeks into Russias assault on Ukraine, its military is struggling more than expected, but Putins invading force of more than 150,000 troops retains possibly insurmountable advantages in firepower as it bears down on key cities.
Associated Press journalists Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Ukraine, and Felipe Dana and Andrew Drake in Kyiv, Ukraine, contributed along with other reporters around the world.
Another woman wailed as she clutched her child. In the courtyard, a blast crater extended at least two stories deep.
In all, he said, about 35,000 people got out. More evacuations were planned for Thursday from towns and cities under bombardment in eastern and southern Ukraine  including Mariupol  as well as the Kyiv suburbs.
The crisis is deteriorating as Moscows forces intensify their bombardment of cities in response to what appears to be stronger Ukrainian resistance and heavier Russian losses than anticipated.
The ground shook more than a mile away when the series of blasts hit. Explosions blew out windows and ripped away much of the front of one building. Police and soldiers rushed to the scene to evacuate victims, carrying a bleeding woman with a swollen belly on a stretcher past burning and mangled cars.
Sharing video that showed cheerfully painted hallways strewn with twisted metal, Zelenskyy urged the West to impose even tougher sanctions than the ones that have already plunged its economy into severe isolation, so Russia no longer has any possibility to continue this genocide.
The World Health Organization said it had confirmed 10 people died and 16 were injured in attacks on health facilities and ambulances since the fighting began. It was not clear if its numbers included the assault on the hospital in Mariupol.
The World Health Organization said it has confirmed 18 attacks on medical facilities since the Russian invasion began two weeks ago.
We havent been able to resupply our teams in recent days in Mariupol, for example, Straziuso said.
