Former US Marine Killed While Fighting In Ukraine Relatives Say
20220429
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/willy-cancel-us-marine-killed-while-fighting-in-ukraine-relatives-say_n_626be648e4b050c90f3f8d64
He wanted to go over because he believed in what Ukraine was fighting for, and he wanted to be a part of it to contain it there so it didnt come here, and that maybe our American soldiers wouldnt have to be involved in it, she said.
Cancels widow, Brittany Cancel, told Fox News he leaves behind a young son and that she sees her husband as a hero.
They havent found his body, she said. They are trying, the men that were with him, but it was either grab his body or get killed, but we would love for him to come back to us.
The U.S. has not confirmed the reports. On Friday, the State Department said it was aware of the reports and is closely monitoring the situation. Due to privacy considerations, we have no further comment. We once again reiterate U.S. citizens should not travel to Ukraine due to the active armed conflict and the singling out of U.S. citizens in Ukraine by Russian government security officials, and that U.S. citizens in Ukraine should depart immediately if it is safe to do so using any commercial or other privately available ground transportation options.
Rebecca Cabrera told CNN her son, 22-year-old Willy Joseph Cancel, was killed Monday while working for a military contracting company that sent him to Ukraine.
He is the first U.S. citizen known to have been killed while fighting in Ukraine.
WASHINGTON AP  A former U.S. Marine was killed fighting alongside Ukrainian forces in war with Russia, his relatives told media outlets.
Cabrera said her son was working as a corrections officer in Tennessee and had signed up to work with the private military contractor shortly before fighting began in Ukraine in late February. She told CNN he agreed to go to Ukraine.
She said her husband volunteered to go to Ukraine but also had aspirations of becoming a police officer or firefighter.
He had dreams and aspirations of being a police officer or joining FDNY, she told Fox. Naturally when he found out about what was happening in Ukraine he was eager to volunteer.
My husband did die in Ukraine, Brittany Cancel said. He went there wanting to help people, he had always felt that that was his main mission in life.
