Heavy Fighting Rages In Ukraines RussianOccupied South
20220830
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/heavy-fighting-rages-in-ukraines-russian-occupied-south_n_630e28e7e4b0da54bae30f96
Ukrainian independent military analyst Oleh Zhdanov told The Associated Press that it will be possible to talk about the effectiveness of Ukrainian actions only after large cities are retaken. He added that Ukrainian forces had breached the first and the second lines of defense in the Kherson region several times in the past, but it didnt bring about results.
Russian state news agency Tass that reported explosions rocked Kherson on Tuesday morning  most likely caused by air defense systems.
European Union ministers debated ways to ramp up weapons production, boost military training for Ukraine and inflict heavier costs on Russia.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov maintained that its forces stood up well and that Ukraine lost hundreds of troops, tanks and other armored vehicles in Mondays action. His claim could not be independently verified.
The British said that the most of Russias units around Kherson are likely under-manned and are reliant upon fragile supply lines while its forces there are undergoing a significant reorganization.
The first ship carrying grain from war-torn Ukraine for people in the hungriest parts of the world docked at the Horn of Africa port of Djibouti as deadly drought and conflict grip East Africa. The grain is going to Ethiopia.
The war has ground to a stalemate over the past months, with casualties and destruction rising and the population bearing the brunt of the suffering during relentless shelling in the east and south.
The clashes took place in the countrys Kherson region, where Moscows forces rolled up major gains early in the war. But Ukrainian authorities kept the world guessing about their intentions.
While independent verification of battlefield action has been difficult, Britains Defense Ministry said in an intelligence report that several Ukrainian brigades had stepped up their artillery fire in front-line sectors across southern Ukraine.
Nikopol, a city just across the Dnieper from the plant, again came under a barrage of heavy shelling, local authorities said, with a bus station, stores and a childrens library damaged. And a Russian missile strike targeted the city of Zaporizhzhia, about 50 kilometers 30 miles from the plant, Ukraine said.
The Ukrainian military also reported destroying a pontoon bridge on the Dnieper that the Russian forces were setting up and hitting a dozen command posts with artillery fire.
Alluding to the talk of a major counteroffensive, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address on Monday that one wont hear specifics from any truly responsible person about Kyivs intentions, because this is war.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Ukraine claimed to have destroyed bridges and ammunition depots and pounded command posts in a surge of fighting in the Russian-occupied south, fueling speculation Tuesday that its long-awaited counteroffensive to try to turn the tide of war was underway. Russia said it repelled the attack and inflicted heavy casualties.
Occupation forces have spoken of plans to hold a referendum on making the Kherson region a part of Russia and have pressured residents to take Russian citizenship and stop using Ukraines currency.
The port city of Kherson, with a prewar population of about 300,000, is an important economic hub close to the Black Sea and the first major city to fall to the Russians in the war that began six months ago. The port remains at the heart of Ukraines efforts to preserve its vital access to the sea, while Russia views it as a key point in a land corridor extending from its border to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized in 2014.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said his country is well prepared to tackle a possible energy shortage because of Russias squeeze on European gas supplies. Russia has cut off or reduced the flow of natural gas to a dozen EU countries, raising fears ahead of winter.
The most important thing is Ukrainian artillerys work on the bridges, which the Russian military can no longer use, Zhdanov said.
Ukraines presidential office reported that powerful explosions continued during the day and night in the Kherson region. Tough battles are ongoing practically across all of the area. Ukrainian forces, the office said, destroyed ammunition depots and all large bridges across the Dnieper River vital to supplying Russian troops.
Amid fears that the fighting around the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant could lead to a catastrophe, a U.N. atomic energy agency team set out on a mission to inspect and safeguard the complex. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling the area over and over.
