Putin Puts Nuclear Forces On High Alert Escalating Tensions
20220228
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/putin-nuclear-high-alert-tensions_n_621c53eee4b0afc668c2997b
I wish I had never lived to see this, said Bystritska, an 87-year-old Jewish survivor of World War II. She said sirens blare almost constantly in the city, about 150 kilometers 90 miles from Kyiv.
The number of casualties from Europes largest land conflict since World War II remained unclear amid the confusion.
The fast-moving developments came as scattered fighting has continued around Kyiv. Battles also broke out in Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, and strategic ports in the countrys south came under assault from Russian forces.
Putin, in ordering the nuclear alert, cited not only statements by NATO members but the hard-hitting financial sanctions imposed by the West against Russia, including Putin himself.
In Mariupol, where Ukrainians were trying to fend off attack, a medical team at a city hospital desperately tried to revive a 6-year-old girl in unicorn pajamas who was mortally wounded in Russian shelling.
The EU on Sunday also closed its airspace to Russian airlines and buy weapons for Ukraine. The 27-nation bloc will also ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets, said European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  President Vladimir Putin dramatically escalated East-West tensions by ordering Russian nuclear forces put on high alert following new crippling Western sanctions that forced his Central Bank to sharply raise its key rate Monday to save the ruble from collapse.
By late Sunday, Russian forces had taken Berdyansk, a Ukrainian city of 100,000 on the Azov Sea coast, according to Oleksiy Arestovich, an adviser to Zelenskyys office. Russian troops also made advances toward Kherson, another city in the south of Ukraine, while Mariupol, a port city on the Sea of Azov that is considered a prime Russian target, is hanging on, Arestovich said.
During the rescue attempt, a doctor in blue medical scrubs, pumping oxygen into the girl, looked directly into the Associated Press video camera capturing the scene.
Ukraine has agreed to talks with Moscow, and its presidential office said a delegation arrived on the border with Belarus. Its unclear whether theyll lead to any breakthrough. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys office said it would demand an immediate cease-fire. It wasnt immediately clear what the Kremlin was ultimately seeking, either in the talks or, more broadly, from its war in Ukraine.
The Russian leader is potentially putting in play forces that, if theres a miscalculation, could make things much, much more dangerous, said a senior U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss rapidly unfolding military operations.
Amid the mounting pressure, Western nations said they would tighten sanctions and buy and deliver weapons for Ukraine, including Stinger missiles for shooting down helicopters and other aircraft. European countries will also supply fighter jets to Ukraine, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki told ABC that Putin is resorting to the pattern he used in the weeks before the invasion, which is to manufacture threats that dont exist in order to justify further aggression.
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading NATO members made aggressive statements regarding our country, Putin said in televised comments.
Citing aggressive statements by NATO and tough financial sanctions, Putin on Sunday issued a directive to increase the readiness of Russias nuclear weapons, raising fears that the invasion of Ukraine could lead to nuclear war, whether by design or mistake.
Ukraines Interior Ministry said Sunday that 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed, including 14 children. It said an additional 1,684 people, including 116 children, have been wounded.
With Russian troops closing in around Kyiv, a city of almost 3 million, the mayor of the capital expressed doubt that civilians could be evacuated. Authorities have been handing out weapons to anyone willing to defend the city. Ukraine is also releasing prisoners with military experience who want to fight, and training people to make firebombs.
Western officials believe Putin wants to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
Russia, which massed almost 200,000 troops along Ukraines borders, claims its assault is aimed only at military targets, but bridges, schools and residential neighborhoods have also been hit.
Nearly 900 kilometers 560 miles away, Faina Bystritska was under threat in the city of Chernihiv.
U.S. defense officials would not disclose their current nuclear alert level except to say that the military is prepared all times to defend its homeland and allies.
Russian Defense Minister Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov also said troops took control of the area around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant in the south. He emphasized that the plant was safe and the radiation levels in the area have remained normal.
Show this to Putin, he said angrily. The eyes of this child, and crying doctors.
The U.S. also stepped up the flow of weapons to Ukraine, announcing it will send Stinger missiles as part of a package approved by the White House on Friday. Germany likewise plans to send 500 Stingers and other military supplies.
But Konashenkov said the military would let Kyiv residents use a highway that leads out of the city to the southwest  an offer that appeared to signal a new onslaught is coming.
Isachenkov reported from Moscow. Ellen Knickmeyer, Eric Tucker, Robert Burns and Hope Yen in Washington James LaPorta in Miami Francesca Ebel, Josef Federman and Andrew Drake in Kyiv Mstyslav Chernov and Nic Dumitrache in Mariupol, Ukraine and other AP journalists from around the world contributed to this report.
Chernihiv residents have been told not to switch on any lights so we dont draw their attention, said Bystritska, who has been living in a hallway, away from any windows, so she could better protect herself.
The conflict  seemingly more quiet overnight Sunday than in past nights  could evolve significantly if Russia gets military help from neighboring Belarus, which is expected to send troops into Ukraine as soon as Monday, according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of current U.S. intelligence assessments who spoke anonymously because he was not authorized to speak publicly. The official said that whether Belarus enters the war depends on Ukraine-Russia talks set to happen in coming days.
Their resuscitation efforts failed, and the girl lay dead on a gurney, her jacket spattered with blood.
Putins directive came as Russian forces encountered strong opposition from Ukraine defenders. Moscow has so far failed to win full control of Ukraines airspace, despite advances across the country. U.S. officials say they believe the invasion has been more difficult, and slower, than the Kremlin envisioned, though that could change as Moscow adapts.
The practical meaning of Putins order was not immediately clear. Russia and the United States typically have land- and submarine-based nuclear forces that are on alert and prepared for combat at all times, but nuclear-capable bombers and other aircraft are not.
Meanwhile, the Western allies announced a freeze on Russias hard currency reserves  an unprecedented move that could have devastating consequences for the countrys financial system. The ruble dived sharply on the news, and Russias Central Bank has raised its key rate from 9.5 to 20 in a desperate attempt to shore up the plummeting national currency and and prevent a run on banks.
The U.S., European Union and Britain also agreed to block selected Russian banks from the SWIFT system, which facilitates moving money around thousands of banks and other financial institutions worldwide.
A nearly 40-hour curfew in Kyiv ended on Monday morning. The curfew will resume each night, from 10 p.m. until 7 a.m.
Russias Defense gave no figures on Russias dead and wounded but said Sunday his countrys losses were many times lower than Ukraines.
While Russian troops are being slowed by Ukrainian resistance, fuel shortages and other logistical problems, a senior U.S. defense official said that will probably change. We are in day four. The Russians will learn and adapt, the official said.
The explosions and gunfire around the Ukrainian capital besieged by the Russian forces appeared to subside overnight, and the Russian military offered to allow residents to leave Kyiv via a safe corridor while it has beefed up for an onslaught on the capital.
