Russia Frees Kidnapped Melitopol Mayor In Exchange For 9 Soldiers
20220317
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/russia-frees-ukrainian-mayor_n_6232ffb0e4b0d39357c32fe0
We have finally managed to release the mayor of Melitopol from captivity, Zelenskyy said, according to the translation included in the video. Our Ukrainian city of Melitopol, which did not submit and will not submit to the occupiers. Ivan Fedorov is free. I talked to him today. The Russian military abducted him on March 11, trying to persuade him to collaborate. But our man withstood. He did not give up. Just as we all endure.
Ukraine Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba drew attention to those protests and called on Western leaders to help protect democracy in the country, tweeting a photo of the mayor.
Locals in Melitopol, a southern Ukrainian town captured by Russia, protest against the reported kidnapping of their mayor. Video via Zelenskys office pic.twitter.com139ld4KKly
Russia installed its own mayor in Melitopol following Fedorovs capture. That official, Galina Dalinichenko, called the protests extremist and said people should adjust to the new reality, according to the Financial Times.
Russian war criminals abduct democratically elected mayors of Ukrainian towns. On March 11 they abducted mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov. Locals hold protests demanding to free him. I call on states  international organizations to stop Russian terror against Ukraine  democracy. pic.twitter.com3FXi7y90Pn
Russia released the elected mayor of southern Ukrainian port city Melitopol on Wednesday in exchange for nine captured Russian soldiers, the Ukraine presidents office said.
Russias Foreign Ministry declared it had captured the city of Melitopol on Feb. 26, according to Reuters.
Russia got nine of its captive soldiers, born in 2002-2003  practically children  conscripts Russias Defense Ministry said werent there, Zarivna said.
After Russian forces kidnapped the mayor of Melitopol in southern Ukraine, local lawmaker Galina Dalinichenko says "a committee of the people's chosen ones" will be in charge.She urges locals to "adjust to the new reality" and says protests are "extremist," a Russian buzzword. pic.twitter.como9pEisrPJa
Ukraines prosecutor general began investigating Dalinichenko for treason on Monday following a written request by the Melitopol City Council, according to CNN.
Ukraine negotiated the mayors release by exchanging him for nine captured Russian soldiers, said Daria Zarivna, a spokesperson for Ukraines presidents office, according to The Associated Press.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video posted on Telegram early Thursday that he spoke to Mayor Ivan Fedorov after he was freed by Russian forces. Fedorov was released five days after video showed him being kidnapped by Russian soldiers.
