Ukraine Accuses Russia Of Medieval Siege Tactics
20220306
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/russia-ukraine-war-attacks-halt-evacuation_n_6224f092e4b04a0545d814d8
Moscow has also cracked down on independent reporting on the conflict and arrested anti-war protesters en masse. On Sunday more than 5,000 people in 69 cities were detained, according to rights group OVD-Info  the highest single-day figure since the invasion began.
What are they doing? Vasyl Oksak, a rescue worker, asked of the Russian attackers. There were two little kids and two elderly people living here. Come in and see what they have done.
The Ukrainian government instead proposed eight routes allowing civilians to travel to western regions of Ukraine where there is no shelling.
The lack of phone service left anxious citizens approaching strangers to ask if they knew relatives living in other parts of the city and whether they were safe.
Mykhailo Podolyay said without elaboration that there were some small positive shifts regarding logistics of humanitarian corridors.
Ukrainians, whose ferocious resistance has slowed the invasion and thwarted any hopes Moscow had for a lightning victory, have been reinforcing cities across the country.
Russia has grown increasingly isolated in the face of punishing sanctions. The rubles value has plunged, and the countrys extensive business ties with the West have been all but severed.
Efforts to set up safe passage for civilians over the weekend fell apart amid continued shelling. But the Russian Defense Ministry announced a new push Monday, saying civilians would be allowed to leave the capital of Kyiv, Mariupol and the cities of Kharkiv and Sumy.
The battle for Mariupol is crucial because its capture could allow Moscow to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Hospitals in Mariupol are facing desperate shortages of antibiotics and painkillers, and doctors performed some emergency procedures without them.
I dont know many Ukrainians who want to seek refuge in Russia. Thats hypocrisy, he said in an interview on French news broadcaster LCI.
Russian forces also continued their offensive in Mykolaiv, opening fire on the city some 480 kilometers 300 miles south of Kyiv, according to Ukraines military. Rescuers said they were putting out fires caused by rocket attacks in residential areas.
Emergency officials in the Kharkiv region said overnight shelling killed at least eight people and wrecked residential buildings, medical and education facilities and administrative buildings.
The fighting has sent energy prices surging worldwide and stocks plummeting, and threatens t he food supply and livelihoods of people around the globe who rely on crops farmed in the fertile Black Sea region.
In the Irpin area, which has been cut off from electricity, water and heat for three days, witnesses saw at least three tanks Monday and said Russian soldiers were seizing houses and cars.
The West has rushed weapons to Ukraine, but NATO has shown no interest in sending troops into the country and has rejected Zelenskyys pleas to establish a no-fly zone for fear that could trigger a wider war.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Monday began a lightning visit to the three Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, former Soviet republics that are NATO members. Blinken hoped to reassure them of the alliances protection.
Zelenskyy called for more punitive measures, including a global boycott of Russias oil exports, which are key to its economy.
I think it struck the fourth floor under us, Dmitry Sedorenko said from his Kharkiv hospital bed. Immediately, everything started burning and falling apart. When the floor collapsed beneath him, he crawled out through the third floor, past the bodies of some of his neighbors.
Well into the second week of the war, Russian troops have made significant advances in southern Ukraine and along the coast, but other efforts have become stalled, including an immense military column that has been almost motionless for days north of Kyiv.
Earlier, Klitschko said in a Telegram video address that fierce battles continued Monday in the Kyiv region, notably around Bucha, Hostomel, Vorzel and Irpin.
LVIV, Ukraine AP  Russia announced yet another limited cease-fire and the establishment of safe corridors to allow civilians to flee some besieged Ukrainian cities Monday. But the evacuation routes led mostly to Russia and its ally Belarus, drawing withering criticism from Ukraine and others.
Russian President Vladimir Putins forces continued to pummel some cities with rockets even after the announcement of corridors, and fierce fighting raged in places, indicating there would be no wider cessation of hostilities.
Police moved through the city, advising people to remain in shelters until they heard official messages broadcast over loudspeakers to evacuate.
Im carrying out my duty, working for my country, thanking our soldiers, Natalia Antonovska said at one kitchen. Thats why Im here, and Im very proud of it.
A few miles away, in the small town of Horenka, where shelling reduced one area to ashes and shards of glass, rescuers and residents picked through the ruins as chickens pecked around them.
The two sides held a third round of talks Monday, with an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyy reporting that a little progress had been made on the matter of safe corridors.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Irina Vereshchuk blasted the latest cease-fire proposal, which had most evacuation routes heading toward Russia or its ally Belarus, calling it unacceptable. Belarus served as a launching ground for the invasion.
Ukrainian officials accused Moscow of resorting to medieval siege tactics in places, and in one of the most desperately encircled cities, the southern port of Mariupol, there were no immediate signs of an evacuation.
The countries foreign ministers are also scheduled to meet in Turkey on Thursday, according to that countrys top diplomat.
If Russia doesnt want to abide by civilized rules, then they shouldnt receive goods and services from civilization, he said in a video address.
Every house, every street, every checkpoint, we will fight to the death if necessary, said Mayor Vitali Klitschko.
In Mariupol, where an estimated 200,000 people hoping to flee were becoming increasingly desperate, Red Cross officials waited to hear when a safe corridor would be established. The city is short on water, food and power, and cellphone networks are down. Stores have been looted as residents search for essential goods.
At the International Court of Justice at The Hague, Netherlands, Ukraine pleaded for an order to halt Russias invasion, saying Moscow is committing widespread war crimes and resorting to tactics reminiscent of medieval siege warfare. Russia snubbed the proceedings, leaving its seats in the Great Hall of Justice empty.
The U.N. human rights office reported 406 confirmed civilian deaths but said the number is a vast undercount. The invasion has also sent 1.7 million people fleeing Ukraine.
In Kyiv, soldiers and volunteers have built hundreds of checkpoints, often using sandbags, stacked tires and spiked cables. Some barriers looked significant, with heavy concrete slabs and sandbags piled more than two stories high, while others appeared more haphazard, with hundreds of books used to weigh down stacks of tires.
