Vladimir Putin Invades Ukraine
20220224
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/putin-special-military-operation-russia-ukraine-update_n_6216f648e4b06e1cc589c7c3
Once again, despite our repeated warnings and tireless efforts to engage in diplomacy, Russia has chosen the path of aggression against a sovereign and independent country, Stoltenberg said in a statement.
Zelenskyy, who has declared martial law, asked citizens to stay calm and said Ukraine remained ready for everything.
Russias Defense Ministry claimed it had targeted Ukraines airbases and rendered them and other military infrastructure inoperable, saying the countrys air defense systems had been suppressed. Ukrainian officials also said Belarus, a close ally of Putin, had deployed its own military as part of the assault on border checkpoints.
Zelenskyy said the country was severing all diplomatic ties with Russia. He also vowed to give weapons to anyone who wants to defend Ukraine, and urged people to donate blood to help the effort.
Putin had previously said that eastern regions of Ukraine controlled by Russian-backed separatists should be treated as independent and approved a military deployment into the country in what U.S. officials called an invasion.
Resort to violence to settle territorial disputes causes incalculable damage to people and property, David Miliband of the International Rescue Committee, an aid group, said in a statement. We have seen a growing Age of Impunity in conflicts around the world, and deplore this latest evidence of major states treating the United Nations Charter as an optional extra in their decision-making.
President Joe Biden said in a statement that Moscow had launched an unprovoked and unjustified attack. Biden added late Wednesday that he would soon make an address on the situation and unveil new U.S. punishments for Putin on top of the financial sanctions he had announced in coordination with American allies earlier in the week.
Biden spoke with his top national security advisers and Ukrainian President Zelenskyy as the Russian assault unfolded.
RUSSIA ATTACKS UKRAINE: Explosions have been heard in Ukraines capital as the Russian attack begins. Officials have labeled the operation a full-scale invasion, forcing Ukraines president to declare martial law. ABCs Faith Abubey reports. pic.twitter.comRzyghKjUMa
World leaders vowed to hold Russia accountable for the attack. French President Emmanuel Macron, who has been part of a last-ditch diplomatic effort, said his country firmly condemned Russias moves.
The incursion was first announced from the air, with sirens heard in the capital, Kyiv. Ukraine later released footage of Russian military vehicles entering the territory and said the Russians had successfully captured Chernobyl, the extremely sensitive site of a deadly nuclear disaster in 1986.
President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering. Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring... the world will hold Russia accountable, Biden said. Tonight, Jill and I are praying for the brave and proud people of Ukraine.
As of Thursday evening Eastern time, 137 Ukrainians both civilian and military had been killed and an additional 316 wounded, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities.
Many Ukrainians began to flee major city centers after the incursion began. Major backlogs at gas stations filled streets with cars waiting to buy fuel. Others took refuge in the citys subway tunnels as air sirens sounded across the city.
Some U.S. officials have called for Belarus to be part of any sanctions package that will be announced by the White House later Thursday.
Experts and Ukrainian officials said the broad Russian offensive would likely cause massive humanitarian suffering.
Russian forces invaded Ukraine overnight on President Vladimir Putins orders and attacked targets across the country, with Ukraines military responding.
