Cheapest and most expensive places to buy fuel in Devon on Sunday March 20
20220321
https://www.devonlive.com/news/devon-news/cheapest-most-expensive-places-buy-6832892
Help your money go as far as possible by knowing where to shop for fuel
It's a tricky time for many motorists wanting to fill up their tanks with the general cost of living already causing a financial squeeze. However, the RAC says that a decision to take a slight detour to visit a cheaper forecourt can save you a few pence per litre on fuel, which can help add up to a worthwhile amount over a year.
There is hope that substantial drop in oil prices last week, leading to a cut in wholesale prices for retailers, will soon offer some relief to motorists. Oil prices have spiked due to concerns over the reliability of supplies amid the war in Ukraine. The price per barrel of Brent crude  which is the most commonly used way of measuring the UK's oil price  reached 139 US dollars last Monday March 7, which was its highest level in 14 years.
NOTE: With prices constantly fluctuating and PetrolPrices relying on crowd-sourced data, some of these prices may have changed since publication. But here are some of the cheapest and most costly prices around Devon today prices in pence per litre:
You can stay up-to-date on the top news near you with DevonLive's FREE newsletters  find out more about our range of daily and weekly bulletins and sign up here or enter your email address at the top of the page.
And in a bid to help you save as many pennies as possible, we have put together a list of some of the cheapest places you can purchase fuel across Devon by using data from price-comparison website Petrol Prices.
It will come as no surprise to you to learn that fuel prices have seen a hike recently, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Earlier this week March 17, the average cost of petrol, according to RAC Fuel Watch, was 165.9p, while diesel moved to 176.6p. That makes for increases of 15.5p a litre for petrol and 21.8p for diesel compared to just a month ago.
