McDonalds KFC Pizza Hut and Adidas slammed by Russian media for standing with Ukraine
20220313
https://www.devonlive.com/news/uk-world-news/mcdonalds-kfc-pizza-hut-adidas-6795054
It says: "McDonald's, the quintessential US fast food company, has decided to cease operations in Russia. The reason: the company cannot ignore the human suffering brought about by the Russian operations in the Ukraine.
Get the pick of the week's best stories and fascinating features direct to your inbox every Saturday and Sunday morning in our exclusive Weekender newsletter
"This is called hypocrisy. Together with a serious case of Russophobia, it fuels the sanctions against Russia today." It adds: "McDonald's being a cornerstone of Americanisation, perhaps even the very essence of what is considered to be 'American', it is of course not a surprise to learn it is leaving Russia. Other pillars of the American way of eating and drinking are leaving Russia in McDonald's wake: Starbucks, KFC, Pizza Hut, Coca-Cola and Pepsi Cola."
It concludes: "In one fell swoop, Russia is being liberated from foreign commercial colonisation. It should be the envy of every thinking person in the world. I am sure that many in the 'West' would want to be liberated as well.
Pravda, the Russian newspaper, in an attack against the US fast food giant and other Western retailers' decision to halt sales in the country, said "the Russian public will no longer be tempted to indulge in food that is not food and coffee that is not coffee".
The article in Pravda says: "Why would anybody want to wear ugly synthetic shoes instead of leather shoes that are better for your feet and your health?
The article is also highly critical of the food McDonald's sells - and refers to a series of other major brand names that have suspended operations in Russia, including Adidas and Puma, Heineken and clothing retailers.
"Isn't that funny? The company that has been following the armies of the US all over the planet, never even mentioning 'human suffering' as the US destroyed Iraq with depleted uranium munitions, now all of a sudden claims it cannot ignore 'human suffering!
Russian media has accused McDonald's of "hypocrisy" over its decision to cease operations in the country to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Ukraine.
"No longer will Russians be enticed to buy overpriced garbage from the 'West', whether food, furniture, shoes, coffee, beer or clothes. I am sure they will be all the healthier for it."
