Clear Sign Biden Says Putin Is Considering Use Of Chemical Weapons
20220322
https://dailycaller.com/2022/03/22/clear-sign-biden-putin-considering-chemical-weapons-ukraine/
Russia is also suggesting that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons in Ukraine. Thats a clear sign hes considering using both of those. Hes already used chemical weapons in the past, and we should be careful about whats about to come, Biden continued.
It is Russia that has active chemical and biological weapons programs and is in violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and Biological Weapons Convention, Price continued.
As we have said all along, Russia is inventing false pretexts in an attempt to justify its own horrific actions in Ukraine. The United States does not own or operate any chemical or biological laboratories in Ukraine, it is in full compliance with its obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention and Biological Weapons Convention, and it does not develop or possess such weapons anywhere, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said in a statement March 9.
Russia has alleged that the U.S. is putting bioweapons in Ukraine to use against Russia. There are bioresearch labs in Ukraine partnered with the U.S. government, but there is no evidence that these labs are being used to develop bioweapons or target Russia. RELATED: Heres Why Everyone Is Talking About Biolabs In Ukraine
Biden said March 11 that Russia would pay a severe price if they use chemical weapons, and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin warned that the use of chemical weapons would get a significant reaction.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg also expressed concern March 15 of Russia using chemical weapons in a false flag operation, according to Reuters.
If a chemical or biological weapon was used, youd see a significant reaction from not only the United States, but also the global community, Austin said in a Sunday interview on Face the Nation. I dont want to speculate about what exactly would change our calculation. I think engaging in hypotheticals is probably not helpful here either, but this is a very serious step and as you heard our president say, we wont take that lightly.
Putins back is against the wall and now hes talking about new false flags hes setting up including, asserting that we in America have biological as well as chemical weapons in Europe, simply not true, Biden said at the Business Roundtables CEO Quarterly Meeting.
President Joe Biden claimed Monday that Russia accusing Ukraine of having biological weapons may be evidence that Russian President Vladimir Putin is considering using chemical weapons against Ukraine in a false flag operation.
