How Smart Is He The View Responds To Trump Calling US Leaders Dumb At CPAC
20220301
https://dailycaller.com/2022/02/28/how-smart-is-he-the-view-responds-trump-calling-us-leaders-dumb-cpac/
You ever hear the pot calling the kettle black? co-host Whoopi Goldberg said. Will his Putin praise cause a splinter in the GOP?
The co-hosts previously took shots at Trump and Fox News host and Daily Caller co-founder Tucker Carlson over their remarks on Putin. Goldberg claimed Republicans want to bond with Russia due to their Christian values and their mistreatment of LGBT and minority communities.
Co-host Ana Navarro credited Republican Sens. Mitt Romney of Utah, Marco Rubio of Florida and Rob Portman of Ohio for condemning the praise of Russia and Putin. She then brought up the fact that Trump called Putins recognition of two separatist-controlled regions of Ukraine great and wonderful during a Tuesday interview with The Clay Travis  Buck Sexton Show.
Any Republican who calls themselves a freedom fighter must stand on the side of Ukraine, Navarro said.
Co-host Joy Behar accused Trump of being dumb, claiming that he is in no position to distinguish who is and is not smart.
Co-host Sara Haines then criticized the former president for standing against his own country over Russia. She said he does not fully grasp that Putin benefits from the division within the U.S. and therefore the country has to stand together.
What kind of genius invades a peaceful neighboring country and then tanks his entire economy of his country? Hostin said. Is that a smart thing? RELATED: Wrong About Vladimir Putin All Along: Joe Scarborough Rips Republicans For Praising, Backtracking On Russia
Its very rich that he thinks anybodys is smart. How smart is he? Behar began. Can he even spell CPAC, thats what I want to know. I mean, I dont think that hes any kind of person to talk about whos smart and whos not smart. His vocabulary for, one thing, is extremely limited. He knows about 10 words.
I was reading an article that a lot of it is about white supremacy a lot of this support for Putin and Russia is about white supremacy, Behar said.
To poop on your own country is not a smart thing to do, Goldberg continued. When people wake up and they realize what youre doing and what youre saying, what it means to their country, you know, theyre not going to put up with that. They dont like it.
The View co-hosts reacted to former President Donald Trump Monday after he called U.S. leaders dumb at the Conservative Political Action Conference Saturday in regards to the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
Co-host Sunny Hostin said she is shocked at Republicans and Fox News calling Putin a genius and savvy.
