State Dept Orders US Embassy Families To Evacuate Ukraine Amid Rising Tensions With Russia
20220123
https://dailycaller.com/2022/01/22/us-embassy-families-evacuate-ukraine-tensions-russia/
Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov Friday in an attempt to deescalate the situation along Ukraines border. We didnt expect any major breakthroughs to happen today, Blinken stated, according to CNN. I believe we are on a clearer path in terms of understanding each others concerns, each others positions. Lets see what the next days bring, he concluded.
The evacuation announcement comes on the heels of Ukraines acceptance of the first installment of up to $75 million in lethal aid pledged by the U.S. to help counter Russias military build up along the Ukrainian border, according to the New York Post.
Hours later, Blinken expressed his support for Ukraine in a series of tweets, some of which thanked NATO nations for sending defensive support to the beleaguered nation.
Its one thing if its a minor incursion, and then we end up having a fight about what to do and what not do, etc., Biden stated. But if they actually do what theyre capable of doing with the force theyve massed on the border, it is going to be a disaster forRussia, he concluded. RELATED: Ukrainian President Zelensky Reminds Biden That There Are No Minor Incursions After Press Conference Debacle
The announcement also follows President Joe Bidens comments in a press conference Wednesday that suggested America and NATOs response to Putins actions would depend on what Russia does.
The aid, which is part of a $768 billion defense bill signed in December, provided $300 million to the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative to assist Kyiv in acquiring the resources needed to counter Russias troop buildup on its eastern border, according to the New York Post.
The State Department has ordered family members of U.S. embassy personnel and nonessential staff to evacuate Ukraine as soon as Monday due to escalating tensions with Russia.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the shipment of lethal aid does nothing to reduce tensions, according to the AP.
Next week, the State Department is expected to encourage other Americans living in Ukraine to begin leaving the country via commercial flights while they are still available, reported Fox News.
