Taiwans Fighting Spirit Rational Assessment Does Not Favor Beijing
20220418
https://dailycaller.com/2022/04/17/taiwan-fighting-spirit-beijing/
Just as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has enjoyed wide praise for his wartime leadership, Hammond-Chambers also believes Taiwans president Tsai Ing-wen would perform under fire.
The key questions are how seriously Taiwans government and civilians are about preparing to supply and mobilize in advance of a crisis and how serious Japan, the U.S., and others are about ensuring Taiwan is neither limited by free world risk aversion in advance of a crisis, nor abandoned to fight alone should Beijing attack, said Yates.
The Taiwanese people endured 50 years of Japanese colonialism and emerged with their own identity. They endured 38 years of martial law under Chiang Kai-sheks Kuomintang government, emerged with their own identity, and rapidly transformed into a strong, resilient democracy from the grassroots up, Yates said. While Beijing may have the ability to impose pain and destruction, it will meet with resistance it has never experienced and is unlikely to be able to hold any gains over time.
A military personnel walks past Shenyang Aircraft Corporations J-16 multirole strike fighter for the Peoples Liberation Army Air Force PLAAF at the 13th China International Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition in Zhuhai in southern Chinas Guangdong province on September 28, 2021. Photo by Noel Celis  AFP Photo by NOEL CELISAFP via Getty Images
Support for sovereign Taiwan has grown and shifted over the last three or four decades, mostly as a function of the fact that the people who support unification with China are older people with a stronger, more direct connection with the Chinese people that came over with Chiang Kai-shek in the late 1940s when the Civil War was coming to an end, Rupert Hammond-Chambers, president of the U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, told the DCNF. Now youve got a younger base who passionately support and believe in a sovereign Taiwan and that speaks to the view that they would fight for their country.
Chinas repeated incursions into Taiwans Air Defense Identification Zone are a form of psychological warfare, but also operationally test limits and measure reactions, Yates said.
Taiwan acknowledges a significant difference of defense resources between itself and mainland China, with conventional warfare not being seen as viable, according to Taiwans defense report.
Taiwans military preparedness and will to fight has received renewed attention, following what some outlets, such as The New York Times, have called Ukraines tenacious defense against Russian aggression.
Losing isnt just losing the opportunity to take Taiwan, said Hammond-Chambers. It could ultimately represent the end of Chinese Communist Party rule in China.
Yet, a fighting spirit isnt everything, according to Yates. The U.S. and its allies also play a central role in ensuring Taiwans national security.
I believe she would be there with a hard helmet, rallying her people, Hammond-Chambers said. Tsai demonstrates some aspects of Margaret Thatcher: shes principled, shes tough, and shes a strong leader. RELATED: Genocide And Eugenics: Bipartisan Commission Releases Stunning Human Rights Report On China
Despite the cost, Yates believes U.S. support of Taiwan is justifiable, both practically and morally.
The Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company produces 90 of global output, according to a Reuters report.
If done with impunity they have the potential to demoralize Taiwans military and civilians, said Yates, but to date, they seem to motivate Taiwans supporters to increase freedom of navigation exercises through the Taiwan Strait and provide greater self-defense capabilities to Taiwan.
Meanwhile, the PRC increased provocative and destabilizing actions in and around the Taiwan Strait throughout 2020, including repeated flights into Taiwans Air Defense Identification Zone, according to a 2021 Department of Defense DOD report.
Taiwans indomitable fighting spirit would pose a serious challenge to Beijings military ambitions in the event of an invasion, experts told the Daily Caller News Foundation.
The Wests response to Russias hostilities has further complicated matters, being taken as a sign by some outlets, such as South China Morning Post, that Taiwan may fight alone if Beijing attacks.
The U.S. and the free world have more at stake in Taiwan than most leaders and citizens realize, said Yates, noting both the strategic military value of Taiwan, as well as its role in the production of semiconductor chips.
The starting position of any substantive and rational assessment does not favor Beijing if its goal is to invade, occupy, and sustain control over Taiwan, Steve Yates, senior fellow and chair of the China Policy Initiative, told the DCNF.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporters byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contactlicensingdailycallernewsfoundation.org.
As for how to forestall a PRC attack, Hammond-Chambers believes Beijings dreams of winning control of Taiwan are tempered by serious fears of losing everything.
Communists crave power above and beyond anything else. Anything that jeopardizes that will give the party pause, Hammond-Chambers said. So, its our job to continue to give them pause, to continue to complicate the way in which PLA planners think about attacking the islands. RELATED: China Stockpiling Nuclear Weapons At An Alarming Rate: REPORT
As with Ukraine, Taiwans self-defense capabilities have urgent need for international support, according to the DOD report, which estimates thatBeijings defense budget is over 10 times greater than Taiwans, with Beijing also capable of fielding ground forces 10 times as numerous.
But Beijing is skeptical the U.S. would defend Taiwan. A 2021 military report from the Peoples Liberation Army PLA explicitly called into question Washingtons commitment to the island nation, basing their assessment on what the PLA deemed to be a rushed American military withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Yates also believes the Taiwanese possess a formidable fighting spirit, citing the island nations unique history as a source.
However, while Hammond-Chambers believes Taipei may have felt concern following the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, he doesnt believe it has ultimately changed Taiwans fundamental trust in the U.S.
To bridge the defense gap, the U.S. has supplied Taiwan with more than $23 billion in arms sales since 2010, according to the DOD report.
Allowing the Chinese Communist Party to expand its ethno-nationalist authoritarianism over Taiwan would lead to increasingly aggressive use of its ethnically Chinese compatriots abroad as tools for manipulation and co-optation, said Yates. Far better to recognize Taiwans value now and empower this responsible global stakeholder to defend itself and together deter Chinese aggression.
The fact that the U.S. and NATO were cautious about military support for Ukraine and imposition of crippling sanctions prior to invasion could signal to Beijing that the U.S. and its QUAD partners  Japan, Australia, and India  would demonstrate similar risk aversion in advance of an attack on Taiwan, said Yates.
Taiwan is not Afghanistan, Hammond-Chambers said. The Taiwan Relations Act that encompasses and surrounds U.S. policy towards Taiwan is very different from our 20 year relationship with that iteration of the Afghan government. RELATED: American Elites Have Deep Ties To A New Chinese Spy Chief
The daily incursions into Taiwans airspace typically feature one fighter, but have included as many as 56 craft, according to Taiwans Ministry of National Defense.
Tsai Ing-wen watches a live-fire drill on May 25, 2017. Photo by SAM YEHAFP via Getty Images
