Toyota Suspends Japanese Factories After Reports Of Cyberattack
20220228
https://dailycaller.com/2022/02/28/toyota-japan-cyber-attack-kojima-industries-fumio-kishida/
The attack came just days after Japan joined the U.S. and other western countries delivering sanctions to cripple Russias economy after the invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reported. Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida reportedly pledged the government would look into the incident to determine if Russia is responsible. RELATED: Russian Currency Plummets After Invasion And Western Sanctions
This December 8, 2017 picture shows workers assembling fourth-generation Toyota Prius cars on the production line at the companys Tsutsumi assembly plant in Toyota City, Aichi prefecture. Photo credit TOSHIFUMI KITAMURAAFP via Getty Images
This has never happened before, Takayama told the AP. We are not sure yet if it is a cyberattack, but we suspect it might be one.
The company is investigating the attack and working to address the problem, a Kojima spokesperson told Reuters.
Toyota is suspending production of all its Japanese factories beginning Tuesday after reports of a cyberattack that caused system malfunctions, Reuters reported.
Toyota will lose roughly 13,000 cars as a result of the suspension, according to Reuters. The company apologized to its customers, saying it will continue to work with our suppliers in strengthening the supply chain and make every effort to deliver vehicles to our customers as soon as possible, according to Fox Business.
It is difficult to say whether this has anything to do with Russia before making thorough checks, Kishida said, according to Reuters.
The Japanese car giant will temporarily halt production at all of its 28 lines and 14 plans in Japan after a cyberattack hit one of its suppliers of plastic parts and electronic components, Reuters reported. Kojima Industries Corp, the company hit by the attack, said its computer systems could not communicate with Toyota or monitor production.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporters byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contactlicensingdailycallernewsfoundation.org.
