We Will Give Weapons To Anyone Ukrainian President Issues Defiant Call To Arms
20220224
https://dailycaller.com/2022/02/24/volodomyr-zelensky-russia-ukraine-putin-war/
We have severed diplomatic relations with Russia. For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine.
We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities.
Zelensky declared martial law in Ukraine late Wednesday as the invasion, announced by Russian President Vladimir Putin moments before military operations began, was already underway. He acknowledged that Russian forces were carrying out airstrikes on critical infrastructure, communications centers and military locations.
We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country, Zelensky tweeted early Thursday. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities.
Russia treacherously attacked our state in the morning, as Nazi Germany did in 2WW years. As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history.  has embarked on a path of evil, but  is defending itself  wont give up its freedom no matter what Moscow thinks.
Zelenskys comments followed the beginning of Russias invasion of Ukraine as Russian military forces entered the country and launched airstrikes on key targets.
Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelensky issued a call to arms amid the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, urging Ukrainian citizens to join efforts to repel Russian forces.
Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way, Biden said. The world will hold Russia accountable.
The Ukrainian president also announced that Ukraine had severed diplomatic ties with Russia, and he urged Russians to protest their governments actions. RELATED: Twitter Says It Accidentally Removed Ukrainian Accounts Tracking Russian Troop Movements
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporters byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contactlicensingdailycallernewsfoundation.org.
President Joe Biden issued a statement following the attack promising to retaliate, though its unclear precisely what form the United States response will take.
