Zelenskyy Warns Of Third World War If Negotiations With Putin Fail
20220321
https://dailycaller.com/2022/03/20/volodymyr-zelenskyy-warns-third-world-war-negotiations-putin-ukraine/
Zelenskyy said the war is unlikely to end without negotiations. I am ready for negotiations with him. I was ready over the last two years, and I think that without negotiations, we cannot end this war, Zelenskyy said.
On todays GPS, I spoke w Ukrainian Pres. ZelenskyyUa in an exclusive interview about the state of his country  its war w Russia.
Pt. 1 of our in-depth conversation: the prospect of negotiating w Putin  what Zelensky makes of Russias demands pic.twitter.comrOlK59NMe7
Since Russias invasion on Feb. 24, the country has launched over 1,000 missiles,according to a senior U.S. Defense official. There has been speculation that Putin might be willing to use chemical or nuclear weapons against Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned that a third world war is likely if peace talks with Russia are unsuccessful during a television interview Sunday.
Zelenskyy also claimed he would not be willing to give up territory or Ukrainian sovereignty during potential negotiations. He told Zakaria he believes Russia would never have invaded if Ukraine were a NATO member. RELATED: Crazy Viral Video Shows A Tank Getting Lit Up In Ukraine
Id like to receive security guarantees for my country, for my people. If NATO members are ready to see us in the alliance, then do it immediately. Because people are dying on a daily basis, Zelenskyy said regarding his country benefiting from NATO membership.
There are compromises for which we cannot be ready as an independent state. Any compromises related to our territorial integrity and our sovereignty and the Ukrainian people have spoken about it  they have not greeted Russian soldiers with a bunch of flowers, they have greeted them with bravery, they have greeted them with weapons in their hands, Zelenskyy announced.
I think that we have to use any format, any chance in order to have a possibility of negotiating, possibility of talking to Putin. But if these attempts fail, that would mean that this is a third World War Zelenskyy said during an interview with CNNs Fareed Zakaria. If there is just 1 percent chance for us to stop this war, I think that we need to take this chance, we need to do that, the Ukrainian president added, according to Fox News.
