Did You Notice What Was Peculiar About This MSNBC Hosts Remarks About Tucker Carlson and Russia
20220331
https://townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2022/03/31/did-you-notice-what-was-peculiar-about-this-msnbc-hosts-remarks-about-tucker-carlson-and-russia-n2605301
I want to put up this kind of axis of Putin, Trump, Tucker Carlson, because I think we have mistakenly thought that world events or tragedies or a red line or the slaughter of innocents or as Tony Blinken says, the commission of war crimes, that these things could be defrosted and put on ice, started off Wallace, arguing that Trump and Carlson have not changed their tunes regarding Putin.
Have you ever covered one of the two American political parties associating themselves with an American adversary at a time of war? Wallace asked her guest.
Im not even going to mention what Strzok said because his credibility died when he was busted and fired for his action concerning the Russian collusion myth. Did Wallace suggest were at war with Russia? Because were not. Second, thank God were not because I dont trust Joe Biden to keep us safe. This network is all worked up over Tucker Carlson not thinking as they do, which is not odd since hes a conservative. Also, Bidens trip to Europe saw three awful gaffes that included an insinuation that we would respond with a chemical weapons attack on Russia should they decide to use such weapons, American troop deployments to Ukraine, and removing Putin from power. All three would result in World War III. Biden was walking us right into a nuclear exchange. Luckily, everyone knows hes a stupid, weak, old man but thats not the point. Biden was peak irresponsible and not even his cheat sheet could save him.
MSNBCs Nicolle Wallace ripped into Donald Trump and Tucker Carlson on Wednesday for what she sees as their role in supporting Russian President Vladimir Putin.
First I say that when you look at who she had on for this panel discussion, you want to reach for a vomit bag. MSNBCs Nicolle Wallace had Ben Rhodes and disgraced ex-FBI agent Peter Strzok to give their sweet nothing burger commentary about the Russia-Ukraine war, which obviously ventured into hating Trump, Tucker Carlson, and Fox News. Its a day that ends in y over there. Wallace, a former Republican, is one of the most insufferable hosts on the network. Shes obsessed with Trump. And now shes totally going off the rails, suggesting were at war with Russia via Mediaite:
But it is clear they are not. Tucker Carlson has been amplifying Russian disinformation: March 8th blamed America for Russias war, March 12th far-right embrace of the bio weapon conspiracy theory as the bombs were falling on Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities. And then on March 13th, we learned that the Kremlin feels it is essential to feature Tucker Carlson, she continued.
Talking about regime change concerning a nation armed with nukes is a bad foreign policy movebut Joe would know a lot about being wrong in this area.
