Germany Suspends Nord Stream 2 Certification After Putins Military Actions
20220222
https://townhall.com/tipsheet/leahbarkoukis/2022/02/22/germany-halts-nord-stream-2-n2603609
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky remained calm about the situation in a speech on Monday evening, while also acknowledging that diplomatic relations with Russia could drastically change.
"I've received a request from the foreign ministry. I will consider the issue of severing diplomatic relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Immediately after our press conference, I will consider this issue," he said, according to Reuters.
Zelensky: With regards to being on a military footing, we understand there will be no warThere will not be an all-out war against Ukraine, and there will not be a broad escalation from Russia.
Columns of Russian military vehicles poured into Donetsk overnight, hours after Mr. Putin made a speech questioning Ukraines legitimacy and recognizing the two statelets that Russia established in the Donbas in 2014, according to witnesses and footage posted on social media. A senior White House official said the administration had received information that Russian troops had deployed into the Donetsk and Luhansk regions for so-called peacekeeping functions, adding that U.S. officials are still assessing the situation.
"We believe that there will be no war, there will be no powerful war against Ukraine and there will be no wide escalation by the Russian Federation," he said. "If there is a wide escalation, then martial law will be introduced."
The local authorities, however, havent made any announcements on this alleged deployment. Eduard Basurin, a senior official of the so-called Donetsk peoples republic, was quoted by Moscows RIA news agency as saying he wasnt aware of any arrival of Russian troops.
Germany moved to halt the certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia after President Vladimir Putin ordered troops into breakaway regions in Ukraine, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz announced Tuesday.
In an earlier TV address to Ukrainians, Mr. Zelensky said the Russian move simply legalized the eight-year Russian occupation of the area and showed that Moscow wasnt interested in peace. WSJ
