Hey Liberal America Im Pretty Sure Ukrainians in Bomb Shelters Really Dont Care About This
20220228
https://townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2022/02/28/you-cant-be-serious-guys-how-some-liberals-are-peppering-covid-into-their-prai-n2603743
Bombs are falling. Theres a major invasion. But lets talk about Ukraines COVID vaccination rate. Welcome to the clown show.
The people of Ukraine defending their homeland with a tenacity that Russian President Vladimir Putin did not expect. Hes not pleased with the lack of progress in his military accomplishing their objectives. Its been a slow roll, to say the least. There are reports of supply line issues that are quite dire for the Russian military as their tanks are starting to run out of gas. The capital of Kyiv has remained firmly in Ukrainian hands after enduring hellacious assaults by Russian forces.
The anti-vaxCOVID deniers are now polluting my mentionsAnd if you think disease isnt a major factor in a lot of wars, well, youre pretty fucking stupid.
Look at them, wearing masks, because they arent delicate snowflakes like U.S. conservatives, wrote Markos Moulitsas of The Daily Kos, a left-wing publication.
When bombs are falling and you could die, I highly doubt a virus with a 99-plus percent survival rate is whats on the minds of these besieged people.
Good point. Don't let Putin invading Russia distract you from the fact that COVID is the real war we are all fighting. I hope Ukrainians forced to shelter because of Putin's Trump-backed invasion are wearing masks. https:t.coCZoxTzJ1hf
Kharkiv, another major city, also fended off a Russian assault last night. The Ukrainian capital is virtually surrounded and was thought to be a location that could fall into Russian hands within days. Not the case. As Ukrainians take up arms, make Molotov cocktails, and do whatever they to ward off their Russian attackers, some in the liberal sphere are just unable to grasp reality. Were all cheering the Ukrainian peoples resolve as they are out-matched militarily. Theyre enduring the bombings. Theyre the bravest people on the planet. Yet, again, we have liberals notinghow responsible they are in adhering to COVID protocols. No, Im not kidding.
Again, liberals cant redirect the snowflake attack because theyre just too stupid. Getting angry when a soy boy lefty sets an American flag on fire or cheers on the deaths of cops is upsetting and ridiculous. Throwing a tantrum over proper pronoun use is not upsetting. Its a fake issue and a sign of mental illness. See the difference? At any rate, these are the people we must share a country withand it gets more nauseating by the day. Disease does play a part in wars, sure. Thats not whats going on here. This is the culmination of the long game Moscow has played with its neighbors for a decade-plus. COVID didnt start this war. It wasnt about vaccination rates either, who cares about any of that right now in this instance. Here is the clearest example of why Democrats will get their clocks cleaned this midterm season. They cant govern. Their base has its priorities in all the wrong areas.
