In the Sky and in Front of the Camera Russian Civilians Boldy Condemn War on Ukraine
20220315
https://townhall.com/tipsheet/landonmion/2022/03/15/in-the-sky-and-in-front-of-the-camera-russian-civilians-boldy-condemn-war-on-ukr-n2604568
"Just speaking on behalf of myself, not as a representative of the airline, I think the war with Ukraine is a crime. We should not continue this war, we must stop it immediately," the pilot continued.
"Sadly, Ive been working on the First Channel during the last couple of years, have been doing Kremlin propaganda, for which now I am very ashamed," she continued. "I am ashamed that I let lies be spread on television, Im ashamed that I participated in turning Russian people into zombies, we kept quiet when it all started in 2014, we did not rally when Kremlin poisoned Navalny, we have silently been watching this anti-human regime, and now, the whole world turned back to us, next 10 generations will not be able to get rid of the shame of this war."
Two recent examples of Russians publicly coming out against the war showed a Russian airline pilot criticizing the war during a flight and a Russian state media newscast being interrupted by one of the station's editors holding an anti-war sign in front of the camera.
According to Russia's state news agency, TASS, Ovsyannikova has been detained and faces misdemeanor charges. She could be put in jail for a few days but would not face prison time, Kevin Rothrock of the Russian-English-language independent outlet Meduza noted on Twitter.
"This is your captain speaking. Welcome to Antalya Turkey," the pilot, who works for the Aeroflot subsidiary Pobeda, said in the announcement.
As Russia's war on Ukraine continues, causing bloodshed and destruction on its European neighbor, some Russian civilians are boldly advocating against Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
And on Monday, a woman crashed a Russian state media broadcast to express her thoughts on the war on Ukraine.
She was holding a sign during the demonstration that read, "Stop the war! Don't believe propaganda! They're lying to you here!" The sign also had "Russians against war" written in English.
Apparently, a woman just ran onto the stage during a Russian state television news broadcast with a sign that said, Stop the war! Dont believe propaganda! Theyre lying to you here! pic.twitter.comnn5XWsh4Wn
During an evening newscast on Channel One Russia, the most prominent news network in the country, the woman ran onto the television set, stood behind the anchor, and chanted in Russian, "No to war! Stop the war!"
A pilot for a Russian airline told passengers over the plane's intercom that Putin's invasion of Ukraine was a "crime," which led to applause from the aircraft's passengers.
"Whats happening in Ukraine is a crime and Russia is the aggressor. And there is only one person responsible for this, this man is Vladimir Putin," Ovsyannikova said in Russian. "My father is Ukrainian, and my mother is Russian, they have never been enemies, and this necklace is a symbol  that Russia must immediately stop this war and our brotherly nations can still come together."
Ladies and gentlemen, here is your captain speaking. Welcome to Antalya. Thank you for flying with Pobeda. Also, from me personally: the war with Ukraine is a crime.This brave ???? pilot makes a statement. StandWithUkraine? pic.twitter.comrzUo1BBIP2
The woman has been identified as Channel One editor Marina Ovsyannikova, who, prior to her demonstration, released a video statement condemning Putin's war on Ukraine.
The pilot, who delivered the announcement in both Russian and English, was lauded as "brave" by Ukrainian diplomat Olexander Scherba, who shared a video of the remarks to Twitter on Friday.
