2022 ACMs host Dolly Parton dedicates entire show to Ukraine I want us to send our love and hope
20220308
https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2022-acms-host-dolly-parton-dedicates-show-ukraine
"What happens in Vegas does not stay in Vegas, and I am so excited to be here in Las Vegas when our two great co-hosts Jimmie Allen and Gabby Barrett," she added of the two young country standouts. "Yes, now they are the real deal, the real deal. And you know how I hate anything fake."
"Such a class act asking to support Ukraine," one person wrote in part. Another individual said "thank you" to Parton.
Maren Morris and Ryan Hurd arrived in shimmering wine and gold accents. Photo by Denise Truscello
Viewers took to Twitter as well to commend Parton for dedicating the show to Ukraine.
"You can say whatever the hell you want. But NO ONE, NO ONE deserves this award more than Miranda Lambert. 22 years later," wrote one Twitter user, while another echoed the sentiment, adding, "Its about d--n time!"
Wallen waited months before publicly breaking his silence on the incident, sharing a handwritten letter to fans on social media in April.
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment.
Jason Aldean and Carrie Underwood won single of the year for their duet "If I Didn't Love You," while Lainey Wilson won song of the year for "Things a Man Oughta Know." The artists later performed the songs live in a show that was heavy on performances.
In addition to Parton, Matthew Ramsey from Old Dominion also sent his thoughts to Ukraine during their acceptance speech for group of the year.
In his ACMs speech on Monday, Wallen made no direct reference to the issue and his absence from recent awards shows, but may have hinted at it as he said that taking home the honor would "signify" to his one-year-old son Indigo Wilder "that his daddy was a fighter and that he chased his dreams and worked hard to make them a reality."
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has confirmed 406 civilians killed in Ukraine since Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion began on Feb. 24. And 801 more civilians were injured as of midnight Sunday, the office said, noting that fighting has stymied accurate reporting, and the numbers are actually higher.
Morgan Wallen appeared to move on from his public scandal as he took home an award for album of the year with "Dangerous: The Double Album."
Another show-stopping performance was Kelly Clarkson who performed a rendition of the late Whitney Houston's "I Will Always Love You."
Morgan Wallen appeared to move on from his public scandal as he took home an award for album of the year with "Dangerous: The Double Album." Photo by Kevin Winter
The "Heartstrings" star, 76, delivered an opening monologue in which she dedicated the "entire show" to Ukraine, asking everyone to send their prayers to the people of Ukraine in the midst of Russia's invasion.
ACM-winner Carly Pearce delivered an elegant look in a high-slit ballgown. Photo by Jason Kempin
"I'm just hoping that nothing punctures me or I'm going to be sailing around this room like an inflatable doll," she quipped. "So catch me if you can!"
Standing in a shimmering mosaic bodysuit, Parton opened the 2022 ACMs in opulent style. Certainly, fit for the glitz and glamour of the Vegas night, Parton was equal parts self-deprecating and wrought with humor, taking several digs at herself while loosening the crowd for a jam-packed night of performances by country musics best names.
"So why don't we just dedicate this entire show to them and pray for peace around this crazy old world?" she added before introducing a collaborative performance featuring Jimmie Allen and Gabby Barrett.
Dolly Parton L and collaborator Kelsea Ballerini hit the ACMs red carpet in contrasting silver and black ensembles -- paying tribute to the Las Vegas Raiders and Allegiant Stadium, which the NFL franchise calls home. Photo by Kevin Mazur
"I wanted to shine tonight, did I make it?!" she said during her monologue. "I was walking through the hall back here coming on stage, and a disco ball just fell right on me. Got shards of glass all over me."
"Oh my gosh, I cannot believe I'm not there to celebrate," Lambert said during a video acceptance speech from London where she is set to headline Country 2 Country on Friday.
"I'm so thankful that Dolly said what she said at the beginning because I was feeling a little bit strange because we're in this beautiful bubble here where every person whose name is mentioned tonight has fought for their dreams. But there are people fighting for their lives right now, and it felt a little weird. So I'm so thankful she said that. So thank you. We're so grateful for this award. Couldn't be more thankful."
Miranda Lambert, 38, also took home her first-ever win for entertainer of the year and many fans took to social media to praise the country star.
Dolly Parton was with a heavy heart on Monday while co-hosting the 57th Academy of Country Music Awards ACMs. She dedicated the entire show to Ukraine. Kevin WinterGetty Images for ACM
"Unfortunately, Miranda couldn't be here tonight because she's working overseas," Parton said while accepting the award on Lambert's behalf.
Dolly Parton was with a heavy heart on Monday while co-hosting the 57th Academy of Country Music Awards ACMs.
The show streamed live on Amazon Prime Video, tried to evoke a party atmosphere while paying tribute to tragedies both global and local.
Thomas Rhett added a pop of color in a royal blue suit combination and a black shirt which he left open for a more casual look. Photo by Denise Truscello
Mickey Guyton said she was excited this year to shelve her awards show hosting duties to take in the 2022 ACMs as a fan spectator. Photo by Mike Coppola
During the bevy of show-stopping performances, Chris Stapleton paid tribute to the victims of the 2017 Las Vegas massacre at the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival with a rendition of his hit, "Watch You Burn." Youre gonna get your turn. The devils gonna watch you burn," he belted in a raspy baritone.
ACM co-host Jimmie Allen is seen in one of his many looks throughout the evening. Photo by Jason Kempin
"I love to laugh, I love to joke, and we're going to have a good time tonight, but I do want us before we get started with all our fun to take a serious moment," Parton said while speaking to a packed Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas, Nevada. "Now I don't want to be political and this is not. I'd rather pass a kidney stone than do that, but I want us to send our love and hope to our brothers and sisters in Ukraine."
In addition to Parton, Matthew Ramsey from Old Dominion also sent his thoughts to Ukraine during their acceptance speech for group of the year. Mike CoppolaGetty Images
"When I started this album, I was a kid. By the time I put it out, I was a father," he said in part.
Miranda Lambert took home the 2022 ACM Award for entertainer of the year. In this image released on December 31, Lambert performs during the New Year's Eve Live Nashville's Big Bash at Casa Rosa in Nashville, Tennessee. Photo by Jason Kempin
"This is my first time missing the ACMs in 17 years," she said. "My heart is a little broken, but I'm happy to be where I am. I've been waiting for this for a really, really long time. I actually never thought it would happen. But thank you so much to the country music family for embracing me all these years and continuing to support me."
Following a leaked video showing him using a racial slur, the ACMs announced that they had barred "Wallen's potential involvement and eligibility" from last year's award show. At the time, the 28-year-old was subsequently suspended by his record label, Big Loud Records, and conglomerates likeiHeartRadio, which pulled his musicfrom its stations.
