Amid Russia war on Ukraine Bill Clinton relaunching Clinton Global Initiative
20220304
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/bill-clinton-global-foundation-pandemic-ukraine-russia-war
Amid the Russian war on Ukraine and the coronavirus, former President Bill Clinton announced Friday that the Clinton Global Initiative CGI is resuming full operations after largely shuttering in early 2017.
Clinton made the announcement in an open letter in which he also announced a meeting in New York City in September for members of the "CGI community." He said the pandemic and the Russian war on Ukraine are the two major events that spurred him to bring back the initiative that's been effectively dormant for years.
"While the challenges our world faces today are steep, CGI has always been about what we can do, not what we cant do," he added. "And by bringing diverse partners together to take action and achieve real results, we can create a culture of possibility in a world hungry for hope."
Clinton and his spokesperson Angel Urea also cited "inequality" and a growing refugee crisis as reasons for restarting the initiative.
The CGI faced scrutiny during former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign for its significant international donations  which some said could create conflicts of interest.
Clinton lost the 2016 election, but the Clintons still followed through on mass layoffs of their foundation's employees in January 2017.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
"A new chapter of the Clinton Global Initiative is beginning," a video teasing the restart of the charitable effort said Friday. "And the need for cooperation and coordination has never been more urgent."
"The COVID-19 pandemic has ripped the cover off of longstanding inequities and vulnerabilities across our global community," Clinton said. "The existential threat of climate change grows every day. Democracy is under assault around the world, most glaringly in Ukraine where Russia has launched an unjustified and unprovoked invasion that has put millions of lives in grave danger."
A Ukrainian national flag swings on a tree by a destroyed accommodation building near a checkpoint in Brovary, outside Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, March 1, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton speaks during a press conference ahead of the screening of a movie "Hillary" within the 70th International Berlinale film festival in Berlin, Germany on Feb. 25, 2020.  Abdulhamid HosbasAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
Former President Bill Clinton attends a meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative CGI Action Network in San Juan, Puerto Rico Feb. 18, 2020. REUTERSRicardo ArduengoFile Photo
"Just like the world were living in, the September meeting will likely look different than the ones we held before. But what will not be different is the spirit that has driven CGI from the very beginningthe idea that we can accomplish more together than we can apart," the former president said in his Friday letter.
