Auschwitz Memorial factchecks MSNBC guests Hitler claim
20220312
https://www.foxnews.com/us/auschwitz-memorial-fact-checks-msnbc-guests-hitler-claim
"He ordered the murder of people with different disabilities  finally the murder of German Jewry," the tweet added.
McFaul falsely claimed to stand-in host Ali Velshi that Putin was showing increased aggression compared to Hitler because the Russian dictator is killing his own people.
The former ambassador and Stanford University professor also highlighted "interesting" remarks a commentator made on Ukrainian television about "how horrific" the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine has been.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Center for Strategic and International Studies Chair Anthony Cordesman says Russia appears to be reorganizing its military strategy.
"One of the Russian journalists said, 'You know, there's one difference between Hitler, when he was coming in, and Putin. Hitler didn't kill ethnic Germans. He didn't kill German-speaking people," McFaul told Velshi.
Timothy Nerozzi is a writer for Fox News Digital. You can follow him on Twitter timothynerozzi and can email him at timothy.nerozzifox.com
McFaul's appearance on MSNBC was torched by critics for making the comparison between Putin and Hitler, many claiming it provided a more favorable view of the Nazi dictator.
"On a factual note: Hitler did kill ethnic Germans  German-speaking people: those who opposed the Nazi regime, those who resisted, those who did not fit into the Weltanschauung,'" the Auschwitz Memorial account replied to McFaul on Twitter after the interview.
The official Auschwitz Memorial and Museum fact-checked an MSNBC guest for his inaccurate comments Friday evening comparing Russian President Vladimir Putin and genocidal German dictator Adolph Hitler.
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke to female flight attendants in comments broadcast on state television March 5, 2022. Reuters Video
Former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul was interviewed on "The Rachel Maddow Show" about the violent invasion of Ukraine by Putin's administration.
Former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul listens to a question while testifying before a House Intelligence Committee hearing titled "Putin's Playbook: The Kremlin's Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in 2016 and Beyond" on Capitol Hill March 28, 2019. REUTERSBrendan McDermid
"I think people need to remember that we're talking about cities like Kharkiv and Mariupol and Kyiv. There are large populations there, you know, up to a third and sometimes as much to a half that are Russian speakers and are ethnic Russians. And yet Putin doesn't seem to care about that. He slaughters the very people he said he has come to liberate," McFaul said.
