Belarus announces joint air defense training with Russia amid flurry of strikes in southern Ukraine
20220426
https://www.foxnews.com/world/belarus-russia-joint-air-defense-training-strikes-southern-ukraine
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
ALLIES SEND UKRAINE 'SPARE PARTS, ADDING 20 AIRCRAFT TO FLEET AS RUSSIA BOMBARDMENT INCREASES: DOD
Russia does appear to be changing tact one senior defense official told reporters last week, noting there have been more air-to-surface strikes as it ramps up its campaign in eastern and southern Ukraine.
The Ministry of Defense in Belarus said in a Telegram post that its air defense forces would engage ina joint staff training with "officials of the Air Force and Air Defense of the Western Military District of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation" from April 26-29.
National security correspondent Jennifer Griffin brings the latest on top U.S. officials meeting with Ukrainian leaders and their pledge to continue arming Ukrainian forces.
Belarus on Tuesday announced it would be holding joint air defense exercises with Russia this week as the war in Ukraine turns to the sky.
The U.S. and NATO continue to refuse to send direct aircraft to Ukraine but have instead agreed to send parts to bolster Kyivs air defenses.
Ukraines defense ministry has claimed that Russia has lost 184 aircraft since the invasion began, but these figures have not been verified.
A MiG-31 fighter of the Russian air force takes off at an air base during military drills in Tver region, Russia, on Feb. 14, 2022. Russian Defense Ministry Press Service via AP
Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko meet in Moscow, March 11, 2022. Mikhail Klimentyev, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
"In general, we continue to see a sense of weariness out of Russian pilots," the official said noting they often fire without crossing any borders and do not stay in Ukrainian airspace for long. "But they are using, again as a part of these shaping operations, they are using airstrikes from fixed-wing bombers in support of what they are trying to get done on the ground."
NATO nations and other allies convened in Germany Tuesday to discuss what more can be done to help Ukraine as officials warn Russias second offensive is likely to even more brutal than the first.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has repeatedly asked NATO to enforce a no-fly zone or send warplanes to counter the barrage of Russian missiles.
Russia has relied heavily on missile strikes in its more than two-month-long war in Ukraine, with defense officials assessing over 1,670 strikes since the war began on Feb. 24.
But defense officials previously argued the majority of Russias missiles were launched from surface-to-air platforms  rendering a no-fly zone ineffective.
The senior official said that more than 20 additional aircraft have been available to Ukraines defenses with the help of NATO allies over the last three weeks.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Two Polish Air Force Russian made Mig 29's fly above and below two Polish Air Force U.S. made F-16's fighter jets during the Air Show in Radom, Poland, on Aug. 27, 2011. AP PhotoAlik Keplicz, File
