Biden says Ukraine hasnt met NATO membership criteria
20210614
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/biden-ukraine-met-nato-membership-criteria-tensions-russia
"It depends on whether they meet the criteria. The fact is, they still have to clean up corruption. The fact is, they still have to meet other criteria to get into the action plan. You know, schools out on that question. It remains to be seen," Biden said.
Earlier Monday, UkrainianPresident Volodymyr Zelensky called on Biden to provide a "yes or no" answer as to whether he supported Ukraines entrance into NATO. Russia has long denied that it has an active military presence within Ukraine, though tensions have remained high in recent months as Russian troops massed near the border.
"They have more to do, but that does not justify  the fact they have more to do  Russia taking aggressive action, either in the Donbas or on the sea or in any part of Ukraine. Were going to put Ukraine in a position to be able to maintain their physical security," Biden said.
The president addressed his stance on Ukraine following a meeting with NATO leaders on the eve of his scheduled summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has strongly opposed their potential membership with the alliance. Biden indicated Ukrainian leaders would need to deal with corruption within the government and combat the influence of powerful oligarchs to demonstrate their commitment to democratic values.
President Biden said Monday that Ukraine had yet to meet standards required to join NATO but would receive the necessary support from the alliance amid rising tensions with Russia.
"In the meantime, we will do all we can to put Ukraine in a position to be able to continue to resist Russias physical aggression. It will not just depend on me whether or not we conclude that Ukraine can become part of NATO, it will depend on the alliance and how they vote," he added.
Zelensky expressed disappointment that he was not able to meet with Biden ahead of his meeting with Putin on Wednesday in Geneva, Switzerland. In a phone call last week, Biden told the Ukrainian president that he would "stand up firmly" for Ukraines sovereignty during the Putin summit.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
