Biden Putin summit 4 things to know
20211207
https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/biden-putin-summit-4-things-to-know
Biden himself needs a win.After a disastrous year, holding firm with NATO against Russia is essential to restoring Bidens credibility as Commander in Chief.
Ukraines borders look like a parking lot for Russian tanks, trucks, and artillery all poised for a three-pronged blitzkrieg.
Its Putins move. Russia can invade Ukraine "on short order should he so decide," Secretary of State Anthony Blinkensaid Dec. 1.
Last week NATO doubled down and is totally committed to a sovereign Ukraine.NATO nations are already taking defensive action.
1. Its a rush job.This summit popped up in late November.Biden, who I think is in way over his head, did okay with Putin in Geneva last June, delivering tough cyber threats. But that was before the fall of Kabul showed the utter ineptitude of Biden as a Commander-in-Chief. On their call, Biden will talk and lecture Putin will snap out sarcastic remarks.Whatever they say, Putin must come away convinced of America is serious or risks for Ukraine go up.
Victor Davis Hanson: You dont want to be loud and carry a twig like the Biden admin is doing.
Heres what Biden must understand. Putins tactics come straight from Russian revolutionary V.I. Lenin who said in 1917: "Probe with a bayonet if you meet steel, stop! If you meet mush, then push."
2. NATO is muscled up.One Russian boot across the border and NATO will be unified like youve never seen. The 30-nation Euro-Atlantic alliance is primed to deter and counter rash Russian actions.  On Nov. 15, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Putin not to make a "tragic mistake" over Ukraine. NATO has started defensive preparations, according to its highly-regarded Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. The NATO Foreign Ministers meeting on Nov. 30 meeting confirmed 100 support for Ukraines sovereignty.
4. America is already involved. American planes, drones, satellites and ships in the Black Sea are all staring at Russias forces. The crucial US task right now is watching Russias disposition of forces to see if they are ready to march or not. One things for sure, this wont be a surprise attack. Heat up one tank engine and well know about it.
Biden and NATO can do more to deter Putin. Start with immediate air exercises in Ukraine with US and NATO aircraft. Next, let Treasury tell us more about the painful sanctions they have in store for Putin, his buddies and Russias access to international banking. Finally, its time for Biden to lay down the steel: the US and NATO will not stand for a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
President Joe Biden will surely see updated imagery of those military vehicles and snowy parking tracks before his video call with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday.
But Biden has a lot to live down. As Vice President, Biden was one of the Obama team who let Putin take the Crimea from Ukraine in 2014.
Russian spokesman Dmitry Peskov is now claiming Russia has no plans to attack. Weve heard that line before. What counts is whether troops and tanks back away from Ukraine. Either way, Russia is downplaying expectations for the call  thats Team Putin preparing Russian public opinion. Usually big meetings deliver at least a few minor agreements, but this call might not if Biden hangs tough.
The lingering problem, of course, is Bidens credibility. Granted, Biden hosted Ukraines President Zelensky at the White House Sep. 1, and increased military aid.
Dont forget over 13,000 have died in the fighting in eastern Ukraine since 2014, according to the U.N.
Thats Bidens choice for the USA: to be steel or mush. Putin loves summits and wants to see if his pressure campaign  Ukraine build-up, blowing up the satellite, turmoil in Belarus  has rattled Biden.
3. No one knows Putins intentions. "Fluid" is all Stoltenberg will say. Putin wants the world to think Russia is too strong and dangerous to resist. When Russia blew up that satellite on orbit last month, it may have been a signal that Russia will fight in space as well as on land. Dont forget Putin is also showing off for China.
