Biden says hes worried Putin doesnt have a way out of Ukraine war
20220510
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/biden-putin-russia-ukraine-war
President Biden reportedly said hes worried Russian President Vladimir Putin doesnt have an exit strategy right now for the war in Ukraine, which has lasted 76 days and counting.
The comments come as Biden on Monday urged Congress to "immediately" pass an"urgent" $33 billion proposal to provide military, economic and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, while saying he is "prepared to accept" that measure and a COVID-19 funding package will "move separately" so that the Ukrainian aid bill can get to his desk "right away."
Russian President Vladimir Putin looks on during the Victory Day military parade marking the 77th anniversary of the end of World War II in Moscow, Russia, on Monday, May 9. Mikhail Metzel, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy arrives for his meeting with U.S. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi in Kyiv, Ukraine, on Saturday, April 30. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
Biden said Putin "doesnt have a way out right now, and Im trying to figure out what we do about that," the news agency reported.
Biden also described Putin as a calculating man who mistakenly believed Russias invasion of Ukraine would lead to the downfall of NATO and the European Union, it added.
Former Assistant Secretary of State Robert Charles joined 'Fox  Friends First' to discuss the legislation, the left's backlash over the Supreme Court leak, and the Navy removing 'woke' books off the reading list.
The emergency supplemental funding bill for Ukraine includes $20.4 billion in additional security assistance for Ukraine, including $5 billion in additional drawdown authority, $6 billion for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, and $4 billion for the State Departments Foreign Military Financing program.
"The plan was substantial in size, because the need is substantial: We must stand by Ukraine as it defends itself from Russian aggression," Biden said in a statement. "The need is also urgent: I have nearly exhausted the resources given to me by a bipartisan majority in Congress to support Ukraines fighters.
The request came after the Biden administration, in April, announced another $800 million in military aid for Ukraine, including heavy artillery and ammunition, as the country continues to fight to defend itself against Russias multi-front war. That funding was in addition to an authorization of $800 million in weapons, ammunition and other security assistance earlier this month.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Biden made the remark Monday while speaking at a political fundraiser in the Washington, D.C., area, according to Reuters.
President Joe Biden speaks at an event on lowering the cost of high-speed internet in the Rose Garden of the White House on Monday, May 9.
