Biden announces 12B in additional Ukraine aid
20220615
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/biden-1-billion-ukraine-aid
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
"We can't afford to let up and we can't lose steam. The stakes are too high," Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said during the groups third meeting since its establishment in April. "Ukraine is facing a pivotal moment on the battlefield."
President Biden speaks about inflation and the economy from the White House campus, May 10, 2022. Drew AngererGetty Images
A Ukrainian service member shows a kindergarten damaged by a military strike in Sievierodonetsk, Luhansk region, Ukraine April 16, 2022. ReutersSerhii Nuzhnenko
"Along with our partners, we're also training Ukrainian forces on new capabilities, and we're committed to doing even more," he added.
A Ukrainian multiple rocket launcher BM-21 "Grad" shells a Russian troop position near Luhansk in the Donbas region on Sunday. Anatolii StepanovAFP via Getty Images
Biden said he informed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky that $1 billion in defensive aid will be sent in the form ofartillery, coastal defense weapons, ammunition and advanced rocket systems.
Austin said the U.S. had already providedHowitzers, Javelins, ammunition, helicopters, counter artillery radars, tactical vehicles and electronic jamming equipment.
But Ukrainian officials have also warned they believe Russia will take another stab at Kyiv and potentially move beyond Ukrainian borders.
The decision to send additional aid comes as Zelenskyy repeatedly urged Western nations to send additional and timely assistance as Russian forces advance across eastern Ukraine.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
President Biden on Wednesday announced that another $1.2 billion in security and humanitarian assistance will be granted to Ukraine as the deadly war with Russia continues.
Kremlin officials have since confirmed their military ambitions in Ukraine are to take control over the eastern and southern regions.
An additional $225 million of the funds will be sent for humanitarian assistance to supply "safe drinking water, critical medical supplies and health care, food, shelter, and cash for families to purchase essential items," the White House said in a statement.
Austin pointed to Zelenskyys previous warnings that after Russia failed to take the capital city of Kyiv earlier this year Moscow would set its sights on the Donbas.
Though Moscow has made gains in the Donbas, it has also been unable to adequately replenish its troops' offensive needs and Russia's soldiers have begun to rely on dated munitions and artillery.
"We must intensify our shared commitment to Ukraine's self-defense, and we must push ourselves even harder to ensure that Ukraine can defend itself, its citizens and its territory," Austin told world leaders. "But make no mistake, Russia's unprovoked and indefensible invasion isn't just a danger to Ukraine. It's a menace to European security, and it's an affront to the rules-based international order that protects us all."
The defense secretary said that 45 nations across the globe had provided assistance to Ukraine following Russias invasion nearly four months ago.
Over 50 countries plus NATO and European Union officials met at NATO headquarters in Brussels Wednesday for the Ukraine Defense Contact Group meeting.
