Blinken to visit Ukraine amid rising tensions with Russia
20220118
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/secretary-state-blinken-visit-ukraine-rising-tensions
Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrives on Dec. 12, 2021, in Liverpool, England. Anthony DevlinWPA PoolGetty Images
Russian PresidentVladimir Putinhas warned that Moscow will take unspecified "military-technical measures" if the West stonewalls its demands.
Russia seized theCrimean Peninsulaafter the ouster of Ukraines Moscow-friendly leader and in 2014 also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting between the Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the countrys industrial heartland called Donbas.
Lavrov reaffirmed that Russia expects a written response this week from the U.S. and its allies to Moscows request for binding guarantees that NATO will not embrace Ukraine or any other ex-Soviet nations or station its forces and weapons there.
On Monday, Russias top diplomat rejected the U.S. allegations that it was preparing a pretext to invade Ukraine. Speaking to reporters, Russian Foreign MinisterSergey Lavrovdismissed the U.S. claim as "total disinformation."
From Kyiv, Blinken will travel to Berlin, where he will meet with his German, British and French counterparts to discuss a possible response to any Russian military action. Russia has massed some 100,000 troops with tanks and other heavy weapons on its own soil near the Ukrainian border in what many observers believe may be preparation for an invasion.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks in the briefing room of the State Department in Washington, Jan. 7, 2022. Blinken will visit Ukraine this week as tensions between the U.S. and Russia escalate over a possible Russian invasion of its neighbor. AP PhotoAndrew Harnik, Pool, File
The White House said Friday that U.S. intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had already deployed operatives to rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine to carry out acts of sabotage there and blame them on Ukraine to create a pretext for possible invasion.
Washington and its allies firmly rejected Moscows demands during last week's Russia-U.S. negotiations in Geneva and a relatedNATO-Russia meetingin Brussels.
Secretary of StateAntony Blinkenwill visit Ukraine this week and meet with PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyyas tensions between the U.S. and Russia escalate over a possible Russian invasion of its neighbor, the State Department said Tuesday.
Ahead of Blinken's visit to Kyiv, adelegation of U.S. senatorswas visiting Ukraine to emphasize congressional support for the country.
Blinken will meet with Zelenskyy and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Wednesday "to reinforce the United States commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity," the State Department said.
Speaking Monday on a visit to Kyiv, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock warned that "any further escalation would carry a high price for the Russian regime  economic, political and strategic," and she emphasized the need to continue negotiations.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken pauses while speaking in the briefing room of the State Department in Washington, Jan. 7, 2022.  AP PhotoAndrew Harnik, Pool, File
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
"We are prepared to have a serious dialogue with Russia, because diplomacy is the only way to defuse this highly dangerous situation at the moment," she said.
"Our bipartisan congressional delegation sends a clear message to the global community: the United States stands in unwavering support of our Ukrainian partners to defend their sovereignty and in the face of persistent Russian aggression," Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said in a statement.
Instead, those meetings appear to have increased fears of a Russian invasion, and the Biden administration has accused Russia of preparing a"false flag operation"to use as a pretext for intervention. Russia hasangrily denied the charge.
"The trip follows extensive diplomacy with our European Allies and partners about a united approach to address the threat Russia poses to Ukraine and our joint efforts to encourage it to choose diplomacy and de-escalation in the interests of security and stability," the department said.
Blinkens "travel and consultations are part of the diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the tension caused by Russias military build-up and continued aggression against Ukraine," the State Department said in a statement.
Blinken will be in Kyiv on the hastily arranged trip to show U.S. support following inconclusivediplomatic talksbetween Moscow and the West in Europe last week that failed to resolve stark disagreementsover Ukraineand other security matters.
