Blinken responds to Zelenskyys plea No sanctions until bombs are actually dropping
20220220
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/blinken-zelenskyys-plea-sanctions-until-bombs-dropping
Secretary of State Antony Blinken greets Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov before their meeting on Jan. 21, 2022, in Geneva, Switzerland. AP PhotoAlex Brandon, Pool
Secretary of State Antony Blinken responded toUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys plea for the U.S. and allies to impose sanctions against Russia now, before it invades Ukraine, saying the U.S. will continue to take a diplomatic approach with Russia until "the tanks are actually moving, the planes are actually flying, the bombs are actually dropping."
President Joe Biden speaks during an event at Germanna Community College on Feb. 10, 2022, in Culpeper. Virginia. Win McNameeGetty Images
President Biden gave a speech Friday saying he believes Russia will invadeUkraines capital, Kyiv, in the "coming days." The U.S. andNATO partners have threatened to impose a massive package of economic sanctions against Russia in the event of an invasion.
Jessica Chasmar is a digital writer on the politics team for Fox News and Fox Business. Story tips can be sent to Jessica.Chasmarfox.com.
Blinken made similar remarks later Sunday on NBC News "Meet the Press," saying that "until the tanks are rolling and the planes are in the air," the U.S. is going to continue to try to "dissuade" Putin.
Blinken accepted an invitation to meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Europe this Thursday, but he said the meeting is off if Russia starts a war before then.
"We don't need your sanctions after the bombardment will happen, and after our country will be fired at or after we will have no borders or after we will have no economy or parts of our country will be occupied," Zelenskyy said. "Why would we need those sanctions then?"
"Until the last minute, theres still an option for him to pull back," he said. "Thats what were trying to do. Were trying to prevent a war. As soon as you trigger the sanctions, of course, any deterrent effect they may have is gone. They get absorbed by President Putin and he moves on."
"The purpose of the sanctions in the first instance it to try to deter Russia from going to war," he continued. "As soon as you trigger them, that deterrent is gone. Until the last minute, as long as we can try to bring a deterrent effect to this, were going to try to do that. As to laying out in detail what the sanctions will be, two things  first, Russia generally has a pretty good idea what were going to do, but we dont want to lay out the specifics in advance, because that would allow Russia to try to plan against them."
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Blinken said on CNN, "Look, I understand where President Zelenskyy is coming from, but these things are not at all inconsistent.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy walks to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery on Sept. 1, 2021, in Virginia. Anna MoneymakerGetty Images
During an appearance on CNNs "State of the Union" on Sunday, Blinken was asked to respond toZelenskyys comments Saturday at a security conference in Munich, where the Ukrainian leader pleaded for global action against Russia as it appears poised for an imminent invasion.
"Biden has said while we believe President Putin has made the decision, until the die is cast, until that die actually settles, and until the tanks are actually moving, the planes are actually flying, the bombs are actually dropping, were going to do everything we can with diplomacy and with deterrence and persuasion to get President Putin to reverse the decision that we believe hes made," he said.
