Chinas growing nuclear arsenal creates new global threat may topple 70 year old power dynamic Expert
20220614
https://www.foxnews.com/world/chinas-growing-nuclear-arsenal-creates-global-threat-may-topple-70-year-old-power-dynamic-expert
"I think if we're using pure numbers, they still have a ways to go, especially including on what we kind of consider Russia's reserve capabilities," Matt McInnis from the Institute for the Study of War told Fox News Digital.
A key component of the MAD policy focuses on "first strike," which maintains that a country is capable of destroying an opponents arsenal while surviving the weakened retaliation therefore, rendering their opponent unable to continue the war.
The inability to develop meaningful arms control leaves the U.S. at a disadvantage as it works to find some way to cooperate with China and reign in the pace of proliferation.
"I think that's another potential risk that we definitely have to consider," Anderson explained. "That's certainly a relevant case here, given the Indian-Chinese rivalry. They have fought border wars and clashed recently, and I think you would be very concerned now and become increasingly so as the PRC embarked upon this nuclear expansion."
All three experts also advised that Chinas arsenal isnt the only element that requires strict scrutiny: Any nuclear arsenal is just posturing unless China also changes doctrine.
"I'm personally not optimistic that now is a realistic time for negotiations, because the Russians obviously are not interested in any type of cooperative negotiations with us while war is raging in Ukraine," Heino Klinck, Senior Advisor to the National Bureau of Asian Research, told Fox News Digital. "I don't think we would even want to broach anything that smacks of any kind of cooperation with the Russians."
"It's one thing to have a kind of bilateral nuclear superpowers know the world as it is now, but headed towards a trilateral, trilateral situation the potential for accidents and miscalculations just naturally grows," James Anderson, acting Under Secretary of Defense for Policy under President Trump, told Fox News Digital. "And that's unfortunate."
The international landscape has remained in a bipolar dynamic between the U.S. and Russia as the two dominant powers due to a policy of mutually assured destruction MAD thanks to their virtually unmatched nuclear arsenals. That power balance has remained in place for over 70 years.
"What Japan and India do is the most interesting question," McInnis said. "And I think it's something to be aware of - the risk that they are incurring if they continue to pursue other power that dramatically changes the nuclear balance in the region."
Peter Aitken is a Fox News Digital reporter with a focus on national and global news.
Fox News contributor Dan Hoffman joined 'Fox  Friends First' to discuss Putin's nuclear threat amid the war in Ukraine and the status of Iran's nuclear program.
"If you look at Secretary Blinken's recent speech, obviously, the administration is looking where possible for opportunities to cooperate with China," Klinck said. "I think even if anopportunity for some sort of cooperative arms control agreement isunrealistic ... it should be part of standard American talking points when engaging with the Chinese."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
SAUDIS WOULD DEVELOP BOMB THE NEXT DAY IF IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL LED TO WEAPONS CAPABILITY
Klinck argued that U.S. is unlikely to get "any kind of positive response" from China.
Should China achieve that level of power, it would upset the bipolar dynamic since MAD would no longer remain effective: If any two powers strike at each other, the third stands to gain significantly from the conflict. Mutual destruction is no longer assured, and that necessarily forces all nations to alter their behavior and policies.
In 2020, the Pentagon estimated China possesses an arsenal in the "low-200s," but that number is set to "at least double" over the next decade. A report from the Pentagon last year claimed that China "likely intends to have at least 1,000 warheads by 2030, exceeding the pace and size the Defense Dept. projected in 2020."
FILE PHOTO: Chinese President Xi Jinping shakes hands with U.S. Vice President Joe Biden L inside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing December 4, 2013. REUTERSLintao ZhangPoolFile Photo
"China still has somewhere in the range of, you know, maybe probably around 300 or so, three or 400," he explained. "The likelihood is they're going to get up to, based on the current estimates from the US government, up to 700 weapons by 2027, probably a thousand by 2030, and it could be heading north from there  You're not going to really probably get parity until well, until the middle of the century."
McInnis also pointed to the Middle East as a candidate for accelerated proliferation should China achieve its goals, but speculated that the countries closest to China - namely South Korea and Japan - would certainly consider changing their non-nuclear policies.
Chinas aggressive expansion would lead to a potential tripolar international dynamic, in which it sits equal to the U.S. and Russia and offsetting the delicate balance and potentially leading to greater nuclear proliferation in other countries.
Chinas nuclear ambitions may lead to a tripolar landscape and further proliferation as it seeks to place itself equal to the U.S. and Russia.
Fu Cong, center, the director general of the Foreign Ministry's arms control department, attends a press conference on nuclear arms control in Beijing, China, Tuesday, Jan. 4, 2022. The top Chinese arms control official denied Tuesday that his government is rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal, though he said it is taking steps to ensure its nuclear deterrent remains viable in a changing security environment. AP PhotoNg Han Guan AP PhotoNg Han Guan
However, China has recently invested far more heavily in its nuclear arsenal and capabilities, developing a wide array of nuclear weapons in its land, sea and air-based delivery platforms that aim to bring it up to that same level as the U.S. and Russia. John Kirby in Nov. 2021 said the Pentagons "number one pacing challenge is the Peoples Republic of China."
The one seeming silver lining rests in the difference between the American, Russian and Chinese arsenals: Even with its aggressive expansion, China still has a lot of ground to make up compared to its rivals.
The opposite, a "no first use" doctrine, instead posits that a country will not use nuclear weapons unless first attacked by such. China has so far maintained a NFU policy, and would likely change it in the event that it planned to stand equal to the U.S. and Russia.
Treaties remain a critical element of the bipolar landscape, but the developing tripolar landscape has not presented a clear opportunity to try and develop similar agreements: Any agreement on arms control would need Russias participation, which seems far off with relations between Moscow and Washington at a low following the invasion of Ukraine.
"We need to seriously think about  reevaluating our own policy in that regard if we are facing a world power like China willing to adopt a first strike," McInnis said. "I think that we need to be thinking - we need to be communicating our willingness to shift policy if we see China move in that direction."
Chinese naval fleet passes through naval mine threat area during the China-Russia 'Joint Sea-2021' military drill near the Peter the Great Gulf on October 15, 2021 in Russia. Sun ZifaChina News Service via Getty Images
