Civilian hiding in bomb shelter says Russians soldiers are getting clobbered
20220225
https://www.foxnews.com/media/civilian-hiding-in-bomb-shelter-says-russians-soldiers-are-getting-clobbered
The official added, "In general we assess the Russian forces are encountering greater resistance than they expected."
Wynnyckyj said that is about half of what was killed over the 20 years of the U.S. war in Afghanistan.
A civilian hiding in a bomb shelter said on Friday that Russia has no chance in taking over Ukraine.
Several buildings in Starobilsk within the Luhansk Oblast region of Ukraine show significant damage because of shelling, according to images shared by the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. State Emergency Service of Ukraine
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
After two days of war, Ukrainian command and control is still intact, and no population centers have been taken. And Russia has yet to achieve air superiority, with Ukraines air and missile defense capability still working, though degraded, the defense official told reporters Friday.
"I can tell you that I am here with an awful lot  a group of really angry people. They believe that if he occupies the country, then he has another thing coming for him. Apparently, according to official stats, there has been 2,800 Russian troops killed in Ukraine just today," Mychailo Wynnyckyj, associate professor at National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, told "The Story w Martha McCallum" on Friday.
National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy professor Mychailo Wynnyckyj says the country is mobilized to defend itself against Russia.
Wynnyckyj's comments came after a report emerged hat Russian military forces have not made the kinds of gains they expected in Ukraine. Russian forces have faced more resistance than anticipated from Ukrainian forces, according to a senior U.S. defense official.
"Yeah, we are getting clobbered at the moment because theyve got air superiority over us at the moment," Wynnyckyj said. "Any kind of ground advances are being stopped. The stories that Ive seen today are absolutely amazing, in terms of shooting down paratroopers before they land on the ground."
"We desperately need air support. We desperately need a no-fly zone in this country  we are asking Americans help us with that," he continued. "But you know what? If we get a no-fly zone, we will be able to handle things on our own over here. Because these Russians have absolutely no chance of doing anything in this country."
Joshua focuses on politics, education policy ranging from the local to the federal level, and the parental uprising in education.
"The Russians have lost a little bit of their momentum," the defense official told reporters, speaking on background.
Joining Fox News Digital in 2019, he previously graduated from Syracuse University with a degree in Political Science and is an alum of the National Journalism Center and the Heritage Foundation's Young Leaders Program.
Story tips can be sent to joshua.nelsonfox.com and Joshua can be followed on Twitterand LinkedIn.
