Daughter of top Putin ally Alexander Dugin who pushed for Ukraine invasion killed by car bomb outside Moscow
20220821
https://www.foxnews.com/world/daughter-top-putin-ally-alexander-dugin-pushed-ukraine-invasion-killed-car-bomb-outside-moscow
"We should be aware that this week Russia may try to do something particularly nasty, something particularly cruel. Such is our enemy. But in any other week during these six months, Russia did the same thing all the time  disgusting and cruel," the Ukrainian president said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during the opening ceremony of the International Military Technical Forum 'Army 2022', on August,15, 2022, in Kubinka, outside of Moscow, Russia. ContributorGetty Images
Zelenskyy concluded: "We must all be strong enough to resist any enemy provocations. We must all be strong enough to endure and go all the way to Ukrainian victory."
Often described as "Putins brain," Dugin helped pioneer the Russian leaders invasion of Ukraine. He also regularly appeared on the TV channel Tsargrad.
The daughter of a Russian political philosopher was killed in a car bomb Saturday night that was meant for him, officials said. Russian criminal investigators said they were investigating her death as a murder.
Dugina, 29, was leaving a music and culture festival outside Moscow in their SUV when the bomb went off.
Zelenskyy also addressed concerns that Russia could attack and potentially destroy a Ukrainian nuclear plant in Zaporizhzhia, which has remained under Russian control for months, that could cause unprecedented damage.
Ukrainian politician Denis Pushilin, the leader of the separatist Donetsk People's Republic, blamed it on "terrorists of the Ukrainian regime, trying to kill Alexander Dugin."
Russias war with Ukraine is nearing a six-month milestone, something many experts did not think was possible when Russian forces invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Dugin attended the festival but was not in the vehicle at the time of the explosion. Some Russian outlets reported he was supposed to ride in the vehicle but switched at the last minute.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy during a joint press conference on July 25, 2022, in Kyiv, Ukraine. Alexey FurmanGetty Images
"We have always said and we say honestly: for the sake of Ukraine's victory, we still need to fight, we still need to do a lot, we still need to persevere and endure, unfortunately, a lot of pain," he said. "But Ukrainians can feel proud of themselves, their country, and their heroes. And let's all feel it together today - let's feel the power of our people, our beautiful people."
A general view shows the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, situated in the Russian-controlled area of Enerhodar, seen from Nikopol in April 27, 2022. ED JONESAFP via Getty Images
Daria Dugina, the daughter of Alexander Dugin, an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and strategist behind Russias ongoing war effort in Ukraine, was killed when a bomb meant for him detonated in their vehicle, Russian news agency TASS reported.
"Dasha, like her father, has always been at the forefront of confrontation with the West," Tsargrad said on Sunday, using the familiar form of her name. She, like her father, was sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury.
IRIS Independent Research founder Rebecca Grant speaks to 'Fox News Live' co-host Arthel Neville about Ukraine striking behind Russian lines.
In this photo taken on Thursday, Aug. 11, 2016, Alexander Dugin, the neo-Eurasianist ideologue, sits in his TV studio in central Moscow, Russia. AP PhotoFrancesca Ebel, File
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed Ukrainians Saturday, on the 178th day of fighting, encouraging them to continue pushing towards victory.
In this handout photo taken from video released by Investigative Committee of Russia on Sunday, Aug. 21, 2022, investigators work on the site of explosion of a car driven by Daria Dugina outside Moscow. Investigative Committee of Russia via AP
"One of the key tasks of the enemy is to humiliate us, Ukrainians, to devalue our capabilities, our heroes, to spread despair, fear, to spread conflicts... Therefore, it is important never, for a single moment, to give in to this enemy pressure, not to wind oneself up, not to show weakness," he added.
