Democracy at the heart of conflict with Putin Dan Hoffman
20220328
https://www.foxnews.com/media/dan-hoffman-democracy-conflict-putin-ukraine
"I felt that what he said was a logical conclusion. Putin can no longer rule Russia. He can no longer be in charge. Weve determined he is a war criminal. Biden has said that. The president said he is a butcher. The Russian military is following Putins orders right now to continue to strike civilian targets," Hoffman said.
"I think his goals have definitely changed. At the beginning, he said he had this special military operation, refused to call it a war. He expected to occupy Ukraine, decapitate its government within two or three days and install some puppet government there that would suit Moscows interests. That didnt happen, and so hes had to swivel. And in the Potemkin village of propaganda where he lives, he wants to tell us that now Russias goal is simply to secure eastern Ukraine," Hoffman said.
"What scares Vladimir Putin at the heart of this conflict is democracy. Its not that NATO represents a threat. NATOs a strategic defensive alliance and Ukraine had no chance of joining NATO anytime in the near term. But Putin couldnt stomach a democracy on his border with a Russian-speaking population and commercial links to Europe," Hoffman said. "Thats why he launched this brutal attack which has caused so many Ukrainian civilians, innocent civilians, to die."
FORMER RUSSIAN DOUBLE AGENT ON PUTINS INVASION OF UKRAINE: NO WAY INTEL WAS UNAWARE OF CIRCUMSTANCES
President Biden delivers a speech at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, Poland, Saturday, March 26, 2022. AP PhotoPetr David Josek AP PhotoPetr David Josek
Host Trey Gowdy discussed the recent comments by President Biden in declaring that Putin "cannot remain in power." After intense backlash, the White House, along with Biden himself, insisted that he did not call for a regime change.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks via video call to the Doha Forum in Doha, Qatar, Saturday, March 26, 2022. Ukraine's president made a surprise video appearance Saturday at Qatar's Doha Forum, calling on the energy-rich nation and others to boost their production to counteract the loss of Russian energy supplies. AP PhotoLujain Jo
Lindsay Kornick is an associate editor for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to lindsay.kornickfox.com and on Twitter: lmkornick.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Fox News contributor Dan Hoffman says Russian President Vladimir Putin is terrified of democracy on 'Sunday Night in America.'
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a cabinet meeting via videoconference at the Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow, Russia, Wednesday, March 23, 2022. Mikhail Klimentyev, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP Mikhail Klimentyev, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
Fox News contributor and former CIA station chief Dan Hoffman offered his analysis on the latest news on the Russia-Ukraine war.
Although Hoffman recognized Putins desire to enrich Moscow, he explained that the Russian president is likely motivated by his fear of democracy.
He added, "I wish that the White House had said, you know, well back this up and say, from Ukraines perspective the Russian military should not be following the orders of that KGB guy in the Kremlin based on the fact that hes caused so much harm and destruction to innocent Ukrainian civilians. This has to stop."
As Ukrainian forces continue to fight back the Russian military, Hoffman noted on "Sunday Night in America" that Russian President Vladimir Putin has been forced to change his goals.
Hoffman concluded that regardless of Bidens comments, the best course of action is to assist Ukrainian President Zelenskyy.
"Moreover, leaving aside the words that president chose, weve got to back those up with giving Ukraine the military equipment they need. President Zelenskyy is begging for it. Hes been begging for air defense, the S-300s, for the MiG aircrafts. We have to figure out a way to get it to him," he said.
While Hoffman believed that Biden suffered "a lapse in message discipline," he agreed with the sentiment behind Bidens comments.
