Drone detonates explosive at Russias Black Sea navy HQ
20220731
https://www.foxnews.com/world/drone-detonates-explosive-russias-black-sea-navy-hq
The Russian leader also warned that Russian warships would soon be equipped with hypersonic weapons.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky ordered a mandatory evacuation of the Dontesk region as the area continues to suffer intense fighting.
A drone-deployed explosive detonated at Russia's Black Sea Fleet headquarters, injuring six people, Russian officials announced Sunday.
The attack came the same day Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a new Russian naval doctrine in St. Petersburg.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Putin stated that Russia intended to cement its status as a global maritime power and named the U.S. as its top global adversary.
RUSSIA CLAIMS TO HIT UKRAINE WITH HYPERSONIC MISSILE, EXPERT WARNS IT IS PART OF PUTIN'S STRATEGIC PLAN
"The key thing here is the capability of the Russian navy," Putin said during a Sunday speech. "It is able to respond with lightning speed to all who decides to infringe on our sovereignty and freedom."
The attack took place during Russian Navy Day celebrations in Sevastopol, a port city in Crimea that Russia annexed in 2014. The drone appeared to be homemade and the explosive device was relatively low yield. Sevastopol Mayor Mikhail Razvozhaev did not detail the severity of the wounds for the six reported injuries.
Putin's invasion of Ukraine will finish its fifth full month Sunday as fighting continues across eastern Ukraine.
"The more people leave the Donetsk region now, the fewer people the Russian army will have time to kill," Zelensky said Sunday.
Anders Hagstrom is a reporter with Fox News Digital covering national politics and major breaking news events. Send tips to Anders.HagstromFox.com, or on Twitter: HagstromAnders.
SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIA - JULY,25 RUSSIA OUT: Russian President Vladimir Putin C seen aboard of the ship during the military parade marking the Russia's Navy Day, on July,25,2021, in Saint Petersburg, Russia. The Navy Day military parade held in St.Petersburg, despite the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic. Photo by Mikhail SvetlovGetty Images Photo by Mikhail SvetlovGetty Images
Russian Navy ships are docked in the Sevastopol bay on March 4, 2014. VIKTOR DRACHEVAFP via Getty Images Photo credit should read VIKTOR DRACHEVAFP via Getty Images
"Many refuse to leave, but it still needs to be done," he said. "If you have the opportunity, please talk to those who still remain in the combat zones in Donbas. Please convince them that it is necessary to leave."
