Ernst takes on Putin global food shortage in push to demine the Black Sea
20220701
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/ernst-takes-putin-global-food-shortage-push-de-mine-black-sea
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
"Putin is waging war beyond the battlefield by holding a major source of the worlds food supply hostage,"Ernst told Fox News."De-mining the seas shipping lanes is a critical step in both aiding Ukraine and releasing grain to the rest of the world."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has repeatedly warned that Kyiv has been unable to export 22 million tons of grain sitting in holding containers amid Russias Black Sea blockade.
Officials around the globe have been sounding the alarm that the war in Ukraine will not only have security implications in Europe, but could push as many as 49 million to the brink of famine and starvation.
At least 420 mines were launched in the Black Sea in March, according to RussiasFederal Security Service, with several having floated off the shores of neighboring nations like Romania and Turkey.
The Department of Defense enforces geographical limits on where de-mining training can occur to countries where the practice will actually be conducted.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Russian Navy ships are docked in the Sevastopol bay on March 4, 2014. VIKTOR DRACHEVAFP via Getty Images
EXCLUSIVE: Iowa Republican Sen. Joni Ernst is leading the push in Congress to renew training efforts to de-mine the Black Sea and allow passage of merchant ships as concerns surrounding a global famine mount.
Russia claimed Ukrainian forces placed them there, while Kyiv accused Russia of disinformation and creating a guise to justify their presence in Ukrainian waters.
Ernsts legislation would circumvent this standard practice and allow the U.S. to train Ukrainians in non-combative locations in allied nations.
The NDAA passed in the Senate Armed Services Committee in23-3 vote earlier this month with Ernsts amendment and has headed to the Senate floor for consideration.
In stunning new footage, Ukrainians are seen running for their lives following a deadly Russian airstrike on a shopping mall this week in Kremenchuk.
Sen. Joni Ernst R-IA speaks during a press conference following the weekly Senate Republican policy luncheon in the Russell Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill on January 19, 2022, in Washington, DC. Anna MoneymakerGetty Images
"De-mining the seas shipping lanes is a critical step in both aiding Ukraine and releasing grain to the rest of the world, and the United States should have no hesitancy to help with this effort," Ernst told Fox News Digital. "And yet, right now, bureaucratic red tape stands in the way of the United States training Ukraine to remove these mines from the Black Sea."
FILE - Cargo ships ply their trade, Dec. 8, 2004, in the Ukrainian port city of Odesa. Situated at the crossroads of several of the world's major trading routes, Odesa is central to the economy of Ukraine.  Uriel SinaiGetty Images
Ernst, the only female combat veteran to serve in Congress, pushed through a bipartisan-backed amendment earlier this month in the 2023 National Defense Authorization Act NDAA, which would circumvent standard training procedures during time of war and allow the U.S. to train Ukrainians to de-mine their waters.
Russian President Vladimir Putins deadly campaign in Ukraine has not only changed the security apparatus in Europe, it has bridged partisan politics in Washington for the sake of Kyiv.
