Former Russian double agent on Putins invasion of Ukraine No way intel was unaware of circumstances
20220327
https://www.foxnews.com/media/former-russian-double-agent-putins-invasion-ukraine-no-way-intel-unaware-circumstances
Russian President Vladimir Putin has attempted to silence non-state media. Yuri KochetkovPool Photo via AP
Jack Barsky, a former KGB agent, joined 'Fox  Friends Weekend' to discuss modern-day espionage and his experience as a former spy.
Former KGB agent, Jack Barsky, joined "Fox  Friends Weekend" to discuss his take on the assault and how the invasion has gone awry, according to Moscow.
"Either they were afraid to tell or they did tell, and Putin just dismissed," he continued. "It could be a mixture of both because Vladimir Putin has had a history of knowing that he is the smartest man in the room and just like ignoring advice from his people."
Biden traveled to Eastern Europe to meet with U.S. allies and NATO leaders over the weekend, visiting Brussels and Warsaw.
PUTIN HEARD LOUD AND CLEAR CALL FOR REGIME CHANGE AFTER BIDEN SAID HE 'CANNOT REMAIN IN POWER': EXPERT
A former double agent for Russia is sharing his insight on Putin's invasion of Ukraine as his frustration reportedly continues to mount over the trajectory of the war and the stamina of the Ukrainian resistance.
Bailee Hill is an associate editor with Fox News Digital. Story ideas can be sent to bailee.hillfox.com
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"We as a country, have not paid enough attention to what Putin has been planning for a long time," Barsky warned. "He wants to establish greater Russia the way it once started and he has been pretty open about it."
"He has stated in public that he doesn't consider Ukraine a sovereign nation, and Ukraine and Russia should be united," he continued.
Barsky also addressed how the U.S. has handled Russia and argued the foreign policy of the Obama administration particularly was naive in thinking it could play "nice" with Putin.
Barksy's warning comes as the White House has had to clarify remarks President Biden made over the weekend, saying the U.S. does not seek regime change in Russia, despite Biden saying Putin "cannot remain in power."
"There is no way that Russian intelligence didn't know in great detail what Russia would be facing," Barsky told co-host Pete Hegseth.
Millions have fled since Putin's assault began a month ago, with the United Nations estimating over 3.8 million Ukrainians have fled the war-torn nation.
