French 32yearold journalist is killed in Ukraine
20220530
https://www.foxnews.com/world/french-32-year-old-journalist-killed-ukraine
Several Ukrainian and foreign journalists have been killed since February, including another French national, veteran videographer Pierre Zakrzewski, 55.
"Shrapnel from the shells pierced the vehicles armor, fatally wounding an accredited French journalist in the neck who was reporting on the evacuation. The patrol officer was saved by his helmet," he wrote.
BFM TV said Frdric Leclerc-Imhoff was killed as he was "covering a humanitarian operation in an armored vehicle" near Sievierodonetsk, a key city in the Donbas region that is being hotly contested by Russian and Ukrainian forces. He had worked for six years for the French television channel.
The head of Reporters Without Borders, Christophe Deloire, said that "from the beginning of the war we have noticed that the journalists, and other citizens of course, civilians, are targeted by Russian forces."
"Aboard a humanitarian bus, alongside civilians forced to flee to escape Russian bombs, he was fatally shot," Macron tweeted.
French Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna said the journalists death was "deeply shocking." She tweeted that he was killed "by Russian bombing."
"France demands that a transparent inquiry be launched as soon as possible to shed full light on the circumstances of this tragedy," she said in a written statement.
He said the patrol officer accompanying the vehicle was hit by shrapnel in the head and taken to a military hospital.
BFM TV said Leclerc-Imhoff was accompanied by a male colleague who was lightly injured. A Ukrainian woman who was working with them was not hit.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Earlier Monday, the governor of the Luhansk region, Serhiy Haidai, announced Leclerc-Imhoffs death in a Telegram post, saying that Russian forces fired on an armored vehicle that was traveling to pick up people for evacuation.
Macron expressed condolences to his family, relatives and colleagues and spoke of "Frances unconditional support" to "those who carry out the difficult mission of informing in theaters of operations."
"Journalists are paying with their lives for the right to know the truth about what is happening in the war in Ukraine," he said.
Zakrzewski, who also had Irish citizenship, and 24-year-old Ukrainian journalist Oleksandra "Sasha" Kuvshynova, both working for Fox News, were killed when their vehicle came under fire outside of Kyiv on March 14.
The head of Ukraines National Journalist Union, Serhiy Tomilenko, speaking to AP, said officials are discussing how to repatriate his body to France, "which in the conditions of military activity and constant shelling is not so easy to do."
Haidai said Leclerc-Imhoffs body was evacuated to the nearby Ukrainian-held city of Bakhmut and will be taken to the central city of Dnipro for an autopsy.
He posted an image of Leclerc-Imhoffs Ukrainian press accreditation, and images of what he said was the aftermath of the attack.
A 32-year-old French journalist was killed Monday in eastern Ukraine, fatally hit by shell shrapnel while covering a Ukrainian evacuation operation, according to the French news broadcaster he worked for.
She said she talked to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and asked him to do "everything" to allow the journalists body to be returned to France as soon as possible. She said the investigation on the circumstances of the death in the war zone will be led by Ukrainian authorities.
A Ukrainian multiple rocket launcher BM-21 "Grad" shells a Russian troop position near Luhansk in the Donbas region on Sunday. Photo by ANATOLII STEPANOVAFP via Getty Images
According to Deloire, Leclerc-Imhoff was heading to the Donbas region on a humanitarian bus which was going to pick up people and evacuate them.
Colonna, who was on a planned visit to the Ukrainians capital Kyiv on Monday, later called the tragedy "a crime" to reporters.
French President Emmanuel Macron paid tribute to Leclerc-Imhoff on Twitter, saying he "was in Ukraine to show the reality of the war."
This undated photo provided by BFM TV shows reporter Frederic Leclerc-Imhoff. French news broadcaster BFM TV said the 32-year-old French journalist was killed Monday May 30, 2022 in Ukraine, fatally hit by a shell shrapnel while covering a Ukrainian evacuation operation. BFM TV via AP
