George W Bush and Bill Clinton visit Ukrainian church to lay flowers pay respects
20220318
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/george-w-bush-and-bill-clinton-visit-ukrainian-church-to-lay-flowers-pay-respects
The former presidents' visit to the Ukrainian church came as the United Nations announced that more than 6 million people had been displaced by the war in Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke to female flight attendants in comments broadcast on state television on Saturday, March 5, 2022. Reuters
Clinton also released a statement following Russia's invasion calling on the world to hold Russia accountable.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Find him on Twitter andymarkmiller and email tips to AndrewMark.MillerFox.com.
Former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush visited a Ukrainian church in a show of support as the country enters its fourth week of combating an invasion by Russia.
John Herbst expresses offense at American reluctance to provide MiGs to Ukraine on 'Your World.'
UKRAINE-RUSSIA WAR: OVER 6.4M PEOPLE DISPLACED IN UKRAINE, 12M STRANDED OR UNABLE TO FLEE, UN COALITION SAYS
Natali Sevriukova reacts next to her house following a rocket attack the city of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Feb. 25, 2022. Associated Press
More than 12 million people were stranded in areas affected by Russias ongoing invasion of Ukraine, while more than 6.4 million Ukrainians were displaced, but remained in the country as of Wednesday, the United Nations-run Global Protection Cluster said Friday.
STATE DEPT REFUSES TO DETAIL 'RED LINE' IF CHINA PROVIDES SUPPORT TO RUSSIA AMID WAR IN UKRAINE
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Thousands of protesters supporting Ukraine gathered in Washington, D.C., and demanded the Biden administration provide more help Lisa BennatanFox News Digital
"Russias attack on Ukraine constitutes the gravest security crisis on the European continent since World War II. I join the international community in condemning Vladimir Putins unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine," Bush said in a statement in late February. "The American government and people must stand in solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as they seek freedom and the right to choose their own future. We cannot tolerate the authoritarian bullying and danger that Putin poses. Ukraine is our friend and democratic ally and deserves our full support during this most difficult time."
Also on Friday, the U.N.s High Commissioner for Human Rights reported 2,149 civilian casualties in Ukraine from Feb. 24 through midnight Friday. Of those 2,149 people, 816 were killed and 1,333 were hurt, the office reported.
"America stands in solidarity with the people of Ukraine as they fight for their freedom and their future," Bush posted on his Instagram page on Friday along with a video of the two presidents laying flowers at Saints Volodymyr  Olha Ukrainian Catholic Church in Chicago.
