Jesse Watters RussiaUkraine conflict is a proxy war
20220301
https://www.foxnews.com/media/jesse-watters-russia-ukraine-conflict-proxy-war
"This move directly taunted Putin. He was furious and accelerated his mobilization against his neighbor. Did we have a plan for Ukraine? What did we expect?" the "Jesse Watters Primetime" host said.
Jesse Watters said Monday that the conflict between Russia and Ukraine was a proxy war between the West and Russia.
President Joe Biden ditched his signature mask for his first State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday. Jim Lo ScalzoPool via AP
"So what we're watching unfold on the ground in Ukraine, a horrible ground war that moves to a Western funded insurgency. That after many, many years, sends Russia packing is a model. We're watching a proxy war," Watters concluded.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"Hillary Clinton hinted at the plan last week," Watters said. "Turn Ukraine into a killing field to bleed Russia dry."
Watters said he believes Biden's foreign policy decisions, including "dangling NATO membership over Ukraine's head" enticed Russian President Vladimir Putin to push forward on his expansionist ambitions.
"When they were this close to NATO membership. Well, we either didn't have a plan for a Russian reaction, didn't think Russia would react or we're watching our plan play out right now," Watters said.
"I'm afraid we could be hurtling ourselves into a deadly war that we can't stop," Watters said.
Gutted cars following a night air raid in the village of Bushiv, Ukraine, March 4, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
On MSNBC last week, Clinton said "Remember, the Russians invaded Afghanistan back in 1980  it didn't end well for the Russians. The fact is, a very motivated and then funded and armed insurgency basically drove the Russians out of Afghanistan.  I think that is the model people are now looking toward."
Jesse Watters blasts the Biden administration for buying Russian oil while also giving military aid to Ukraine.
Watters then said he believed what is unfurling in Ukraine has strategic implications beyond Russia's neighbor.
