Kamala Harris panned for offering word salad at WH event with Jamaican prime minister Is she punking us
20220331
https://www.foxnews.com/media/kamala-harris-word-salad-white-house-event-jamaican-prime-minister-andrew-holness
However, the vice president raised eyebrows when she attempted to explain how the U.S. was going to assist the Caribbean nation from the negative impacts of the pandemic.
KAMALA HARRIS MOCKED FOR TERRIFYING EXPLANATION OF UKRAINE CRISIS: A REAL INABILITY TO TALK NORMALLY
"Ok seriously, is she punking us?" asked Abigail Marone, press secretary of Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., "Like it has to be a joke at this point."
"This is the definition of 'word salad.' It's practically word goulash," David Martosko of Daily Mail TV quipped.
U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris and Jamaica's Prime Minister Andrew Holness speak to reporters after their meeting in Harris's offices on the White House campus in Washington, U.S. March 30, 2022. REUTERSJonathan Ernst
"Ukraine is a country in Europe. It exists next to another country called Russia. Russia is a bigger country. Russia is a powerful country. Russia decided to invade a smaller country called Ukraine. So basically, that's wrong," Harris said offering an overly-simplified explanation of the Russia-Ukraine crisis on a radio show.
Vice President Kamala Harris went viral once again, this time for remarks she made during a White House event alongside Jamaican Prime Minister Andrew Holness.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"We were all touring the library here and talking about the significance of the passage of time, right, the significance of the passage of time, so when you think about it, there is great significance to the passage of time in terms of what we need to do to lay these wires, what we need to do to create these jobs. And there is such great significance to the passage of time when we think about the day of the life of our children," the vice president said during a recent visit to Louisiana.
Vice President Kamala Harris appeared with Prime Minister Andrew Holness of Jamaica March 30, 2022, and said that "one of the issues that has been presented as an issue that is economic in the way of its impact has been the pandemic."
NOW-DELETED KAMALA HARRIS TWEET CLAIMED US IS SUPPORTING UKRAINE IN DEFENSE OF THE NATO ALLIANCE
Joseph A. Wulfsohn is a media reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to joseph.wulfsohnfox.com and on Twitter: JosephWulfsohn.
"It is time for us to do what we have been doing. And that time is every day. Every day it is time for us to agree that there are things and tools that are available to us," Harris told NBC News in January.
"It is truly hard to believe what a babbling fool vp is," actor Nick Searcy tweeted.
"We also recognize just as it has been in the United States, for Jamaica, one of the issues that has been presented as an issue that is economic in the way of its impact has been the pandemic," Harris said. "So to that end, we are announcing today also that we will assist Jamaica in COVID recovery by assisting in terms of the recovery efforts in Jamaica that have been essential to, I believe, what is necessary to strengthen not only the issue of public health but also the economy."
During Wednesday's event, Harris and Holness touted relations between the U.S. and Jamaica and offered highlights of what was discussed in their meeting.
"She reminds one of the students in college who never did the reading, but insisted on talking a lot about it in class anyway, and always thought heshe was brilliantly fooling everyone. But nobody was fooled," radio host Buck Sexton wrote.
"She is truly one of the great orators of our time," The Daily Wire's Matt Walsh declared.
