Kamala Harris says Russia will suffer significant economic costs if it invades Ukraine Swift and severe
20220219
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/kamala-harris-russia-suffer-significant-economic-costs-invades-ukraine
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
NATO ALLIES CONCERNED BY ZELENSKY MOVE TO LEAVE UKRAINE, THREAT OF RUSSIAN INVASION ALMOST CERTAIN
Putin now has 120-125 Battalion Tactical Groups amassed along Ukraine's border with Special Forces mobilized. Rocket forces and ballistic missile units are within range of the Kyiv.
Fox News foreign correspondent Trey Yingst reports from East Ukraine where hundreds of artillery rounds have been fired.
The Kremlin has repeatedly said it has no intention of carrying out an incursion on Ukraine and this week Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed Moscow was drawing down troops along the border.
"Make no mistake: The imposition of these sweeping and coordinated measures will inflict great damage on those who must be held accountable," she added.
"We will impose far-reaching financial sanctions and export controls. We will target Russia's financial institutions and key industries. And we will target those who are complicit and those who aid and abet this unprovoked invasion," the vice president continued.
A senior U.S. defense official told Fox News Digital Friday thatRussian military forces are in striking distance of the Ukrainian border as roughly 40-50 of Putin's troops have moved into attack positions.
Harris spoke to how Russias attempt to weaken NATO through membership stipulations and security demands has only made the alliance stronger.
Members of Ukraine's Territorial Defense Forces participate in a drill during training at a former asphalt factory on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, on Saturday, Feb. 19, 2022. The U.S. has ramped up warnings of a possible Russian attack on Ukraine, Russian officials said no invasion of Ukraine was underway and none was planned. Ethan SwopeBloomberg via Getty Images
U.S. security officials warned that not only is Russia not withdrawing its troops, but it is making preparations to launch a combative attack.
"We didn't all start out the same place but through diplomacy and again, speaks to the strength of diplomacy, we came together and are now speaking the unified voice," she said."History has challenged us over the years in that regard.
But the vice president said Russias claims through diplomatic channels do not reflect its actions on the ground.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
United States Vice President Kamala Harris speaks during the Munich Security Conference, in Munich, Germany, Saturday, Feb. 19, 2022. AP PhotoMichael Probst
FILE - A Russian tank T-72B3 fires as troops take part in drills at the Kadamovskiy firing range in the Rostov region in southern Russia, Wednesday, Jan. 12, 2022. AP Photo, File
"I can say with absolute certainty:If Russia further invades Ukraine, the United States together with our allies and partners will impose significant and unprecedented economic costs," Harris toldAmbassador and Chairman of the Munich Security Conference Wolfgang Ischinger.
Vice President Kamala Harris warned Russia Saturday that there would be "swift and severe" consequences if it violates Ukraines sovereignty as President Biden predicted would happen just hours prior.
Speaking from the Munich Security Conference in Germany, Harris reiterated U.S. and NATO efforts to de-escalate the conflict and deter Moscow from invading Kyiv.
