Lavrov seen for first time since Putins apology for his Hitler comments
20220506
https://www.foxnews.com/world/lavrov-putin-apology-hitler-remarks-israel
According to the Israeli foreign ministry Thursday, Putin apologized toIsraeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for the remarks, though a direct transcript of the call was not released.
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
The highly controversial comments were made as an attempt to defend Putins talking points to support the illegal invasion of Ukraine.
"When they say How can Nazification exist if were Jewish? In my opinion, Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesnt mean absolutely anything," he added.
Russia Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov speaks to the media on March 10, 2022. AP Photo
Russian President Vladimir Putin shakes hands with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett during their meeting, in Sochi, on Oct. 22 2021. Yevgeny BiyatovSputnikAFP via Getty Images
RussianForeign MinisterSergey Lavrov was spotted Friday in his first public appearance since President Vladimir Putin reportedly apologized on his behalf over incendiary remarks he shot at Israel.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Russia on Friday pushed back on the statement and accused Polands OSCE representatives of being "anti-Russian" and claimed Lavrovs comments were taken "out of the context."
The Russian president has repeatedly claimed his "special military operation" is a move to "denazify" Ukraine. Ukraine and the international community have rejected these claims as a guise to justify his deadly war as he looks to regain former Soviet territory  pointing to the fact that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is Jewish and was democratically elected.
But despite Putins alleged apology, the foreign ministers comments have drawn condemnation from other nations hit hard by Nazi occupation during WWII.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov speaks at a ceremony, Friday, May 6, 2022. Russian Foreign Ministry
Lavrov drew international ire after he told an Italian news outlet that "For some time we have heard from the Jewish people that the biggest antisemites were Jewish."
Lavrov does not appear to have publicly commented yet on remarks he made that caused an international spat and prompted Putin to apologize on his behalf, according to Israel.
The foreign minister this week alleged that Adolf Hitler was Jewish and suggested this claim supported the belief that Jews can express antisemitism.
The Russian readout from the call did not mention an apology and instead stated thatboth countries "carefully preserve the historical truth about the events of those years and honor the memory of all the fallen, including victims of the Holocaust."
"We had hoped that the distorted notion that Jews are responsible for their own misfortune and that they were the architects of the Holocaust itself, was relegated to the darkest corners of society," the statement added.
Lavrov attended a flower-laying ceremony in commemoration of former Soviet Union Foreign Ministry officials who died during the "Great Patriotic War"  a term coined by Russia in reference to World War II.
Representatives from Poland to theOrganization for Security and Co-operation in Europe on Thursday accused Lavrov of reviving "a disgraceful antisemitic trope" and condemned his attempts to "draw on one of the most sinister antisemitic myths in an effort to discredit the President of Ukraine and his government."
