More than a quarter of Russias army in Ukraine now combat ineffective UK says
20220502
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-army-ukraine-troop-losses-analysis
More than a quarter of troops that Russia sent to fight in Ukraine are now believed to be "combat ineffective," the United Kingdom announced Monday.
A destroyed tank and a damaged apartment building from heavy fighting are seen in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol, Ukraine, on Tuesday, April 26. APAlexei Alexandrov
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Of those troops still fighting, they are continuing to "conduct full-scale armed aggression against Ukraine and offensive operations" in the eastern part of the country, the military added.
A Russian self-propelled artillery vehicle and military vehicles roll along Tverskaya street toward Red Square during a rehearsal for the Victory Day military parade in Moscow, Russia, on Thursday, April 28. AP
Combat ineffectiveness is the ability for a military unit to carry out its assigned duties, and is impacted by troop and equipment losses, according to the Associated Press.
A Russian military convoy stands on the road toward the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Station in southeastern Ukraine on Sunday, May 1. AP
"Some of Russias most elite units, including the VDV Airborne Forces, have suffered the highest levels of attrition," the Ministry also said. "It will probably take years for Russia to reconstitute these forces."
"At the start of the conflict, Russia committed over 120 battalion tactical groups, approximately 65 percent of its entire ground combat strength," the U.K. Ministry of Defence said in a tweet. "It is likely that more than a quarter of these units have now been rendered combat ineffective."
As of Monday, Ukraines military claims that Russia has lost nearly 24,000 soldiers, more than 1,000 tanks, and around 500 artillery systems so far in the war.
The startling statistic comes as Russias bloody invasion of Ukraine is in its 68th day. Prior to the assault from Vladimir Putins army, it was estimated that Moscow assembled around 150,000 soldiers to participate in the war.
"The threat of missile strikes on military and civilian infrastructure from the territory of the Republic of Belarus by the Russian enemy remains," it also said.
