Moscow looks to sever Minsk agreements as Russia Ukraine conflict persists
20220216
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/moscow-minsk-agreements-russia-ukraine-conflict
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
In this photo taken from video provided by the Russian Defense Ministry Press Service on Wednesday, Feb. 16, 2022, Russian army tanks are loaded onto railway platforms to move back to their permanent base after drills in Russia.
The Russian State Duma  the lower chamber in the Russian parliament  voted Tuesday to send President Vladimir Putin an appeal to recognize the self-declared Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics.
NATO and U.S. officials said they were cautiously optimistic at the news but NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Wednesday that the alliance had seen no evidence Russia has taken steps to withdraw troops.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu at the Kremlin, in Moscow on Feb. 14, 2022. ALEXEI NIKOLSKYSputnikAFP via Getty Images
An additional agreement signed in 2015 in Minsk by Russia, Ukraine, leaders from the separatist groups and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE reinforced the ceasefire and called for a series of steps to end the conflict.
Located in the Donbas region, in Ukraines most eastern front, the breakaway republics have been engaged in armed conflict with the Ukrainian army since 2014.
"To be clear: Kremlin approval of this appeal would amount to the Russian governments wholesale rejection of its commitments under the Minsk agreements," the State Department said Wednesday. "Enactment of this resolution would further undermine Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, constitute a gross violation of international law, call into further question Russias stated commitment to continue to engage in diplomacy to achieve a peaceful resolution of this crisis."
Despite its aggressive military buildup, the Kremlin has maintained it has no intention of invading Ukraine and on Tuesday it claimed it will be partially drawing down its military forces.
The move by the Russian government comes as tensions in Eastern Europe remain heightened after months of military movement and the buildup of roughly 150,000 Russian troops near Ukraines border.
The State Department on Wednesday warned against any move by the Kremlin to sever its commitment to the Minsk agreements as it looks to recognize two Russian-backed breakaway regions in eastern Ukraineas "independent."
RUSSIA-UKRAINE: NATO LEADER SAYS 'WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANY WITHDRAWAL OF RUSSIAN FORCES': LIVE UPDATES
"We keep demanding transparency from Russia which refused to attend yesterdays meeting under the Vienna Document," Minister of Foreign Affairs for Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, said Wednesday.
Ukrainian officials last week launched therisk reduction mechanismunder the Vienna Document and called on Putin to provide detailed information regarding its military activities along Ukraines borders.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
NATO forces have been deployed to nations surrounding Ukraine including Romania and Poland. Officials have repeatedly said troops will not be deployed to Ukraine as it is not a NATO member.
"We once again call on Russia to address legitimate concerns of participating states and use OSCE tools to defuse tensions caused by its military activities near Ukraines border. Statements on withdrawal arent sufficient."
Russia has yet to respond to the demands from Ukraine, nor has it returned NATOs written responses issued in answer to Russias expressed security concerns.
The State Department has maintained that Russia invaded Ukraine in 2014 and continues to control armed forces in Donbas.
Ukraine has long argued that Russia has not upheld its end of the bargain by withdrawing all its troops from the region  though Moscow denies there are any forces to withdraw, according to reporting by Reuters.
