Northern Ukraine pummeled with two dozen missiles on Statehood Day
20210728
https://www.foxnews.com/world/northern-ukraine-pummeled-two-dozen-missiles-statehood-day
Russian and Belarusian armed forces take part in a military drill in Gomel, Belarus on Feb. 19. StringerAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
Though the holiday has been celebrated in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine since 2010, Russia renewed its threat on the capital city in a series of strikes Zelenskyy called "missile terror."
Kalibr cruise missiles were fired from the Black Sea,X-22 missiles from Tu-22m3 long-range bombers were fired from a Russian airfield roughly 160 miles from Ukraines border andshort range Iskander ballistic missiles were fired from the Gomel region in Belarus.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Earlier this month, Belarus ordered military drills to be carried out in the Gomel region, and it began distributing summons to men and women for"mobilization exercises" last month.
Fox News correspondent Lucas Tomlinson reports from Kyiv, Ukraine on the latest in their defense efforts against Russia more than five months after the beginning of the invasion on 'Special Report.'
The official did not confirm who was responsible for the missile fire from Belarus but comes as concerns mount over the former Soviet nation ordering troops into Ukraine in support of Russia.
"Ukraine is an independent, free, indivisible state. And it will always be like that," he added.
An official from the Ukrainian air force told Ukrainian news outlet Pravda that its defense system was not able to strike down all of the roughly 20 missiles before they made contact with their targets across the Kyiv region.
"Restless morning. Again  missile terror," he said in a Telegram post. "We will not give up. Do not intimidate us.
Thursdays missile strikes come as Ukraine celebrates Statehood Day for the first time after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy created the national holiday last year.
Ukrainian police forensic investigators examine an area with burnt Russian military vehicles destroyed during fighting, in the village of Bervytsia, near Brovary, northeast of Kyiv, on Thursday, April 21. ALEKSEY FILIPPOVAFP via Getty Images
Some two dozen missiles rained down in northern Ukraine Thursday, hitting areas near Kyiv after rockets were fired from Russia, the Black Sea and Belarus.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy inspects damaged buildings as he visits the war-hit Mykolaiv region June 18, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
PUTIN-BACKED DONBAS LEADER SAYS IT'S 'TIME TO LIBERATE' KYIV IN RENEWED THREAT TO UKRAINE'S CAPITAL
At least 15 people have been reported as wounded and an undisclosed number of soldiers in the Ukrainian army were killed after missiles hit a military unit, Deputy Chief of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Oleksiy Hromov told Interfax.
The day marks the death ofKyiv's Prince Volodymyr the Great in 1015, which Zelenskyy said in August 2021 signified the "christening" of Ukraine.
