Nuclear war within the realm of possibility UN secretary general warns
20220314
https://www.foxnews.com/world/nuclear-war-realm-possibility-un-secretary-general
President Bidens national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, said Sunday that despite the apparent threat, Washingtons nuclear alert levels remained unchanged.
"The United States has not adjusted our nuclear posture, but it is something that we monitor day by day, hour by hour because it is a paramount priority to the president," he said.
Jessica Chasmar is a digital writer on the politics team for Fox News and Fox Business. Story tips can be sent to Jessica.Chasmarfox.com.
Guterres told reporters that Russian President Vladimir Putins decision early on in the invasion to put his nuclear forces on high alert was a "bone-chilling development," Reuters reported.
"The prospect of nuclear conflict, once unthinkable, is now back within the realm of possibility," he said. "It is time to stop the horror unleashed on the people of Ukraine and get on the path of diplomacy and peace."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"This funding will help get critical supplies of food, water, medicines and other lifesaving aid into the country as well as provide cash assistance," Guterres said.
Russia using nuclear weapons during its assault on Ukraine is "within the realm of possibility," United Nations Secretary-General Antnio Guterres warned Monday.
William Taylor, former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, talked with America Reports about the Russian attack on a military base near the Polish border.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres speaks during an interview at the U.N. headquarters in New York City on Jan. 20. APRobert Bumsted
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke to female flight attendants in comments broadcast on state television on Saturday, March 5, 2022. Reuters Video
Russian forces launched a full-blown military invasion of Ukraine nearly three weeks ago on Feb. 24. Four days later, Putin raised the alert status for his nuclear forces to "special regime of combat duty."
Guterres called for the safeguarding of nuclear facilities in Ukraine and also announced the U.N. is allocating $40 million from its Central Emergency Response fund to assist Ukrainians, Reuters reported.
