Psaki says verbal condemnation of Russia from China is vital
20220321
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/psaki-russia-china-verbal-condemnation
The White House press secretary frequently uses phrases about history books and being on the wrong side of history when responding to reporter questions.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said that a "verbal condemnation" of Russia by China is "vital" amid Russian President Vladimir Putin's continuing war in Ukraine.
Psaki was asked Friday why President Biden had not made specific requests to Chinese President Xi Jinping that morning during their conversation about Putins attacks against Ukraine. She suggested China could be cowed by how it will be judged in history.
Just one day earlier, Psaki fielded another question about Chinas relationship with Russia, arguing that it was a question for any country of "where you want to be as the history books are written."
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
The presidential spokeswomans answer continued her trend of alluding to history books and asking how China wants to be portrayed in this time of war.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks during a press briefing at the White House, Friday, March 18, 2022, in Washington. AP PhotoPatrick Semansky
"At the same time, as you know, the president had a lengthy discussion with President Xi on Friday, and were going to continue to keep those lines of communication open," she continued.
Psaki told reporters during the White Houses daily press conference that Chinese President Xi Jinping needed to verbally condemn Russia's invasion. She was responding to comments made by China's ambassador to the U.S., who said over the weekend that condemnation alone wouldn't halt the Russian invasion.
Chinese President Xi Jinping applauds after the parliament passed a constitutional amendment lifting presidential term limits, at the third plenary session of the National People's Congress NPC at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China March 11, 2018. REUTERSJason Lee
Houston Keene is a politics writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to Houston.KeeneFox.com and on Twitter: HoustonKeene
"Because China has to make a decision for themselves about where they want to stand and how they want the history books to look at them and view their actions," Psaki said.
"What we want to hear is condemnation of what we're seeing on the ground," she added.
"Our view is that verbal condemnation of the actions of President Putin and the actions of the Russian military is important and vital, and it's about what side of history you want to stand on at in this point in time," Psaki said.
Psaki also said the White House has noted the absence of "condemnation" by China of Russia over the war, saying the Asian nation has echoed Russian "conspiracy theories" about "chemical weapons."
