Putin says Russia will hit harder if US supplies longrange missiles to Ukraine
20220605
https://www.foxnews.com/world/putin-russia-hit-us-supplies-long-range-missiles-ukraine
The White House has been plagued with drama in recent weeks as negative reports about President Bidens press office coincide with a series of messaging gaffes. AP PhotoSusan Walsh
Ukraine's biggest national flag flies in Kyiv on February 26, 2022. GENYA SAVILOVAFP via Getty Images
President Vladimir Putin warned the West that Russia would strike new targets if the United States started supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles, the TASS news agency reported on Sunday.
Putin did not name the targets Russia planned to pursue if Western countries began supplying Ukraine with longer-range missiles. He said the "fuss" around Western weapon supplies to Ukraine was designed to drag out the conflict.
Ukraine has been seeking Multiple Rocket Launch Systems MLRS such as the M270 and M142 HIMARS to strike troops and weapons stockpiles at the Russian forces' rear.
Although Russian officials have warned that the U.S. decision to supply Ukraine with advanced rocket systems could exacerbate the conflict, Putin said it would not bring on any fundamental changes on the battlefield.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
In an excerpt of the same interview aired on Saturday, Putin boasted that Russian anti-aircraft forces have shot down dozens of Ukrainian weapons and are "cracking them like nuts."
If such missiles are supplied, "we will strike at those targets which we have not yet been hitting," Putin was quoted as saying in an excerpt of an interview with Rossiya-1 state television channel.
VLADIMIR PUTIN BECOMING EVEN MORE DETACHED FROM REALITY THAN WHEN I WAS IN OFFICE: UK'S DAVID CAMERON
U.S. President Joe Biden announced plans this week to give Ukraine precision HIMARS rocket systems after receiving assurances from Kyiv that it would not use them to hit targets inside Russia.
The Kyiv Independent accused The New York Times of calling for the West to appease Russian President Vladimir Putin and "give up" assisting Ukraine in the on-going war. Alexander Demyanchuk, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
"We understand that this supply of advance rocket systems from the United States and some other countries is meant to make up for the losses of this military equipment," Putin said.
