Putin furious Ukraine invasion hasnt been easy EU official says citing intel report
20220227
https://www.foxnews.com/world/putin-furious-ukraine-invasion-easy-eu-riho-terras-intel
A civil defense member stands at a checkpoint in Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, Feb. 26, 2022. Associated Press
As his thread continues, Terras claims the intel report says the Russian forces lacked an adequate tactical plan and were themselves strapped for supplies  bringing enough rockets for only three or four days, and thus "use them sparingly."
"He thought that the whole war would be easy and everything would be done in 1-4 days," Terras wrote.
If the Ukrainians are able to fight off the Russians for 10 days, that will likely force Moscow to enter negotiations to end the conflict because "they have no money, weapons, or resources," Terras writes.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
As Russias attack continued into Sunday morning, it appeared Russia was targeting energy resources in Ukraine, with a gas pipeline in Kharkiv reportedly struck and a civilian oil depot south of Kyiv also hit, according to reports.
Riho Terras, a former defense chief in Estonia and member of the European Parliament, detailed the contents of the documents in a Twitter thread Saturday.
Fox News has not independently confirmed the authenticity of the intel report, which Terras included in his Twitter post.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, monitoring developments in Ukraine from his "lair in the Urals," is "furious" and "fuming" that his militarys invasion of the smaller country to the south hasnt gone more smoothly, claims a European Union official who says he has reviewed a Ukrainian intelligence report.
The Russian plan also includes sowing panic among Ukraines women and children to advance their efforts against Ukraines government, the official writes.
Putin is accompanied in the Urals location by Russian oligarchs "so no one will flee," Terras claimed the Russian-language documents say.
Instead, Ukrainian military members  and civilians arming themselves with guns and Molotov cocktails  have been working to fend off Russian forces who have been entering Ukraine from several directions since Thursday.
"They have no raw materials," he writes. "What was previously supplied mainly from Slovenia, Finland and Germany is now cut off" because of Western sanctions.
