Putin orders nuclear deterrent forces status raised to special combat readiness
20220227
https://www.foxnews.com/world/putin-orders-nuclear-deterrent-forces-be-put-on-high-alert
"He is right now threatening a nuclear escalation," said former DIA intelligence officer Rebekah Koffler. "This a veiled threat  or maybe such a veiled threat - he just met with his chief of general staff and minister of defense. He is escalating the conflict into the nuclear domain in order to de-escalate  that is topple Kyivs regime quickly."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Russian President Vladimir Putin raised the alert status for his nuclear forces to "special regime of combat duty" as Russia and Ukraine battle for the fourth day.
"It means that President Putin is continuing to escalate this war in a manner that is totally unacceptable and we have to continue to stem his actions in the strongest possible way," she said.
Putin spoke at a meeting Sunday with his top advisers and said NATO powers had made "aggressive statements" and that the West was imposing hard-hitting financial sanctions against Russia and himself.
Putin ordered the Russian defense minister and the chief of the military's General Staff to put the nuclear deterrent forces in a "special regime of combat duty." The move signals tensions could boil over into a nuclear war.
Putin warned last week that countries who interfere with his invasion of Ukraine will face "consequences you have never seen."
Matt Schlapp doesnt think Russian President Vladimir Putin would have invaded Ukraine if Trump was in office. Yuri KochetkovPool
"Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading NATO members made aggressive statements regarding our country," Putin said in televised comments.
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said Sunday on CBS's "Face the Nation" that Putin's order is an unacceptable escalation.
