Reporters notebook Ukrainians stand up to Russians
20220227
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukrainians-stand-russians
A lot of the recent skirmishes have been with Russian "saboteurs," Special Force and Airborne soldiers flown in behind the lines, to cause trouble.
And maybe even getting the Russians to "talk" instead of "shoot" negotiations are now set for a site on the Ukraine-Belarus border between Kyiv and Moscow.
"Their plan was to quickly occupy the capital and install a puppet government," according to Michailo Wynnycky, author of "Ukraines Maidan, Russias War."
In fact the resistance of the Ukrainians to a better-equipped Russian army has been impressive. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg had this to say when we asked his opinion:
The sense one gets from the new hero, Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy, is, if he can show the world a bit more of what the Ukrainians are made of, he can try to even up the odds, including:
In optimistic thinking reminiscent of past Great Power incursions, Kremlin insiders seemed to expect their soldiers to be met with flowers and praise from the locals.
What theyve done is fended off what analysts say was a Russian President Vladimir Putin dream of a fast Ukrainian takeover.
"Everybody is joining, we are all taking up arms," said 26-year-old Sviatoslav Yurash. Sviatoslav Yurash
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Still the feeling one gets, monitoring the first few days of this invasion, is the Urkainians are mostly "playing for time."
The Ukrainian army itself has gotten much better since the Russians rolled over them in 2014, nabbing two chunks of territory.
Greg Palkot currently serves as a London-based senior foreign affairs correspondent for Fox News Channel FNC. He joined the network in 1998 as a correspondent. Follow him on TwitterGregPalkot.
Sviatoslav Yurash is well-known in Ukraine. At 26, hes the youngest member of the countrys parliament ever. Now he is just one of thousands of Ukrainians picking up a gun and helping to defend their country from a Russian attack.
"The fear is Russian forces could go to unspeakable lengths,"Atlantic Councils Dickinson noted, "mass killings  Syria-style carpet bombings."
Trying to thwart what he calls Putins "hope for a Blitztkrieg." That is, he adds, "if we survive."
Which is why 26-year-old Sviat is walking the dark streets of Kyiv these days,armed only with a long gun, looking for Russian infiltrators.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks alongside other Ukrainian officials in the governmental district of Kyiv, confirming that he is still in the capital on Feb. 25, 2022, in this screengrab obtained from a handout video. Ukrainian Presidential Press ServiceHandout via Reuters
Instead, thanks to ubiquitous cellphones in Ukraine, weve seen videos of people standing in front of Russian tanks to halt their forward progress, Ukrainian grannies and grandpas giving on-the-street lectures to young Russian soldiers, kids hurling their prized bikes under military truck treads to turn them away, and of course those brave defenders of the Black Sea Snake Island naval base telling a Russian battleship to "f--- off!"
"Theyre responding exceptionally well to the horrors of Putins invasion," Peter Dickinson, a Kyiv-based analyst for the Atlantic Council, told us.
26-year-old Sviatoslav Yurash is well-known in Ukraine. Hes the youngest member of the countrys parliament ever
"They are really proving their bravery and courage by fighting and standing up to a much larger and invading force."
The full force of Russian tanks, armored personnel carriers and armaments are still dutifully rolling toward their destinations, number one of which is the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.
Boosting Ukrainesmilitaryhardware Germany by breaking down and actually allowing lethal aid to be sent to Kyiv
But all of this would be too neat an ending for a nasty threat from one of the globes true bad guys, Vladimir Putin, who aims to turn Ukraine into a docile neighbor.
Building up anti-Russian sanctions the international Swift banking system is now set to be out of bounds for the Russians
