Russia China fly nuclearcapable bombers in joint military drill during Biden trip to Japan
20220524
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-china-military-drill-biden-japan-trip
A joint military exercise in which Russia and China flew nuclear-capable bombers Tuesday during President Bidens trip to eastern Asia demonstrateshow both sides remain close "even as Russia brutalizes Ukraine," a senior administration official tells Fox News.
Jacqui Heinrich currently serves as a White House correspondent for FOX News Channel FNC. She joined the network in September 2018 and is based out of Washington D.C.
A Russian Tu-95 strategic bomber flies during Russian-Chinese military aerial exercises to patrol the Asia-Pacific region, at an unidentified location on Tuesday, May 24. ReutersRussian Defense MinistryHandout
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"The flight time of the Russian strategic missile carriers was about 13 hours," the Ministry added. "At certain stages of the route, the strategic missile carriers were escorted by F-2 of the South Korean Air Force and F-15 of the Japanese Air Force."
"The exercise shows that China is continuing its military cooperation with Russia in the Indo-Pacific even as Russia brutalizes Ukraine," the official said. "It also shows that Russia will stand with China in the East and South China Seas, not with other Indo-Pacific states."
A Russian TU-95 bomber and Chinese H-6 bombers fly over East China Sea on Tuesday, May 24. Joint Staff Office of the Defense Ministry of JapanHandoutReuters
The drills, which the official described as the most significant cooperation between the two countries since Russia invaded Ukraine three months ago, come as Biden is in Tokyo for the Quad leaders summit with the leadersof Japan, India and Australia.
"Joint strategic bomber exercises such as this one cannot be planned quickly and was likely planned well in advance by both countries," the official also said. "To further demonstrate just how seriously China considers its military partnership with Russia, Chinese naval vessels likely participated in this joint exercise."
Russias Ministry of Defense, in a Telegram post, said "a group of Tu-95ms Strategic Missile Carriers of the Russian Aerospace Forces and Xian H-6 Strategic Bombers of the Chinese Air Force conducted air patrol over the waters of the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea."
The bombers used in the exercise "traversed the Sea of Japan and continued through the East China Sea and the Philippine Sea," according to the official.
A Russian Tu-95 strategic bomber takes off during Russian-Chinese military aerial exercises to patrol the Asia-Pacific region, at an unidentified location, in this still image taken from a video released on Tuesday, May 24. Russian Defense MinistryHandoutReuters
