Russia angrily rejects claim its creating a pretext to invade Ukraine
20220117
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-rejects-claim-pretext-ukraine
He reaffirmed that Russia expects a written response this week from the U.S. and its allies to Moscows request for binding guarantees that NATO will not embrace Ukraine or any other ex-Soviet nations, or station its forces and weapons there.
Speaking to reporters on Monday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov dismissed the U.S. claim as "total disinformation."
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that Moscow will take unspecified "military-technical measures" if the West stonewalls its demands.
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, second right, greets military top officials during their meeting in Minsk, Belarus, Monday, Jan.17, 2022. Nikolai PetrovBelTA Pool Photo via AP
Lukashenko said the maneuvers will be conducted on Belarus' western border and also in the country's south where it borders Ukraine.
Asked Monday about the possibility of Russian missile deployment to Cuba and Venezuela, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that "Russia is thinking about how to ensure its security in the context of the current situation."
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, who has increasingly relied on the Kremlin's support amid Western sanctions over a brutal crackdown on domestic protests, said that Russia and Belarus will hold massive military drills next month.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko attends a meeting with military top officials in Minsk, Belarus, Monday, Jan.17, 2022. Sergei ShelegBelTA Pool Photo via AP
Russia's top diplomat on Monday angrily rejected the U.S. allegations that it was preparing a pretext to invade Ukraine as Russian troops have remained concentrated near the border.
Russian President Vladimir Putin listens during a meeting in the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, Monday, Jan. 17, 2022. Mikhail Metzel, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula after the ouster of Ukraines Moscow-friendly leader and in 2014 also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting between the Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the countrys industrial heartland called Donbas.
Ukrainian officials have warned that Russia could launch an attack from various directions, including from the territory of its ally Belarus.
Washington and its alliesfirmly rejectedMoscow's demands during last weeks Russia-U.S. negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels, which were held as an estimated 100,000 Russian troops with tanks and other heavy weapons are massed near Ukraine in what the West fears might be a prelude to an invasion.
Russia has denied having plans to attack its neighbor and in turn accused the Ukrainian leadership of hatching plans to use force to reclaim control of rebel-held territories. Ukrainian authorities have denied it.
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov, who led the Russian delegation at the talks with the U.S. in Geneva, said last week that he would "neither confirm nor exclude" the possibility of Russia sending military assets to Cuba and Venezuela if the U.S. and its allies dont curtail their military activities on Russias doorstep. U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan has dismissed the comments as bluster.
The White House said Fridaythat U.S. intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had already deployed operatives to rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine to carry out acts of sabotage there and blame them on Ukraine in a "false-flag operation" to create a pretext for possible invasion.
