Russia escalates spat and accuses Israel of supporting neonazis in Ukraine
20220503
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-accuses-israel-supporting-neo-nazis-in-ukraine
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
Russias foreign ministry on Tuesday countered Israels comments and claimedForeign Minister Yair Lapids comments "contradict history."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Israel shot back Monday calling his comments "unforgivable" and a"terrible historical error" that minimized the atrocities committed during the Holocaust. A Washington Post fact-checker said "there's little evidence" to support Lavrov's claim.
"Jews did not murder themselves in the Holocaust," the Israeli foreign ministersaid. "The lowest level of racism against Jews is to accuse Jews themselves of antisemitism."
Russia's foreign ministry on Tuesday accused Israel of supporting neo-Nazis in Ukraine in a move that escalated a back and forth spat between the Jewish nation and Moscow.
The row began after Foreign MinisterSergei Lavrov on Monday defended claims made byRussian President Vladimir Putin as an attempt to justify his illegal invasion into Ukraine by alleging his forces are working to "denazify" regions that have been subject to oppression by Kyiv.
"For some reason, the Western press, and some of our own liberals, still debate the question of whether there are neo-Nazis in Ukraine, with Vladimir Zelenskyys origin cited as a substantial argument," the Russian ministry added, claiming the argument did "not hold water."
Russia has yet to provide any proof to support its claims of oppressive action by Ukrainian officials.
Adding that his stance "largely explains the policy by the current Government of Israel to support the neo-Nazi regime in Kyiv."
"When they say How can Nazification exist if were Jewish? In my opinion, Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesnt mean absolutely anything," Lavrov added.
In this photo released by the Russian Foreign Ministry Press Service, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov pauses during his and Brazilian Foreign Minister Carlos Franca's joint news conference following their talks in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. Russian Foreign Ministry Press Service via AP
Ukrainian and international leaders have rejected these comments as a guise to justify his brutal campaign and point to the fact that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is Jewish and was democratically elected.
But in an interview with an Italian news outlet, Lavrov doubled down on the claims and said, "For some time we have heard from the Jewish people that the biggest antisemites were Jewish."
