Russian rail bridge blown up near Ukraine border official calls it sabotage
20220425
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russian-rail-bridge-attack-ukraine-border
Starovoit claimed Sunday that the bridge was blown up by unidentified attackers and the Investigative Committee, Russias top state investigative agency, has launched a criminal probe into what it described as a "terrorist act," according to The Associated Press.
"So far, an investigation team is working on the bridge, but railway specialists have already left for the site and are ready to start restoration work," he posted Sunday, describing the photos as "where the sabotage took place."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
In this image posted by Kursk regional Gov. Roman Starovoit, a severely damaged bridge is seen in Russia near its border with Ukraine. TelegramRoman Starovoit
Images posted by Kursk regional Gov. Roman Starovoit on his Telegram page showed a bridge with rail tracksdangling precariously over a gap after the supporting structure underneath collapsed.
Russian crews reportedly are working Monday to repair a rail bridge near the countrys border with Ukraine that was blown up over the weekend in what a local governor is claiming was an act of "sabotage."
Smoke rises from oil storage facilities hit by fire in Bryansk, Russia, on April 25, in a photo taken by an anonymous source. AP
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack, whichfollows a series of explosions and fires in western Russia as the war in Ukraine enters its third month.
Last week, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said "karma is a cruel thing" after a Russian ammo depot burst into flames and explosions were heard along provinces bordering the war-torn country.
Fox News senior strategic analyst Gen. Jack Keane joined 'America's Newsroom' to discuss Pelosi's visit to Ukraine and North Korea's latest nuclear threat.
Officials didnt specify the significance of the bridge for the war, but it sits on a key railway link used to ferry supplies to Russian troops fighting in eastern Ukraine.
