Russian missiles strike Kyiv for first time in a month targeting tank facility
20220605
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russian-missiles-kyiv-ukraine-tanks
President Joe Biden approved an additional $700 million in military aid to Ukraine last week.
That list only adds to the existing $4.6 billion in security assistance the U.S. has already granted to Ukraine under President Biden's administration alone.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday, shattering the city's relative calm with a strike Russia said targeted a facility housing foreign-supplied tanks.
"We will strike at those targets which we have not yet been hitting," Putin said in an interview last week when asked about the issue.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Footage shows several large explosions in Kyiv, but it is unclear what was struck. The Russian Defense Ministry released a statement Sunday morning claiming the strike had hit a former car-repair facility being used to house T-72 tanks and other armored vehicles supplied by Ukrainian allies, NEXTA reported.
The five missiles were the first Russia fired into Kyiv in more than a month, shattering a sense of relative calm in the city.
UKRAINE FUNDING BILL: THESE 11 REPUBLICAN SENATORS SPLIT FROM PARTY LEADERSHIP, OPPOSED $40 BILLION IN AID
The package included everything from rocket systems to spare parts for vehicles and other equipment. Most notable were the Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, the weapons Putin was referring to as an escalation on the part of the U.S.
The strike comes just days after Russian President Vladimir Putin vowed to start hitting harder so long as the U.S. continues to provide Ukraine with long-range missiles.
Other items include five counter-artillery radars two air surveillance radars 1,000 Javelin shoulder-launched rockets 50 Command Launch Units 6,000 anti-armor weapons 15,000 155mm artillery rounds four Mi-17 helicopters, and 15 tactical vehicles, in addition to spare parts and equipment, according to the Department of Defense.
Anders Hagstrom is a reporter with Fox News Digital covering national politics and major breaking news events. Send tips to Anders.HagstromFox.com, or on Twitter: HagstromAnders.
Russia has previously been inaccurate in its missile strikes, hitting a Kyiv residential building in late February.
