Russiabacked separatists say 900 Ukrainian troops surrendered at steel plant disputing earlier figures
20220518
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-separatists-900-ukrainian-troops-surrendered-azovstal
The latest figure comes as DPRs own report from the previous day said: "256 Ukrainian militants had surrendered."
"Thanks to the actions of the Ukrainian military - the Armed Forces of Ukraine, intelligence, the negotiating team, the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations, we hope that we will be able to save the lives of our guys. Among them are the seriously wounded, they are being provided with medical aid," Zelenskyy added.
Smoke rises above the Mariupol Azovstal Iron and Steel Works factory on April 21. REUTERSAlexander Ermochenko
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy confirmed the evacuation of Ukrainian troops during his nightly address Monday, without revealing the exact number of troops who were evacuated.
The Russia-controlled Donetsk administration said over 900 Ukrainian troops surrendered the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, a figure much larger than previously reported.
Smoke rises from the Metallurgical Combine Azovstal in Mariupol, on Wednesday, May 4, 2022. Donetsk People's Republic Interior Ministry Press Service via AP Donetsk People's Republic Interior Ministry Press Service via AP
Humanitarian corridors were opened for some of the civilians following successful negotiations. Many of the civilians were also taken to Russian-occupied territories.
Most of the personnel who were evacuated were sent to Russia-controlled cities, Ukraine's military said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"Ukraine needs Ukrainian heroes alive. This is our principle. I think that every adequate person will understand these words," Zelenskyy said.
Fox News contributor Dr. Rebecca Grant assesses what the loss of a nearly an entire Russian battalion means on America Reports.
"In total, 962 Ukrainian militants surrendered from the territory of the Azovstal metallurgical plant in Mariupol," the Donetsk People's Republic DPR Territorial Defense Headquarters said.
RUSSIA IS BANKRUPT, UNABLE TO WIN AND FACING A DEAD END IN THE WAR, ZELENSKYY SAYS
Those trapped under the Azovstal steel plant included civilians and Ukrainian forces, many severely injured and missing limbs, as Russian forces took the remainder of the city.
Mixed reports have emerged concerning the number of Ukrainian personnel that were evacuated from the plant upon its surrender, as early estimates put the figure between a few hundred and 1,000, Ukraine's military said.
An Azov Special Forces Regiment's serviceman inside the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 10, 2022. Dmytro 'Orest' KozatskyiAzov Special Forces Regiment of the Ukrainian National Guard Press Office via AP Dmytro 'Orest' KozatskyiAzov Special Forces Regiment of the Ukrainian National Guard Press Office via AP
