Russia will stage unwelcome livefire naval drills off coast of Ireland
20220124
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-live-fire-naval-drills-off-coast-of-ireland
House Armed Services Committee member Rep. Michael Waltz says President Biden's 'failed energy policies' are causing instability around the world.
Russias plans to hold war games off Irelands coast in international waters are "not welcome," Irelands foreign minister warned Monday as the situation in Ukraine remains unstable.
"This isnt a time to increase military activity and tension in the context of whats happening with and in Ukraine,"Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Ireland's Foreign Minister Simon Coveney, left, speaks with Cypriot Foreign Minister Ioannis Kasoulides, center, and Denmark's Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod during a meeting of EU foreign ministers at the European Council building in Brussels on Monday. APVirginia Mayo
"The fact that they are choosing to do it on the western borders, if you like, of the EU, off the Irish coast, is something that in our view is simply not welcome and not wanted right now, particularly in the coming weeks," he continued.
Members of Ukraine's Territorial Defense Forces, volunteer military units of the Armed Forces, train in a city park in Kyiv, Ukraine, on Saturday. APEfrem Lukatsky
The development comes as NATO announced it's sending fighter jets and ships to eastern Europe, while the U.S.is ordering the families of embassy personnel in Ukraine to evacuate the country over concerns about a potential Russian invasion.
Coveney also said "we don't have a power to prevent this happening but certainly I've made it clear to the Russian ambassador in Ireland that it's not welcome."
The live-fire drills set to take place in early February, according to the Irish Examiner, will be staged150 miles off Irelands southwest coast. That area is in international waters butwithin Ireland's exclusive economic zone.
