Russia demands sanctions be lifted in exchange for release of vessels carrying food from Ukraine
20220525
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-ukraine-sanctions-food-vessels
"Fighting has already placed indirect pressure on global grain prices," it noted. "While the threat of Russia's naval blockade continues to deter access by commercial shipping to Ukrainian ports, the resulting supply shortfalls will further increase the price of many staple products."
Ukrainian corn is pictured inside a silo at the Romanian Black Sea port of Constanta, Romania, April 28, 2022. Inquam PhotosDaniel Stoenciu via REUTERS
"And, it also requires the demining by the Ukrainian side of all ports where ships are anchored. Russia is ready to provide the necessary humanitarian passage, which it does every day," he said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Western powers have been discussing the idea of setting up "safe corridors" for grain exports from Ukraine.
"The anxiety around access to food at a reasonable price globally is hitting the roof," Kristalina Georgieva, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said this week.
"Russia is now hoarding its own food exports as a form of blackmail  holding back supplies to increase global prices, or trading wheat in exchange for political support," she said. "This is using hunger and grain to wield power."
The Black Sea ports have been blocked since Russia's invasion in February and more than 20 million tonnes of grain are stuck in silos there.
The official said a possible escort by Western ships of Ukraine's vessels carrying grain would "seriously exacerbate the situation in the Black Sea," and told news agency RIA that it is in touch with the United Nations.
"We have repeatedly stated on this point that a solution to the food problem requires a comprehensive approach, including the lifting of sanctions that have been imposed on Russian exports and financial transactions," Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko was quoted as saying, according to the Interfax news agency.
The total area planted with grain is already expected to be up to 30 smaller than last year.
Russia and Ukraine account for nearly a third of global wheat supplies and Ukraine is also a major exporter of corn and sunflower oil.
World Food Program Executive Director David Beasley warned The Associated Press that if Ukraines supplies remain off the market, the world could face a food availability problem in the next 10 to 12 months.
Russia reportedly said Wednesday that it is ready to provide a humanitarian corridor for ships carrying food to leave Ukraine  but it would require some sanctions to be lifted.
In a Wednesday intelligence update, the United Kingdom's Ministry of Defense said that Ukraine's overland export mechanisms are "highly unlikely to substitute for the shortfall in shipping capacity caused by the Russian blockade."
As air strikes continue in Ukraine's eastern region, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen accused Russia on Tuesday of deliberately bombing grain warehouses.
