RussiaUkraine war will come down to the Ukrainian people Christopher Cox
20220226
https://www.foxnews.com/media/russia-ukraine-war-come-down-ukrainian-people-christopher-cox
Members of the territorial defense battalion organise a military redoubt in Kyiv, Ukraine.  Photo by Anastasia VlasovaGetty Images
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
OC Global Partners co-founder Christopher Cox reveals possible meeting places for a Putin-Zelenskyy meeting on Jesse Watters Primetime.
Graham Colton is an associate editor for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to graham.coltonfox.com and on Twitter: GrahamGColton.
"So Zelenskyy is very right to fear going to Minsk or to not want to go to Minsk. And I think that it's a much better idea for him to have a negotiation elsewhere."
OC Global Partners co-founder Christopher Cox predicted that the Russia-Ukraine war "will come down to the Ukrainian people" Friday on "Jesse Watters Primetime."
More than 28 Russian soldiers died, Cox continued, saying it's a toll that will weaken Putin domestically "and will significantly help" Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
"This will come down to the Ukrainian people," he told host Jesse Watters. "They are a strong people. We have seen how Ukrainians have actually blown themselves up to destroy bridges to prevent the Russian advance. If that will persist through tonight and the days ahead, Putin will be in for a very difficult fight."
A Ukrainian protester holds up a poster of Russian President Vladimir Putin that reads "Stop war, stop Putin" during a rally outside the Russian Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand. Photo by Lauren DeCiccaGetty Images
"Tonight, we'll see the will of the Ukrainian people," he said. They "will fight back hard" Friday night, and if successful, will fortify Zelenskyy's bargaining power.
Zelenskyy "would prefer somewhere else," with Warsaw and Jerusalem having been suggested, which "would be more of a home game for him."
"I know the Israeli ambassador has been involved in terms of helping with these negotiations," Cox continued. "So I think that we're going to find out very quickly how this is going to end."
Zelenskyy and Putin's administrations are negotiating a meeting place to discuss the conflict, with Putin seeking to maximize his leverage, Cox said.
"And that's why I think we're seeing an increase in military activity around Kyiv tonight  that he wants to increase his leverage with a big breakthrough around Kyiv, surround President Zelenskyy and really force a negotiated settlement on him. I think that's Putin's plan."
