Russian vodka pulled from shelves in US Canada bars liquor stores Every small thing makes a difference
20220226
https://www.foxnews.com/us/russian-vodka-us-canada-bars-liquor-stores-shelves
Elsewhere in Canada, stores in Manitoba, New Brunswick, British Columbia and Newfoundland were also taking similar action.
"Ontario joins Canada's allies in condemning the Russian government's act of aggression against the Ukrainian people and we strongly support the federal government's efforts to sanction the Russian government," Bethlenfalvy said. "We will continue to be there for the Ukrainian people during this extremely difficult time."
In Oregon, the owner of a bar in Bend filmed himself pouring out all of his Russian vodka, according to FOX 12 of Portland.
Bottles of Russian vodka for sale inside a Bristol store, operated by Mercury Retail, in Moscow, Sept. 21, 2021. Getty Images
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted a video to social media on Saturday morning walking through the streets of Kyiv, and told the nation "I'm here." Credit: President of Ukraine
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Bob Quay, owner of Bobs Bar in Grand Rapids, Michigan, told MLive.com he pulled several bottles off his shelf as a "protest against the aggression."
He said he stood to lose a few hundred dollars over the spilled vodka  but said the protest was worth it to him.
In Ontario, Canada, Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy directed the provincial Liquor Control Board to have stores remove Russian vodka and other alcoholic products, according to the Canadian Press.
Liquor stores across the U.S. and Canada have started throwing out their stocks of Russian vodka in protest of President Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine, according to reports.
"Our province stands with those who understand Europe's peace following two world wars depends on respecting international law," he told the Canadian Press.
"Russia is acting as though it's 1939 and going into Europe with a full force that they have in the Ukraine," Bill McCormick, owner of Pine Tavern, told the station. "I am so concerned about it metastasizing into other countries."
"I just made the decision on the spot," he told MLive.com. "Its just something little we can do."
"Ontario and the LCBO can't say it's truly standing with Ukraine while continuing to be Putins customer," Steven Del Duca, leader of the Ontario Liberal Party, said.
"I think the whole world knows by now that Russias at war with Ukraine for no apparent reason," Jamie Stratton, wine director and partner of the store, told KSNW-TV in Wichita. "I guess this is our sanction  and this may be small, but every small thing makes a difference."
TheNova Scotia Liquor Corporation removed Russian products from its shelves and website because of the "terrible events taking place."
In the U.S., theJacob Liquor Exchange in Wichita, Kansas, decided to remove its more than 100 bottles of Russian vodka from the shelves and poured some of it on the ground.
