Russian mayor targeted with car bomb as antiRussian anger grows in Ukraine British intelligence
20220713
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russian-mayor-targeted-car-bomb-anti-russian-anger-grows-ukraine-british-intelligence
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
"Anti-Russian sentiment in occupied Ukraine is leading to Russian and pro-Russian officials being targeted," U.K. officials said in Wednesday's Defense Intelligence update. "The targeting of officials is likely to escalate, exacerbating the already significant challenges facing the Russian occupiers and potentially increasing the pressure on already reduced military and security formations."
Anti-Russian sentiment is growing in occupied areas throughout Ukraine and has resulted in the killing of a Russian-appointed official targeted in a car bomb this week, British intelligence said Wednesday.
Reports have surfaced since the beginning of the invasion that Russian troops have forcibly confiscated Ukrainian passports and identification cards.
The Moscow-appointed mayor ofVelykyi Burluk, a small town in northern Ukraine located in the Kharkiv region, was allegedly targeted and killed byUkrainian saboteurs Monday.
RUSSIAN TROOPS' LACK OF REST IS ONE OF THE 'MOST DAMAGING' ISSUES FACING PUTIN'S ARMY IN UKRAINE, UK SAYS
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"Russia continues to seek to undermine the legitimacy of the Ukrainian state and consolidate its own governance and administrative control over occupied parts of Ukraine," a U.K. defense officials said in response to the program.
KHARKIV, UKRAINE - JUNE 26: Damaged cars are seen after shelling as the Russian-Ukraine war continues in Nemyshlyanskyi district of Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine on June 26, 2022. Photo by Metin AktasAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
Kharkiv, which shares a border with Russia, was one of the strategic launch points used during Russias second wave of its invasion earlier this year once Moscow had abandoned attempts to take Kyiv.
Russia expanded the program to residents in the southern Zaporizhzhia and the Kherson regions, but it is unclear how many residents in these fiercely contested areas have voluntarily applied for Russian passports.
Ukraine has said it is planning a massive counter-offensive that involves up to 1 million servicemen.
Officials said this is part of Russias strategy as they push west across the Donbas from Luhansk towards cities in the region like Slovyansk and Kramatorsk.
Russian forces pushed southeast through Kharkiv into the Luhansk region and have since occupied the eastern half of the region.
Russian forces search a vehicle at a checkpoint near Kharkiv, Ukraine. Russian Ministry of Defense
Putin declared victory over the Luhansk region last week and British intelligence warned Wednesday that Russian forces will now hone their efforts on taking small towns like Siversk and Dolyna.
The car bomb came the same day that Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a program that would fast-track Russian citizenship for Ukrainians.
Residents of Donetsk and Luhansk were able to apply for Russian passports beginning in 2019. Roughly 18 percent of the population, an area known to house Russian sympathizers in the lead-up to the war, received passports from Moscow.
KHARKIV, UKRAINE - JUNE 26, 2022 - A State Emergency Service employee partakes in the response effort to the shelling of a northern neighbourhood by Russian troops with a BM-30 Smerch multiple rocket launcher, Kharkiv, northeastern Ukraine. Photo credit should read Vyacheslav Madiyevskyy UkrinformFuture Publishing via Getty Images
Fox News correspondent Lucas Tomlinson reports on the war in Ukraine and Iran delivering weapons to Russia on Special Report.
