Russia detains opposition leader over criticism of war in Ukraine
20220824
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-detains-opposition-leader-criticism-war-ukraine
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
"The essence is that I called the war a war. That's it. Unfortunately, I have no defense," he said in a second video posted by Russian media outlet RIA.
Putin has refused to call his deadly campaign in Ukraine a war or an invasion and has instead referred to it only as a "special military operation."
Roizman was seen in the video telling onlookers that he was being investigated for breaking a law the forbids "discrediting" Russias armed forces.
A spokesperson for Navalny, who has been in a Russian prison since January 2021, said,"Putin decided to celebrate six months of the war with Ukraine with the demonstrative detention of the last remaining opposition politician at large."
Russian news outlets on Wednesday said Roizman could face up to five years in prison.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
NATO CHIEF SAYS WAR IN UKRAINE IS BATTLE OF 'ATTRITION,' WARNS WINTER 'WILL BE HARD'
Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny takes part in a march at Strastnoy Boulevard in memory of Russian politician and opposition leader Boris Nemtsov on his 4th death anniversary in Moscow, Russia on Feb. 24, 2019. Sefa KaracanAnadolu AgencyGetty Images
Police detain Yekaterinburg ex-mayor Yevgeny Roizman in Yekaterinburg, Russia, Wednesday, Aug. 24, 2022. The former mayor of Russia's fourth-largest city was arrested Wednesday on charges of discrediting the country's military, part of a crackdown on critics of Moscow's military action in Ukraine. Vladimir PodoksyonovURA.RU via AP
Yevgeny Roizman, the former mayor of the eastern city ofEkaterinburg and supporter ofopposition leaderAlexei Navalny  was removed from his home and taken by masked men wearing camouflage.
Fox News' Amy Kellogg interviews expatriate Russian journalist Oleg Kashin about the rising influence of the Russian propaganda machine on Russian's view of the Western World
A Russian politician and Vladimir Putin critic has been detained for the criticisms he has levied at Moscow for its deadly war in Ukraine, videos posted to social media Wednesday showed.
Days after Russias February invasion, the Kremlin passed sweeping laws that imposed harsh sentences on those found to be spreading what it deems to be "fake news" about the Russian armed forces or the war in Ukraine.
ThoughHuman Rights Watch in March said the new laws that criminalize war protesting and independent war reporting could carry penalties of up to 15 years in prison.
Roizman acknowledged the threat of arrest he faced for his outspoken criticism in a July interview with AFP.
