Russia claims upper hand in Eastern Ukraine but analysts suggest progress costly power declining
20220609
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-upper-hand-eastern-ukraine-progress-costly
The weekend proved significant for the Ukrainian forces, though, as their counterattacks have also led some analysts to suggest that Russias combat power is declining.
"Joint efforts of the Russian Ministry of Defense and Russian Railways have created conditions for the resumption of full-fledged traffic between Russia, Donbass, Ukraine and Crimea on six railway sections," the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a Telegram post on Tuesday.
The battle over the town of Sieverodonetsk has continued to intensify over the past few days, with both Ukraine and Russia claiming at various points to have made gains in the city. The picture in certain pockets remains uncertain, but it grows increasingly clear that Russia has started to gain the advantage in the broader eastern region.
A view shows residential buildings damaged by a military strike, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in Sievierodonetsk, Luhansk region, Ukraine April 16, 2022. REUTERSSerhii Nuzhnenko
Ukrainian soldiers examine Russian multiple missiles abandoned by Russian troops, in the village of Berezivka, Ukraine, on April 21. APEfrem Lukatsky
That may sound like good news for Kyiv, but it follows Moscow making serious gains over the past weeks. Russia claimed to have control over 97 of the Donbas region, and some analysts have projected that Russian forces could take full control within the next two weeks.
Peter Aitken is a Fox News Digital reporter with a focus on national and global news.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
A Ukrainian serviceman walks amid the rubble of a building heavily damaged by multiple Russian bombardments near a frontline in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on April 25. AP PhotoFelipe Dana
Russian forces have also bombarded key supply routes from Bakhmut to Lycychansk, which could leave Sieverodonetsk with only one supply road via Siversk, according to the BBC.
Russia has started to gain the upper hand in the contested eastern regions of Ukraine after failing to achieve earlier, more significant targets over the previous 100 days.
Wednesdays update from the British Ministry of Defense noted that Ukrainian forces have recently achieved "some success" in the Kherson region, but that both sides have faced "similar challenges" in maintaining a defensive line while "freeing up capable combat units for offensive operations."
Ukrainian soldiers are seen riding on an armored presonnel carrier during an exercise not far from Kharkiv on April 30. Photo by SERGEY BOBOKAFP via Getty Images
Russia has attempted to stall any decline with a naval blockade to continue cutting off supply routes into the south and the east.
But Russias gains come at a great cost of sustained manpower and equipment at levels that would take some considerable time to complete.
Fox News senior strategic analyst Gen. Jack Keane weighs in after Russia hit Kyiv for the first time in weeks and reflects on D-Day 78 years later.
The Institute for the Study of War last week called the Russian progress "costly," according to Newsweek.
Russia initially controlled small parts of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions, but after shifting targets to the rebel states, Putin has found his troops gaining the initiative.
