Russia didnt expect stiff and determined resistance from Ukraine Pentagon spokesman John Kirby says
20220228
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/russia-ukraine-resistance-pentagon-john-kirby
Bradford Betz is a Fox News Digital breaking reporter covering crime, political issues, and much more.
Ukrainian police rush a traveler to the railway station terminal during an airstrike alarm in Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, Feb. 28, 2022. AP PhotoVadim Ghirda
Those images came as a Ukrainian delegation held talks Monday with Russian officials at the border with Belarus, though they ended with no immediate reports of any agreements.
This satellite image provided by Maxar Technologies shows the southern end of a convoy, east of Antonov airport, Ukraine, Monday Feb. 28, 2022. Satellite image 2022 Maxar Technologies via AP
Kirbys comments came as the Russian military assault on Ukraine went into its fifth day. In Ukraines capital city, Kyiv, outgunned but determined troops have slowed Russias advance.
Dr. Matthew Schmidt weighs in on the conflict as Putin's forces meet resistance from Ukrainians.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said Monday that Russia did not expect a "stiff and determined resistance" from Ukraine but cautioned against assuming that Russia will remain setback.
"The Russians will learn from this  We havent seen any change in what we believe are their desires to move in Ukraine," Kirby said. "They have suffered setbacks, but I dont think we can just assume they are going to stay setback.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby speaks during a briefing at the Pentagon in Washington, Monday, Feb. 28, 2022. AP PhotoSusan Walsh
"What we also have seen is Ukrainians resisting quite effectively around Kyiv, and continuously. They have made it a tough slog for the Russians to move further south." Kirby told reporters. "The Russians have not only experienced a stiff and determined resistance by the Ukrainians but logistics and sustaining problems of their own."
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Satellite images on Monday showed Russian troops advancing on Ukraines capital, Kyiv. A convoy consisting of hundreds of armored vehicles, tanks, artillery, and support vehicles was just 17 miles from the city.
Kirby qualified, however, that although the Ukrainians have "made a dent" in Russias military, it does not necessarily mean that Putins overall aims have been entirely thwarted.
