Russia news Convoy stalled outside Kyiv for days as Russian military plans government takeover
20220302
https://www.foxnews.com/world/russia-news-convoy-stalled-outside-kyiv-days
The UK Ministry of Defence published a map of its understanding of Russian attacks and troops locations as of March 3, 2022.
In southern cities such as Mariupol, however, Russia is making more progressive advances, according to the official, who said the general assumption is that Russia's "approach on Mariupol will be from multiple directions with what could likely be an attempt to encircle the city."
Kolykhaev said that Ukrainian forces have pulled out of the city and relocated to the area of Mykolaiv, a city northwest of Kherson.
Despite the slow movement of the convoy, however, officials have observed an increase in Russian artillery and missiles striking the city.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
A U.S. official said on Tuesday that there are "some morale problems" in some parts of the Russian military, as they face not just fuel and food problems, but greater resistance than anticipated.
The southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, a strategically important city located near the Black Sea, has fallen to Russian forces, becoming the first major city to fall since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine last week.
UKRAINE INVASION: RUSSIAN TROOPS STALLED NORTH OF KYIV, RUNNING OUT OF GAS AND FOOD, OFFICIALS SAY
Kyiv and Kharkiv are "continually under assault," but with no "appreciable movement by the Russians to take" control of those areas. Convoys outside of the two cities "appear to be stalled" and are being met "with resistance," the official said Wednesday.
This satellite image provided by Maxar Technologies shows the southern end of a convoy, east of Antonov airport, Ukraine, Monday Feb. 28, 2022. Satellite image 2022 Maxar Technologies via AP
A convoy of Russian military vehicles has moved less than 15 miles outside of Kyiv over several days as Russian President Vladimir Putin plans to take over Ukraine's government.
Melaniya Podolyak joined 'Fox  Friends First' to discuss what life is like on the ground in Ukraine amid the Russian invasion.
"We believe that the convoy is stalled. It's a long convoy," the official said. "Again, we don't have perfect visibility into what's going on on the ground there, but we believe that there's numerous factors for this one. The Ukrainians have been conducting a stiff resistance north of Kyiv. And we have some indications that they have also at places and at times tried to target this convoy."
"There is no Ukrainian army here,"Kherson Mayor Igor Kolykhaev said Wednesday, according to The New York Times. "The city is surrounded."
The official added later: "We would say that there essentially has been no movement closer to the city than what we briefed a couple of days ago. I say appreciable movement because we don't have perfect visibility on every unit, every tank, every truck, but basically, they remain stalled outside the city center in Kyiv."
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for Fox News Digital and FOX Business. Email tips toaudrey.conklinfox.com or on Twitter at audpants.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said he will be Putin's first target once the convoy enters Kyiv, but he has refused offers from the U.S. to evacuate, insisting instead on staying in the country's capital to help its residence fight off Russian forces.
A woman cries outside houses damaged by a Russian airstrike, according to locals, in Gorenka, outside the capital Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 2, 2022. AP PhotoVadim Ghirda
A U.S. defense official said during a Wednesday briefing that Russia is currently using about 82 of its full staged combat power in Ukraine, which he added is "not a significant influx of additional combat capability into Ukraine from what was staged over the last few months."
