State Department validates leaked documents responding to Russian demands US holds firm on blanket NATO ban
20220202
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/state-department-leaked-documents-responding-russian-demands
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
The written responses by the U.S. and NATO were firstobtained by El Pais after being submitted to the Russian Federation last week.
El Pais, a Spain-based publication, did not disclose how it received the documents but reported that the U.S. rejected Russian demands to enter into a bilateral agreement on security in Europe.
The U.S. chided Moscow for breaking the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces INF Treaty with its production of SSC-8 missiles,ground-launched cruise missiles, which prompted the U.S. to pull out of the 1987 agreement in 2019.
Local residents train close to Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, Jan. 30, 2022. Russia's foreign minister claims that NATO wants to pull Ukraine into the alliance, amid escalating tensions over NATO expansion and fears that Russia is preparing to invade Ukraine. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
"The door remains open to discuss the ideas that are in this document," Price said. "Those ideas are not spelled out in terms of what it would look like in practice  how it would be executed.
The State Department had remained mum on negotiations it laid out in response to Russian President Vladimir Putins demands which included a blanket ban on Ukraines ability to join the 30-member alliance and the placement of strategic strike weapons.
Putin has accused the U.S. of ramping up hysteria surrounding the threat of an invasion  which the State Department rejected Wednesday.
Washington and its NATO allies did propose several options to negotiate arms agreements and a "transparency mechanism" which would reveal where some "missile-launching bases" are located in NATO allied nations like Romania and Bulgaria as well as in Russia.
Tents, shelters and deployments are seen at a training ground in Angarsky, Crimea, on Tuesday. APMaxar Technologies
"But it needs to be a discussion that takes place in the context of deescalation," he added.
Russian officials have repeatedly claimed it is not preparing for an invasion into Ukraine, despite its buildup of more than 120,000 troops along Ukraines border  a move that echoes steps taken prior to the 2014 incursion.
The State Department on Wednesday validated the authenticity of documents leaked to the press that revealed Washingtons response to Russian demands in exchange for de-escalating tensions with Ukraine.
"This is their playbook, to turn the reality upside down," Price said. "We are not optimistic, neither are we pessimistic. Were clear-eyed about the stakes."
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
An instructor trains members of Ukraine's Territorial Defense Forces, volunteer military units of the Armed Forces, in a city park in Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, Jan. 22, 2022. Dozens of civilians have been joining Ukraine's army reserves in recent weeks amid fears about Russian invasion. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
But Washington did agree to enter into "bilateral conversations" with Moscow regarding short and long-range missiles  potentially paving the way for new disarmament agreements.
"I have seen nothing to suggest these documents are not authentic," State Department press secretary Ned Price told reporters."We did not make these documents public but now that they are we can confirm what wevealways said  we are untied with our NATO allies in our resolve to engage in an open, constructive, serious set of diplomatic engagements."
Price said the U.S. and NATO are still awaiting Russias response to the document, but the spokesman told reporters the Russian Foreign Ministers Sergey Lavrov appeared to indicate "that there will be an opportunityfor further diplomatic engagement."
The U.S. and NATO once again flatly rejected the Kremlins calls for an admission ban on the former Soviet nation but said it would be willing to negotiate troop and missile deployment.
