Syria to become first to recognize Donetsk Luhansk republics in Ukraine in support of Russias war
20220616
https://www.foxnews.com/world/syria-recognize-donetsk-luhansk-republics-ukraine-support-russia-war
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
Though Assad backed Putins invasion of Ukraine as a "correction of history" and a "re-balance to the world" following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Fox News could not independently verify the DRPs claims Thursday.
Russian military and pro-Russian separatists keep watch as civilians are being evacuated along humanitarian corridors from the Ukrainian city of Mariupol on March 24, 2022. Photo by StringerAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
Syria was one of just five countries, including Russia, to oppose a United Nations General Assembly resolution that condemned Moscows illegal invasion.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Assad has echoed Putins claims that NATO poses a threat to Moscow and reportedly alleged on Thursday that the war in Ukraine was a fight against the alliance.
"The President of the Syrian Arab Republic noted the readiness of the state to recognize the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics," the DPRs ministry said.
The group claimed Assad announced "the official start of the recognition procedure and noted that the Syrian Arab Republic Ministry of Foreign Affairs would immediately receive relevant instructions from him."
Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his "special military operation" in Ukraine in February, just three days after he recognized the "independence" of the separatist regions.
The Assad regime similarly voted against suspendingRussia's membership in the UN Human Rights Council one month later in April.
A serviceman of Donetsk People's Republic militia stands at a check point in Mariupol, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, May 4, 2022. AP PhotoAlexei Alexandrov
This April 13, 2016 file photo released on the official Facebook page of Syrian Presidency, shows Syrian President Bashar Assad casting his ballot in the parliamentary elections, as his wife Asma, left, stands next to him, in Damascus, Syria. Syrian Presidency via AP, File
"Mr. Assad greeted delegates, notingthe common path of the peoples of Donbas and Syria in a fight against the unfriendly United States and other Western countries," the DRPs ministry said.
According to the Telegram channel for the Donetsk People's Republic DPR, Assad met with the DPRs Minister of Foreign Affairs, Natalia Nikonorova, and expressed his support for Russias fight against the U.S. and its NATO allies.
Ukrainian member of parliament Rustem Umerov reacts to President Biden announcing on Wednesday another $1.2 billion in security and humanitarian assistance on 'Fox News  Night.'
The separatist group claimed that Assad "expressed confidence in the speedy and successful completion of the operation to liberate territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics from the Kiyv regime."
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, on Thursday, allegedly called for the formal recognition ofthe Russian-backed separatist "republics" of Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine as independent of Kyiv.
