Syria formally breaks diplomatic ties with Ukraine
20220720
https://www.foxnews.com/world/syria-formally-breaks-diplomatic-ties-ukraine
"The Syrian Arab Republic has decided to break diplomatic relations with Ukraine in conformity with the principle of reciprocity," a Syrian Foreign Ministry statement said.
It said that Ukraine had, in reality, ruptured relations with Syria in 2018, when it refused to revalidate residencies of Syrian diplomatic staff in Kyiv, making it impossible for it to carry out its duties. It said that the Syrian embassy at that time suspended its duties "as a result of the hostile attitudes of the Ukrainian government."
In this May 23, 2021, file photo, the Syrian flag is displayed at a gathering at Omayyad Square in the Syrian capital Damascus, Syria. AP PhotoHassan Ammar
Syria is a strong ally of Russia, which joined Syrias conflict in September 2015, helping tip the balance of power in favor of President Bashar Assad.
Syria said Wednesday it is formally breaking diplomatic ties with Ukraine in response to a similar move by Kyiv.
STATE DEPT OFFICIAL: ISIS 'RESURGENCE' MORE LIKELY IF AMERICAN, OTHER FOREIGN FIGHTERS STAY DETAINED IN SYRIA
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
In only his second trip abroad since Russia invaded Ukraine in February, Putin conferred with Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the conflict in Syria.
Residential buildings damaged by a military strike as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues in Sievierodonetsk, Luhansk region, Ukraine, April 16, 2022. REUTERSSerhii Nuzhnenko
Wednesdays announcement came as Syrian Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad was in Tehran to meet with Iranian officials, a day after a summit meeting between the leaders of Russia, Iran and Turkey was held in Tehran.
After abandoning its bungled attempt to storm Ukraines capital of Kyiv two months ago, Russia declared that taking the entire Donbas is its main objective. Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian government forces in the Donbas since 2014, and the region has borne the brunt of the Russian onslaught in recent weeks.
In late June, Damascus said it would recognize the "independence and sovereignty" of Ukraines Russia-backed eastern Luhansk and Donetsk regions, becoming the first country to recognize the two breakaway states independence. That led Ukraine to sever ties with Syria.
Russian President Vladimir Putin shakes hands with his Syrian counterpart Bashar al-Assad during a meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow Oct. 20, 2015. Alexey DruzhininAFP via Getty Images
