Terror has taken hold in Ukraine people are running away from death
20220225
https://www.foxnews.com/us/terror-taken-hold-ukraine-people-running-death
Though there has been the consistent wail of sirens, alerting to an imminent air raid, Bald said he had not heard any bombings yet.
Firefighters work at a damaged residential building at Koshytsa Street, a suburb of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, where a military shell allegedly hit, on Feb. 25, 2022. Genya SavilovAFP via Getty Images
Russian forces have seized a strategic airport outside Kyiv and are encircling the capital, the countrys seat of government. Shelling has damaged buildings, bridges and schools, and there have been reports of hundreds of casualties.
Bald, whose ancestry goes back 400 years in Lviv, which was once part of Poland, said Ukrainians "feel terribly betrayed by the world."
"Most people left, or they dont come out of their houses," she said. "No one is in the street. Except this morning I saw a few people running with suitcases."
A wounded woman stands outside a hospital after the bombing of the eastern Ukraine town of Chuguiv on Feb. 24, 2022. Aris MessinisAFP via Getty Images
Rebecca Rosenberg is a veteran journalist and book author with a focus on crime and criminal justice. Email tips to rebecca.rosenbergfox.com and ReRosenberg.
Meanwhile, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy remains in Kyiv in an undisclosed location, after telling European leaders he is Russias No. 1 target.
But Igor Kolinets, president of the Ukrainian National Home of New Jersey, said his country has a right to decide its own destiny.
Natali Sevriukova reacts next to her house following a rocket attack the city of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Feb. 25, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
"It feels like the whole of Ukraine is here running away from death," he said. "There is a feeling of the Holocaust in Kyiv."
Terror and chaos have taken hold in Ukraine since the Russian invasion Thursday, leaving many scrambling for safety, residents told Fox News Digital.
President Vladimir Putin wants to take control of Kyiv and install his own pro-Russian government, experts told Fox News Digital.
It all happened so quickly that the family is now trapped in the country. "For now it's impossible to leave Kyiv," Ariel Markovitch said. "We dont know what we will do."
"Life is the most sacred thing and that is what we fight for," he said.
Former Vice President Mike Pence on Russia invading Ukraine and new sanctions announced by President Biden.
"We thought the world would help us, but it feels like theyre waiting for everything to turn into ashes first."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Russian troops have poured into Ukraine from Belarus in the north, from Russia to the east and from Crimea in the south in the largest ground war in Europe since WWII.
He added that every hotel and apartment bed in Lviv is taken, and people are sleeping at hospitals. The roads are so snarled with traffic and theres a shortage of gas, that the journey from Kyiv to Lviv  about 335 miles  will take three to four days now.
"We didnt think it would get to the point where it is so dangerous and war would actually happen," Markovitch said.
A Turkish butcher, who has lived in Kyiv for seven years, said he was kept awake all night by explosions. He asked that his name be withheld due to safety concerns. "Its so dangerous and its very scary," he told Fox News Digital through a Turkish interpreter. "Im terrified it will get worse." He said all the shops are closed, including his.
People using the subway as a bomb shelter in Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 24, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
The native of France, who has lived in Ukraine for years, said she and her family decided to stay in the city to help their community. Her father-in-law is the chief rabbi of Kyiv, and she helps run the local Chabad house. For weeks she stocked up on dry food, water and other supplies  but never expected this outcome, she said.
The Markovitchs and their children were rushing to the local synagogue before the weekly holiday of Shabbat began, where they plan to hunker down with about 50 other people who are too afraid to stay at home alone.
Rabbi Mordechai Bald of Lviv, a city in western Ukraine that borders Poland, said people are flooding in from Kyiv and other parts of the country.
"Its extremely frightening, people are just petrified," Bald told Fox News Digital. "The lines at the gas station, those that still have gas, are a kilometer long."
"Im shocked," said Cherry Markovitch, who lives on a main street in Kyiv with her husband, Ariel Markovitch, and their three children. "Shocked would be an understatement. Traumatized is a better word."The couple share a 5-year-old, a 3-year-old and a 5-month-old.
Kolinets' family told him that they and other citizens waited in long lines to pick up guns and ammunition so they can fight for their homeland.
"The people who were supposed to help us showed weakness," he said, without referencing the U.S. directly. "We thought the world would help us, but it feels like theyre waiting for everything to turn into ashes first."
In a televised address before launching the attack, Putin said the war could have been avoided if Ukraine pledged to never join the U.S.-led North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Traffic jams are seen as people leave the city of Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 24, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy Russian Presidential Press Service and Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
Like many residents, she and her family slept in a parking garage under their building with their neighbors Thursday night, as sirens wailed and bombs rained down. Many buildings do not have bomb shelters, which has driven citizens into underground parking garages and metro stations.
In the video posted to Twitter, Zelenksyy, flanked by leaders and ministers in his government, said they were still in the nation's capital and no one had fled."We're all here," Zelenskyy said. "We are in Kyiv. We are defending Ukraine."
"We want our freedom," he said. "We want to choose whether were with the former Soviet Union or Europe. We want to be with Europe."
His sisters, brother and cousins are scattered across Ukraine but in areas that have not been hit hard by Russian forces.
At the border with Poland, it's so congested that people are abandoning their cars and walking to the checkpoint. Men between the age of 18 and 60 are barred from leaving Ukraine.
"We hear things exploding, we hear military airplanes above our heads. I was having panic attacks last night nonstop," she told Fox News Digital in a phone interview. Were trying to protect the children as much as we can, but theyre so stressed out."
"People there are saying we will defend our country to our last drop of blood. We are not going to give up."
Bald, who heads the only synagogue in the city, Bais Aron VYisroel, has told Jews in other parts of the country to get out as quickly as they can even if it means traveling on the Sabbath. During the weekly holiday, Jews are forbidden from using cars or carrying luggage.
Normally from the window of the familys apartment, they see a bustling street filled with cars and people. Now, she said, "The city is ghosted."
