Time is running out to deter China
20220326
https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/time-running-out-deter-china
Such is happening with the Chinese Communist Party as Russia wages an ongoing war in Ukraine. As Russias military makes advances through Kyiv, the growing threat of China looms while our President does little to deter it.
While the world looks to the U.S. for leadership, theU.S. vacated its leadership role on the global stage in the wake of the Afghanistan catastrophe.Weakness creates vacuums, and vacuums inspire tyrants to conquer others.Today there is no executive offset to Xi and Putin.The Biden administration needs to take the decisive, proactive steps against China now.Every lever that has been reactively pulled against Russia in the last four weeks needs to now be pulled proactively against China today.Failing to establish a meaningful deterrence against China will enable an invasion of Taiwan during the Biden administration.
The threat China poses to the U.S. cannot be treated like just another snowflake in a blizzard of crises.We cannot allow one crisis to distract us from an existential threat just outside our tent. It has been a devastating 15 months for the U.S. and our allies, but itcanget worse.
The United States collective eye is on the floating snowball, and theres a line drive coming right for our chest.
Chinese President Xi Jinping and International Olympic Committee IOC President Thomas Bach attend the closing ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games. 
China is currently Russias largest trading partner, and the military relationship between the two continues to strengthen. Intelligence reports have surfaced indicating Russia has asked China for direct military support and financial aid. Just this week, Chinas ambassador to the U.S. openly refused to condemn Russias invasion. While Chairman Xi and Chinas government deny it, the CCP has been coordinating directly with Russia and comparing notes as China has ambitions of annexing Taiwan even as Putin is now annexing Ukraine.
Theres an old trick in snowball fights  toss a snowball in the air, and while your opponent looks up toward the sky for a split second, you toss a line drive snowball right into their chest. The idea is simple:Distract your opponent and hit them at the moment they didnt see it coming.
President Biden: Dont let America and Taiwan be the victim of a threat that you can deter.
Fox News senior strategic analyst says Russia's invasion should be a lesson that more should be done to help Taiwan.
This week I authored a letter with Reps. Gallagher, R-Wis., Kim R-Calif., and Harshbarger, R-Tenn., urging President Biden to use all diplomatic and economic tools at his disposal to ensure that the Chinese Communist Party is not able to aid Russias war against Ukraine.
Chinese President Xi Jinping makes a toast after delivering his speech at a dinner marking the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. Associated Press
Prioritizing and mitigating the China threat is not to diminish our continued support of the Ukrainians. On the contrary, Ukraine is of vital importance. The world is witnessing the annexation of a sovereign nation at the hands of a ruthless tyrant.We should aid the Ukrainian people and target Russias economy with devastating sanctions, divestment and boycotts.
China must understand that any decision to provide financial or military aid to Russia during this conflict would amount to a direct violation of international peace efforts, and would result in crippling sanctions against their economy. President Biden has the opportunity to make this clear, prevent China from undermining the global community, and stop them from escalating this conflict to even more dangerous levels. If executed correctly, this has the added benefit of driving a very public wedge between Russia and China.
DAN SULLIVAN AND MIKE GALLAGHER: UKRAINE WAR OFFERS VITAL LESSONS ON DETERRING CHINA FROM INVADING TAIWAN
