Tom Cotton slams wholly inadequate Russia sanctions from Biden admin Stop pussyfooting around
20220225
https://www.foxnews.com/media/russia-sanctions-putin-tom-cotton-biden-pussyfooting-around
Russia invaded Ukraine on Thursday after amassing troops on the nation's border for months and reached the capital after one day of fighting. Russian troops have reportedly met stiff resistance from Ukrainian soldiers, as the government calls on military-age males to stay in the country and fight.
Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., on Russia invading Ukraine and new sanctions announced by President Biden.
Nearly 140 Ukrainian soldiers and civilians had died as of early Friday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address. The U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia in response to the invasion, but Cotton called on the administration to take action on energy production.
Joining Fox News Digital in 2019, he previously graduated from Syracuse University with a degree in Political Science and is an alum of the National Journalism Center and the Heritage Foundation's Young Leaders Program.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., said on Friday President Biden and NATO need to take further action while Russia invades Ukraine, criticizing the new sanctions announced by the administration.
While Russia maintains leverage over some European countries by way of oil and gas exports, Cotton said the U.S. could counter that by ramping up domestic production and exports.
"Joe Biden needs to reverse his energy policy and ban on drilling on federal lands and start certifying pipelines to get oil and gas flowing again in America. These are the steps we need to take that are full measures that recognize the full gravity of this moment as opposed to the half measures that weve heard this week from president Biden and NATO."
Cotton told host Harris Faulkner that the latest round of sanctions Biden announced were "wholly inadequate."
Joshua focuses on politics, education policy ranging from the local to the federal level, and the parental uprising in education.
"Joe Biden and NATO leaders need to quit pussyfooting around. You have moms and dads in Ukraine making Molotov cocktails to protect their homes and kids from Russian soldiers and Joe Biden and NATO leaders are patting themselves on the back for how many Zoom calls theyre having," Cotton told "The Faulkner Focus."
"Not even a half measure. If you want to put real consequences on Vladimir Putin and think twice we need to sanction his oil and gas exports," Cotton said.
Story tips can be sent to joshua.nelsonfox.com and Joshua can be followed on Twitterand LinkedIn.
