Tomi Lahren blasts Bidens Ukraine priorities He has no plans to defend American border
20220127
https://www.foxnews.com/media/tomi-lahren-why-is-defending-ukraines-border-the-priority-over-securing-our-own
Lahren went on to discuss the turmoil occurring in Eastern Europe and Biden's current postulating a decision on whether to get involved and provide support to the Ukrainian border with Russia.
"What an embarrassment. Our enemies are laughing at us and taking this mans incoherence and incompetence as a giant opportunity to gain power, money, strength and geography," said Lahren. "And why wouldnt they? We have a president and a presiding political party thats more concerned with the type of material our double masks are made out of than protecting and defending our own backyards."
She brought up the fact that throughout Biden's consideration regarding protecting Ukraine, the president has not made a move to shore up U.S. borders.
While not wanting to callously disregard the U.S.'s commitment to our NATO allies, Lahren pointed out the fact that our own borders are riddled with "issues and risks" that have yet to be handled.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"So let me get this straight, we are debating whether to defend Ukraines border but our illustrious president has no plan to defend ours?" said Lahren
"Look at the major and largely ignored major incursion on our southern border! Millions with an s have made their way across our border and into the shadows since Biden took office and literally nothing has been done to stop or even deter that," said Lahren.
"It would appear Russia is ready to make a minormajor incursion into Ukraine," said Lahren.
Russian President Vladimir Putin L greets US President Joe Biden R during the US - Russia Summit 2021 at the La Grange Villa near Lake Geneva, on June 16, 2021 in Geneva, Switzerland. Mikhail SvetlovGetty Images
The U.S. is poised to possibly send 8,500 U.S. taxpayer funded troops to Eastern Europe in an effort to defend Ukraine from Russia.
With Biden looking to send in U.S. troops to Ukraine, Fox Nation's host of "Final Thoughts" and "No Interruption," Tomi Lahren, criticized the administration's consideration to supply U.S. troops to defend the borders of another country over our own.
Lahren detailed how Biden's "incompetence" has been used by countries as a major opportunity to advance in a myriad of ways.
To watch Tomi Lahren's full rant and for more "Final Thoughts" episodes, head over to Fox Nation to watch more of the best political commentary from your favorite hosts.
Fox Nationprograms are viewable on-demand and from your mobile device app, but only for Fox Nation subscribers.Go to Fox Nationto start a free trial and watch the extensive library from your favorite Fox News personalities.
"Boy, imagine if we had that kind of presence on our southern border to stop the invasion of out nation by every Tom, Dick and Harry that wants to push on through," said Lahren.
Kira Mautone is a production assistant with Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to kira.mautonefox.com.
Tomi Lahren sounds off on the Biden administration 'putting Ukraine first' on Fox Nation's 'Final Thoughts'
"But riddle me this, why in the hell would we be more poised, more ready, and more strategically prepared to defend Ukraines border than our own?" said Lahren.
