Ukrainian ambassador War will only end when Russia fully withdraws no question we will win
20220501
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukrainian-ambassador-war-end-russia-fully-withdraws
"It's a very black and white situation," the ambassador continued. "It's Russia that crossed the border first in 2014 and now in 2022 again."
Overall, the Russian army has an estimated 900,000 active-duty personnel. Russia also has a much larger air force and navy.
Local residents clean their apartments damaged by Russian shelling in Dobropillya, Donetsk region, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, April 30, 2022. AP PhotoEvgeniy Maloletka
"We are trying, and we are doing everything possible on the battlefield, but also on the diplomatic front to stop this war as soon as possible," Markarova said.
"But regardless of when they will make a decision, Ukrainians will not surrender," the ambassador said. "Ukrainians will not give up. We are tired after this horrible destruction. We are mourning the people we have lost. But we will not stop, and we will defend our country to the victory."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Gen. Jack Keane joins Eric Shawn on 'Fox News Live' to discuss why he says there's no going back in our relationship with Russia as footage from the Azovstal Plant shows Mariupol, Ukraine citizens trapped underground.
As the Russian aggression in Ukraine entered its 67th day, Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.S. Oksana Markarova appeared on ABCs "This Week," saying, "This war was started by Russians, it has to be ended by Russians."
"For us there is no question that we will win. You know, we have to win and we will win," Markarova said. "The question is, how many of the great Ukrainians we will lose winning this war?"
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi of Calif., left, shakes hands with Ukrainian Ambassador Oksana Markarova, during an event unveiling a photography exhibit about the war in Ukraine, Thursday, April 28, 2022, at the Capitol in Washington. AP PhotoJacquelyn Martin
Ukraines ambassador to the U.S. on Sunday said "Ukrainians will not surrender" and that Russias war in Ukraine will only end when Moscows forces fully withdraw.
The ambassador said the world is united around Ukraine and thanked the U.S. for leading support for the country as it looks to end the conflict.
Markarova maintained that Ukraine needs to restore its territorial integrity and sovereignty following Russias annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its bloody invasion that began in February.
Numerically, Russias military manpower vastly exceeds Ukraines. In the days before the war began, Western intelligence estimated Russia had positioned near the border as many as 190,000 troops Ukraines standing military totals about 200,000, spread throughout the country.
When asked if a diplomatic solution would require Russia to completely withdraw from Ukraine, Markarova said, "I do not think there could be any other solution."
