Ukraine defense ministry claims fightingage men abducted en masse for propaganda victory parades
20220420
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-defense-ministry-fighting-age-men-abducted-en-masse-propaganda-victory-parades
Ukraine has said the arbitrary detainment and forced deportation of its citizens amounts to war crimes.
Both Western and Ukrainian officials have warned that Russia could be targeting a significant advancement in Ukraine by May 9, also known as Victory Day, which celebrates when Russia defeated Nazi Germany in 1945.
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
The Ukrainian defense ministry said it had received information that the abducted men may be paraded through "the streets of occupied cities" as "prisoners of war."
"The detained Ukrainian men are being taken out en masse in the direction of the occupied Crimea," the ministry said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"The victims of the occupiers are often men of military age," the ministry said in a statement, noting thatformer military, law enforcement officers and pro-Ukrainian activists are being targeted and taken to "filtration camps."
The ministry said that an estimated 400 Russian soldiers bearing the "Rosguard" uniform donned by Russias National Guard recently arrived at a village in the Kherson region to search for and detain men of military age.
Ukraines defense ministry on Wednesday claimed that "fighting-age" men in southern and eastern regions of Ukraine are being abducted en masse in part for Russianpropaganda "victory parades."
"It is also possible to organize propaganda victory parades with the participation of detained Ukrainians," the statement continued.
But on Wednesday its defense ministry said it suspects there is another reason why it is targeting able-fighting men.
Ukraine first announced last week that it believed Russia was looking to forcibly conscript Ukrainian men in theKherson and Zaporizhzhia regions to "replenish" its forces.
A Ukrainian serviceman looks as smoke rises after a Russian troops shelling, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in Luhansk Region, Ukraine April 26, 2022. REUTERSSerhii Nuzhnenko
An armed serviceman of Donetsk People's Republic militia walks past a building damaged during fighting in Mariupol on Wednesday. APAlexei Alexandrov
Another 300 Ukrainian activists and military veterans are said to be being held at a "pre-trial detention center" in Kherson where they are being "interrogated and tortured"  though the statement did not go into any details on what they are being interrogated about.
"The main purpose of such actions is to replenish the exchange fund," the defense ministry said."Ukrainian hostages are planned to be exchanged for Russian war criminals.
A Ukrainian serviceman poses with a Russian beret he retrieved from destroyed Russian military vehicles on his weapon, at the Antonov airport in Hostomel, Ukraine, Saturday, April 2, 2022. AP PhotoVadim Ghirda
