Ukraine president gives surprise virtual address at Doha Forum
20220326
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-president-surprise-virtual-address-doha-forum
Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, the keynote speaker, instead focused his comments on the Qatar-Israel relationship and the latter countrys treatment of Palestinian people.
Zelenskyy also compared the Russian attack on the port city of Mariupol to the Russian bombing of Aleppo during the Syrian War, where over 400 people died.
"They are destroying our ports," Zelenskyy said. "The absence of exports from Ukraine will deal a blow to countries worldwide."
Zelenskyy also called on the United Nations to do more to intervene to prevent further aggression as a Russian nuclear threat looms.
"Russia is deliberately bragging they can destroy with nuclear weapons, not only a certain country but the entire planet," he said. "We have to ensure this sacred month of Ramadan is not overshadowed by the misery of people in Ukraine."
The President of the Republic of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky in video, during his speech at the Italian Parliament. Rome Italy, March 22nd 2022 Photo by Samantha ZucchiInsidefotoMondadori Portfolio via Getty Images Photo by Samantha ZucchiInsidefotoMondadori Portfolio via Getty Images
The international impact of the Russia-Ukraine War was a theme the Ukrainian president repeated throughout his remarks. He also called on international countries to increase exports from the Ukraine, specifically their export of energy.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks via video call to the Doha Forum in Doha, Qatar, Saturday, March 26, 2022. AP PhotoLujain Jo AP PhotoLujain Jo
"Similarly, there are a lot of other people, such as the Syrian people and the Afghan people, for whom the international community has failed to render justice," Sheikh Tamim said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy gave a virtual speech Saturday during Qatars Doha Forum, where he criticized Russia's ongoing aggression and called on the international community to do more to help.
Fox News correspondent Mark Meredith has the latest on the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 'Special Report.'
