Ukraine invasion Odesa countrys 3rdlargest city braces as Russian warships depart from Crimea
20220303
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-invasion-odesa-russian-warships
Russian attacks intensified Wednesday, she said, and she lost contact with friends in besieged Kharkiv and Kyiv earlier in the week. Kate
Militia members also told Fox News Digital Wednesday that a Russian rocket aimed at the Ukrainian army generals staff was intercepted by Kyivs air defenses  sending a piece of debris crashing to the ground near the citys crowded central train station. The area had been packed hours earlier with hundreds of women, children and elderly residents hoping to flee before an expected Russian assault.
She shared pictures of empty supermarket shelves. Although she said she stocked up on food and water, she doesnt see an opportunity to resupply.
The violence of Russias invasion of Ukraine hasnt yet reached Odesa, the countrys third-largest city, but Vladimir Putins navy was headed there Wednesday night.
UKRAINE INVASION: RUSSIAN CONVOY CAPTURED IN SATELLITE IMAGES MUCH LONGER THAN PREVIOUSLY REPORTED, FIRM SAYS
Russian attacks intensified Wednesday, she said, and she lost contact with friends in besieged Kharkiv and Kyiv earlier in the week.
Russian Navy vessels are anchored in a bay of the Black Sea port of Sevastopol in Crimea May 8, 2014.  REUTERSStringerFile Photo
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Shes spent the last week waiting for air raid sirens, running down to a fallout shelter when they blare. The city has a 6 p.m. curfew.
"We had gunfire today," Kate said Wednesday evening. "There were five explosions, but so far, not on infrastructure. The siren went off about 10 times."
"No one else got in touch," she said. "And there is an explanation: For days, there has been shelling are Kharkiv and Kyiv."
And in Kyiv, a Russian missile strike on a civilian TV tower killed at least five people near the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial.
Fox News correspondent Lucas Tomlinson describes the explosions heard in central Kyiv on 'Tucker Carlson Tonight.'
Several Russian warships from Crimea were headed to Odesa. An amphibious assault could come as soon as Thursday, U.S. officials told Fox News. Kate
In Odesa, a city of roughly one million people on Ukraines southern coast, supermarkets ran out of supplies days ago, according to Kate, a 24-year-old local manager who asked to withhold her last name due to safety concerns amid a full-scale invasion of her country.
Ukraine officials have accused Russian forces of targeting civilians with artillery and airstrikes in both cities.
Lucas Y. Tomlinson serves as a correspondent for FOX News Channel FNC based in Washington, DC. Follow him on Twitter:LucasFoxNews
She lives with her cat and her boyfriend, who is medically ineligible to serve in Ukraines defense forces, but theyve remained in Odesa, where she estimated only 20 of the population has stayed.
"I went out to the store to replenish our supplies," she told Fox News Digital. "But the store shelves are empty. The store warehouses are just as empty. New supplies are now impossible."
Several Russian warships from Crimea were headed to Odesa. An amphibious assault could come as soon as Thursday, U.S. officials told Fox News.
In Kharkiv, a family of five burned to death in their car, according to the citys mayor. Four other people ventured out of a bomb shelter for water and were killed by another bomb.
Although she said she stocked up on food and water, Kate said she doesnt see an opportunity to resupply. Kate
