Ukrainian woman continues mission to find and rescue animals from UkraineRussia war zones
20220807
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukrainian-woman-continues-mission-find-rescue-animals-ukraine-russia-war-zones
Most of the animals she rescues, she knows nothing about  not their names, ages or previous ownership.
Natalia Popova pets a tiger at her animal shelter in Kyiv region, Ukraine, Aug. 4, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
RUSSIA RAINS 60 ROUNDS OF SHELLS IN SOUTHERN UKRAINE AS IT RAMPS UP OFFENSIVE ALONG DNIEPER RIVER
"I love them, and I understand that I do not have the resources to provide them with the comfortable life they deserve," she added.
Natalia Popova, 50, continues to travel into war zones where she has already located and rescued hundreds of animals, before she rehabilitates them and finds them a permanent home elsewhere in Europe.
US INTEL SAYS RUSSIA IS FABRICATING EVIDENCE IN UKRAINE PRISON STRIKE THAT KILLED 53 UKRAINIAN POWS
Many of the animals she found were once wild but were kept in private homes as pets before their owners were forced to flee by the Russian invasion.
Natalia Popova pets a lion at her animal shelter in Kyiv region, Ukraine, on Aug. 4, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Natalia Popova rescues animals in cooperation with the animal protection organisation UA Animals, during the Ukraine-Russia War. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Natalia Popova continues to rescue animals despite the risk and as she piles on personal debt. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Upon locating and capturing the animals, she returns to a rehabilitation center, where she provides them care and begins the process of finding them a new home.
Popova said she has traveled throughout Ukraine, including in war zones, and has already saved more than 300 animals from the war.
"No one wants to go there. Everyone is afraid. I am also scared, but I go anyway," Popova said. "I feel very sorry for them. I can imagine the stress animals are under because of the war, and no one can help them."
"I will still borrow money, go to hot spots and save animals. I cant say no to them," Popova said.
"They are my life," she added "My mission in this war is to save wild animals."
Natalia Popova has already saved more than 300 animals from the war, 200 of them were sent abroad, and 100 found a home in most western regions of Ukraine. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
UKRAINE-RUSSIA WAR TO 'ENTER A NEW PHASE' AS ARMIES MOVE SOUTH TO KHERSON OBLAST, CRIMEA
Partnering with the animal protection group UA Animals, 200 of the rescued creatures have been sent abroad while 100 found new homes in western Ukraine.
Now, Popova has been forced to borrow money and continues to do so as she needs more than $14,000 a month to keep animals healthy and fed. Her personal debt has grown to $200,000.
For months, Popova drove herself into war hot spots. She also bankrolled her shelter with her own funds before the Russian invasion of Ukraine derailed her horse business.
She has since partnered with UA Animals, which helps transport her and has helped offset some costs.
She now houses 133 animals. The menagerie includes 13 lions, a leopard, a tiger, three deer, wolves, foxes, raccoons and roe deer, and other domesticated animals like horses, dogs and cats.
