Ukraine President Zelenskyy thanks Prince William Kate Middleton for support amid Russias invasion
20220301
https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/ukraine-zelenskyy-thanks-william-kate-middleton
Russia's invasion of Ukraine stretched into a sixth day Tuesday. Satellite imagery showed a 40-mile Russian convoy approaching the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.
"Olena and I are grateful to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge RoyalFamily that at this crucial time, when Ukraine is courageously opposing Russia's invasion, they stand by our country and support our brave citizens," Zelenskyy's tweet reads.
Zelenskyy said in a short video address to Ukrainians, "We will defend our country," and said that there's a lot of false information online.
William and Kate first met Zelenskyy and first lady Olena Zelenska in October 2020 during the Ukranian president's two-day official visit to the United Kingdom.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Tuesday thanked Prince William and Kate Middleton for pledging their support for Ukraine amid Russia's invasion.
Talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials are set to continue after an inconclusive start Monday in Belarus.
Zelenskyy's tweet was in response to a message of support the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge shared on Saturday.
Zelenskyy's shout out to the British royal couple was sent via Twitter in the early morning hours.
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment.
Hours prior to William and Kate's Twitter post, Zelenskyy posted a video to social media showing himself walking around the streets of Kyiv after a night of artillery fire in different parts of the city, telling the nation, "I'm here."
"There's a lot of fake information online that I call on our army to lay down arms, and that there's evacuation," Zelenskyy said. "I'm here. We won't lay down our arms. We will defend our country."
A view shows the area near the regional administration building, which was hit by a missile according to city officials, in Kharkiv, Ukraine, in this handout picture released March 1, 2022. Press service of the Ukrainian State Emergency ServiceHandout via REUTERS
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge met Volodymyr Zelenskyy and first lady Olena Zelenska at Buckingham Palace on Oct. 7, 2020. Jonathan BradyWPA Pool
"In October 2020 we had the privilege to meet President Zelenskyy and the First Lady to learn of their hope and optimism for Ukraines future. Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraines people as they bravely fight for that future," the tweet read.
