Ukrainian Foreign Minister pushes back on Russian demands says Ukraine is seeking membership in NATO
20220221
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukrainian-foreign-minister-pushes-back-on-russian-demands-says-ukraine-is-seeking-membership-in-nato
The comments come amid heightened tensions between Russia and Ukraine, as Russia currently has over 150,000 troops along Ukraine's border.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba speaks during a joint press conference with Italian Foreign Minister following their meeting in Kyiv on February 15, 2022. Sergey DolzhenkopoolAFP Via Getty Images
NATO ALLIES CONCERNED BY ZELENSKY MOVE TO LEAVE UKRAINE, THREAT OF RUSSIAN INVASION ALMOST CERTAIN
A Ukrainian serviceman stands in an observation point near the frontline village of Krymske, Luhansk region, in eastern Ukraine, Saturday, Feb. 19, 2022. AP PhotoVadim Ghirda
A serviceman takes his position in a trench at the line of separation near Yasne village, about 33,6 km 21,2 miles south-west of Donetsk, controlled by Russia-backed separatists, eastern Ukraine, Friday, Jan. 14, 2022. AP PhotoAlexei Alexandrov
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
He added that the United States has not pressured Ukraine to abandon its plans to join NATO, but said "a few European members of NATO" have pressured them to pull back.
Adam Sabes is a writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to Adam.Sabesfox.com and on Twitter asabes10.
Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Matthew Bryza surveys past attacks on foreign land by Russia's Putin as Ukrainian tensions heat up.
He also said that Ukraine is not sending "signals" that it's willing to back down on its ambition to join NATO in an effort to meet one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's demands.
Kuleba said that a large-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine will come with "huge damage on Russia itself."
"Economically, because of sanctions that will be slammed on Russia immediately. Militarily, because we are not the country that will give up. This is our land, we will be defending it," Kuleba said. "You see, Russia tried to suffocate us, destabilize us, and shatter us from the inside for the last 300 years. But they failed. I'm still sitting here with you, a foreign minister of independent Ukraine. We know the threat, we understand it, we learned how to live with it, and we stand for a just cause," Kuleba said.
"The only signal we're sending to the world is that if Ukraine succeeds, and if Russia pulls back, it will be much safer for the entire democratic world," Kuleba said.
"We are not sending such signals," Kuleba said, responding to a question from Stahl. "The majority of Ukrainians want Ukraine to become a member of NATO."
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba is pushing back on Russian demands and said flatly that "Ukraine is seeking membership in NATO" during an episode of CBS' "60 minutes."
Kulebatold CBS' Lesley Stahlthat Ukraine is not backing down on its ambitions to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on an episode of "60 Minutes" that aired on Sunday.
