Ukraines Zelenskyy warns of third world war if peace talks with Russia fail
20220320
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-zelenskyy-third-world-war-peace-talks-russia
US AMBASSADOR CANT IMAGINE BIDEN WILL VISIT UKRAINE DURING EUROPE TRIP: THIS IS A COUNTRY AT WAR
"If there is just 1 percent chance for us to stop this war, I think that we need to take this chance, we need to do that," he added.
"I am ready for negotiations with him. I was ready over the last two years, and I think that without negotiations, we cannot end this war," Zelenskyy said during the interview with CNN.
"I'd like to receive security guarantees for my country, for my people. If NATO members are ready to see us in the alliance, then do it immediately. Because people are dying on a daily basis," Zelenskyy said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy delivers a virtual address to Congress by video at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, March 16, 2022. Drew Angerer, Pool via AP
In terms of negotiations, Zelenskyy said that he would not give up territorial integrity and Ukraine's sovereignty.
In this image from video provided by the House Television, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks from Kyiv, Ukraine, as he addresses virtually addresses Congress on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. House Television via AP
"I think that we have to use any format, any chance in order to have a possibility of negotiating, possibility of talking to Putin. But if these attempts fail, that would mean that this is a third World War," Zelenskyy said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned of a third world war if peace talks with Russia fail during a television interview that aired Sunday.
"There are compromises for which we cannot be ready as an independent state. Any compromises related to our territorial integrity and our sovereignty and the Ukrainian people have spoken about it  they have not greeted Russian soldiers with a bunch of flowers, they have greeted them with bravery, they have greeted them with weapons in their hands," he said.
Putin made the announcement to invade Ukraine nearly a month ago, waging a war that has cost the lives of at least 902 people, according to the United Nations, but that number is likely significantly higher.
Government authorities in Ukraine said on Sunday that an art school was bombed in Mariupol by Russian forces, where around 400 people were sheltering.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Zelenskyy also said that there would be no war if Ukraine were a NATO member, and repeated his call for the country to be accepted into the organization.
Zelenskyy said that "any format" should be used in order to have a possibility of negotiating with Russia, in particular Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Adam Sabes is a writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to Adam.Sabesfox.com and on Twitter asabes10.
Firefighters evacuate an elderly woman from an apartment building hit by shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine Ukrainian State Emergency Service via AP
The president of Ukraine also said that without negotiations, he does not believe the war will end.
