Ukraines Zelenskyy declares martial law severs diplomatic ties with Russia after invasion
20220224
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraines-president-appeals-to-russian-citizens-the-truth-must-be-known
Zelensky speaks to the nation. He says he's declared martial law and urges Ukrainians to stay home."We are working. The army is working," he says. "Don't panic. We are strong. We are ready for everything. We will defeat everyone. Because we are Ukraine."pic.twitter.comvamBb0pLWu
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declared martial law Thursday and announced the country had severed diplomatic ties with Russia after the giant neighboring nation launched a military invasion into Ukraine.
"And if the leadership of Russia doesn't want, for the sake of peace, to sit at the table with us, maybe it'll sit at the table with you. Do the Russians want war? I'd love to answer that question. But the answer only depends on you  citizens of Russia."
"They say that Ukraine may pose a threat to Russia. This wasnt a case in the past, nor is it now, and wont be in the future. Our main goal is to maintain peace in Ukraine and keep Ukrainian citizens safe," Zelenskyy said.
Although diplomatic ties have been cut, Zelenskyy said his administrations ultimate goal is peace with Russia.
"We have no need for another Cold War, or a bloody war, or a hybrid war," Zelenskyy said.
In an earlier video, Zelenskyy also made an appeal to Russian citizens as he explained his views on Russian aggression toward his country, saying he does not want a war but that his country will defend itself against hostilities.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, left, meets with President Biden in the Oval Office of the White House, Sept. 1, 2021, in Washington, D.C. Getty Images
"But if we are attacked militarily, if they try to take away our freedom, our lives, our childrens lives, we will defend ourselves," he added. "When you attack, you will see our faces and not our spines, our faces."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"If the leadership of Russia does not want to sit at the table with us to make peace, perhaps it will sit at the table with you. Does Russia want a war? I would very much like an answer to this question. But that answer depends only on you, citizens of the Russian Federation," he said.
"Stay calm, stay at home, the army is doing its work," Zelenskyy said, as videos of Kyiv show traffic jams of residents attempting to leave the city.
Hours later, Russian forces launched missiles into Ukraine and invaded border cities, prompting another statement from the Ukrainian leader.
"Russian TV will surely not show this video, but the Russian people must watch it. The truth must be known. And that truth is that this all needs to stop now, before it's too late," Zelenskyy said.
Zelenskyy also said he had spoken with President Biden, who was gathering international support for Ukraine.
The president's actions came in a second video that Zelenskyy posted to social media as television images seen around the world showed Russia troops entering his country.
He continued: "For this we are prepared to hold discussions with everyone, including you Russia, in whatever format you like at whatever venue."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy talks during a news conference in Paris on April 16, 2021, after a working lunch with the French president. Getty Images
"Russia has attacked our military infrastructure and our border guards," Zelenskyy continued. "Explosions were heard in many cities of Ukraine. We introduce martial law throughout the state."
ROMNEY SWIPES OBAMA, TRUMP, AND BIDEN AFTER RUSSIA INVADES UKRAINE: 'THE '80S CALLED AND WE DIDN'T ANSWER'
He added: "Don't panic. We are strong. We are ready for everything. We will defeat everyone. Because we are Ukraine."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addresses the nation in a video Thursday morning from Kyiv. Zelenskyy declared martial law, saying Russia has targeted Ukraine's military infrastructure. He urged Ukrainians to stay home and not to panic. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
Zelenskyy was referring to one of the breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine targeted by the invasion and which Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed share cultural and historical ties to Russia.
"Today I initiated a phone conversation with the president of the Russian Federation," he continued. "The result was silence  although it's the Donbas where there should be silence."
"Dear Ukrainians, this morning, President Putin announced a special military operation in the Donbas," Zelenskyy said.
Fox News correspondent Steve Harrigan reports from the ground in Kyiv and discusses Russia claiming theyve disabled Ukrainian air defenses.
Ukraines defense minister: "Today I appeal to you once again: keep calm! If possible, stay home. The situation is under control, but our army needs your support now more than ever. Your peace of mind and confidence in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is currently the best help."
