Ukraine 7 dead 11 injured after Russias military launched missiles into Lviv
20220418
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-6-dead-8-injured-russias-military-launched-missiles-lviv
During a nightly address Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his administration and military were "doing everything to ensure the defense" of his country.
A woman is taken to an ambulance after being injured in a Russian bombardment in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 17, 2022. AP PhotoFelipe Dana
Smoke rose over the Western city after four missiles hit three warehouses and also struck a civilian car tire service garage, where people were working, a Ukraine military spokesperson said.
Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said the attack further proves that there are no safe places for civilians in Ukraine.
Firefighters work to extinguish fire at an apartments building after a Russian attack in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 17, 2022. AP PhotoAndrew Marienko AP PhotoAndrew Marienko
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
LVIV, UKRAINE - APRIL 18: Smoke rises after five aimed missile strikes hit Lviv, Ukraine on April 18, 2022. Photo by Ozge Elif KizilAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
MARIUPOL WARNS RUSSIA IS PREPARING TO SHUT DOWN CITY TO FILTER ALL MEN FOR FORCED SERVICE, LABOR
Across the country, Ukraine has vowed to "fight absolutely to the end" to keep Russia from capturing the port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said.
West Air Command confirmed the missile attack, which also reportedly damaged infrastructure along train rails. The missiles were believed to be intended for a train station, the Ukrainian military spokesperson said.
At least seven people have been killed and 11 others were injured in Lviv, Ukraine, Monday morning, after Russias military launched several missiles into the city, officials said.
Capturing Mariupol would provide Russia direct access to the Sea of Azov, giving it routes to resupply and reignite its offensive strategy in Ukraine, specifically in the eastern Donbas region. It would also provide Russia a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, an area it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Fox News contributor Rebecca Grant weighs in on White House press secretary Jen Psaki shutting down a Biden trip to Ukraine on 'Fox Report.'
Last week, Russia's military started a seemingly relentless siege of the city, which, if it falls, would be Russia's biggest victory of the war.
Fox News' James Levinson, Matt Finn, Jeff Paul and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
