Ukraine says Russia looks to replenish troops by conscripting Ukrainians
20220422
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-says-russia-looks-to-replenish-troops-by-conscripting-ukrainians-in-southern-regions
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
"The enemy is preparing for a so-called referendum for occupied territories in Kherson and Zaporizhzhia to join the Russian Federation," he added.
It remains unclear how many Russian soldiers have been killed in the last 58 days of fighting and Moscow has refrained from updating its causality figures in four weeks.
"The Russian occupiers have been using the tactics of terrorizing Ukrainian citizens," he said. "There are still killings, torture, persecution of the local governments."
ZELENSKYY WARNS CITIZENS AGAINST GIVING PERSONAL INFO TO RUSSIANS AS MOSCOW LOOKS TO EXTEND CAMPAIGN SOUTHWEST
"You will make your country as poor as Russia hasnt been since the 1917 civil war. So it is better to seek peace now," Zelenskyy added.
Ukrainian military officials warned Friday that Russia is looking to "replenish" its personnel by conscripting Ukrainian men in southern regions, amid reports of heavy Russian losses.
The colonels comments came just hours after a Russian general announced that Moscowsaim was to establish "full control" of not only the eastern Donbas area but southern regions that run along the Black Sea.
Fighters of the Chechen special forces unit walk in a courtyard in Mariupol, Ukraine, on Thursday, April 21. REUTERSChingis Kondarov
A convoy of pro-Russian troops moves along a road in Mariupol, Ukraine, on Thursday, April 21. REUTERSChingis Kondarov
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks from Kyiv, Ukraine, on Tuesday. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
Motuzyanyk said Russia was now looking to annex the regions of Zaporizhzhia, which neighbors Donbas, and Kherson, which sits just north of Russian-occupied Crimea.
"To replenish their personnel there have been preparations for so-called mobilization in Kherson and Zaporizhzhia oblast," Ukraines Ministry of Defense spokesman Colonel Oleksandr Motuzyanyk told reporters."Russian troops are blocking local people from leaving occupied territories in particular, those males of conscript age."
Ukraines Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed Friday that more than 21,000 Russian troops have been killed in the last eight weeks, though these figures have not been verified.
In late March, the Kremlin claimed it had lost 1,350 military personnel since the war began, but a NATO official alleged those figures were likely closer to between7,000 and 15,000deaths. Ukraine at the time had claimed there were more than 18,000 Russian losses.
"I want to say straight away: any Kherson People's Republics are not going to fly. If someone wants a new annexation, it can only lead to new powerful sanctions strikes on Russia," he said.
UKRAINE DISPUTES RUSSIA'S CLAIM THAT IT WILL NOT STORM MARIUPOL STEEL PLANT FULL OF CIVILIANS
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned he would not tolerate the annexation of any part of Ukraine.
