Ukrainian mother 3monthold among 8 dead in Odesa
20220423
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukrainian-mother-3-month-old-8-dead-odesa
This is post of a man who, as a result of a yesterday Russian rocket attack on a residential building in Odesa, lost his wife, little daughter and mother-in-lawOn second photo you can see how looks like "the military object in Odesa" on the opinion of RussiansRussianWarCrimespic.twitter.comQQQkVgCVvg
A Ukrainian soldier holds an Easter cake and an icon during a blessing ceremony on Easter eve at a military position outside Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, April 23, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
"She was a mom. She is no more. And neither is her 3 months old baby girl Kira," said Ukrainian parliament member Lesia Vaslenko, posting a photo of the deceased woman.
'The Big Saturday Show' panelists react to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy's announcement that Secretary of State Blinken and Defense Secretary Austin will travel to Ukraine to discuss arms support.
Eighteen others were injured and several buildings were destroyed in the Saturday attack. A number of other victims are believed to still be under the rubble, the Kyiv Independent reported.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
The attack also caused major damage to a 16-story residential complex in Arkadia, a residential area within Odesa, the Kyiv Independent reported.
"These were the best 40 weeks ever. Our girl is 1 month old now. Daddy got her first flowers. It's a whole new level of happiness," the February post read, which has been shared online following their deaths.
The woman gave birth to the child just one month before the start of Russias invasion and posted a photo during the war to celebrate the childs birthday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy confirmed the attack during a press conference Saturday afternoon, vowing revenge on those responsible. The Ukrainian military later said the missiles were launched by a Russian bomber Tu-95 from the Caspian Sea.
A Ukrainian mother and her 3-month-old baby are among eight dead, following a Russian missile strike in Odesa, according to a report.
