Ukraine parliament member More surprises coming for Putins army
20220226
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-parliament-member-more-surprises-putin-army
"I've received messages from all the political leaders throughout the world, saying, 'Yeah, Kyiv will fall this night,' and watch us. We did not," Rudik boasted. "We have more surprises coming for Putin's army and the world how Ukrainians can stand for their country."
The city is experiencing a lull in the onslaught. Rudik told Fox News about the prevalence of air raid sirens and evacuation orders.
"Because I'm an optimist, I am working on the stuff that will be related to rebuilding the roads, rebuilding the buildings, etc. And different programs that will help Ukraine to get back to the peaceful times," Rudik told Fox News.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
The defense aid will include anti-armor, small arms and various munitions, and body armor and related equipment, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Saturday.
Several buildings in Starobilsk within the Luhansk Oblast region of Ukraine show significant damage because of shelling, according to images shared by the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. State Emergency Service of Ukraine
People take shelter at a building basement while the sirens sound, announcing new attacks in the city of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Feb. 25, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
"I have authorized, pursuant to a delegation by the President, an unprecedented third Presidential drawdown of up to $350 million for immediate support to Ukraines defense," Blinken said Saturday. "This brings the total security assistance the United States has committed to Ukraine over the past year to more than $1 billion."
Martial law powers have placed the Ukrainian military in full control of the country's government, headed by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. The shuffling of power has left parliament members with time to draft legislation for after the war's end.
Ukrainian parliament member Kira Rudik promised "more surprises" for Russian President Vladimir Putin's army and the world as her country fights an ongoing invasion.
The U.S. will further bolster Ukraine's defense in the face of Russian invasion with $350 million more in aid, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced Saturday.
Timothy Nerozzi is a writer for Fox News Digital. You can follow him on Twitter timothynerozzi and can email him at timothy.nerozzifox.com
"As of the last three to four hours, there has been no sirens and no going to bomb shelters, which is a rare case in Kyiv these days," Rudik said. "Since the Parliament announced martial law, all in all there has been more than like 13 attacks on Kyiv, where the sirens were on and people had to go to the bomb shelters."
Rudik spoke to Fox News Saturday about the ongoing advance on Kyiv as Russian troops advance on the Ukrainian capital. Defensive forces have managed to keep the invading military  which includes tank columns  at bay, at least for the moment. Ukraine's continued efforts have surprised officials around the world, many of whom did not expect the tiny nation to last against the Russian superpower.
