UkraineRussia war Moscowbacked rebels claim progress in Donbas offensive
20220527
https://www.foxnews.com/world/ukraine-russia-war-donbas-eastern-offensive
Germanys development minister traveled to Ukraine on Friday to pledge further civilian support and to discuss the countrys rebuilding. Austrias chancellor, meanwhile, was set to talk to Russian President Vladimir Putin about possible prisoner exchanges.
At least 1,500 people have died in Sievierodonetsk since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, he said.
In Donetsk, the Donbas regions other province, the Russia-backed rebels said Friday they took control of Lyman, a large railway hub north of two more key cities that remain under Ukrainian control.
Moscow pressed the West on Thursday to lift sanctions already imposed over the war, seeking to shift the blame for a growing global food crisis that has been worsened by Kyivs inability to ship millions of tons of grain and other agricultural products while under attack.
An assault was underway in the citys northeastern quarter, where Russian reconnaissance and sabotage groups tried to capture the Mir Hotel and the area around it Friday, Stryuk said.
As Ukraines hopes of stopping the Russian advance faded, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba pleaded with Western nations to provide his country with more weapons.
About 12,000 to 13,000 people remain in the city  down from a pre-war population of about 100,000, he said.
Russia-backed separatists claimed they captured a railway hub city in eastern Ukraine as Moscows forces strived to gain more ground Friday by pounding another Ukrainian-held area where authorities say 1,500 people have died since the start of the war.
"For a month and a half, because of the shelling, it has not been possible to provide people with full-fledged medical care," Stryuk said.
WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGE: A woman walks next to the body of a man killed during shelling in Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine, Thursday, May 26. APBernat Armangue
The figure includes people killed by shelling or in fires caused by Russian missile strikes, as well as those who died from shrapnel wounds, untreated diseases, a lack of medicine or while trapped under rubble, according to the mayor.
On Thursday, Russian shelling of Kharkiv, a northeastern city that has been under assault while Ukrainian forces keep the invading troops out, killed nine people, including a father and his 5-month-old baby, the president said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"We need heavy weapons. The only position where Russia is better than us, its the amount of heavy weapons they have. Without artillery, without multiple launch rocket systems we wont be able to push them back," Kuleba said in a video posted Thursday night on Twitter.
"There are battles on the outskirts of the city. Massive artillery shelling does not stop, day and night," Sievierodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk told The Associated Press. "The city is being systematically destroyed  90 of the buildings in the city are damaged."
Near the city of Dnipro in central Ukraine, 10 people were killed and about 35 wounded in Russian missile strikes against a National Guard base, according to the head of the Dnipro territorial defense forces.
In his nightly address to the nation, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had some harsh words for the European Union, which has not agreed on a sixth round of sanctions, including an embargo on Russian oil.
"Pressure on Russia is literally a matter of saving lives," he said. "And every day of delay, weakness, various disputes or proposals to appease the aggressor at the expense of the victim is new killed Ukrainians. And new threats to everyone on our continent."
Zelenskyy said Russias offensive in the Donbas could leave its communities in ashes and uninhabitable. He accused Moscow of pursuing "an obvious policy of genocide" through mass deportations and killings of civilians.
An injured man as a result of shelling is carried on a stretcher in Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine, on Thursday, May 26. APBernat Armangue
Fox News correspondent Greg Palkot details the new military aid bill as well as Bidens decision to broaden and strengthen NATO on America Reports.
With Russias offensive in Ukraines industrial Donbas region showing incremental progress, Ukrainian officials characterized the battle there in grave terms and renewed their appeals for more sophisticated Western-supplied weaponry.
The fighting Friday focused on two key cities: Sievierodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk. They are the last areas under Ukrainian control in Luhansk, one of two provinces that make up the Donbas and where Moscow-backed separatists have controlled some territory for eight years.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich acknowledged that "we lost Lyman" Thursday night. However, a Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesperson reported Friday that its soldiers countered Russian attempts to push them completely out of the city.
Ukraines foreign minister pleaded for "weapons, weapons and weapons again," warning that without a new injection of foreign arms, Ukrainian forces would not be able to stop Russias advance on the east.
A woman is carried from her home in an evacuation by volunteers of the Vostok SOS charitable organization in Bakhmut, eastern Ukraine, on Friday, May 27. APFrancisco Seco
Associated Press reporters saw the bodies of at least two dead men and four wounded at a central subway station, where the victims were taken as shelling continued outside.
Russian shelling killed four people in Sievierodonetsk over the past 24 hours, regional governor Serhiy Haidai wrote in a Telegram post Friday.
