US ambassador to NATO cleans up Bidens remarks says US does not have a policy of regime change in Russia
20220327
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/us-ambassador-nato-bidens-says-regime-change-russia
U.S. Ambassador to NATO Julianne Smith joins Fox News Sunday to discuss concerns for Russias long-term goals amid the countrys invasion on Ukraine.
"In the moment, I think that was a principled human reaction to the stories that he had heard that day," she said. "But no, as you've heard from Secretary Blinken and others, the U.S. does not have a policy of regime change in Russia. Full stop."
The Biden administration has been forced to walk back the presidents comments in Warsaw that seemed to call for regime change in Russia, declaring that Russian President Vladimir Putin "cannot remain in power."
Jessica Chasmar is a digital writer on the politics team for Fox News and Fox Business. Story tips can be sent to Jessica.Chasmarfox.com.
"Let me be clear and just state right off the bat that the U.S. does not have a policy of regime change towards Russia," Smith said. "But I think what we all agree on is that President Putin cannot be empowered to wage war. He has attacked Ukraine in a premeditated, unprovoked conflict, and is pursuing this relentless and brutal war in Ukraine, which we all want to see come to an end."
President Biden delivers a speech at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, Poland, Saturday, March 26, 2022. AP PhotoPetr David Josek
Smith said during an appearance on "Fox News Sunday" that Biden had "a very moving day" after meeting with hundreds of Ukrainian refugees, and that contrary to his remarks, the U.S. is not looking for regime change in Moscow.
Blinken clarified Bidens remarks earlier Sunday, telling reporters that "we do not have a strategy of regime change in Russia  or anywhere else, for that matter."
WHITE HOUSE WALKS BACK MULTIPLE BIDEN REMARKS DURING EUROPE TRIP ON PUTIN, CHEMICAL WEAPONS, TROOPS
Smith made similar comments during an appearance earlier on CNNs "State of the Union," saying Biden was speaking "in the moment."
U.S. Ambassador to NATO Julianne Smith said Sunday that the U.S. "does not have a policy of regime change towards Russia," and that President Biden was speaking "in the moment" when he appeared to signal otherwise during a speech Saturday in Poland.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
US Permanent Representative to NATO Julianne Smith L and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken R arrive ahead of an extraordinary NATO summit at NATO Headquarters in Brussels on March 24, 2022. Photo by THOMAS COEXAFP via Getty Images
