Vladimir Putin targets US in new Russian navy doctrine warns of using hypersonic weapons
20220731
https://www.foxnews.com/world/vladimir-putin-targets-us-new-russian-navy-doctrine-warns-using-hypersonic-weapons
Putin signed the 55-page during an appearance in St. Petersburg to mark Russia's Navy Day. The Russian leader delivered a speech announcing Russia's plans to become a great maritime power, saying resisting the U.S. is a top goal.
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a new naval doctrine that targets the U.S. as Russia's top global adversary.
"The strategic policy of the USA to dominate the world's oceans" threatens Russia, Putin said.
Russian Navy ships are docked in the Sevastopol bay on March 4, 2014.  VIKTOR DRACHEVAFP via Getty Images Photo credit should read VIKTOR DRACHEVAFP via Getty Images
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
RUSSIA CLAIMS TO HIT UKRAINE WITH HYPERSONIC MISSILE, EXPERT WARNS IT IS PART OF PUTIN'S STRATEGIC PLAN
Putin's speech came on the same day as a drone attack at the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea fleet on Sunday. Russian officials say the attack, which saw a drone drop an unknown explosive device, injuring at least six people. It is unclear who is responsible for the attack.
Anders Hagstrom is a reporter with Fox News Digital covering national politics and major breaking news events. Send tips to Anders.HagstromFox.com, or on Twitter: HagstromAnders.
Putin also noted the expansion of NATO as a top threat to Russia, months after Sweden and Finland officially joined the Western alliance. Finland shares an 800-mile border with Russia, significantly expanding potential friction points between NATO and Russia.
"The key thing here is the capability of the Russian navy," Putin said. "It is able to respond with lightning speed to all who decides to infringe on our sovereignty and freedom."
Putin went on to claim that a number of warships will soon be equipped with hypersonic weapons.
