WH says they know what to expect in Ukraine based on Putins choice of new general
20220410
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/ukraine-putin-new-general-russia-white-house
Psaki said that the U.S. is continuing to review every request from Ukraine and is working with allies to meet the countrys needs.
The White House press secretary joined 'Fox News Sunday' to discuss the latest on the Russia-Ukraine war, negotiations with Iran for a new nuclear deal, the economy, student loan debt, and the border crisis.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has appealed for stronger military and political support from the West.
"The reports we are seeing of a change in military leadership and putting a general in charge who is responsible for the brutality and atrocities we saw in Syria shows theres going to be a continuation of what weve seen on the ground in Ukraine and that is what we are expecting," Psaki said.
Cemetery workers work at a mass grave in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, to identify civilians killed during the war against Russia, Sunday, April 10, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
"They've protected their city, and that is because of their bravery, their courage, but it is also because of the supplies, the military equipment, everything we've expedited: $1.7 billion worth from the United States and the commitment and dedication of the American people to this war," she continued.
"Were going to continue to do that so we can equip them on the battlefield and continue the success to date," she said.
In this photo taken on March 17, 2016, Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, poses with Col. Gen. Alexander Dvornikov during an awarding ceremony in Moscow's Kremlin, Russia. Russia has appointed a new Ukraine war commander. A top U.S. official on Sunday, April 10, 2022 said Russia named Gen. Dvornikov as commander of an armed campaign that Russian authorities still refer to as a "special military operation." Alexei NikolskySputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
Psaki appeared on "Fox News Sunday" and addressed what the reported appointment of Dvornikov could mean as global concerns grow over the bloodshed in Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putins reported appointment of a new general known as the "Butcher of Syria" to oversee the invasion of Ukraine is a choice that shows the Biden administration exactly what to expect as Moscows bloody aggression continues, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Sunday.
"Rarely do they acknowledge, from the Russian leadership, any elements of weakness or any elements of defeat," Psaki said, adding that it is also significant that the Ukrainians have "essentially won the battle of Kyiv."
The reported new battlefield leadership comes as Russia gears up for what is expected to be a large and more focused push to expand Russian control in the Donbas after failing to conquer the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv. It also follows Russian leaderships rare public admission of heavy military losses.
Gen. Alexander Dvornikov, commander of Russias southern military district SMD, was reported to be Putins pick as the new commander to lead operations in Ukraine. U.S. officials have said the 60-year-old general has a record of brutality against civilians in Syria and other theaters of war.
Dvornikov gained prominence as head of Russian forces that Moscow deployed to Syria in 2015 to shore up President Bashar Assads regime amid the country's devastating civil war.
Russian authorities do not generally confirm such appointments, and have said nothing about a new role for Dvornikov, who received the Hero of Russia medal, one of the countrys highest awards, from President Vladimir Putin in 2016.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
