What does Russias Putin fear most
20220225
https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/putin-russia-ukraine-invasion-daniel-hoffman
Daniel N. Hoffman has been a Fox News contributor since May 2018. Before joining Fox News, Hoffman had a distinguished career with the Central Intelligence Agency, where he was a three-time station chief and a senior executive Clandestine Services officer. Follow him on Twitter danielhoffmanDC.
But the alliance is instead comprised of Russias sovereign, free, democratic neighbors committed to the principles of freedom and liberty, each determined to counter Russias economic predation and nefarious political influence  which most threaten Putins regime security.
But for Russia, which reportedly lost 1 of its GDP as a result of sanctions the West levied in 2014, guaranteeing Putins regime security is worth the cost  even if it makes Russia more subservient to China for imports of its hydrocarbons. And all the better if the Ukraine crisis results in higher oil and gas prices, which can offset some of those losses.
Make no mistake, Putin is targeting first and foremost Ukraines territorial integrity but also by extension the EU, NATO, and most especially Russias "Main Enemy" the United States. Putin wants to demonstrate that the West is an unreliable ally, who failed to prevent Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea massive cyber-attacks on Ukraines media, electric power grid, and government ministries and repeated violations of Ukraines territorial integrity.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has been ringing propaganda-laced alarm bells about the U.S.-led NATO alliance. Putin portrays it as the "enemy" at Russias gates, threatening the besieged motherland  which only Putin can defend.
Putins invasion of Ukraine will be costly to Russias economy in terms of lost trade, sanctions, and significant budget resources devoted to the Donbas region just as there was for Crimea including building the Kerch straight bridge as well as South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
Putin cannot allow Ukraine to succeed as a democracy, which would serve as a beacon of hope and inspiration for his own domestic opponents who are denied basic civil liberties including freedom of expression and assembly. Putins long-term objective is the destruction of Ukraine as a state.
That is why Ukraine has been under siege with increasing intensity from the Kremlins cyber, economic and military attacks since 2014 when Russia began backing separatists in Ukraines Donbas region with military and material support and illegally annexed Crimea. Nothing threatens Putins regime security more than Ukraine, a democratic neighbor with a bright economic future and sizable Russian-speaking population.
Russias aggression has only increased NATOs commitment to mutual defense, with commensurate troop and military equipment deployments to the most vulnerable NATO members on Russias border. In Putins world, a strong NATO in conflict with Russia lends credibility to his propaganda myth that only he, the KGB operative in the Kremlin, can defend Russia from Russias pernicious enemies.
Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during a press conference on Dec. 23, 2021, in Moscow. Fox News photo illustration Getty ImagesiSstock
Fox News contributor Dan Hoffman on Putin threatening other nations with 'consequences you have never seen' if they get involved in Ukraine.
In a throwback to an eerily similar justification Hitler used to annex the Sudetenland from Czechoslovakia, Putin justified the Crimea referendum and his decision this week to send troops thinly disguised as "peacekeepers" ostensibly to defend Ukraines ethnically Russian population.
What scares Vladimir Putin the most? Its always been democracy, especially in the former Soviet Union, whose collapse Putin once called "the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century."
