White House holds call with allies to discuss support for Ukraine
20220419
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/white-house-call-allies-discuss-support-ukraine
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
Ukrainian servicemen ride atop an armoured fighting vehicle Tuesday as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues at an unknown location in Eastern Ukraine. Press service of the Ukrainian Ground ForcesHandout via REUTERS
Defense officials have warned that Russia is "still refitting units" outside of Ukraine and that tactical battalion groups are still entering the county.
Russias actions have been described as a "shaping operation" and a "prelude" to a full-scale attack that officials have warned will likely be even more brutal than what occurred during the first seven weeks of Russias invasion.
The top leaders discussed "continued support for Ukraine and efforts to hold Russia accountable as part of our close coordination,"reported Reuters.
The call ended just moments before a senior U.S. defense official warned reporters that Russias second campaign in eastern Ukraine had not yet begun, despite claims made earlier in the day byRussian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
Russia maintains roughly 75 percent of the fighting force it first amassed along Ukraines border in the lead-up to the invasion.
DETROIT, MI - NOVEMBER 17: U.S. President Joe Biden speaks at the General Motors Factory ZERO electric vehicle assembly plant on November 17, 2021 in Detroit, Michigan. Photo by Nic AntayaGetty Images
Lavrov said the offensive had been officially launched and would prove to be a "very important moment of this entire special operation."
President Biden held a call Tuesday with top U.S. allies to discuss ongoing support for Ukraine as Russia ratchets up its offensive in the east.
It has been assessed that 78 operational battalion groups have entered eastern Ukraine  an area the size of West Virginia.
Biden was joined by NATOSecretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, along with leaders from Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Poland and the United Kingdom.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
The U.S. has provided $2.6 billion in security assistance for Ukraine and the senior defense official said Tuesday that another seven flights transporting military aid will be sent over the next 24-hours.
