Zelenskyy demands global control over Russias nuclear capabilities after completely irresponsible actions
20220427
https://www.foxnews.com/world/zelenskyy-global-control-russias-nuclear-capabilities
Also on Tuesday, Russia escalated the threat of nuclear warfare amid its war in Ukraine by alleging that Kyiv is developing nuclear weapons with U.S. support.
RUSSIAN TROOPS HAD AIMED TO MINE NUCLEAR PLANT TO BLACKMAIL THE WHOLE OF EUROPE: ZAPORIZHZHIA EMPLOYEES
"It turns out they do not realize what Chernobyl is. At all," Zelenskyy said. "Russian troops that were trying to attack Kyiv through the Chernobyl zone used the restricted area as a military base. They set up positions on land where it is forbidden to even stand."He also noted that Russian forces looted the Cernobyl radiation monitoring system  "they looted a nuclear analytical laboratory."
"Only thanks to the professionalism and conscientiousness of our specialists working at the Chernobyl station... we managed to save Ukraine, save Europe from another catastrophe," he said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
The president recalled the night of March 4, when a fire broke out at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant after Russian forces started shelling the plant amid the invasion. "They knew exactly which object they were firing at," he said. "But they had an order to seize the object at any cost. They did not care about anything. They did not care that the Zaporizhzhia station was the largest in Europe. They didn't think about how many power units there are and how the shelling could end."
Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant is seen in a satellite image in Ukraine, March 10, 2022. Satellite image 2022 Maxar Technologies
Surveillance footage shows a flare landing at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. Zaporizhzhya NPP via YouTubevia Reuters
"I believe that after all that the Russian military has done in the Chernobyl zone and at the Zaporizhzhia power plant, no one in the world can feel safe knowing how many nuclear facilities, nuclear weapons and related technologies the Russian state has," Zelenskyy said. "If Russia has forgotten what Chernobyl is, it means that global control over Russia's nuclear facilities, and nuclear technology is needed."
"I think this any bluster about the use of nuclear possibility, of use of nuclear weapons, is very dangerous and unhelpful," Austin told reporters Tuesday. "Nobody wants to see a nuclear war nobody can win it."
"Instead, today they launched three missiles against Ukraine so that they flew directly over the blocks of our nuclear power plants  over three nuclear power plants at once, over Zaporizhzhia, Khmelnytskyi, and South-Ukrainian NPPs," the president said. "What is it? Are they threatening? There are no words."
"It is even surprising how quickly and completely Russia, the whole country, can forget about the worst catastrophe that its people have experienced as well," the president added, noting that Russians suffered in the wake of the Chernobyl disaster on April 26, 1986.
"Every year on April 26th, the world remembers the Chernobyl disaster, the worst nuclear disaster in human history," Zelenskyy began. "But this year it is not enough just to remember Chernobyl because this year, Russia created new threats that could surpass even the worst accident."
Zelenskyy noted that International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi met with him in Kyiv to commemorate the Chernobyl disaster and pledge his support.
"We do not only have respect for you we have admiration for you because you did exactly what you were expected to do," Grossi told the workers. "You showed professionalism, courage, and of course, patriotism. But you did the right thing so don't worry, we are here, the IAEA is going to stay."
Rather than commemorating the anniversary of the disaster  which killed less than 100 people directly but increased mortality over the following decades in the surrounding area  Russia has escalated the situation, Zelenskyy charged.
"The need for demilitarization is due to the fact that Ukraine, saturated with weapons, poses a threat to Russia, including from the point of view of the development and use of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons,"Secretary of the Russian Security CouncilNikolai Patrushev, said according to state-owned news agencies.
Grossi also visited Chernobyl and delivered IAEA resources to the plant, which Russian forces held for five weeks until they withdrew on March 31. He thanked staff for their resilience and courage amid the conflict.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy marked the 36th anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster with a speech condemning Russia's "completely irresponsible actions" around nuclear power plants during its invasion and calling for "global control" of the Kremlin's nuclear capabilities.
Tyler O'Neil is an editor at Fox News. On Twitter: Tyler2ONeil. News tips can be sent to: tyler.oneilfox.com.
"We discussed all the dangers created by Russia and ways to possibly influence the situation to protect Europe and the world from completely irresponsible actions of the Russian Federation," the president said. He then called for a global takeover of Russia's nuclear capabilities.
U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, who met with Zelenskyy in Kyiv over the weekend, called the comments "very dangerous."
Ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons  which the Soviet Union had left in the country  in Dec. 1994 in exchange for security assurances from Russia, Britain, and the United States.
IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi speaks at a press conference in Vienna, Austria, March 7, 2022. AP PhotoLisa Leutner, file
