Zelenskyy warns Russia will likely invade other countries if successful in Ukraine
20220423
https://www.foxnews.com/world/zelenskyy-russia-invade-other-countries-successful-ukraine
Though a peace treaty between Transnistria and the Moldovan government was signed in 1992, the breakaway state has similarities to theself-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics in the Donbas which served as Putins justification for his illegal invasion in February.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy late Friday warned that Russia likely plans to invade other countries if it succeeds in Ukraine, according to reports.
Moldova, which says it is neutral and has also applied to join the European Union, said it had expressed "deep concern" to Moscow over the generals remarks about Transnistria, according to Reuters.
"Control over the south of Ukraine is another way out to Transnistria, where there are cases of Russian-speaking people being oppressed," Minnekaev said, in an apparent threat to Moldova.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Secretary of State Antony Blinken hosts a bilateral meeting with Moldovan Minister of Foreign Affairs Nicu Popescu at the State Department in Washington, Monday, April 18, 2022. Stefani ReynoldsPool via AP Stefani ReynoldsPool via AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks from Kyiv, Ukraine, on Tuesday. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
The presidents remarks came hours after a Russian general said it was Moscows goal to gain "full control over the Donbas and southern Ukraine."
"The invasion of Ukraine is only the beginning. Then they want to invade other countries,"Zelenskyy said in his nightly address, according to Reuters. "All the nations that, like us, believe in the victory of life over death must fight with us. They must help us because we are the first in line. And who will come next?"
A metal cross that used to be on the top of the dome stands outside of the damaged church in Lukashivka, in northern Ukraine, on Friday, April 22, 2022. AP PhotoPetros Giannakouris
Major General Rustam Minnekaevclaimed that would give the Russian army access to Transnistria, a Russian-occupied region of Moldova.
