Zelenskyy adviser says Russia must pull troops out of Ukraine before dialogue can take place
20220804
https://www.foxnews.com/world/zelenskyy-advisor-russia-pull-troops-ukraine-dialogue-take-place
Paul Best is a breaking news reporter for Fox News Digital and Fox Business. Story tips and ideas can be sent to Paul.Bestfox.com and on Twitter: KincaidBest.
Rep. Mike Waltz, R-Fla., of the House Armed Services Committee joins Bret Baier to discuss his recent visit to Ukraine and the realities of the ongoing war with Russia on 'Special Report.'
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy displayed on a screen as he addresses the audience from Kyiv on a screen during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Monday, May 23, 2022. AP PhotoMarkus Schreiber
Schroeder, who served as the Chancellor of Germany from 1998 to 2005 and calls himself a close friend of Putin, told German news outlets this week that Russia and Ukraine's grain agreement indicates that peace talks could work.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"The good news is that the Kremlin wants a negotiated solution," Schroeder told broadcasters RTLntv. "A first success is the grain deal, perhaps that can be slowly expanded to a ceasefire."
Ukrainian soldiers are seen riding on an armored presonnel carrier during an exercise not far from Kharkiv on April 30. Sergey BobokAFP via Getty Images
A dog is seen in the middle of a street as Ukrainian army soldiers take part of a military sweep to search for possible remnants of Russian troops. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Putin said last month that Russia doesn't "reject peace talks" while also threatening that the invasion has just begun.
Under that grain deal, a ship loaded with Ukrainian food supplies left the Black Sea on Wednesday for the first time since Russia invaded more than five months ago.
A Ukrainian official dismissed former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's claims that Putin wants a "negotiated solution," saying Wednesday that no dialogue can take place until Russian forces withdraw.
Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a meeting on the country's transport industry via a video link in Sochi, Russia May 24, 2022. SputnikMikhail MetzelKremlin via Reuters
"Everyone should know that, by and large, we haven't started anything yet in earnest," Putin said on July 7.
A fallen rocket that was fired from Kherson but got intercepted by Ukrainian forces remains unexploded in the street in Mykolaiv, Ukraine on April 4. Andre Luis AlvesAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
The United Nations appears pessimistic that the recent grain agreement will lead to more constructive dialogue.
"Despite the encouraging developments on grain and fertilizers, we remain deeply concerned about the lack of prospects for a shift towards a meaningful resumption of diplomatic efforts to end the war," United Nations Political Affairs Chief Rosemary DiCarlo said on July 29.
"If Moscow wants dialogue, it is up to them," Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, tweeted on Wednesday. "First, a cease-fire and troops withdrawal, then  constructive"
