Zelenskyy warns citizens against giving personal info to Russians as Moscow looks to extend campaign southwest
20220422
https://www.foxnews.com/world/zelenskyy-warns-citizens-against-providing-personal-info-russians-moscow-extends-campaign-southwest
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news.
RUSSIAN GENERAL SAYS GOAL OF WAR IN UKRAINE IS FULL CONTROL OF DONBAS AND SOUTH
Zelesnkyy said Russian troops may be collecting passport data under the guise of completing a "census" of residents in the areas to deliver humanitarian aid.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
"I urge the residents of the southern regions of Ukraine - Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions - to be very careful about what information you provide to the invaders," he said in an address. "If they ask you to fill out some questionnairesyou should know this is not to help you."
Minnekaev said Russias goal was not only to create a land bridge between the Donbas and occupied-Crimea, but to gain superiority over all Black Sea ports  extending its coastal access outside the Sea of Azov.
Zelenskyys warning came just hours after Russian GeneralMinnekaev told Russian news agencies that Moscows aim was to establish "full control" of not only the eastern Donbas area, but southern regions that run along the Black Sea.
"I want to say straight away: any Kherson People's Republics are not going to fly. If someone wants a new annexation, it can only lead to new powerful sanctions strikes on Russia," he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday warned residents in regions to the south and west of Donetsk against providing personal information to Russian soldiers.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks from Kyiv, Ukraine, on Tuesday. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
"You will make your country as poor as Russia hasnt been since the 1917 civil war. So it is better to seek peace now," Zelenskyy added.
"This is aimed to falsify the so-called referendum on your land  if an order comes from Moscow to stage such a show," he added. "This is the reality. Be careful."
Zaporizhzhia, which sits directly west of Donetsk above the Sea of Azov, has become a destination for evacuees fleeing the port city of Mariupol in Donetsk.
Zelenskyy warned that attempts to annex additional regions in Ukraine will not be tolerated and threatened additional financial repercussions.
An armed serviceman of Donetsk People's Republic militia patrols a street in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol, Ukraine, Friday, April 15, 2022. Mariupol, a strategic port on the Sea of Azov, has been besieged by Russian troops and forces from self-proclaimed separatist areas in eastern Ukraine for more than six weeks. AP PhotoAlexei Alexandrov
