Zelenskyy says mines after Russian retreat threaten Kyiv
20220402
https://www.foxnews.com/world/zelenskyy-mines-russian-retreat-threaten-kyiv
At least three Russian ballistic missiles were fired late Friday at the Odesa region  though the Ukrainian military said the Iskander missiles did not hit the critical infrastructure they targeted.
The New York Times reported Saturday that Russian forces moved to crack down on protesters in the southeastern of city Enerhodar, which is home to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
UKRAINE REACTS AFTER RUSSIA ACCUSSES ITS HELICOPTERS OF LAUNCHING AIRSTRIKES ON OIL DEPOT ACROSS THE BORDER
A man stands alongside a bridge destroyed by Russian soldiers upon their retreat from villages on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 1, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Military gear left behind by Russian soldiers lay scattered near a tank during a military sweep by Ukrainian soldiers after the Russians withdrawal from the area on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 1, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy listens during his meeting with President of the European Parliament Roberta Metsola in Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 1, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Officials said Ukraine's fighters had reclaimed several areas near its capital city, including the city of Brovary.
"Its still not possible to return to normal life, as it used to be, even at the territories that we are taking back after the fighting," the president told his nation in a nightly video message.
"We need to wait until our land is demined, wait till we are able to assure you that there wont be new shelling," he said.
The U.S. Department of Defense said Friday that it would provide an additional $300 million in arms to Ukrainian forces.
In Mariupol, a southern port city located in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas region, the International Committee of the Red Cross planned Saturday to get emergency supplies into the besieged city and evacuate residents.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
On Friday, the Kremlin accused Ukraine of launching a helicopter attack on a fuel depot on Russian soil.
City authorities said Russians blocked access to the city on Friday and the Red Cross said it was unable to carry out the operation then because it did not receive assurances the route was safe.
A dog is seen in the middle of a street as Ukrainian army soldiers take part of a military sweep to search for possible remnants of Russian troops after their withdrawal from villages in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 1, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Ukrainian army soldier Dasha, 22, checks her phone after a military sweep to search for possible remnants of Russian troops after their withdrawal from villages in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 1, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Zelenskyy said he expected towns to receive airstrikes and shelling from afar and for eastern fighting to be intense.
Ukraine has denied responsibility for the Belgorod blast and Zelenskyy would not tell Fox News' Bret Baier if Ukraine was behind the attack in an interview on "Special Report."
"As protesters began to disperse, the invaders arrived in police vehicles, and began to force local residents into them," the post read. "A few minutes later, the city was rocked by massive explosions and shelling."
"Europe doesnt have the right to be silent about what is happening in our Mariupol," Zelenskyy said. "The whole world should respond to this humanitarian catastrophe."
Ukraines state nuclear agency, Energoatom, reported about the attacks on its official Telegram channel, posting an accompanying video clip that featured what appeared to be loud blasts and flying debris.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Saturday that Russian troops are creating a "catastrophic" situation for civilians by leaving mines around homes, abandoned equipment and the bodies of those killed.
Energoatom also claimed that Russian forces jammed phone and internet communications throughout Enerhodar, although the agencys claims could not be immediately verified.
There was no word Saturday on Friday's round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian negotiators.
About 100,000 people are believed to remain in the city and officials said around 2,000 made it out by themselves on Friday.
Ukraine and Western allies have reported mounting evidence of Russia withdrawing its forces from around Kyiv and sending troops to eastern Ukraine.
While several agreements have been made to allow residents to evacuate  with one reportedly set for "coming days"  they have previously been breached.
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, center, walks before a meeting with President of the European Parliament Roberta Metsola in Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 1, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
