Ukraine Has a Right to Democracy
20220201
https://editorials.voa.gov/a/ukraine-has-a-right-to-democracy/6422058.html
Moscow has sought to undermine Ukraines democratic institutions, interfered in Ukraines politics and elections, blocked energy and commerce to intimidate Ukraines leaders and pressure its citizens, used propaganda and disinformation to sow mistrust, and launched cyberattacks on the countrys critical infrastructure. The campaign to destabilize Ukraine has been relentless.
Nowhere in Ukraine are people free from Russias malign activities, said Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
On August 24, 1991, Ukraine declared its independence from the Soviet Union and began to forge its own future. Russia, however, refused to accept Ukraine as a sovereign state and has been chipping away at its territory, undermining its institutions, sabotaging or coopting its leaders, and attempting to dictate its foreign policy to block Ukraines sincere aspirations for greater integration with Europe and the West. In short, Russia has for years worked to cripple Ukraines ability to function as a sovereign democratic state.
In 2014, the people of Ukraine ousted President Viktor Yanukovych, who chose to scrap Ukraines planned signing of an Association Agreement with the European Union and instead turned toward Russia. Subsequently, Russia invaded and occupied Ukraines Crimean Peninsula. It also then attempted a takeover of Ukraines Luhansk and Donetsk Oblasts under the guise of a separatist uprising.
This is not only about a possible invasion and war. Its about whether Ukraine has a right to exist as a sovereign nation. Its about whether Ukraine has a right to be a democracy.
Russia justifies its actions by claiming that Ukraine somehow poses a threat to its security. This turns reality on its head. Whose troops are surrounding whom? Which country has claimed anothers territory through force? Which military is many times the size of the other? Which country has nuclear weapons? Ukraine isnt the aggressor here Ukraine is just trying to survive.
The governing principles of international peace and security  established in the wake of two world wars and a cold war, reject the right of one country to change the borders of another by force to dictate to another the policies it pursues or the choices it makes, including with whom to associate or to exert a sphere of influence that would subjugate sovereign neighbors to its will, said Secretary of State Blinken.
With one hundred thousand Russian soldiers amassed on Ukraines borders with Russia and with Russias close ally Belarus, Russia is poised to go even further, said Secretary Blinken.
