10 people killed waiting in bread line in Ukraine US embassy demands accountability
20220316
https://www.timesofisrael.com/10-people-killed-waiting-in-bread-line-in-ukraine-us-embassy-demands-accountability/
Khan on Friday urged parties to Ukraines conflict not to use heavy, high-explosive weapons in populated areas as the Russian military continued its bombardments of homes and civilian infrastructure.
Ukraine gained a complete victory in its case against Russia at the International Court of Justice, he wrote on Twitter. The ICJ ordered to immediately stop the invasion. The order is binding under international law. Russia must comply immediately. Ignoring the order will isolate Russia even further.
Moscow withdrew its signature from the Rome Statute in 2016, which means that the ICC will only be able to prosecute Russians if they are arrested on the territory of a state that respects its jurisdiction.
The prosecutor opened a war crimes investigation into the situation in Ukraine on March 3, after getting the green light from more than 40 ICC states.
Based in The Hague, the ICC opened its doors in 2002 to try individuals for genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and crimes of aggression in some cases.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Earlier in the day, drone footage emerged that allegedly showed Russian soldiers killing a Ukrainian civilian as he held his hands up in surrender on a road west of Kyiv last week.
On Wednesday the UNs highest court ordered Russia to stop hostilities in Ukraine, granting measures requested by Kyiv although many are skeptical that Russia will comply.
The US Embassy in Kyiv tweeted, Today, Russian forces shot and killed 10 people standing in line for bread in Chernihiv.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Khan also held face-to-face talks in the capital with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova.
It came as International Criminal Court chief prosecutor Karim Khan visited Ukraine Wednesday, where he held a video call with Zelensky, the court said.
A woman and child who were also in the car were led into the forest, ZDF reported, but the video did not show what happened to them. The station said it manage to track down the drone operator who recorded the video and he is a member of the Ukrainian territorial defenses who had been ordered to use the drone, a commercially available Mavic 3, to watch Russian tank activities. He said the car was towed away and burned.
Video published by German broadcaster ZDF and filmed on March 7, showed a car driving along the E40 European highway west of Kyiv. The vehicle was heading towards the capital, but as it approached a Russian tank at the side of the road, the driver quickly turned around before bringing the car to a stop.
Head of the regional administration, Vyacheslav Chaus, told Ukrainian television that the people were killed by a Russian shell in a bombardment of the city, CNN reported.
The Russian Federation shall immediately suspend the special military operations it commenced on 24 February 2022, the courts president, US judge Joan E. Donoghue, said. Countries that refuse to abide by court orders can be referred to the UN Security Council, where Russia holds veto power.
Ten people were killed by Russian fire Wednesday as they waited in line for bread in the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv, the US embassy in Kyiv said, demanding there be accountability for atrocity crimes.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Footage purportedly showing the aftermath of the incident was published by the Ukrainian website Public, the Daily Mail reported, and showed the bodies of ten people lying in the street.
???? Prosecutor KarimAAKhanQC was in Ukraine earlier today. In meeting w Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova, discussions focused on strengthening cooperation in support of the Office's independent investigations: This investigation requires cooperation with all actors.  pic.twitter.comOMXcPhXyzD
The man tried to evacuate from Kyiv by car, but was shot dead.UkraineWar Russia Russian UkraineRussiaWar Ukraine pic.twitter.comNcv4rtt3S6
Another person was seen being helped into a vehicle, although it was not clear what condition they were in.
The driver got out of the car and raised his hands in the air, but moments later was shot dead. Soldiers could then be seen dragging the body into nearby trees.
Two weeks ago, Ukraine asked the International Court of Justice  also known as the World Court  to intervene, arguing Russia violated the 1948 Genocide Convention by falsely accusing Ukraine of committing genocide and using that as a pretext for the ongoing invasion.
Such horrific attacks must stop. We are considering all available options to ensure accountability for any atrocity crimes in Ukraine, the embassy wrote.
WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT In Chernihiv Russian launched missile hit civilian people standing in line at the shop.Ukraine UkraineUnderAttack UkraineRussiaWar Putin PutinsWarCrimes pic.twitter.com3BnVdE289d
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
We agreed all efforts are needed to ensure international humanitarian law is respected and to protect the civilian population, Khan said in a statement.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Russian forces that invaded Ukraine last month have faced repeated accusations of war crimes as they shell cities and civilian areas.
Ukraine has not signed the Rome Statute, the ICCs founding treaty, but in 2014 it formally recognized the courts jurisdiction over crimes committed on its territory.
