100 grand and a trip to Disneyland Bribe Russian soldiers to defect
20220302
https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/russian-soldiers-need-to-vote-on-the-war/
Russian soldiers need to know that they have a different and better option to following Putins orders and that they will be given protection and a new life if they decide to vote with their feet and leave the conflict.
Sure, I am suggesting bribing kids to stop killing and leave their homes, but this is not a time to be proud or stand on ceremony.
In 1863 and 1864, the Confederacy was forced to divert scarce military resources to protect its rear. By the end of the Civil War, more than 200,000 former slaves fought for the Union and were a necessary force to end the war.
So, lets give the Russian military a choice. Go down in flames with Putin or have a new affluent life in the West.
On January 1, 1863, President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which freed Confederate States slaves and provided asylum guarantees for those who could defect to the Union. Lincoln immediately turned millions of slaves into potential insurgents behind enemy lines and converted them into a potent military force after they escaped to the North.
If given the choice of a better and different life, many soldiers, especially the teenage conscripts, will quickly abandon their posts. This is just a case of figuring out what package of money and protection will induce Russian soldiers to defect.
Russian soldiers who lay down their arms need to know that the West will guarantee their safety, embrace them, pay them, and help them immigrate to the EU or USA. Given the approximate 700 million people in the EU and USA, absorbing a few hundred thousand defecting soldiers has a meaningless cost.
Putins soft underbelly is the fact that he isnt the only Russian decision-maker, and he isnt risking his life on the battlefield. If his army refuses to fight, he cannot prevail.
And, since many of the soldiers are teenagers, an immediate bonus payment of $100,000 combined with a trip to Disneyland after all, every kid dreams of what he would do with a pile of cash at the Magic Kingdom  can only help.
We need to give Russian soldiers a choice and stop pretending Putin is the only Russian actor or decision-maker.
If the initial package of cash and benefits doesnt do the trick, the West can keep on making the offer richer and richer until mass defections take place.
The West should embrace Russian soldiers who want to defect by protecting them with a guarantee of asylum and Western education.
On the other hand, Russian soldiers need to know that if they dont take the offer they will be charged as war criminals and have no future.
It wont take many defections to stop the Russian military in its tracks. And it wont take much to undermine unit cohesion and the will of individual Russian soldiers to fight.
Historically, Russia has not been kind to its military after a loss. Putin will not protect them forever if only because Putin is mortal and will eventually die and the next regime may not look kindly on the war criminals who impoverished their nation.
My guess is many of the conscripts will carefully consider the cash, trip, asylum, and education. And, if it doesnt work, the West should sweeten the pot until Russian conscripts see a better life outside of Russia than inside it.
But we only need enough Russians to defect, not all Russians, in order to fatally undermine Putin and take down his criminal regime.
What would it take to give Russian soldiers a better option and a real choice?
Asylum and protection as tools to undermine a military machine from within is not a new idea and has worked in the past.
Soldiers need to know that the consequence of not taking the Wests offer is that they can never leave Russia and will be forever subject to Russian accountability. They need to understand that if they leave Russian territory they will be arrested, charged with war crimes, tried, and most likely imprisoned for the rest of their lives. And, within Russia they need to know that they will never work for a Western company, an export company, or be paid Western wages. War crime charges will doom ordinary soldiers to life inside Russia as international fugitives, which is a terrible and poverty-stricken alternative to living in the West.
I dont see Putin backing down as long as he has an army to command. As a result, the world needs to get a lot more creative if we want this war to end without a holocaust.
Many Russian soldiers are teenage conscripts, so in figuring out what to offer defecting soldiers we need to put ourselves into the shoes of a teenager who doesnt want to die and hasnt seen much of the world.
According to media reports, scores of soldiers are already abandoning their positions. Others are surrendering or sabotaging their equipment. These soldiers are taking an enormous risk and have no assurance that they will not be shot or imprisoned after the war by their own government.
And, we dont need to worry about the costs of this plan. Russia has hundreds of billions in foreign banks and the oligarchs have hundreds of billions of additional assets in the West. There is plenty of Russian money to pay Russian soldiers to stop murdering Ukrainians.
