A conference to address the crises of today
20220503
https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/a-conference-to-address-the-crises-of-today/
What do we do when we read about these stories above? How should we respond?
Lectures and presentations from politicians, diplomats, leading experts and notable academics will delve into such pressing issues as the war and crisis in Ukraine, sanctions against Russia, water purification and environmental sustainability.
Through research and ideas, and through technology and innovation, global problems can indeed be solved, and the World can be made a far better and brighter place.
Seven years ago I founded and began the work of the Boris Mints Institute for Strategic Policy Solutions to Global Challenges BMI at Tel Aviv University. The BMI is an authoritative academic research centre, which brings together outstanding academics and researchers from across many disciplines and several different universities. It has six labs dedicated to several areas of research.
A lack of water security and the global refugee crisis also count among the chronic issues plaguing our planet today.
The world seems awash with conflict and crisis. Russias continued war against Ukraine has, to a certain extent, destabilised Europe. It has damaged, displaced, and destroyed countless lives.
From my point of view, after the invasion of Russian troops in Ukraine, it is impossible to remain silent. Immediately after the beginning of Russias aggression on February 28, I publicly protested against the outbreak of hostilities in Ukraine.
This Mays conference will be our response to these distressing headlines of our times. The challenges facing our world can indeed be protested, delved into, discussed and, as BMI strives to achieve, solved.
Yet, our response to the worlds problems can be raised a level higher still. In addition to speaking about the problems, we also need to discuss the solutions.
In May, the BMI will stage its seventh annual conference, in person and streamed online, broadcasting to a global audience of listeners.
BMI Fellows from the Departments of Sociology and Anthropology, Conflict Resolution, and Public Policy will present their groundbreaking research on refugees and water treatment.
