After Putin highlights Russias nukes France retorts NATO is a nuclear alliance
20220225
https://www.timesofisrael.com/after-putin-highlights-russias-nukes-france-retorts-nato-is-a-nuclear-alliance/
Le Drian said France is also studying a series of requests for assistance from Ukraine, including military.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
According to NATO, the nuclear weapons held by members France, the UK and US are a core component of its overall capabilities for deterrence and defense.
They made us a list of military equipment, we are in the process of studying it, to try to respond as best as possible to their request as quickly as possible, he said.
Le Drian also meanwhile launched a bitter personal attack against Putin, describing him as a cynic and a dictator.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Vladimir Putin must also understand that the Atlantic Alliance is anuclearalliance, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told the TF1 channel.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Emphasizing that Russia was still one of the biggest nuclear powers in the world, Putin had launched the offensive on Ukraine early Thursday with a warning that a direct attack on Russia would lead to destruction.
PARIS  Russian President Vladimir Putin needs to understand that NATO is a nuclear alliance, the French foreign minister said Thursday, after the Kremlin chief boasted about Russias nuclear arsenal as he launched the attack on Ukraine.
