After pandemic Ukraine war becomes latest threat to global food security
20220310
https://www.timesofisrael.com/after-pandemic-ukraine-war-becomes-latest-threat-to-global-food-security/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
We werent going well even before the pandemic, the hunger was rising slowly and then the pandemic hit, said Gabriel Ferrero de Loma-Osorio, head of the Committee on World Food Security, a platform within the United Nations for the fight against hunger.
Reversing many years of progress, hunger in Asia-Pacific is on the rise again, said FAO director general Qu Dongyu. Inequalities also are increasing, particularly between rural and urban populations, while too often women and youth are being left behind.
At a conference organized by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization in Bangladesh, officials also discussed how to deal with the impact of climate change, adopt new technologies, and tackle diseases and pests that are affecting crops and livestock in Asia-Pacific, the worlds most populous region.
DHAKA, Bangladesh AP  The crisis in Ukraine and Russia, one of the worlds main sources of grain, fertilizers and energy, presents new challenges in securing food supplies on top of a prolonged pandemic, a UN official said Thursday.
On Thursday, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina highlighted her countrys achievement of self-sufficiency in several essential foods including rice and noted that agriculture remains the backbone of the economy of the South Asian nation of 160 million people. The delta nation is one of the worst victims of climate change with millions under threat of losing homes and land because of a rise in sea levels and salinity.
The pandemic has forced us to reconsider our priorities and approaches and has highlighted the importance of more sustainable and resilient societies, he said.
While there have not yet been global disruptions to wheat supplies, prices have surged 55 since a week before the invasion.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
He told The Associated Press that an estimated 161 million more people are suffering from hunger than before the pandemic, totaling 821 million. Russias invasion of Ukraine has had a heavy impact on the availability and prices of food, so unfortunately, we will need to be cautious, but we can see an important impact on food security globally.
Russia and Ukraine combined account for nearly a third of the worlds wheat and barley exports. Ukraine also is a major supplier of corn and the global leader in sunflower oil, used in food processing. The war could reduce food supplies just when prices are at their highest levels since 2011.
He said countries need to be careful in handling their food security. Bangladesh, for instance, imports almost half its wheat from Ukraine and Russia.
