At Hague Ukraine accuses Russia of planning genocide
20220227
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/at-hague-ukraine-accuses-russia-planning-genocide/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The case also asks the International Court of Justice, based in The Hague, to indicate provisional measures ordering Moscow to immediately suspend the military operations that were launched on February 24.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Ukraine emphatically denies that genocide happened in the eastern regions, and says it filed the case to establish that Russia has no lawful basis to take action in and against Ukraine for the purpose of preventing and punishing any purported genocide, the court said in a statement.
The court hears disputes between nations over matters of law, unlike the International Criminal Court, also based in The Hague, which holds individuals criminally responsible for offenses including war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukraine has launched a case against Russia at the United Nations highest court, accusing Moscow of planning genocide and asking for the court to intervene to halt the invasion and order Russia to pay reparations.
The case says Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine based on false claims of acts of genocide in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions of eastern Ukraine, and now is planning genocidal acts in Ukraine.
