Babi Yar Holocaust memorial council calls on ICC to condemn Putins genocide claims
20220301
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/babi-yar-holocaust-memorial-council-calls-on-icc-to-condemn-putins-genocide-claims/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
If President Putin wants to denounce genocide, he should reach out to those in the system of international justice, not begin a war against the people of Ukraine under false pretenses, it says.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Babi Yar, a ravine in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, is where nearly 34,000 Jews were killed within 48 hours in 1941 when the city was under Nazi occupation. The killing was carried out by SS troops along with local collaborators.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In a letter to ICC prosecutor Karim Khan, the Babi Yar Holocaust Memorials academic council says Putins claims that Ukraine committed genocide is a lie. Putin has sought to justify his invasion of Ukraine by claiming he is protecting residents in the Donbas region, where separatists have fought Ukrainian forces.
The memorial was inaugurated at a ceremony last October attended by the leaders of Ukraine, Israel and Germany. One of the leading donors to the project is Mikhail Fridman, a Ukrainian-born Russian oligarch. Fridman, the subject of recent EU sanctions against Russian oligarchs, has spoken out against the invasion of Ukraine.
The leadership of Ukraines main Holocaust memorial asks the International Criminal Court to speak out against Vladimir Putins false claims of a genocide in separatist regions in eastern Ukraine.
