Bennett played key role in mediating RussiaUkraine talks  Financial Times
20220316
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/bennett-played-key-role-in-mediating-russia-ukraine-talks-financial-times/
Israel is one of the few countries that maintains good working ties with both Ukraine and Russia. Bennett has defended his decision to not send arms or other military aid to Ukraine as necessary to maintain his status as a neutral broker.
A senior aide to Zelensky earlier dismissed the Financial Times reporting, saying the draft agreement only represented Russias stance.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Israeli officials have been careful in the past not to exaggerate Bennetts role and say he is not actively making proposals or pressuring the sides. Instead, they describe him as a channel of communication, passing messages from the sides in what they describe as a frank and realistic manner.
The British newspaper, which is reporting details on a 15-point proposal that it says the sides are nearing agreement on, says Bennett was the primary international mediator on the talks.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Bennett has held several phone calls with both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, and flew to Moscow to meet with Putin earlier this month.
The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were discussing diplomatic efforts, say there has been a positive shift in the rhetoric from both sides.
The Financial Times reports that Prime Minister Naftali Bennett played a central role in advancing talks between Ukraine and Russia.
