Biden talks Ukraine with European leaders ahead of NATO summit
20220321
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/biden-talks-ukraine-with-european-leaders-ahead-of-nato-summit/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The leaders discussed their serious concerns about Russias brutal tactics in Ukraine, including its attacks on civilians, the statement said.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki says Bidens diplomatic emphasis has been on unity and on his trip what the president is hoping to achieve is continued coordination.
One thing Biden will not be doing this week, the White House says, is making a risky, but hugely symbolic trip to Kyiv.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
They underscored theircontinuedsupportfor Ukraine, including by providing security assistance to the brave Ukrainians who are defending their country from Russian aggression, and humanitarian assistance to the millions of Ukrainians who have fled, it said.
Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, along with the Czech and Slovenian prime ministers, traveled to the embattled capital last week. But there are no plans to travel into Ukraine, Psaki says.
US President Joe Biden discussed Russias brutal war in Ukraine in a phone call with European allies Monday, ahead of attending NATO and EU summits, followed by a trip to Poland, the White House says.
Biden hosted the call, lasting just under one hour, with French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, to discuss their coordinated responses, according to a White House statement.
