Biden announces sanctions in response to beginning of Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220222
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/biden-announces-sanctions-in-response-to-beginning-of-russian-invasion-of-ukraine/
US President Joe Biden announces a first tranche of sanctions against Russia for what he calls the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Theres no question that Russia is the aggressor, so were clear-eyed about the challenges were facing, he says.
He warns that, If Russia goes further with this invasion we stand prepared to go further with sanctions.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Who in the Lords name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belongs to his neighbors? This is a flagrant violation of international law, Biden adds. None of us will be fooled by Putins claims of Ukrainian aggression.
He also says he has authorized additional movements of US forces to NATO allies in Baltics in response to Russias moves. Let me be clear, these are totally defensive moves on our part.
Im announcing the first tranche of sanctions to impose costs on Russia in response to their actions, he says.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Speaking from the White House, Biden says Russian President Vladimir Putin is setting up a rationale to go much further.
Were implementing sanctions on Russias sovereign debt. That means weve cut off Russias government from Western financing, Biden says. The measures also will target financial institutions and Russian elites.
The US leader says there is still time for diplomacy and to avert the worst-case scenario of a bloody full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine that will bring untold suffering to millions of people.
