Biden blasts Russia over nuclear threats amid Ukraine invasion
20220429
https://www.timesofisrael.com/biden-blasts-russia-over-nuclear-threats-amid-ukraine-invasion/
Explosions and air defense sirens in Belgorod, Simonyan wrote in a message on Telegram early Thursday. The Anglo-Saxons publicly encourage Ukraine to take their hostilities into Russian territory. And they give them means to carry that plan out.
In a residential part of Kyiv, AFP correspondents saw one building in flames and black smoke pouring into the air after the Russian strikes.
US President Joe Biden on Thursday blasted Moscow for idle comments on the possible use of nuclear weapons as he said he would ask Congress for a $33-billion package to further arm and support Ukraine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Speaking at a joint news conference with Zelensky later on Thursday, Guterres acknowledged that the UN Security Council failed to do everything in its power to prevent and end this war.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Meanwhile, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on his first visit to Ukraine since Russias February 24 invasion  now into its third month  toured Bucha and two other towns where Russian forces are accused of crimes.
Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian foreign ministry, warned the West against testing our patience, while speaking to reporters in Moscow, accusing the Western countries of openly calling on Ukraine to attack Russia using weapons received from NATO countries.
I heard the sound of two rockets and two explosions. It was a sound similar to a flying plane, and then two explosions with an interval of three to four seconds, Oleksandr Stroganov, 34, told AFP.
The cost of this fight is not cheap. But caving to aggression is going to be more costly if we allow it to happen, Biden said.
Meanwhile, Margarita Simonyan, editor-in-chief of the state-run Russian media outlets RT and Sputnik, warned that Western sanctions and the support of Ukraine could lead to the total annihilation of the country, according to a report in the Daily Beast.
Were not attacking Russia, Biden said in a statement from the White House. We are helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression.
The free world has the right to defend itself amid Putins aggression, Zelensky said, urging Western leaders to provide more weapons to Ukraine.
Solovyov at the same time agrees with her: "we will go to heaven, and they will simply die." pic.twitter.comouh4HA515e
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Margarita Simonyan offers a World War III and nuclear strike as an alternative to losing Ukraine.
Separately, Zelensky warned world leaders that Russias invasion of Ukraine is just the beginning, according to the Daily Mail, saying that Russian President Vladimir Putins goal is to disband Europe and carry out a global strike on democracy.
Meanwhile, explosions were reported across the country  in Polonne in the west, Chernihiv near the border with Belarus, and Fastiv, a large railway hub southwest of the capital.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
He decried war as an absurdity in the 21st century and called on the Kremlin to cooperate with an International Criminal Court investigation into the accusations.
In this image provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, right, and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres leave a news conference during their meeting in Kyiv, Ukraine on April 28, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
What choice do you leave us, idiots? The total annihilation of what remains of Ukraine? A nuclear strike?
During his visit, Russian strikes hit Kyiv, in the first such bombardment of Ukraines capital since mid-April, according to AFP correspondents and Zelenskys office.
