Biden urges war crimes trial against Putin over Bucha killings
20220404
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/biden-urges-war-crimes-trial-against-putin-over-bucha-killings/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
European Commission Presient Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, tweets that the European Union will send investigators to Ukraine to help the local prosecutor general document war crimes.
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general, Iryna Venediktova, said. Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of the capital.
WASHINGTON  US President Joe Biden calls for a war crimes trial against Russia President Vladimir Putin and says hell be seeking more sanctions after reported atrocities in Ukraine.
Bidens comments to reporters come after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky visited Bucha, one of the towns surrounding Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found. Zelensky called the Russian actions genocide and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
You saw what happened in Bucha, Biden says. He adds that Putin is a war criminal.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
