Biden calls for Putins removal For Gods sake this man cannot remain in power
20220326
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/biden-calls-for-putins-removal-for-gods-sake-this-man-cannot-remain-in-power/
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden calls for Russian leader Vladimir Putins removal, saying, For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Biden also uses a speech in Polands capital to make a vociferous defense of liberal democracy and the NATO military alliance, while also saying Europe must steel itself for a long fight against Russian aggression.
In this battle, we need to be clear-eyed. This battle will not be won in days, or months, either, Biden says.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
In what was billed by the White House as a major address, Biden speaks in front of the Royal Castle, one of Warsaws notable landmarks that was badly damaged during War II.
The crowd of about 1,000 includes some of the Ukrainian refugees who have fled for Poland and elsewhere in the midst of the brutal invasion.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
He borrows the words of Polish-born Pope John Paul II and cites anti-communist Polish dissident and former president, Lech Walesa, as he warns that Putins invasion of Ukraine threatens to bring decades of war.
