Biden Putin hold 62minute call as US warns Russia could soon invade Ukraine
20220212
https://www.timesofisrael.com/biden-putin-speak-by-phone-as-us-warns-russia-could-soon-invade-ukraine/
MOSCOW AP  With the risk of war looming larger, Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Joe Biden have concluded a call to discuss the crisis in Ukraine as the White House says intelligence shows Russia could invade on short notice.
Several NATO allies, including Britain, Canada, Norway and Denmark, also asked their citizens to leave Ukraine, as did non-NATO ally New Zealand.
US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said he told his Russian counterpart Saturday that further Russian aggression would be met with a resolute, massive and united trans-Atlantic response.
Before talking to Biden, Putin had a telephone call with French President Emmanuel Macron, who met with him in Moscow earlier in the week to try to resolve the biggest security crisis between Russia and the West since the Cold War. A Kremlin summary of the call suggested that little progress was made toward cooling down the tensions.
The hysteria of the White House is more indicative than ever, said Maria Zakharova, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman. The Anglo-Saxons need a war. At any cost. Provocations, misinformation and threats are a favorite method of solving their own problems.
The closely watched call between Biden and Putin began at 11:04 a.m. EST, the White House said. Biden conducted the call from Camp David.
Adding to the sense of crisis, the Pentagon ordered an additional 3,000 US troops to Poland to reassure allies.
Sullivans stark warning accelerated the projected time frame for a potential invasion, which many analysts had believed was unlikely until after the Winter Olympics in China end on February 20. Sullivan said the combination of a further Russian troop buildup on Ukraines borders and unspecified intelligence indicators have prompted the administration to warn that war could begin any time.
Russia has all the forces it needs to conduct a major military action, Sullivan said, adding that Russia could choose, in very short order, to commence a major military action against Ukraine. He said the scale of such an invasion could range from a limited incursion to a strike on Kyiv, the capital.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tried to project calm as he observed military exercises Saturday near Crimea, the peninsula that Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
A 2015 peace deal brokered by France and Germany helped halt large-scale battles, but regular skirmishes have continued, and efforts to reach a political settlement have stalled.
In addition to the more than 100,000 ground troops that US officials say Russia has assembled along Ukraines eastern and southern borders, the Russians have deployed missile, air, naval and special operations forces, as well as supplies to sustain a war. This week, Russia moved six amphibious assault ships into the Black Sea, augmenting its capability to land marines on the coast.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In a sign that American officials were getting ready for a worst-case scenario, the United States announced plans to evacuate its embassy in the Ukrainian capital, and Britain joined other European nations in urging its citizens to leave Ukraine.
UK troops that have been training the Ukrainian army also planned to leave the country. Germany, the Netherlands and Italy called on their citizens to leave as soon as possible.
Further US-Russia tensions arose on Saturday when the Defense Ministry summoned the US embassys military attache after it said the navy detected an American submarine in Russian waters near the Kuril Islands in the Pacific. The submarine declined orders to leave, but departed after the navy used unspecified appropriate means, the ministry said.
The US picked up intelligence that Russia is looking at Wednesday as a target date for an invasion, according to a US official familiar with the findings. The official, who was not authorized to speak publicly and did so only on condition of anonymity, would not say how definitive the intelligence was. The White House publicly underscored that the US does not know with certainty whether Putin is committed to invasion.
Putin also complained in the call that the United States and NATO have not responded satisfactorily to Russian demands that Ukraine be prohibited from joining the military alliance and that NATO pull back forces from Eastern Europe.
Biden has said the US military will not enter a war in Ukraine, but he has promised severe economic sanctions against Moscow, in concert with international allies.
Bidens national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, said Americans in Ukraine should not expect the US military to rescue them in the event that air and rail transportation is severed after a Russian invasion.
A State Department travel advisory on Saturday said most American staff at the Kyiv embassy have been ordered to leave and other US citizens should depart the country as well.
A Kremlin statement about the Putin-Macron call referred to provocative speculations about an allegedly planned Russian invasion of Ukraine. Russia has consistently denied that it plans military action against its neighbor.
Russia is demanding that the West keep former Soviet countries out of NATO. It also wants NATO to refrain from deploying weapons near its border and to roll back alliance forces from Eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
We cant pinpoint the day at this point, and we cant pinpoint the hour, but that is a very, very distinct possibility, Sullivan said.
Zakharova said her country had optimized staffing at its own embassy in Kyiv in response to concerns about possible military actions from the Ukrainian side.
US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and his Russian counterpart, Sergei Shoigu, also held telephone discussions on Saturday.
Biden planned once again to call on Putin to de-escalate and pull back the well over 100,000 Russian troops that have massed near Ukraines borders.
Biden has bolstered the US military presence in Europe as reassurance to allies on NATOs eastern flank. The 3,000 additional soldiers ordered to Poland come on top of 1,700 who are on their way there. The US Army also is shifting 1,000 soldiers from Germany to Romania, which like Poland shares a border with Ukraine.
Russia has massed well over 100,000 troops near the Ukraine border and has sent troops to exercises in neighboring Belarus, but denies that it intends to launch an offensive against Ukraine.
However, US officials said anew that Russias buildup of firepower near Ukraine has reached the point where it could invade on short notice.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Sullivan said Russian military action could start with missile and air attacks, followed by a ground offensive.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter conflict since 2014, when Ukraines Kremlin-friendly leader was driven from office by a popular uprising. Moscow responded by annexing the Crimean Peninsula and then backing a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine, where fighting has killed over 14,000 people.
