Bolshoi scraps performances by directors critical of Russias invasion of Ukraine
20220502
https://www.timesofisrael.com/bolshoi-scraps-performances-by-directors-critical-of-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/
Nureev is based on the life of Russian dance legend Rudolf Nureyev, and its use of onstage nudity and profane language outraged Russian conservatives.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Speaking to AFP in Berlin last month, Serebrennikov said he felt just horror, sadness, shame, pain about Russias military campaign in pro-Western Ukraine.
His supporters say the conviction was revenge for his criticism of authoritarianism and homophobia under President Vladimir Putin.
MOSCOW  Russias Bolshoi Theatre has announced it is canceling the performances directed by Kirill Serebrennikov and Timofey Kulyabin who have spoken out against Moscows military campaign in Ukraine.
Serebrennikov, 52, was allowed in March to leave Russia, where he had been found guilty in 2020 of embezzling funds at Moscows Gogol Centre theatre.
Kulyabin, 37, who is also believed to be now based in Europe, has spoken out against Putins decision to send troops to Ukraine.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
The Bolshoi performed Spartacus in early April, saying that proceeds would be used to help the families of Russian troops who died in Ukraine.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The prestigious theater also said that instead of Don Pasquale, a comic opera by Gaetano Donizetti directed by Timofey Kulyabin, audiences this week will see a production of Gioachino Rossinis The Barber of Seville.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Late Sunday, Russias top theater announced that instead of the three performances of Nureev, a ballet directed by Serebrennikov, the audiences this week will see a production of Aram Khachaturians ballet Spartacus.
The Bolshoi did not give any reason for the cancellations and spokeswoman Katerina Novikova told AFP on Monday that she had no official comment.
