Cyberattacks strike Ukrainian ministries as Russia assaults country
20220224
https://www.timesofisrael.com/cyberattacks-strike-ukrainian-ministries-as-russia-assaults-country/
The West blames Russias GRU for some of the most damaging cyberattacks on record, including a pair in 2015 and 2016 that briefly knocked out parts of Ukraines power grid and the NotPetya wiper virus of 2017, which caused more than $10 billion of damage globally by infecting companies that do business in Ukraine with malware seeded through a tax preparation software update.
Wednesdays DDoS attacks appeared less impactful than the earlier onslaught  with targeted sites soon reachable again  as emergency responders blunted them. Zhoras office, Ukraines information protection agency, said responders switched to a different DDoS protection service provider.
Word of the wiper follows a mid-January attack that Ukrainian officials blamed on Russia in which the defacement of some 70 government websites was used to mask intrusions into government networks in which at least two servers were damaged with wiper malware masquerading as ransomware.
Symantec Threat Intelligencedetected three organizations hit by the wiper malware  Ukrainian government contractors in Latvia and Lithuania and a financial institution in Ukraine, said Vikram Thakur, its technical director. Both countries are NATO members.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Cyberattacks have been a key tool of Russian aggression in Ukraine since before 2014, when the Kremlin annexed Crimea and hackers tried to thwart elections. They were also used against Estonia in 2007 and Georgia in 2008. Their intent can be to sow panic, confuse and distract.
With regards whether the malware was successful in its wiping capability, we assume that this indeed was the case and affected machines were wiped, said ESET research chief Jean-Ian Boutin. He would not name the targets but said they were large organizations.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Asked if the denial-of-service attacks were continuing Thursday morning, senior Ukrainian cyber defense official Victor Zhora did not answer. Are you serious? he texted. There are ballistic missiles here.
This is terrible. We need the world to stop it. Immediately, Zhora said of the offensive that Russian President Vladimir Putin announced in the pre-dawn hours.
BOSTON AP  The websites of Ukraines defense, foreign and interior ministries were unreachable or painfully slow to load Thursday morning after a punishing wave of distributed-denial-of-service attacks as Russia struck at its neighbor, with explosions shaking the capital of Kyiv and other major cities.
The attackers have gone after these targets without much caring for where they may be physically located, he said.
Officials have long expected cyberattacks to precede and accompany any Russian military incursion. The combination of DDoS attacks, which bombard websites with junk traffic to render them unreachable, and malware infections hewed to Russias playbook of wedding cyber operations with real-world aggression.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
In addition to DDoS attacks on Wednesday, cybersecurity researchers said unidentified attackers had infected hundreds of computers with destructive malware, some in neighboring Latvia and Lithuania.
All three had close affiliation with the government of Ukraine, said Thakur, saying Symantec believed the attacks were highly targeted. He said roughly 50 computers at the financial outfit were impacted, some with data wiped.
The wiper malware detected in Ukraine this year has so far been manually activated, as opposed to a worm like NotPetya, which can spread out of control across borders.
A spokesman for California-based Cloudflare, which provides services to some of the targeted sites, said Wednesday that DDoS attacks in Ukraine had been until then sporadic but on the rise in the past month but relatively modest compared to large DDoS attacks weve handled in the past.
The DDoS targets Wednesday included the defense and foreign ministries, the Council of Ministers and Privatbank, the countrys largest commercial bank. Many of the same sites were similarly knocked offline February 13-14 in DDoS attacks that the US and UK governments quickly blamed on Russias GRU military intelligence agency
Doug Madory, director of internet analysis at the network management firm Kentik Inc.,recorded two attack waveseach lasting more than an hour.
He guessed the Kremlin intended with the malware to send the message that they have compromised a significant amount of Ukrainian infrastructure and these are just little morsels to show how ubiquitous their penetration is.
Russia likely has been planning this for months, so it is hard to say how many organizations or agencies have been backdoored in preparation for these attacks, said Chester Wisniewski,principal research scientist at the cybersecurity firm Sophos.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Distributed-denial-of-service attacks are among the least impactful because they dont entail network intrusion. Such attacks barrage websites with junk traffic so they become unreachable.
ESET Research Labssaid it detected a previously unseen piece of data-wiping malware Wednesday on hundreds of machines in the country. It was not clear how many networks were affected.
