Economy Ministry says no trade disruption with Ukraine Russia but price hikes possible
20220228
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/economy-ministry-says-no-trade-disruption-with-ukraine-russia-but-price-hikes-possible/
The Israeli Ministry of Economy and Industry says there have been no disruptions so far to trade of goods and services with Ukraine and Russia, respectively, amid the ongoing Russian invasion of its western neighbor, but warns of possible price increases on raw agricultural imports to Israel such as wheat.
According to an assessment by Ron Malka, director-general of the Economy Ministry, a shortage of essential goods was not expected, but there may be price increases due to supply difficulties resulting from the fighting in Ukraine, the ministry said in a statement.
Agricultural and food imports from Russia to Israel were about 15 in 2021, according to the data.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Bilateral trade between Israel and Ukraine stood at nearly $800 million 2020, according to the Economy Ministry  some $650 million in imports from Ukraine and about $135 million in exports from Israel.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Both Russia and Ukraine are major exporters of wheat and other grains and the crisis threatens to disrupt the global supply chain. Russia is the worlds largest supplier of wheat and Ukraine accounts for around 12 percent of global supply, according to the US Department of Agriculture.
According SP Global Platts, Ukraine wheat exports between July 2021 and June 2022 were projected to reach 22.5 million metric tons. The US Department of Agriculture forecast the countrys wheat exports at 24.2 million for that period.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The government body says it is coordinating situational assessments on economic matters with the Manufacturers Association of Israel, the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce, Israeli companies operating in Ukraine, and other government ministries.
A majority of Ukrainian imports to Israel 67 are raw agricultural products like grains and food products, while most exports from Israel to Ukraine 62 are chemical and industrial products, according to data provided by the ministry citing the Central Bureau of Statistics.
