EU puts top Russian oligarchs on sanctions blacklist for supporting Putin regime
20220301
https://www.timesofisrael.com/eu-puts-top-russian-oligarchs-on-sanctions-blacklist-for-supporting-putin-regime/
In a statement released by Mordashovs metals and mining conglomerate Severstal, the tycoon said he had nothing to do with the politics around Ukraine.
Putin himself and his foreign minister had their assets frozen since the start of the invasion.
US State Department Spokesman Ned Price said the US sanctions list would not be identical with those from the EU and Britain, but that they will ultimately be symmetrical and mutually reinforcing.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
He told employees at his private equity firm LetterOne that war can never be the answer, and called for the bloodshed, becoming the first oligarch to publicly oppose the war.
What is happening in Ukraine is a tragedy for two fraternal nations, he said. I have never been close to politics.
Three men ranked in Russias 10 top richest by Forbes were also added: metals magnate Alexei Mordashov, tycoon Alisher Usmanov, and businessman and Putin friend Gennady Timchenko.
He added that the United States would also target their ability to send their children to boarding schools around the world.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
More wide-sweeping measures, including prohibiting transactions with Russias central bank, have helped send the Russian economy into turmoil.
Also on the list were Russias ministers for housing, tourism and transport, as well as senior military commanders accused of involvement in the Ukraine campaign.
Beyond the top businessmen, the EU said it was also targeting key propagandists, including Putin mouthpiece Dmitry Peskov, a central figure in what the West sees as the Kremlins disinformation machine.
These sanctions will expose the wealth of Putins elite. Those who enable the invasion of Ukraine will pay a price for their action, Borrell said.
Among the high-profile names were close Putin allies Igor Sechin, head of the state oil giant Rosneft, and Nikolay Tokarev, boss of pipeline mammoth Transneft.
Plus there was Sergei Roldugin, a cellist and long-time Putin confidante accused of shuffling at least $2 billion through banks and offshore companies as a part of Putins hidden financial network.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
With these additional sanctions, we are targeting all who are having a significant economic role in supporting Putins regime, and benefit financially from the system, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in a statement.
We are going to identify, we are going to hunt down and freeze the assets of Russian companies and oligarchs. We are going to hunt down their yachts. We are going to hunt down their mansions, any other ill-gotten gains that we can find in freeze under the law, Price said.
The European Union on Monday added top Kremlin-linked oligarchs and Russian President Vladimir Putins spokesman to its sanctions blacklist as part of its punishment for the Ukraine invasion.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The EU targeted some of the key moneymen accused of backing Putins regime in response to his ordering Russian forces into Russias pro-Western neighbor last week.
