Europe expels some 150 Russian diplomats as outrage over civilian killings grows
20220405
https://www.timesofisrael.com/europe-expels-some-150-russian-diplomats-as-outrage-over-civilian-killings-grows/
The unbearable images we have seen of the massacre of civilians in the town of Bucha after the withdrawal of the Russian army deeply outrage us, Jose Manuel Albares told reporters.
Also on Monday, Lithuania said it was expelling the Russian ambassador in response to Russias military aggression and what it called the horrific massacre in Bucha.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Tuesday that the mass expulsion of its diplomats was a shortsighted move.
Russia said on March 29 it was expelling 10 diplomats from Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in a tit-for-tat move.
The Danish government condemned what it called Russias brutality in Bucha, saying: Deliberate attacks against civilians are a war crime.
Moscow has rejected Western accusations that its forces were responsible, suggesting the images are fake or that the deaths occurred after they pulled out.
Italys foreign minister, Luigi Di Maio, said 30 Russian diplomats were being expelled for national security reasons in the context of the ongoing war.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
According to an AFP count, European Union countries have now expelled around 260 Russian diplomats since the invasion.
The expulsions  many for alleged spying  follow international condemnation of killings in the town of Bucha, near Kyiv, where dozens of bodies were discovered after Russian troops withdrew.
Narrowing down opportunities for diplomatic communication in such an unprecedentedly difficult crisis environment is a shortsighted move that will further complicate our communication, which is necessary to find a solution, he said.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged the world to enforce tough new sanctions on Moscow over the killings in Bucha, which he has described as war crimes and genocide.
A few hours later, Spains foreign minister announced its own expulsion of around 25 Russian diplomats.
But Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said diplomatic ties would remain with Moscow, noting that the Russian ambassador and embassy staff in Copenhagen were not being expelled.
And Denmark announced a similar move for 15 Russian intelligence officers accused of spying on its territory, something it said was unacceptable.
The expulsions come as the EU discusses a fifth round of sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine on February 24, with member states expected to sign off on it this week or next.
The Russian diplomats and staff represent a threat to the interest of the country and they will be expelled immediately, he told a news conference following a weekly cabinet meeting.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
ROME AFP  Italy, Spain and Denmark joined EU allies Tuesday in expelling Russian diplomats amid increasing outrage over the Ukraine conflict, with around 150 sent home in the last 48 hours.
The announcements follow similar moves by EU allies France, which on Monday expelled 35 Russian diplomats, and Germany, where officials said 40 diplomats had been sent home.
The Kremlin has denied responsibility for the corpses lying in the streets, some with their hands bound behind them.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
But newly released satellite photographs taken by Maxar Technologies in mid-March, before the Russian withdrawal, showed what appeared to be bodies in some of the same places they were later found by Ukrainian troops and seen by journalists.
Swedens foreign ministry said it was expelling three Russian diplomats who conducted illegal operations there.
