ExIsraeli diplomat on Russian state TV Moscow could bomb UK back to Stone Age
20220517
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ex-israeli-diplomat-on-russian-state-tv-moscow-could-bomb-uk-back-to-stone-age/
The British government and Prime Minister Boris Johnson have been among the strongest supporters of Ukraines efforts to resist the invasion launched by Russian President Vladimir Putin on February 24.
Zhuravlyov said that Russia could nuke Britain with the weapon  dubbed Satan 2 by Western analysts  in 200 seconds and obliterate Finland in just ten.
This truly unique weapon will strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces, reliably ensure the security of Russia from external threats and make those who, in the heat of aggressive rhetoric, try to threaten our country, think twice, he said.
Yaakov Kedmi, a Moscow-born former Israeli diplomat, warned on Tuesday that Russia possesses the capability of bombing the UK back to the Stone Age.
The Sarmat super-heavy intercontinental ballistic missile is designed to elude anti-missile defense systems with a short initial boost phase, giving enemy surveillance systems a tiny window to track it.
The Sarmat is among Russias next-generation missiles that Putin has called invincible, and which also include the Kinzhal and Avangard hypersonic missiles.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Kedmis comments were a retort to his two other fellow panel members, politician Aleksey Zhuravlyov and TV reporter Dmitry Kiselyov, who earlier in the broadcast called on Moscow to use its state-of-the-art Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Both Finland and its neighbor Sweden have announced this week that they will seek to join NATO, with Russias aggression in Ukraine prompting the two Nordic states to abandon their tradition of military nonalignment.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Kedmi dismissed the other two panel members suggestion as overkill, adding that the weapon was too good, too big, for Great Britain.
I congratulate you on the successful launch of the Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile, Putin told the army in televised remarks.
Putin said the missile, weighing more than 200 metric tons and able to transport multiple warheads, can hit any target on Earth.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
About 50 or 60 of Britains power stations will be gone in 10 minutes, Kedmi said, who has in recent years become a public pro-Kremlin cheerleader.And all of Britain will be back to the Stone Age.
Following the successful test launch of the Sarmat last month, Russian President Vladimir Putin said the weapon will make the Kremlins enemies think twice.
In an appearance on Russian state TV, Kedmi  who previously served as the head of Nativ, Israels liaison group with Jews in the former Soviet Union  suggested that Russia could deploy the hypersonic Zircon missile against the United Kingdom.
