Fate of Ukraine city Kherson unclear Mariupol encircled ahead of 2nd round of talks
20220303
https://www.timesofisrael.com/fate-of-ukraine-city-kherson-unclear-mariupol-encircled-ahead-of-2nd-round-of-talks/
In other developments, the UK Defense Ministry said Mariupol, a large city on the Azov Sea, was encircled by Russian forces.
The mayor said Kherson would maintain a strict 8 p.m.-to-6 a.m. curfew and restrict traffic into the city to food and medicine deliveries. The city will also require pedestrians to walk in groups no larger than two, obey commands to stop and not to provoke the troops.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with the head of Russias Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a big business lobby group, at the Kremlin in Moscow on March 2, 2022. Mikhail Klimentyev  SPUTNIK  AFP
He said the fighting is taking a toll on the morale of Russian soldiers, who go into grocery stores and try to find something to eat.
Russias long-telegraphed invasion has frequently appeared hamstrung by poor logistics, tactical blunders and fierce resistance from Ukraines underpowered and outgunned military  and from ever-swelling ranks of volunteer fighters.
Russian troops appeared to seize Kherson, the first major Ukrainian city to fall in a war that has drawn global outrage and ahead of ceasefire talks Thursday.
We are a people who in a week have destroyed the plans of the enemy, he said. They will have no peace here. They will have no food. They will have here not one quiet moment.
The advance on Kyiv has been rather not very organized and now theyre more or less stuck, military analyst Pavel Felgenhauer told the AP in Moscow.
The unfolding financial costs were underlined as ratings agencies Fitch and Moodys slashed Russias sovereign debt to junk status.
A statement from the general staff of Ukraines armed forces didnt address the strikes, saying only that Russian forces were regrouping and trying to reach the northern outskirts of the city.
Russian troops entered the Ukrainian city of Kherson, forcing their way into the council building, the mayor said, after a day of conflicting claims over whether Moscow had made the first major gain of a city in its eight-day-long invasion https:t.coc9vDXGXPm2 pic.twitter.comg0N7C2IxlP
The mayor of Kherson, Igor Kolykhaev, said Russian soldiers were in the city and came to the city administration building. He said he asked them not to shoot civilians and to allow crews to gather up the bodies from the streets.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Theres no real money to run to fight this war, he said, adding that if Putin and the military are unable to wrap up this campaign very swiftly and victoriously, theyre in a pickle.
Russias forces claimed to have taken complete control of Kherson, which would be the biggest city to fall in the invasion thus far. Britains Defense Ministry said that was possible, though not yet verified.
The UN office uses strict methodology and counts only confirmed casualties, and admits its figures are a vast undercount.
Our view is that Kherson is very much a contested city, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
In a videotaped address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on Ukrainians to keep up the resistance. He vowed that the invaders would have not one quiet moment and described Russian soldiers as confused children who have been used.
At least 227 civilians have been killed and another 525 wounded since the invasion began, according to the latest figures from the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Earlier, Ukraine said more than 2,000 civilians have died, a figure that could not be independently verified.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russian President Vladimir Putin now finds himself an international pariah, his country the subject of sanctions that sent the ruble into further freefall on currency markets Thursday.
With a column of Russian tanks and other vehicles apparently stalled for days outside the capital of Kyiv, fighting continued Thursday on multiple fronts across Ukraine.
Russias central bank  whose foreign reserves have been frozen in the West  imposed a 30 percent tax on all sales of hard currency, following a run on lenders by ordinary Russians.
The convoy, which earlier in the week had seemed poised to launch an assault on the capital, has been plagued with fuel and food shortages, the official said.
A woman holds a small girl at a border crossing, up as refugees flee a Russian invasion, in Medyka, Poland, March 3, 2022. Markus SchreiberAP
These are not warriors of a superpower, he said. These are confused children who have been used.
Ukraines military general staff said in a Facebook post that Russias forces had suffered some 9,000 casualties in the fighting. It did not clarify if that figure included both killed and wounded soldiers.
Huge explosion 'like a small nuke' hits Kyiv after fall of major city of Kherson to the Russians https:t.coZSdXo7PA04 pic.twitter.comYU0p0z7GMT
In an email, UN refugee agency spokesperson Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams told the AP that the refugee count surpassed 1 million as of midnight in central Europe, based on figures collected by national authorities.
The Ukrainian presidents office reported a powerful explosion Wednesday night between the Southern Railway Station and the Ibis hotel in Kyiv. Ukraines Defense Ministry is located near that area.
We cannot even take the wounded from the streets, from houses and apartments today, since the shelling does not stop, he was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
However, Ukraines military said Russian forces did not achieve the main goal of capturing Mariupol in its statement.
Scores of images have emerged of burned-out Russian tanks, the charred remains of transporters and of unarmed Ukrainians confronting bewildered occupying forces.
The flag flying over us is Ukrainian, he wrote. And for it to stay that way, these demands must be observed.
Overnight, Associated Press reporters in the capital Kyiv heard at least one explosion before videos started circulating of apparent strikes on the capital.
Shabia Mantoo, another spokesperson for the agency, said that at this rate the exodus from Ukraine could make it the source of the biggest refugee crisis this century.
The Ukrainian presidents office told the AP that it could not comment on the situation in Kherson while the fighting was still going on.
Felgenhauer said with the Russian economy already suffering, there could be a serious internal political crisis if Putin does not find a way to end the war quickly.
The EU Commission said it will give temporary residence permits to refugees fleeing the violence and allow them to study and work in the 27-nation bloc. The move would need the approval of member states, which have already expressed broad support.
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine portrayed invading Russian troops as directionless, even as Russia captured the city of Kherson.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
A senior US defense official earlier disputed the idea that the Russians controlled Kherson, a Black Sea shipbuilding city of 280,000.
A second round of talks aimed at ending the fighting was expected later Thursday in the Brest region of neighboring Belarus, which also borders Poland  though the two sides appeared to have little common ground.
Around Ukraine, others crowded into train stations, carrying children wrapped in blankets and dragging wheeled suitcases into new lives as refugees.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Meanwhile, the senior US defense official said an immense Russian column of hundreds of tanks and other vehicles appeared to be stalled roughly 25 kilometers 16 miles from Kyiv and had made no real progress in the last couple of days.
Russias Defense Ministry said it had knocked out a reserve broadcasting center in the Lysa Hora district, about 7 kilometers 4 miles south of the government headquarters. It said unspecified precision weapons were used, and that there were no casualties or damage to residential buildings.
We dont have any Ukrainian forces in the city, only civilians and people here who want to LIVE, he said in a statement later posted on Facebook.
The mass evacuation could be seen in Kharkiv, a city of about 1.5 million people where residents desperate to escape falling shells and bombs crowded the citys train station and pressed onto trains, not always knowing where they were headed.
Russia reported its military casualties for the first time in the war, saying nearly 500 of its troops have been killed and almost 1,600 wounded. Ukraine did not disclose its own military losses.
