For second day in a row Russia claims use of hypersonic missiles in Ukraine
20220320
https://www.timesofisrael.com/for-second-day-in-a-row-russia-claims-use-of-hypersonic-missiles-in-ukraine/
The Russian defense ministry also said it killed more than 100 members of Ukrainian special forces and foreign mercenaries when it targeted a training center in the town of Ovruch in northern Ukraine with sea-based missiles.
Kinzhal aviation missile systems with hypersonic ballistic missiles destroyed a large storage site for fuels and lubricants of the Ukrainian armed forces near the settlement of Kostyantynivka in the Mykolaiv region, the defense ministry said.
Russian analysts said the use Friday of the Kinzhal hypersonic missiles in Deliatyn, a village in the foothills of the Carpathian mountains, was the first combat use of such weapons in the world.
Russian forces fired the Kalibr missiles from the Black Sea to target a plant in the northern city of Nizhyn used to repair armored vehicles, the ministry said.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The Ukrainian armed forces confirmed to AFP on Saturday that the depot had been targeted but said they had no information of the type of missile.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
On Saturday, Russia said it had used the Kinzhal hypersonic missiles to destroy an underground missile and ammunition storage site in western Ukraine close to the border with NATO member Romania.
MOSCOW. Russia  Russia said Sunday it has again fired its newest Kinzhal hypersonic missiles in Ukraine, destroying a fuel storage site in the countrys south.
The Kinzhal Dagger hypersonic missiles were fired from airspace over Russian-controlled Crimea, the ministry said, adding that Kalibr cruise missiles launched from the Caspian Sea had also targeted the depot.
The ministry said the base had been used for the main supplies of fuel for Ukrainian armored vehicles in the countrys south.
The strike marked the second day in a row that Russia used the Kinzhal, a weapon capable of striking targets 2,000 kilometers 1,250 miles away at a speed 10 times the speed of sound.
The Russian defense ministry said that it also used long-range precision weapons against other facilities in Ukraine on Saturday evening and early Sunday.
