Germannewspaper hiresRussianjournalistwho protested Ukraine war on state TV
20220411
https://www.timesofisrael.com/german-newspaper-hires-russian-journalist-who-protested-ukraine-war-on-state-tv/
Ovsyannikova, an editor at Russias Channel One television, barged onto the set of its flagship Vremya Time evening news in March holding a poster reading No War in English.
BERLIN, Germany  German newspaper Die Welt said Monday it has hired Marina Ovsyannikova, the Russian journalist who protested against Moscows military action in Ukraine during a prime-time news broadcast on state TV.
Afterher protest she was detained and questioned for 14 hours before being released and ordered to pay a fine of 30,000 rubles $280.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ovsyannikova said Die Welt stands for what is being defended so vehemently by the courageous people on the ground in Ukraine right now: for freedom.
I see it as my task as ajournalistto stand up for this freedom, she said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
The case drew international attention and raised alarm over press freedom in Russia in the wake of President Vladimir Putins decision to send troops to into Ukraine.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Ulf Poschardt, editor-in-chief of Die Welt, praised Ovsyannikovas courage at a decisive moment and said she had defended the most important journalistic virtues  despite the threat of state repression.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ovsyannikova, 43, is now a freelance correspondent for Die Welt, reporting from Ukraine and Russia, among other places, the newspaper said in a statement.
She will write for the newspaper as well as being a regular contributor to its TV news channel, it said.
Ovsyannikova said she was quitting her job but did not accept an offer from President Emmanuel Macron of asylum in France, saying she wanted to stay in Russia.
