Hungary PM says EU sanctions on Russia wont include ban on oil imports
20220311
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/hungary-pm-says-eu-sanctions-on-russia-wont-include-ban-on-oil-imports/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
There will be no sanctions covering oil and gas, which means that Hungarys energy supply is guaranteed for the next period, Orban says.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Hungarys prime minister says that sanctions imposed against Russia by the European Union would not involve a ban on imports of Russian oil and gas.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In a video on his social media channels following a meeting of EU leaders in Versailles, France, Viktor Orban said it was possible that the war in Ukraine would drag on, but that the most important issue was settled in a way that was favorable to us.
But he has remained firm in insisting that the energy sector be left out of sanctions, arguing that such a move would damage EU countries more than Russia.
Last year, Hungary extended by 15 years a natural gas contract with Russian state-owned energy company Gazprom, and has entered into a 12 billion euro $13.6 billion Russian build-and-finance agreement to add two nuclear reactors to Hungarys only nuclear power plant.
Orban, widely considered to be the Kremlins closest ally in the EU, has supported the blocs sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, Hungarys neighbor.
