In call with Macron Putin says West must stop supplying Ukraine with arms
20220503
https://www.timesofisrael.com/in-call-with-macron-putin-says-west-must-stop-supplying-ukraine-with-arms/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Macron for his part, according to the Kremlin, said global food security was under threat due to the Ukraine conflict.
Macron is one of the few Western leaders to speak to Putin since Moscow moved troops into Ukraine on February 24, spending hours on telephone calls trying to negotiate a resolution to the conflict.
Putin linked the situation to Western sanctions against Russia and noted the importance of the unimpeded functioning of the global logistics and transport infrastructure, the Kremlin said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The Russian side is still open to dialogue, the Russian leader told Macron, according to the Kremlin readout.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The conflict has killed thousands of people and displaced more than 13 million, creating the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
Accusing Ukrainian forces of committing war crimes and claiming the EU was ignoring them, Putin told Macron the West could help stop these atrocities by putting relevant pressure on the Kyiv authorities, as well as halting the supply of weapons to Ukraine.
Putin also said Kyiv was not being consistent or ready for serious work on ending the conflict.
MOSCOW  Russian President Vladimir Putin told French counterpart Emmanuel Macron Tuesday the West must stop supplying weapons to Ukraine and accused Kyiv of not taking talks to end the conflict seriously, the Kremlin said.
