In call with Biden Xi pans Ukraine conflict without assigning blame to Russia
20220318
https://www.timesofisrael.com/in-call-with-biden-xi-pans-ukraine-conflict-without-assigning-blame-to-russia/
Xi and Putin met in early February, weeks before the invasion, with the Russian leader traveling to Beijing for the start of the Winter Olympics. During Putins visit, the two leaders issued a 5,000-word statement declaring limitless friendship.
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said he had no details about the ships passage through the strait, but added that I believe the carrier has its routine training schedule, and it should not be linked with the communication between Chinese and American leaders.
China on Friday also sought to highlight its calls for negotiations and donations of humanitarian aid, while accusing the US of provoking Russia and fueling the conflict by shipping arms to Ukraine.
Earlier this week, the US informed Asian and European allies that American intelligence had determined that China had signaled to Russia that it would be willing to provide both military support for the campaign in Ukraine and financial backing to help stave off the impact of severe sanctions imposed by the West.
We have seen how great the unity of the Ukrainian people is, and that means its strength, Fan Xianrong was quoted by Ukraines state news service Ukrinform as telling regional authorities in the western city of Lviv, where the Chinese Embassy has relocated to.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
WASHINGTON AP  Key figures for a war half a world away, US President Joe Biden and Chinas Xi Jinping spoke for nearly two hours on Friday as the White House looked to deter Beijing from providing military or economic assistance for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Ahead of the Rome talks, Sullivan said the US wouldnt abide China or any other country helping Russia workaround economy-jarring sanctions inflicted by the US and other allies since the Feb. 24 invasion.
Beijings leadership would like to be supportive of Russia but also recognizes how badly the Russian military action is going as an overmatched Ukrainian military has put up stiff resistance, according to a Western official familiar with current intelligence assessments.
Though seen as siding with Russia, China has also reached out to Ukraine, with its ambassador to the country on Monday quoted as saying: China is a friendly country for the Ukrainian people. As an ambassador, I can responsibly say that China will forever be a good force for Ukraine, both economically and politically.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Sullivan also said the administration determined China knew that Putin was planning something before the invasion of Ukraine, but the Chinese government may not have understood the full extent of what Putin had in mind.
The White House says China has been sending mixed messages about its support for Russia. There were initial signs that Chinese state-owned banks were pulling back from financing Russian activities, according to a senior Biden administration official who insisted on anonymity to discuss internal analyses. But there have also been public comments by Chinese officials who expressed support for Russia being a strategic partner.
White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan and senior Chinese foreign policy adviser Yang Jiechi met in Rome earlier this week for an intense, seven-hour talk about the Russian invasion and other issues.
Chinas Foreign Ministry was the first to issue a readout of the video conversation, deploring conflict and confrontation as not in anyones interest, without assigning any blame to Russia.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday reiterated that the Biden administration remains concerned that China is considering providing military equipment to Russia. He said Biden would make clear to Xi that China will bear responsibility for any actions it takes to support Russias aggression, and we will not hesitate to impose costs.
Ahead of the call, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Biden would question Xi about Beijings rhetorical support of Putin and an absence of denunciation of Russias invasion.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The national armys intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems are in complete possession of the movements of Chinese ships in the sea and planes in the airspace around the Taiwan Strait to safeguard national security, the ministry said in a statement.
Any conflict over the self-governing island democracy stands to involve the US, which is legally obligated to ensure Taiwan can defend itself and treats threats to the island as matters of grave concern.
In an attempt to show international support for Chinas position, state broadcaster CCTV said Xi discussed Ukraine in phone calls with South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen, adding that the leaders views were extremely close.
In a reminder of Chinas threat to assert its claim to Taiwan by force, the Chinese aircraft carrier Shandong sailed through the Taiwan Strait on Friday, just hours before the Biden-Xi call, Taiwans Defense Ministry said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The US-China relationship, long fraught, has only become more strained since the start of Bidens presidency. Biden has repeatedly criticized China for military provocations against Taiwan, human rights abuses against ethnic minorities and efforts to squelch pro-democracy advocates in Hong Kong.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Chunying Hua pushed back, calling Bidens administrations suggestions that China risks falling on the wrong side of history in the conflict overbearing.
Planning for the call had been in the works since Biden and Xi held a virtual summit in November, but differences between Washington and Beijing over Russian President Vladimir Putins prosecution of his three-week-old war against Ukraine were expected to be at the center of the call.
In the days after Putin deployed Russian forces in Ukraine, Xis government tried to distance itself from Russias offensive but avoided criticizing Moscow. At other moments, Beijings actions have been provocative and have included amplifying unverified Russian claims that Ukraine ran chemical and biological weapons labs with US support.
The official, who was not authorized to comment and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Beijing is weighing the potential reputational blowback of being associated with the Russian camp. The Chinese response to Russias request for help is in the process of being formulated, the official added.
