In latest ultimatum Russia urges Ukrainian troops to lay down arms immediately
20220419
https://www.timesofisrael.com/in-latest-ultimatum-russia-urges-ukrainian-troops-to-lay-down-arms-immediately/
A Russian Orthodox Church priest and a Russian Navy veteran attend a memorial event near the Russian Navy 300th Birthday Monument in Artillery Bay for the flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet Missile Cruiser Moskva in Sevastopol, Crimea, on April 15, 2022. The Russian Defense Ministry said the vessel sank in a storm while being towed to a port. AP Photo
Asked to comment on the situation, Russian President Vladimir Putins spokesman said Tuesday the Kremlin was not at liberty to reveal any details.
The flagship of Russias Black Sea Fleet sank last week after an explosion and fire that Ukraine said was caused by a successful missile strike and Russia said was the result of exploding munitions.
Around 100 men were wounded while the precise number of missing is unknown, the publication said.
Several families have said on social media or in statements to independent Russian or foreign press that they cannot find their children who were serving on the Moskva.
Some 500 people were on board when the Moskva was hit, Meduza said, citing the source.
Basurin also rejected the idea that civilians may still be trapped in the industrial zone.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
We once again call on the Kyiv authorities to show reason and give the corresponding orders to fighters to cease their senseless resistance, the Russian defense ministry said in a statement.
All communication is only through the defense ministry, spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. All information regarding this is issued by the defense ministry and here we are not authorized to release anything.
The port offers a land bridge between Moscow-controlled parts of eastern Ukraine and the Kremlin-annexed peninsula of Crimea.
On Monday, Shkrebets said that he had been in touch with three more families whose conscripted sons had also gone missing after the sinking.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
A conscript who was not supposed to take part in hostilities is listed as missing, he said in a post on VKontakte, Russias largest social network.
Meanwhile, the Kremlin refused on Tuesday to reveal any details about casualties suffered from the sinking of Russias guided-missile cruiser Moskva, as parents called for the truth about their missing children.
The Russian Federation is really helping us with this, providing aerial and artillery support, Russian news agencies quoted Basurin as saying.
MOSCOW, Russia  Russia on Tuesday called on Ukrainian forces to immediately lay down arms and issued a new ultimatum for the defenders of the besieged port city of Mariupol to give up.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
But Donetsk rebel commander Eduard Basurin said separatist shock troops had already launched an assault on the plant.
Russian authorities said the crew had been evacuated from the warship  which is able to carry up to 680 sailors  but gave no other details.
After the Moskva sank, parents and other family members of sailors who served aboard  including conscripts  took to social media, saying their children had gone missing and that they needed answers.
He said that after he tried to learn more about the tragedy, the commander of the cruiser and his deputy had gone incommunicado.
We are taking measures to restore peaceful life, he said in a televised meeting with Russian military commanders.
But Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu confirmed that his forces were gradually implementing our plan to liberate eastern Ukraine.
Some of the heaviest fighting of the Russian campaign has focused around the strategic Sea of Azov port city of Mariupol.
The Russian armed forces once again offer the nationalist battalions and foreign mercenaries a chance to stop all military activity and to lay down their arms, starting at noon, the Russian ministry said.
Dmitry Shkrebets said that his conscript son Yegor was a cook on the ship and was now listed as missing in action.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
We need written answers to our questions about the location of our children, Shkrebets said.
Meduza, an independent Russian-language news website, citing a source close to the Black Sea command, said 37 members of the Moskvas crew had died.
This is the Russian Flagship Moskva before she sank.  It's impossible to fully assess the situation aboard based on one picture but marine salvage masters must make assumptions based on little information. As a ship captain and ship fire author here's what appears to be likely???? pic.twitter.compUjqo4j3Bs
The Russian defense ministrys warning came after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced late on Monday the start of a new offensive by Moscow that is focused on the east of the former Soviet state.
But, understanding that they will not get such instructions and orders from the Kyiv authorities, we call on the fighters to voluntarily take this decision and to lay down their arms.
The Russian defense ministry said Ukrainian forces still holed up inside the devastated citys main metallurgical plant were facing a catastrophic situation.
