In potential thaw amid Ukraine war US holds talks with Venezuela over energy supplies
20220308
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/in-potential-thaw-amid-ukraine-war-us-holds-talks-with-venezuela-over-energy-supplies/
Maduro confirmed the meeting in a televised appearance, describing it as respectful, cordial and diplomatic without going into detail about the issues addressed.
WASHINGTON  The White House says a US delegation held weekend talks in Venezuela with the government of President Nicolas Maduro that included a discussion of energy supplies  as Washington looks for ways to reduce its imports of Russian oil.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Maduro, with whose regime the United States broke off relations in 2019, has been among the few international figures to assure Russian President Vladimir Putin of his strong support in the wake of the invasion.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
It seemed very important to me to be able, face to face, to discuss topics of maximum interest to Venezuela, he says.
Venezuelas opposition also says it met with the high-level US delegation, whose trip to Caracas  reported by multiple US media  came as Washington seeks to isolate Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
We did it in the presidential office, he says. We had almost two hours talking.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
As it relates to Venezuela, the purpose of the trip that was taken by administration officials was to discuss a range of issues including certainly energy, energy security, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki tells reporters.
