In rare denial Lavrov rejects rumors that Putin is seriously ill
20220529
https://www.timesofisrael.com/in-rare-denial-lavrov-rejects-rumors-putin-is-ill/
Answering a question from Frances broadcaster TF1, Russias top diplomat said: I dont think that sane people can see in this person signs of some kind of illness or ailment.
You can watch him on screens, read and listen to his speeches, Lavrov said in comments released by the Russian foreign ministry.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Putin, who has been in power in Russia for more than two decades, sent troops to Ukraine on February 24, sending shock waves around the world.
Moscows offensive has killed thousands of people, sparked the biggest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II and led to unprecedented Western sanctions against Moscow.
But reports have swirled overseas that Putin is seriously ill, with several reports saying he was suffering from blood cancer.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Lavrov said that Putin, who will turn 70 in October, appeared in public every day.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
MOSCOW  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Sunday denied speculation that President Vladimir Putin was ill, saying there were no signs pointing to any ailment.
Putins health and private life are taboo subjects in Russia, and are almost never discussed in public.
