Intense shelling along Ukraine dividing line as Belarus says Russian forces to stay
20220220
https://www.timesofisrael.com/intense-shelling-along-ukraine-dividing-line-as-belarus-says-russian-forces-to-stay/
Separatist leaders in eastern Ukraine on Saturday ordered a full military mobilization and sent more civilians to Russia, which has issued about 700,000 passports to residents of the rebel-held territories. Claims that Russian citizens are being endangered might be used as justification for military action.
One thing is certain: if there is further military aggression, we will react with massive sanctions, he said.
It will also be seen as a rebuff to efforts by leaders like Macron and Germanys Chancellor Olaf Scholz to urge their Russian counterpart to pull back from the brink of war.
In new signs of fears that a war could start within days, Germany and Austria told their citizens to leave Ukraine. German air carrier Lufthansa canceled flights to the capital, Kyiv, and to Odessa, a Black Sea port that could be a key target in an invasion.
But, as the day arrived for the operation to end, the Belarus defense ministry said Putin and Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko had decided to continue inspections, citing increased military activity on their shared borders and an alleged escalation in east Ukraine.
The announcement came as French President Emmanuel Macron called Russias Vladimir Putin for talks the Elysee described as the last possible and necessary efforts to avoid a major conflict in Ukraine.
Right now, we dont respond to their fire because the soldier started to explain before being interrupted by the sound of an incoming shell. Oh! They are shooting at us now. They are aiming at the command post.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Western leaders warned that Russia was poised to attack its neighbor, which is surrounded on three sides by about 150,000 Russian soldiers, warplanes and equipment.
Immediate worries focused on eastern Ukraine, where Ukrainian forces have been fighting the pro-Russia rebels since 2014 in a conflict that has killed some 14,000 people.
The move will be seen as a further tightening of the screws on Ukraine, already facing increased shelling from Russian-backed separatist rebels and a force of what Western capitals say is more than 150,000 Russian personnel on its borders.
A top European Union official, Charles Michel, said Sunday that the big question remains: does the Kremlin want dialogue?
The United States and many European countries have alleged for months that Russia is trying to create pretexts to invade. They have threatened massive, immediate sanctions if it does.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Sporadic violence has broken out for years along the line separating Ukrainian forces from the Russia-backed separatists, but the spike seen in recent days is orders of magnitude higher than anything recently recorded by international monitors: nearly 1,500 explosions recorded in 24 hours.
KYIV, Ukraine  Hundreds of artillery shells exploded along the contact line between Ukrainian soldiers and Russia-backed separatists, and thousands of people evacuated eastern Ukraine over the weekend further increasing fears Sunday that the volatile region could see a Russian invasion.
Minsk announced Sunday that the Russian military exercises in Belarus will continue, leaving Moscow with a large force near the northern Ukraine border.
We cannot forever offer an olive branch while Russia conducts missile tests and continues to amass troops, Michel, the president of the European Council, said at the Munich Security Conference.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
NATOs liaison office in Kyiv said it was relocating staff to Brussels and to the western Ukraine city of Lviv.
Ukraines military said two of its soldiers died in firing from the separatist side on Saturday.
Russia held nuclear drills Saturday in neighboring Belarus and has ongoing naval drills off the coast in the Black Sea.
Moscow had previously said the 30,000 troops it has in Belarus were simply carrying out readiness drills with its ally, which would be finished by February 20, allowing the Russians to head back to their bases.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Elsewhere on the front lines, Ukrainian soldiers said they were under orders not to return fire. Zahar Leshushun, peering into the distance with a periscope, had followed the news all day from a trench where he is posted near the town of Zolote.
US President Joe Biden said late Friday that based on the latest American intelligence, he was now convinced that Putin has decided to invade Ukraine in the coming days and assault the capital.
