Iran adjusting stance after Russias new demands at nuclear talks
20220307
https://www.timesofisrael.com/iran-adjusting-stance-after-russias-new-demands-at-nuclear-talks/
TEHRAN, Iran AP  A top Iranian official said Monday that his country is seeking creative ways to restore its nuclear deal with world powers after Russias foreign minister linked sanctions on Moscow over its war on Ukraine to the ongoing negotiations.
Meanwhile, the state-owned, English-language Tehran Times newspaper on Monday published an article suggesting the draft nuclear deal in Vienna would allow Iran to keep its advanced centrifuges and nuclear materials inside the country.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Getting out of the deal was one of the worst mistakes thats been made in recent years. It let the entire Iranian nuclear program that we put in a box out of the box, Blinken told CBS Face the Nation talk show. And so if theres a way of getting back to reimplementing that deal effectively, its in our interest to do it and were working on that as we speak. Its also in Russias interest.
Vienna participants act  react based on interests and its understandable, Shamkhani wrote. Our interactions  are also solely driven by our peoples interests. Thus, were assessing new elements that bear on the negotiations and will accordingly seek creative ways to expedite a solution.
Its a form of inherent guarantee to make sure that its nuclear program is fully reversible if the US reneged on its commitments again, the newspaper said, without providing a source for the information.
As of February 19, the IAEA says Irans stockpile of all enriched uranium was nearly 3200 kilograms 7,055 pounds. Some has been enriched up to 60 purity  a short technical step from weapons-grade levels of 90.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The 2015 nuclear deal saw Iran put advanced centrifuges into storage under the watch of the International Atomic Energy Agency, while keeping its enrichment at 3.67 purity and its stockpile at only 300 kilograms 661 pounds of uranium.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
But Lavrov on Saturday said he wanted guarantees at least at the level of the secretary of state that the US sanctions would not affect Moscows relationship with Tehran. That threw into question the months of negotiations held so far on restoring the 2015 deal, which saw Iran agree to drastically limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions.
The tweet by Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of Irans powerful Supreme National Security Council, offers the first high-level acknowledgment of the demands of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
In recent days, negotiators on all sides in Vienna had signaled that a potential deal was close as the head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog agreed to a timetable with Iran for it to disclose answers to long-standing questions it had about Tehrans program.
On Sunday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called Lavrovs demand irrelevant as the nuclear deal and sanctions on Moscow over the Ukraine war were totally different. The US under then-president Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew from the accord in 2018, setting off years of tensions and attacks across the Mideast.
