Islamic State claims deadly Hadera terror attack 2 Border Police officers killed
20220327
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog-march-27-2022/
This Israeli mobilization aims to cover up its actions of settlement and annexation and prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state, the PA Foreign Ministry says.
Administrative detention enables authorities to detain people for extended periods of time without leveling formal charges against them, in a practice decried by critics as undemocratic and abusive, but defended by the security establishment as a necessary measure in cases where revealing the evidence would harm national security.
Among those Gantz is speaking with are IDF Chief of Staff Aviv Kohavi, Shin Bet head Ronen Bar, Israel Police Commissioner Yaakov Shabtai, and Military Intelligence commander Aharon Haliva.
The state news agency Ukrinform reports that the law calls for potential prison terms of three to eight years for violations.
Of those who have left, 2.2 million have fled for neighboring Poland, while more than half a million have made it to Romania. Nearly 300,000 have gone to Russia.
Usually the prime minister uses the term Judea and Samaria both in Hebrew and English. This was an accidental remark and no special significance should be attributed to it, his office says in a statement.
He also reiterates a call for planes while urging allies to supply Ukraine with more weapons.
The Joint List of predominantly Arab political factions denounces the deadly shooting attack in Hadera as a shocking crime.
The Bahraini, Egyptian, and Emirati foreign ministers have arrived for the six-way summit in the Negev. Moroccos Nasser Bourita is expected to arrive at the summit at 9 p.m.
Foreign Minister Yair Lapid greets his Bahraini counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al-Zayani as he arrives at the Kedma hotel in Sde Boker, where the Negev Summit is being held.
The Chernobyl plant was taken by the Russian army on February 24 on the same day that Moscow launched its invasion ofUkraine.
Health Ministry Director-General Nachman Ash says that while the number of new virus cases is increasing, similar increases are not being seen in the number of patients in serious condition, showing that the new strain of the Omicron appears to cause no more serious disease than the original variant.
As in any case, its up to the people of the country in question. Its up to the Russians, he says.
We also share and are united in addressing the challenges posed by Iran, including its nuclear program. There is no daylight between us on the fundamental proposition that Iran must not be allowed to acquired a nuclear weapon.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine says that a second round of conflict talks between negotiators from Kyiv and Moscow will start in Turkey tomorrow, just over one month into Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The jet was flying between the cities of Kunming and Guangzhou on Monday when it nosedived into a mountainside with 132 people on board, all of whom were killed.
Two Israelis wounded in a suspected terror shooting in the northern city of Hadera have been declared dead, according to the Zaka emergency service.
Its a direct result of the Abraham Accords we brought, Netanyahu says in an English-language video statement, referring to the US-brokered normalization deals reached in 2020 when he was prime minister. The strengthening of the Abraham Accords is a good thing for peace, its good for Israel.
Lapid again condemns the Russian invasion by name, as he has since the first day of the war.
Le Drian says the world is at a tipping point, as the war continues to spiral, adding, This is a crisis that affects us all.
Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry has landed at Nevatim Air Base in southern Israel ahead of the Negev Summit.
Le Drian says French President Emmanuel Macron is trying to avert the worst in Ukraine through talks with both the Ukrainian and Russian presidents. A ceasefire remains the most pressing task, he adds, so that parties can move onto thornier topics, such as Ukraines security guarantees and a possible neutral military status.
Israel has seen an increase in the transmission rate and new daily cases in recent days, but hospitalizations of patients in serious condition are holding steady.
Security officials believe the two terrorists who killed two in Hadera tonight are affiliated with the Islamic State, according to Hebrew-language media reports.
We commend the valor and courage of the perpetrators of this heroic operation, which comes as retaliation for the blood of the martyrs, and in response to the aggression and terror of the occupation, Hamas says in a statement.
Arab Israeli singer Valerie Hamati will sing Hallelujah in Arabic, English, and Hebrew to open tomorrows talks.
Turning to the Iranian threat, Bennett says, In the Middle East today, there are those who create violence and backwardness, and there are those pushing cooperation, economic development, and cooperation.
Maksym Kozytskyy says police found the man had recorded a rocket flying toward the target and striking it.
Israel has so far only provided Kyiv with humanitarian aid, as the Jewish state tries to walk a tightrope to maintain good relations with both Ukraine and Russia.
Israeli Air Force jets have landed in Greece to participate in a major international aerial exercise, simulating operations against air defense systems and large airstrikes, the military says.
According to the network, Blinken also stressed that the United States would not return to the nuclear deal at any cost.
The latter was found on Wednesday and sent to Beijing for analysis, which is expected to take several more days.
The regional architecture will deal with threats by air, sea, and piracy, the official says at a briefing.
The second black box from China Eastern flight MU5735 was recovered on March 27, Xinhua news agency reports.
Auchan CEO Yves Claude this week defended the companys decision to remain in Russia citing the need to keep staff employed.
Former US president Donald Trump abandoned the nuclear deal in 2018 and re-imposed crushing sanctions. Iran gradually publicly breached the agreement with a massive expansion of its nuclear work.
PARIS  French President Emmanuel Macron warns against verbal escalation with Moscow, after US President Joe Biden called Russian leader Vladimir Putin a butcher over his invasion of Ukraine.
Ibrahim was arrested in 2016 by Turkish police after trying to join the Islamic State jihadist group in Syria.
Six people wounded in the Hadera terrorism attack are being treated in the hospital, police say. Two people were killed by the terrorists, who were also killed.
Deal or no deal, we will continue to work together and with other partners to counter Irans destabilizing behavior in the region, he says.
Bennett visited Egypt last week for the first-ever trilateral summit with Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi and UAE Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan  another development likely made possible by the Abraham Accords.
All the foreign ministers denounced the terror attack and asked to send condolences to the families and wishes for the recovery of the wounded, Lapid says in a statement.
Another moral lapse by the government, says Yigal Dilmoni, the CEO of the Yesha Council settlements umbrella group.
There is no immediate readout from the State Department on what was discussed during the meeting.
He asks for one percent of NATO aircraft and tanks, echoing a plea he has made before.
This is abominable Islamic State-style terror that does not reflect Arab society, whose members seek to live with dignity and according to the rule of law, says party chief Mansour Abbas.
Government ministers vote to approve the establishment of five new communities in the Negev during todays cabinet meeting.
Apparently, job losses in Russia are more important than the loss of life in Ukraine. If Auchan ignores 139 Ukrainian children murdered during this month of Russian invasion, let us ignore Auchan and all their products, he writes on Twitter.
Speaking in Warsaw yesterday, Biden sparked controversy when he called the Russian leader a butcher and added: For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power.
During the cabinet meeting, Justice Minister Gideon Saar reportedly traded barbs with Environmental Protection Minister Tamar Zandberg, who voted against the proposal.
Israel and the United States will continue to work together to prevent a nuclear Iran, Lapid pledges.
LVIV, Ukraine AP  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky angrily warns Moscow that it is sowing a deep hatred for Russia among his people, as constant artillery barrages and aerial bombings are reducing cities to rubble, killing civilians and driving others into shelters, leaving them to scrounge for food and water to survive.
The official adds that the meetings so far have been very warm including embraces and friendly conversation.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
We condemn todays terrorist attack in Hadera, Israel. Such senseless acts of violence and murder have no place in society, tweets Blinken, who is visiting Israel.
The plane was equipped with two flight recorders: one in the rear passenger cabin tracking flight data, and the other a cockpit voice recorder.
Hila Avisror, one of two people wounded in the deadly Beersheba terror attack last week, has been released from Soroka Medical Center, the hospital says.
Blinken also reiterates US support for a two-state solution and welcomes meetings between Israeli ministers and top Palestinian Authority officials, including Defense Minister Benny Gantz.
The Israel Defense Forces is bolstering troops in the West Bank and seam zone area, with four additional battalions, the military announces.
Abukarat, a resident of Netanya, joined the force 6 months ago and is survived by her parents and a brother, the statement says.
We are fully committed to expanding cooperation through the Abraham Accords, says Blinken, ahead of todays Negev Summit with foreign ministers from Arab countries.
The Israel Defense Forces says its delegation includes F-16 fighter jets and Gulfstream G550 surveillance planes.
Kyrylo Budanov says in remarks released today by the defense ministry that Russian President Vladimir Putin has realized he cant swallow the entire country and would likely try to split the country under the Korean scenario. Thats a reference to the decades-old division between North and South Korea.
Defense Minister Benny Gantz says Israeli security forces are spread out and on alert throughout the country following tonights deadly terror attack in the city of Hadera, in which two people were killed and several others were wounded.
Rockets hit an oil storage facility and an unspecified industrial facility, wounding at least five people. A thick plume of smoke and towering flames could be seen on Lvivs outskirts hours after the attacks.
Fomichev posted a video on Facebook saying that at least three people had died, without elaborating on what had happened.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Israel last night and arrived in Jerusalem, where he will meet with Prime Minister Naftali Bennett.
The focus of the summit will be on regional threats, challenges, and opportunities. Among the issues expected to be at the center of the meetings are the Iran nuclear talks in Vienna, and the Russia-Ukraine war.
We stand with our Israeli partners and send our condolences to the families of the victims, he says.
Blinken says the summit would have been unimaginable just a few years ago. What were seeing is normalization becoming the new normal for this region and I think its going to attract more and more countries as they see the benefits of these partnerships among so many of the leading countries of the region.
Leaving would be imaginable from an economic point of view, but not from a human point of view, he told French newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche.
The official adds that there will be a visit to the grave of Israels first prime minister, David Ben Gurion, but does not specify whether all the visiting Arab ministers will participate.
Kuleba calls for a boycott of the retail group as well as French DIY retailer Leroy Merlin and sporting chain Decathlon, all of which operate under the Association Familiale Mulliez.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says Russias President Vladimir Putins position is up to the Russians, playing down President Joe Bidens comments that suggested a desire for regime change in Moscow.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has signed a law restricting the reporting on troop and military equipment movement, unless such information has been announced or approved by the military general staff.
Emirati Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan touches down at Nevatim Air Base in southern Israel ahead of the start of the Negev Summit this evening.
The Israel Defense Forces and all other security forces are spread out and on alert with all of the tools needed to restore calm and ensure the security of the citizens of Israel in every place and on every front. We will act aggressively against terror and terrorists, and we will advance the continued reinforcement of troops in the field, Gantz says in a statement.
In his press conference alongside US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Foreign Minister Yair Lapid says that military and diplomatic strength guarantees peace.
It comes after two deadly attacks in the last week carried out by Arab Israelis.
The US has said Russias stand-off missiles have a failure rate of 60, and Russias stocks are dwindling, meaning they will increasingly revert to less sophisticated weaponry, or put their aircraft at greater risk.
The world cannot afford a nuclear Iran, he says, also saying it couldnt afford the IRGC spreading terror around the globe.
The ex-premier takes issue with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in Israel for the summit, following the top American diplomats remarks earlier today about a new Iran nuclear deal.
The latest UK intelligence report says Moscow is concentrating its forces on an attempt to encircle Kyivs troops in the east of Ukraine.
Germany is considering purchasing Israels Arrow 3 anti-ballistic missile system to defend against the threat of Russian missiles, German daily Bild reports.
Residents of the city will use their own vehicles to travel to Zaporizhzhia, she says, according to The Guardian.
He also says Israeli diplomatic efforts to end the war are in coordination with the US and other countries.
Zayani is the first Arab foreign minister to arrive for the meeting. His counterparts from the United Arab Emirates, Morocco and Egypt will also take part in the summit, as will Lapid and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
Beyond its nuclear efforts, Iran continues to engage in a whole series of destabilizing activities, he says.
The prime minister again stressed Israels position regarding the Vienna talks and the nuclear deal, emphasizing Israels opposition to removing the Revolutionary Guards from the the list or terror organizations, a statement from the Prime Ministers Office says.
Our highest obligation is to provide personal security for the residents of the south we have started on this journey and we will not stop. At the same time, we are continuing to settle and develop the Negev, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett says.
Egypt, Albania, Austria, North Macedonia, the United Kingdom, India, Kuwait, Croatia, Morocco, and Saudi Arabia are sending observers to the drill, according to the Hellenic Air Force.
Giving a joint statement with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, President Isaac Herzog says the US and Israel will work together to find further regional cooperation and for the benefit of all peoples in the region and for the benefit of peace, and of course preventing any threats against Israel.
Emirati Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan has arrived in Sde Boker, where the Negev Summit is being hosted.
Bahraini Foreign Minister Abdullatif bin Rashid Al-Zayani has landed at the Nevatim Air Base in southern Israel for the Negev Summit.
While we cant solve everything, we can improve the lives of people on the ground Even if you cant solve everything, it doesnt mean you cant do anything, he says.
So who runs the Euro-Atlantic community? Is it still Moscow, because of intimidation? Partners need to step up assistance to Ukraine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
He adds that he hopes the US will listen to concerned voices from the region on the matter.
Both of the attackers were shot dead by members of a unit of undercover officers who happened to be eating at a nearby restaurant, police officials say.
He named in particular Auchan, Leroy Merlin and Renault. The car giant subsequently announced an immediate suspension of operations at its Moscow factory.
Officials suspect the terror attack was timed to coincide with the Negev Summit that began this evening in Sde Boker, Channel 12 news reports.
The United States has a deep attachment to this country, to this relationship, to this partnership, to this alliance, Blinken declares.
Eight other countries are joining Greece in its Iniochos exercise this year: the United States, Canada, France, Italy, Cyprus, Slovenia, Austria and Israel. The exercise is scheduled to last through April 8.
With both now recovered, investigators should be able to begin to piece together what caused the plane to fall more than 6,000 meters 20,000 feet in just over a minute.
The ICRC warns that such false information could have a major impact on people affected by the conflict in Ukraine.
In total, more than 10 million people  over a quarter of the population in regions under government control before the February 24 invasion  are now thought to have fled their homes, including nearly 6.5 million who are internally displaced.
While they had defended their town, they were up against a larger force, he said.
KYIV  Russian forces have taken control of a town where staff working at the Chernobyl nuclear site live and briefly detained the mayor, sparking protests, Ukrainian officials say.
To anyone who has not noticed  Israels foreign policy is in a good period, he says. Israel is an important actor on the world and regional stage. We are cultivating old ties and building new bridges.
Before the crisis began a month ago, EU member Poland was home to around 1.5 million Ukrainians.
One percent. We did not ask for more, and we do not ask for more, he says.
The UAE, Bahrain and Morocco normalized relations with Israel in 2020 as part of the US-brokered Abraham Accords.
The Israel Police say the two terrorists who carried out the shooting attack in Hadera arrived at the scene with 1,100 bullets, as well as at least three handguns and six knives.
Nuclear talksbroke off earlier this monthas last-minute wrangles in Vienna coincided with Russias invasion of Ukraine and financial sanctions imposed by the West on Moscow.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett says at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting that Israel is enjoying a period of good foreign relations.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett is making his way to the scene of the deadly terrorist shooting attack in Hadera, according to his spokesperson, Matan Sidi.
The foreign ministers are at Sde Boker in southern Israel for the Negev Summit. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is also due to attend but has not yet arrived.
Two evacuation corridors will open today for civilians, Ukraines deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk says.
Two of the wounded are in serious condition, one is in moderate condition, and three are lightly injured. They are being treated at the local Hillel Yaffe medical center.
According to the Kan public broadcaster, the gunmen are relatives of the Ighbariahfamily from Umm al-Fahm.
The defense minister makes his remarks following a meeting with top security officials, including the IDF chief of staff, the commander of Military Intelligence, the head of the Shin Bet security service and the Israel Police commissioner, his office says.
Security camera footage from the scene showed the two gunmen opening fire at passersby and police officers at a bus stop in the city, soon after a bus had pulled away, close to several restaurants.
You have a fierce hatred for Jewish settlement, Saar is quoted as saying by the Kan public broadcaster.
According to a police statement, a unit of undercover cops in the area strove for contact and after a short firefight neutralized the terrorists.
Blinken says that the US is working to deepen the relationships with the countries Israel already normalized relations with, and to find new partners.
At the same time, he says that the JCPOA is the best way to put Irans nuclear program back in the box it was in.
Kharkiv has been besieged by Russian forces since the start of the invasion and has come under repeated shelling of its residential buildings and critical infrastructure.
The ICRC does not ever help organize or carry out forced evacuations. This applies everywhere we work. We would not support any operation that would go against peoples will and our principles, the Geneva-based humanitarian organization says in a statement.
US top diplomat Antony Blinken is set to arrive from Ramallah between 9 and 10 p.m. The diplomats will hold a private dinner after his arrival.
As four Arab foreign ministers arrive in Israel for the Negev Summit, an official close to Foreign Minister Yair Lapid tells journalists that Israels top diplomat and the Arab dignitaries who have arrived at Sde Boker are discussing advancing a regional security architecture.
According to the report, the Israeli Air Force has put several planes in the air ahead of the expected arrival of the foreign ministers from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Egypt.
Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian tells the Doha Forum, a policy conference in Qatar, that Russias siege warfare against Ukrainian cities should induce collective guilt.
On both occasions people willingly took buses leading them to another Ukrainian city, Lubny, further from the Russian border, the ICRC says.
The UKs Ministry of Defense says in its latest intelligence update that Russia continues to carry out airstrikes against densely populated civilian areas in Ukraine.
       - -              Welcome to The NegevSummit, Bahraini Foreign Minister Dr. Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani pic.twitter.comAWTYYbs4yL
Hebrew media identifies the terrorists behind the deadly shooting attack in Hadera as Ibrahim and Ayman Ighbariah, cousins from the northern Arab Israeli city of Umm al-Fahm.
Civilian populations are slaughtered, annihilated, the suffering is horrible, says a visibly angry Le Drian.
Satellite imagery indicates heavy fighting took place in the two villages in the past day.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines nuclear watchdog says that a nuclear research facility in Kharkiv again has come under shelling by Russia and the fighting makes it impossible to assess the damage.
The summit at the Isrotel Kedma hotel will begin this afternoon. The diplomats will dine together at the hotel this evening.
The two officers died in battle this evening with armed terrorists, the Border Police say in a statement, adding that three other officers were injured.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines military intelligence chief says that Russia could try to break Ukraine in two.
As youve heard us say repeatedly, we do not have a strategy of regime change in Russia or anywhere else for that matter, says Blinken.
The exercise is part of strengthening aerial cooperation through mutual learning and training, as well as strengthening cooperation between the participating countries, the IDF says in a statement.
That raised questions of whether the United States was advocating non-democratic regime change in Russia.
The five communities  four Jewish and one Bedouin  are slated to be built around the southern city of Arad.
He also says Israel is working to improve the lives of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza.
Defense Minister Benny Gantz is consulting with top security officials following the deadly terror attack in Hadera, his office says.
He also thanks Gantz for his work in changing the lives of Palestinians, noting the governments approval today of additional work permits for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip.
Blinken says bilateral cooperation on the great challenges we have is better than ever and thanks Israeli leaders for making normalization normal, referring to the 2020 US-brokered Abraham Accords that established diplomatic ties between Israel and several Arab states.
The deputy commander of the polices coastal district tells reporters at the scene of the shooting attack in Hadera that the two people killed were cops.
Islamic Jihad terror leaders praise the Hadera attack that took the lives of two Israeli civilians, but do not take responsibility either.
Earlier, the military administration of the Kyiv region, which covers Slavutych, announced that Russian troops had entered the town and occupied the municipal hospital.
The report says Blinken also asked for Israel to step up its support of Ukraine, given the Russian invasion, including by considering providing military assistance.
The condition of the second victim hospitalized at Soroka has also improved and she is being moved from the ICU to a general ward.
Russian forces appear to be concentrating their effort to attempt the encirclement of Ukrainian forces directly facing the separatist regions in the east of the country, advancing from the direction of Kharkiv in the north and Mariupol in the south, the UK Ministry of Defense says.
Moroccos Foreign Minister Nasser Bourita lands at Nevatim Air Base and is on his way to Sde Boker.
He points to the US funding of Iron Dome system, and condemned last weeks stabbing attack in Beersheba.
In his statement, Gantz praises the plainclothes Border Police officers who shot dead the two terrorists who carried out the attack and wished a speedy recovery to the people who were injured.
0404, a fringe news site known for its support of former premier Benjamin Netanyahu, carriers a headline branding Bennetts remarks full-on leftism.
He says the people of Israel are standing with Ukraine, citing protests in Tel Aviv and the work of United Hatzalah.
During the meeting with our American colleagues in Poland, we made it clear again, he says.
He says the old peace  with Egypt  is meeting the new peace of the Abraham Accords.
The Palestinian Authoritys Foreign Ministry condemns the Negev Summit of Arab, Israeli, and American foreign ministers beginning this evening in Sde Boker.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett visits the police station in Hadera following the deadly terror attack in the northern city.
The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, says 3,821,049 Ukrainians have fled the country  an increase of 48,450 from yesterdays figures.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says in his press conference with Yair Lapid that we see eye to eye, on the most important issue on Irans nuclear program  keeping Iran from achieving a nuclear weapon.
Israel has raised its defense readiness in the south of the country amid concerns of aerial threats during the Negev Summit meeting of foreign ministers, the Kan public broadcaster reports.
Ukraine cannot shoot down Russian missiles using shotguns, he says, and it is impossible to unblock Mariupol without a sufficient number of tanks, other armored vehicles and, of course, aircraft.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The United States knows that. All European politicians know. We told everyone. And this should be known as soon as possible by as many people on Earth as possible, so that everyone understands who and why was simply afraid to prevent this tragedy.
The president finishes in Hebrew, Arabic, and English, saying to participants in the Negev Summit Sunday and Monday: Welcome to the State of Israel.
This is a positive and very important force in peoples lives for years ahead, he says, according to a statement from Gantzs office.
The US will continue to stand up to Iran when its threatens us or when it threatens our allies and partners, he says.
Everyone in Ukraine has united and has been devoting all their energy to the defense of our state for more than a month already, he says, while weapons Ukraine needs are in the hands of its western partners, covered with dust at their storage facilities.
The terror attack took place during a historic meeting of Israeli and Arab foreign ministers in Sde Boker.
Yesterday, Bennett condemned attacks by the Iran-backed Houthi rebels against Saudi Arabia, with which Israel does not have formal relations.
The counterattack takes place 63 miles 103 kilometers northwest of the besieged city of Mariupol.
The soldiers fought with bravery, we share the sorrow and hug the families of the heroes Yazan and Shirel zl who defended the citizens with their bodies and saved many lives, the statement says, calling them highly motivated young fighters who gave up their lives for the security of the people of Israel.
Police say the two terrorists were carrying 1,100 bullets, as well as at least three handguns and six knives. pic.twitter.comRejM0vb4Zr
GENEVA  The International Committee of the Red Cross has denied accusations that it helped organize or carry out forced evacuations of Ukrainians to Russia.
Falah, a resident of the Druze village of Kisra-Sumei in the Galilee joined the Border Police a year ago and is survived by his parents and a brother and sister, police say.
The IDF says Chief of Staff Kohavi held a situational assessment this evening, following the deadly attack in Hadera.
Moroccan foreign minister Nasser Bourita will leave early tomorrow, around 2 p.m., to prepare to receive US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Morocco.
However, the statement appears to be a response to accusations by Roman Rukomeda, a Ukrainian political analyst who spoke to the Euractiv online media yesterday.
BEIJING  The second black box has been recovered from a crashed China Eastern passenger plane, state media reports.
The summit is seen as a display of diplomatic unity against Iran. It is also the latest indication that the Biden administration is determined to throw its weight by the Abraham Accords, which were brokered the Trump administration, while Israel was led by former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Gantz thanks Blinken for the recent approval of US funds for Israels Iron Dome missile defense system and for taking part in the historic summit meeting starting this evening with Foreign Minister Yair Lapid and their counterparts from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Egypt.
Police also found on his telephone photos of checkpoints in the region, which Kozytskyy said had been sent to two Russian telephone numbers.
TEHRAN, Iran  A leading European Union diplomat is holding talks in Tehran, Irans state-run media reports, amid hopes that an agreement to restore Irans tattered nuclear deal with world powers can be completed.
The report on the talks in Tehran gives scant detail, saying only that the diplomats discussed the latest on the nuclear agreement, with Kani repeating that Iran believed a deal was within reach if America was realistic in its demands.
Unverified videos posted online claim to show combat in one of the villages, called Vilkhivka.
According to his office, Bennett is now speaking with one of the undercover officers who killed the assailants, and will later hold a briefing with security chiefs.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett hosts US Secretary of State Antony Blinken for talks at his office in Jerusalem.
The despicable terror attack this evening is an attempt by violent extremists to sow fear and strike at the fabric of life here, Lapid says. The State of Israel will fight terror without compromise. We stand firmly together with our allies against anyone who tries to harm us.
The Magen David Adom ambulance service says six people were wounded in a suspect shooting attack in Hadera, including four people critically hurt at the scene.
Police are considering requesting administrative detention orders for Arab Israelis who are deemed to be potential terrorist attackers, the Kan public broadcaster reports.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba calls for a global boycott of French retail giant Auchan, with pressure mounting on international brands to quit Russia over Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
Ramallah adds that the summit is a harsh attack against the Palestinian people, but doesnt directly condemn the participating Arab states.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of the Lviv region says a man was detained on suspicion of espionage at the site of one of the two rocket attacks that rattled the city yesterday.
Weve completely lost it, sorry to spoil the joy and praise, Zandberg is said to respond.
The newly built neutron source facility is intended for the research and production of radioisotopes for medical and industrial needs. The International Atomic Energy Agency has said that the nuclear material in the facility is always subcritical and the inventory of radioactive material is very low, reducing the risks of radiation release.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett is taking flak from settler leaders and right-wing media after using the term West Bank during a press conference with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, rather than using the Biblical names of Judea and Samaria to refer to the area.
Were concerned about the intention to delist the IRGC their proxy the Houthis just this weekend carried out a horrific attack on Saudi Arabia, Bennett says.
Blinken and Lapid will hold a joint press conference at the Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem this morning, before heading south for the so-called Negev Summit with Arab leaders in the Sde Boker kibbutz.
Macron tells broadcaster France 3 that he saw his task as achieving first a ceasefire and then the total withdrawal of Russian troops by diplomatic means. If we want to do that, we cant escalate either in words or actions.
Israeli security sources tell Hebrew media outlets that the terrorists who carried out the shooting attack in Hadera are Arab Israelis from the Wadi Ara area.
He hails Israels important diplomatic efforts to mediate between Moscow and Kyiv, and praises Israeli humanitarian support such as the establishment of a field hospital in western Ukraine.
What is NATO is doing? Is it being run by Russia? What are they waiting for? Its been 31 days. We are only asking for one percent of what NATO has, nothing more.
Some 25,000 people live in the town 160 kilometers 99 miles north of the capital, built after the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident.
Blinken will meet with other Israeli leaders and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas during the trip.
We havent yet identified all of them, he added, but said that civilians were among the dead.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennetts office denies any significance to saying West Bank, after the premier was subjected to right-wing criticism for not using the biblical term Judea and Samaria during a press conference with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
When asked whether he agrees with US President Joe Bidens remark in Warsaw that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power, he says only that diplomacy with both sides remained a French priority.
This misinformation is also putting at risk Red Cross staff and volunteers on the ground and could jeopardize our access to people in need of urgent aid, the statement adds.
The battlefield across northern Ukraine remains largely static with local Ukrainian counterattacks hampering Russian attempts to reorganize their forces, the ministry says.
It is not immediately clear whether the gunmen, who used automatic weapons, are included in the count of six people.
The PAs Foreign Ministry also slams the current Israeli government as the government of settlers and neo-fascists, the government of murder and racial discrimination.
The meetings between the EUs envoy, Enrique Mora, and Irans top nuclear negotiator Ali Bagheri Kani come at a sensitive moment for talks to revive the deal, as the glimmers of a resolution to some of the thorniest issues in the negotiations have emerged.
We need more ammunition. We need it to protect not only Ukraine but other Eastern European countries that Russia threatened to invade, he says.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said during his meetings today with Israeli leaders that President Joe Biden still has not decided whether to delist the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terror organization as part of a return to the Iran nuclear deal, Channel 12 news reports.
We condemn todays terrorist attack in Hadera, Israel. Such senseless acts of violence and murder have no place in society. We stand with our Israeli partners and send our condolences to the families of the victims.
Bidens point, Blinken says in Jerusalem, is that Putin cannot be empowered to wage war, or engage in aggression against Ukraine, or anyone else.
We greatly appreciate Israels strong repudiation of Russias aggression against Ukraine, he says. He adds that he appreciates Israels efforts to not be used as a sanctions bypass.
Ukrainian authorities have previously reported that Russian shelling damaged buildings at the Kharkiv facility, but there has been no release of radiation.
Russian aircraft are launching stand-off munitions from within Russian airspace to reduce their exposure to Ukrainian air defenses, the update says. Stand-off missiles are fired from a long range to avoid coming close to enemy air defenses.
The Middle East is changing and its changing for the better, he adds. Were working together to overcome the forces of darkness and build a new future.
The number of patients in critical condition has not increased in recent days and this indicates that the new variant is probably causing the same disease as the Omicron. Its part of living alongside the virus, Ash tells Army Radio.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky again lashes western allies and pleads for help during his nightly video address.
Separately, a Ukrainian counterattack that began on Friday near Kharkiv recaptured several villages, local officials say.
Blinken says he will reiterate to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas the Biden administrations commitment to strengthening ties with the PA.
Concerning Russias invasion of Ukraine, Bennett says Israel is committed to doing everything to stop the bloodshed and stresses Israeli support for the Ukrainian people. He also notes Israel is providing humanitarian aid.
An official close to Foreign Minister Yair Lapid says there will be a series of bilateral meetings tomorrow, as well as a roundtable of all six senior diplomats participating in the Negev Summit.
Budanov says that the occupiers will try to pull the occupied territories into a single quasi-state structure and pit it against independent Ukraine. He points to Russian attempts to set up parallel government structures in occupied cities and to bar people from using the Ukrainian currency, the hryvnia.
Budanov predicts that Ukrainian resistance will grow into a total guerrilla warfare, derailing Russias attempts.
In those comments, Rukomeda said there is evidence of strange behavior by the International Committee of the Red Cross and its head, who announced the decision to open an office in Russian Rostov to assist Russian terrorists in the illegal deportation of Ukrainian citizens.
He says the US will maintain that stance regardless if a new Iran nuclear deal is reached.
Foreign Minister Yair Lapid will host his counterparts from the US, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Egypt today, in a historic summit highlighting the shifting political landscape in the Middle East.
Police identify the two people killed in the Hadera terror attack as Border Police officers Yazan Falah and Shirel Abukarat, both 19.
Blinken says he will discuss the effects of the Ukraine conflict in the region with regional partners at the upcoming Negev Summit.
After emphasizing that the US and Israel shared a vision of peace through strength, Lapid says he and Blinken discussed the Iran nuclear talks and the war in Ukraine.
Bennetts office says the two discussed the Russian invasion of Ukraine and Israeli mediation efforts regional issues and strengthening the normalization agreements between Israel and Arab nations and Irans regional aggression, with the premier noting this weekends attack on Saudi Arabia by Iranian-backed rebels in Yemen.
You are doing everything so that our people themselves leave the Russian language, because the Russian language will now be associated only with you, with your explosions and murders, your crimes, Zelensky says in an impassioned video address.
I have been released. Everything is fine, as far as it is possible under occupation, Yuri Fomichev, mayor of Slavutych, says by phone, after officials in theUkrainecapital Kyiv announced earlier he had been detained.
Ukraine is united in its desire to live freely, to live independently and for the sake of its own dreams, not other people's sick fantasies.
The law bans unauthorized dissemination of information about the direction, movement of international military assistance to Ukraine, the movement or deployment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, or other military formations of Ukraine, committed in a state of martial law or a state of emergency, Ukrinform says.
Foreign Minister Yair Lapid says he updated his counterparts from Bahrain, Morocco, Egypt, and the UAE about the deadly shooting attack in Hadera.
DOHA, Qatar  Frances top diplomat is warning that the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol is becoming a second Aleppo, the Syrian commercial capital that in 2016 saw widespread Russian-backed destruction.
The self-sacrificing Hadera operation came in response to the summit of humiliation and shame in the occupied Negev, senior terror group official Khalid al-Batsh is quoted as saying by the Palestine Today channel.
The thought that the IRGC will be taken off the terror list, from the FTO, is extremely worrying and not only for us. We are still hoping and working to make sure it doesnt happen, he says referring to reports the United States may delist Irans Revolutionary Guards as part of a revived nuclear deal.
The top US envoy praises Prime Minister Naftali Bennetts mediation efforts in Ukraine, and the Shining Star field hospital in Ukraine.
Health officials have in part attributed the current rise in cases to the BA.2 variant, a subvariant of Omicron.
It also shared on its Telegram account images in which dozens of people gathered around the Ukrainian flag and chanted: Glory toUkraine.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken hold a joint press conference at the Prime Ministers Office in Jerusalem.
The Melitopol Territorial Defense Battalion, together with other units of the Zaporizizhia Defense Forces, have successfully liberated the villages of Poltavka and Malynivka east of Huliaipole from the Russian occupiers, the administration says, according to CNN.
The ICRC statement, headlined Addressing misinformation about ICRCs activities, doesnt specify what has given rise to the strong denial, saying only over the past days, false information about the ICRC has been circulated that we must address.
Social Democratic Party MP Andreas Schwarz, who sits on the Bundestags budget committee, confirms Berlins interest in the missile defense system, telling the newspaper its a good solution and noting that Arrow 3s powerful radar systems could help in defending neighboring countries.
The Hamas terror group praises the two gunmen who killed two Israeli civilians and wounded several others in Hadera, without taking responsibility for the attack.
Residents took to the streets, carrying a large blue and yellow Ukrainian flag and heading towards the hospital, the administration said. Russian forces fired into the air and threw stun grenades into the crowd, it added.
Continuing his talks with Israeli leaders ahead of the Negev Summit, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken meets Defense Minister Benny Gantz at a Jerusalem hotel.
According to its company website, Auchan has 41,000 employees and operates more than 300 stores in Russia.
GENEVA  More than 3.8 million people have fled Ukraine since Russias invasion a month ago, UN figures show today, but the flow of refugees has slowed down markedly.
!  ." "  ,   ,         ",   "           . pic.twitter.comkrGt7R7xhz
Today, during another round of video negotiations, it was decided to hold the next in-person round of the two delegations in Turkey on March 28-30, David Arakhamia, a Ukraine negotiator and politician, writes on Facebook.
The ICRC did say that it had been involved in two evacuation operations for Ukrainian people, on March 15 and March 18 when they facilitated the voluntary safe passage of civilians out of the northeastern city of Sumy.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky used an address to Frances parliament last Wednesday to call on French companies still working in Russia to stop sponsoring aggression against his country.
Today is a historic day. Were hosting the Negev Summit here in Israel, Bennett says.
Opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu praises the arrival in Israel of several Arab ministers ahead of the Negev Summit.
We have a sacrosanct commitment to Israels security. President Biden reaffirmed that again recently with the provision of $1 billion toward Iron Dome, something that has saved lives in the past and if necessary will do so again in the future, he says.
The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate says that the neutron source experimental facility in the Kharkiv Institute of Physics and Technology came under fire.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Speaking after Bennett, Blinken touts the Bidens administrations ironclad commitment to Israels security and notes the recent Congressional approval of funds for the Iron Dome anti-missile system.
Iran without a nuclear agreement is a poor country, an isolated county, a country that has no international legitimacy and no immunity from a military option, he continues. Iran with a nuclear agreement becomes a rich country with hundreds of billions of dollars which theyll use for terror and aggression.
There is and can be no justification for harming civilians. These acts have no connection to the political struggle that the Arab public is leading for its rights, the party says in a statement.
Abbas says I call on all the educational, political, and religious leaders in Arab society to work together to determine practical steps to deal with this challenge of these criminals, who are bad seeds in Arab society.
Also attending the summit are Foreign Minister Yair Lapid and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is already in Israel.
A video circulating on social media earlier alleged to show the two terrorists embracing in front of an Islamic State flag before the attack. The video could not be independently verified, or confirmed to be the two gunmen.
