Israel said weighing Ukraines requests for helmets flak jackets
20220305
https://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-said-weighing-ukraines-requests-for-helmets-flak-jackets/
Israel has begun considering Ukrainian requests for some defensive equipment amid Russias invasion of the country, Israeli television reported Friday.
The source told the network that Ukraine also requested cyber weaponry to use against Russia, including the NSO Groups controversial Pegasus hacking software, and other weaponry.
Zelensky did not take well to Bennetts proposal, responding with a brief, I hear you, the Ukrainian official reportedly said.
The PMO source denied that Bennett told Zelensky to take Putins offer, as Israel does not have such an offer.
The unnamed Ukrainian official was quoted in the Hebrew reports soon after Korniychuks press conference, at which he urged Israel to drop its neutrality and side openly with Ukraine, noted that Bennett is not the only mediator, and claimed Israel is afraid of offending Moscow.
Bennett has proposed that we surrender, the senior Ukrainian official told the Israeli news sites. We have no intention of doing so. We know that Putins proposal is just the beginning.
If I were you, I would think about the lives of my people and take the offer, Bennett told Zelensky during a phone call on Tuesday, according to a senior Ukrainian official, who spoke to Walla and Haaretz on condition of anonymity.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The reports did not specify the details of Putins offer as reportedly conveyed by Bennett, but previous reports from Walla said that Putin is demanding an independent Donbas region, but stopping short of seeking regime change in Ukraine. Other reports have suggested that the plan Bennett brought to Zelensky includes recognizing Russias annexation of Crimea, recognizing Donetsk and Luhansk as separate entities, and changing the Ukrainian constitution to excise a commitment to joining NATO.
The unnamed official also reportedly said Israel has asked that Ukraine cease its requests for military or defense assistance, as this could hinder Jerusalems efforts to mediate and maintain neutrality.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In any case, the prime minister does not intend to give Zelensky recommendations or advice on how to act at any stage, the source told Walla. The conversation between the two was long and positive and included the possibility of a meeting between Russian and Ukrainian negotiators in Jerusalem.
Israel has long had good relations with both Ukraine and Russia, and has been seeking to use its position to broker an agreement, as it also tries to walk a tightrope maintaining its ties to both countries. But its relationship with Kyiv has strained as Bennett has avoided directly blaming Russia for the war, although Foreign Minister Yair Lapid has done so.
Israel immediately rejected the request, according to the report, which said Jerusalem has rejected all of Kyivs demands for weapons in recent weeks and months.
Also Friday, a pair of Hebrew media reports said Prime Minister Naftali Bennett pushed Zelensky to accept an offer from Russian President Vladimir Putin, which would require Kyiv to make significant concessions to end Russias invasion.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The source declined to say whether Bennett will be prepared to make proposals of his own. The prime ministers efforts are aimed at one thing: to stop the bloodshed in Ukraine and the unnecessary suffering.
Earlier Friday, the Ukrainian ambassador said President Volodymyr Zelensky does not understand Israels refusal to provide defensive equipment, as he accused Israeli leaders of not doing enough to help Ukraine by providing defensive aid, absorbing refugees, and taking a clear stance against Russia.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Ukraine has been publicly pleading for Israel to provide it with protective gear, but has so far been rebuffed.
Israel has provided humanitarian aid to Ukraine, including 100 tons of medical and cold-weather equipment flown out of Ben Gurion Airport last week. However, it has sought to walk a tightrope to maintain good relations with both Ukraine and Russia, the latter of which maintains a military presence in Syria and is negotiating Irans return to a nuclear deal.
However, citing a senior Israel source, Channel 12 news said Jerusalem is now weighing Kyivs requests for equipment such as helmets and flak jackets.
Responding to the report, a source in the Prime Ministers Office said, It is doubtful whether this is a senior official who is in Ukraine and on Bennetts call with Zelensky, since it took place on a private line.
