Israels Foreign Ministry to boost aid to Ukraine including generators for hospital
20220306
https://www.timesofisrael.com/israels-foreign-ministry-to-boost-aid-to-ukraine-including-generators-for-hospital/
The Foreign Ministry said Sunday that it believes more than 10,000 Israelis have exited Ukraine over the past few weeks, including about 5,700 who fled since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The Foreign Ministry announced Sunday a series of ongoing measures to provide further aid to Ukraine and to refugees fleeing the war-torn country.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
So far Israel has sent 100 tons of humanitarian aid over the past week to Ukraine, which has included medical supplies, water purification systems, winter coats, sleeping bags and other items.
On Sunday morning, the Population and Immigration Authority said that 2,034 Ukrainians have arrived in Israel since the start of Russias invasion, 112 of whom were denied entry to the country.
Israel has been criticized for not sending military to aid to Ukraine, as well as for declining to forcefully condemn Russia for its invasion.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Israel has also taken in Ukrainian refugees who are not eligible or looking to immigrate to Israel.
The ministry said it will also facilitate the ongoing transfer of humanitarian aid to Ukraine and to bordering nations according to their needs.
Foreign Ministry staff stationed at Ukraine border crossings will provide aid and assistance to refugees  both Jews and non-Jews  with a focus on providing winter gear, the ministry said.
Officials believe that approximately 2,000 Israeli citizens remain in Ukraine. The Foreign Ministry has said in the past that it does not believe that all Israeli citizens wish to leave.
The measures included the transfer of six giant electric generators to a Lviv hospital that will allow continuous operation even without a power supply.
Jerusalem is walking a thin tightrope between its two allies and is also attempting to serve as a mediator between Kyiv and Moscow as the war rages on.
Foreign Ministry officials have been set up at border crossings in Poland, Moldova, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary to aid fleeing Israelis and Ukrainian Jews who are looking to move to Israel.
It also noted the establishment of an Israeli-staffed field hospital in Ukraine, confirmed on Saturday by the Health Ministry. The hospital will be operated by medical staff from Sheba Medical Center, Clalit Health Services, and other hospitals and is slated to begin operations this week.
