Israel to underwrite airlines flying to Russia due to sanctions over Ukraine war
20220308
https://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-to-underwrite-airlines-flying-to-russia-due-to-sanctions-over-ukraine-war/
EL AL has blocked the use of the Mir credit card as of February 28, 2022, the airline said in a statement, adding that it had delivered humanitarian supplies destined for Ukraine and evacuated those fleeing war.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Kuleba acknowledged the use of Mir was blocked. I am grateful to El Al for its important humanitarian operations and convey my apologies, he wrote.
A source in the Finance Ministry who spoke anonymously to freely discuss pending decisions told AFP the office would seek to extend underwriting put in place last week for Israeli airlines flying into Russia that are not eligible for their regular insurance because of current sanctions.
Bennett flew to Moscow on Saturday, breaking the observance of Shabbat in an effort to mediate between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky.
While the world sanctions Russia for its barbaric atrocities in Ukraine, some prefer to make money soaked in Ukrainian blood. Here is ELALISRAEL accepting payments in Russian banking system Mir designed to evade sanctions, Kuleba wrote a day earlier, posting an undated screen shot of El Als checkout page.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The European Union, Canada and the United States have suspended flights to Russia and closed their airspace to Russian aircraft as part of sanctions.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Air links are still open from other countries to and from Russia, including Turkey, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has not joined the sanctions as he attempts to balance warm relations between both Kyiv and Ukraine.
On Tuesday Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba apologized and corrected himself after tweeting that Israels national carrier El Al was still accepting Russias Mir payment system.
AFP  Israel was poised Tuesday to extend financial guarantees for its airlines to fly into Russia, raising criticism in Kyiv as most Western airlines boycott Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
A spokesperson for El Al told AFP that the airline stopped accepting Mir payments four days after the Russian invasion of Ukraine began.
