Kremlinbacked officials look to solidify rule in captured Ukrainian areas
20220613
https://www.timesofisrael.com/kremlin-backed-officials-look-to-solidify-rule-in-captured-ukrainian-areas/
At one of the central squares in the city of Kherson, Russian bands played a concert to celebrate Russia Day, the holiday that marks Russias emergence as a sovereign state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, according to Russias state news agency RIA Novosti.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
President Vladimir Putin earlier this year issued a decree fast-tracking Russian citizenship for residents of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions. In captured cities in the south and east, Moscow has also introduced the ruble as official currency, aired Russian news broadcasts and taken steps to introduce a Russian school curriculum.
Also, heavy fighting continued for control of Sievierodonetsk, an eastern city in Luhansk province with a prewar population of 100,000 that has emerged as central to Russias campaign to capture the Donbas, Ukraines industrial heartland.
Another blast was reported at an electrical substation in the city of Berdyansk, which is also under Russian control. The Kremlin-backed administration pronounced it a terrorist attack, and officials said electricity was shut down in parts of the city.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukrainian media reported that few, if any, local residents attended the Russia Day festivities in the two cities.
Also, the Russia-aligned administration in Melitopol started handing out Russian passports to those who applied for Russian citizenship. RIA Novosti posted video of a Moscow-backed official congratulating new Russian citizens and telling them: Russia will not go anywhere. We are here for good.
In the neighboring Zaporizhzhia region, Moscow-installed officials raised a Russian flag in Melitopols city center.
This strike had no tactical or strategic sense, just like the absolute majority of other Russian strikes. It is terror, just terror, he said in a video address.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Kremlin-installed officials in occupied southern Ukraine celebrated Russia Day on Sunday and began issuing Russian passports to residents in one city who requested them, as Moscow sought to solidify its rule over captured parts of the country.
The Kremlins administrators in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions have voiced plans to incorporate the areas into Russia, despite protests and signs of an insurgency among local residents.
Russian forces shelled a Sievierodonetsk chemical plant where up to 500 civilians, 40 of them children, were holed up, Luhansk Governor Serhii Haidai said.
An official with the pro-Moscow, self-proclaimed Luhansk Peoples Republic, Rodion Miroshnik, said 300 to 400 Ukrainian troops also remained inside the plant. He said that efforts were underway to evacuate the civilians.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
In light of the strike, Zelensky made another plea for modern missile defense systems from the US and other Western countries, saying, These are lives that could have been saved, tragedies that could have been prevented if Ukraine had been listened to.
Leonid Pasechnik, head of the Luhansk Peoples Republic, said the Ukrainians making their stand in Sievierodonetsk should save themselves the trouble.
Ternopil Governor Volodymyr Trush said four Russian missiles damaged a military installation and four residential buildings in Chortkiv. More than 20 people were wounded, including a 12-year-old girl, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Russia Day was also celebrated in other occupied parts of Ukraine, including the ravaged southern port of Mariupol, where a new city sign painted in the colors of the Russian flag was unveiled on the outskirts and Russian flags were flown on a highway leading into the city.
If I were them, I would already make a decision to surrender, he said. We will achieve our goal in any case.
On the battlefield, Russia said it is used missiles to destroy a large depot in western Ukraine that contained anti-tank and air-defense weapons supplied to Kyiv by the US and European countries. It said the attack took place near the city of Chortkiv in the Ternopil region.
Russian-installed officials Sunday in Melitopol reported an explosion in a garbage bin near the citys police headquarters and said two residents were injured.
