Kyiv Moscow trade blame after 53 Ukrainian POWs killed in strike on prison
20220729
https://www.timesofisrael.com/kyiv-moscow-trade-blame-after-53-ukrainian-pows-killed-in-strike-on-prison/
For several months, Moscow has focused on trying to seize parts of the Donbas not already held by the separatists.
Scores of Ukrainian soldiers have been taken to prisons in Russian-controlled areas. Some have returned to Ukraine as part of prisoner exchanges with Russia, but the families of other POWs have no idea whether their loved ones are still alive, or if they will ever come home.
Holding POWs in an area with active fighting appeared to defy the Geneva Convention, which requires that prisoners be evacuated as soon as possible after capture to camps away from combat zones.
All this leaves no doubt: The explosion in Olenivka was a Russian terrorist act and a gross violation of international agreements, the statement said.
Russias embassy in the UK said Friday that soldiers from Ukraines Azov battalion, which was central to the fight in Mariupol, should be executed.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukraine knew exactly where they were being held and in what place, he said. After the Ukrainian prisoners of war began to talk about the crimes they committed, and orders they received from Kyiv, a decision was made by the political leadership of Ukraine  carry out a strike here.
The Ukrainian POWS at the Donetsk prison included troops captured during the fall of Mariupol. They spent months holed up with civilians at a giant steel mill in the southern port city. Their resistance during a relentless Russian bombardment became a symbol of Ukrainian defiance against Russias aggression.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Video shot by The Associated Press showed charred, twisted bed frames in the wrecked barracks, as well as burned bodies and metal sheets hanging from the destroyed roof. The footage also included bodies lined up on the ground next to a barbed-wire fence and an array of what was claimed to be metal rocket fragments on a wooden bench.
Moscow opened a probe into the attack, sending a team to the site from Russias Investigative Committee, the countrys main criminal investigation agency. The state RIA Novosti agency reported that fragments of US-supplied precision High Mobility Artillery Rocket System rockets were found at the site.
A Russian Defense Ministry spokesperson, Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, described the strike as a bloody provocation aimed at discouraging Ukrainian soldiers from surrendering. He too claimed that US-supplied HIMARS rockets were used, and said eight guards were among the wounded.
Ukraines security agencies issued a statement citing evidence that Russia was responsible, including the transfer of prisoners, analysis of injuries and the blast wave, intercepted phone conversations and the absence of shelling at the site.
Azov militants deserve execution, but death not by firing squad but by hanging, because theyre not real soldiers. They deserve a humiliating death, the embassy wrote on Twitter.
The deputy commander of the Donetsk separatist forces, Eduard Basurin, suggested that Ukraine decided to strike the prison to prevent captives from revealing key military information.
Ukrainian officials alleged that Russias Wagner Group, mercenaries Russia has used in other armed conflicts and reportedly elsewhere in Ukraine, carried out the assault.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
More than 2,400 soldiers from the Azov Regiment of the Ukrainian national guard and other military units gave up their fight and surrendered under orders from Ukraines military in May.
Denis Pushilin, the leader of the internationally unrecognized Donetsk republic, said the prison held 193 inmates. He did not specify how many were Ukrainian POWs.
The Ukrainian military denied making any rocket or artillery strikes in Olenivka, and it accused the Russians of shelling the prison to cover up the alleged torture and execution of Ukrainians there. An adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky described the shelling as a deliberate, cynical, calculated mass murder of Ukrainian prisoners.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
AP  Russia and Ukraine accused each other Friday of shelling a prison in a separatist region of eastern Ukraine, an attack that reportedly killed dozens of Ukrainian prisoners of war captured after the fall of Mariupol, the city where troops famously held out against a monthslong Russian siege.
Ukrainian forces are fighting to hold on to the remaining territory under their control in Donetsk. Together with the neighboring Luhansk province, they make up Ukraines mostly Russian-speaking industrial Donbas region.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak called for a strict investigation into the attack and urged the United Nations and other international organizations to condemn it. He said the Russians had transferred some Ukrainian prisoners to the barracks just a few days before the strike, suggesting that it was planned.
Russia claimed that Ukraines military used US-supplied rocket launchers to strike the prison in Olenivka, a settlement controlled by the Moscow-backed Donetsk Peoples Republic. Separatist authorities and Russian officials said the attack killed 53 Ukrainian POWs and wounded another 75.
