Kyiv asserts US has no objections to Poland supplying jets despite past rejection
20220326
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog-march-26-2022/
Around 52.8 percent of eligible West Bank voters participated in the second round of Palestinian local elections, says Palestinian elections chief Hanna Nasser.
The recapture of Trostianets would be among the Ukrainian armys most significant gains since they began counterattacking in several regions.
Violating the provisions of a trilateral statement of the leaders of Russia, Azerbaijan and Armenia from November 9, 2020, Azerbaijans armed forces between March 24 and March 25 entered the zone of responsibility of the Russian peacekeeping contingent in Nagorno-Karabakh and set up an observation post, the Russian defense ministry says, adding that Turkish-made drones were used to strike Karabakh troops.
Irans foreign minister says the lifting of US sanctions on the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps is one of Tehrans chief demands in talks on restoring the 2015 deal limiting its nuclear program.
During the meeting, Biden is seated at a long white table alongside US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin facing Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov, a White House pool report says.
A White House official asserts that Biden was not discussing Putins power in Russia or regime change. The official, who isnt authorized to comment by name and spoke on the condition of anonymity, says Bidens point was that Putin cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbors or the region.
Still, a state leader should keep their temper, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov is quoted as saying by the official TASS news agency.
A Ukrainian official says the countrys military will retake Kherson  the first major city Russias troops captured  later today.
In the first days of the war, Ukraine reported that the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial site in Kyiv, located at the ravine in which over 33,000 Jews were slaughtered by Nazi Germany and its local allies in September 1941, was hit by Russian airstrikes.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys chief of staff is calling on the West to create a new lend-lease program for Ukraine, referring to the World War II effort that sent US supplies to the Soviet Union to help it fight Nazi Germany.
The State of Israel expresses its sorrow to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia after the horrific attack by the Iranian-backed Houthis.
Certainly the issue of lifting sanctions against the Guards is part of the talks, Hossein Amir-Abdollahian tells Iranian state television, according to Reuters.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrives in Jerusalem, after landing in Israel a couple of hours ago.
Were moving into a new era, presenting our great collection in different ways for new audiences, Osborne tweets.
Russia is deliberating bragging they can destroy with nuclear weapons, not only a certain country but the entire planet, Zelensky says.
This attack is further proof that Irans regional aggression knows no bounds and reinforces the concern of Irans IRGC being removed from the FTO list, he adds, referring to reports the US is mulling delisting the Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terror group amid the ongoing nuclear talks in Vienna.
The head of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev says an Islamist cell that operated modesty patrols and threatened students has been uncovered at the school in Beersheba.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy again appeals to Russia to negotiate an end to the war, but he says Ukraine would not agree to give up any of its territory for the sake of peace.
Russian ex-president and deputy head of security council Dmitry Medvedev says Moscow can strike an enemy country with nuclear weapons even if it does not use such weapons first.
Putting a positive face on it all, the deputy chief of the Russian general staff said his forces had largely achieved the main objectives of the first phase of what Moscow calls a special military operation in Ukraine.
These comments prompted Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to warn of Russias nuclear weapons during a surprise appearance at Qatars Doha Forum.
Chamovitz says the school dealt with the issue, but refuses to say whether the members of the cell still study at the university.
Western parties have been pushing for the talks to be concluded urgently given the accelerated pace of Irans nuclear program.
The Saudi-led coalition early is launching airstrikes against sources of threat in Sanaa and Hodeida following attacks by Yemeni Huthi rebels in the kingdom, the official Saudi news agency SPA tweets.
We have finished in the last two days the operation in the Kyiv region so other armed forces are now focused on the southern part trying to get free Kherson and some other Ukrainian cities, he says, according to Sky News.
Ukraine: In now Ukraine-controlled Trostianets the Ukrainian forces also managed to capture a Russian T-80U tank, cargo truck and a huge pile of what appears to be 152mm artillery shells. pic.twitter.comJovIvVfM8p
The official doesnt respond when asked whether the comment by Biden was part of his prepared remarks for the address in Warsaw or was made off the cuff.
It happened at the beginning of a freakish warm spell last week when temperatures soared more than 70 degrees 40 Celsius warmer than normal in some spots of East Antarctica.
LVIV, Ukraine  The governor of the Kyiv region says Russian forces have entered the city of Slavutych and seized a hospital there.
The defense ministry denies reports that Shoigu had suffered a heart attack and was in the hospital.
Rebel political leader Mahdi al-Mashat announces the suspension of missile and drone strikes and all military actions for a period of three days.
He also says in a warning to Russia: Dont even think about moving on an inch of NATO territory.
Blinken and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid will hold a joint press conference at the Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem tomorrow morning before heading south to Sde Boker.
MOSCOW  Georgias breakaway region of South Ossetia has sent troops to Ukraine to help protect Russia, its leader says today, as Moscows military campaign in the neighboring country entered its 31st day.
Israel has made strengthening the Abraham Accords a top priority, scheduling regular diplomatic meetings to member countries.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Earlier this week, Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett traveled to the Sinai resort town of Sharm el-Sheikh for the first-ever trilateral summit with Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi and UAE Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
We need a full lend lease, Andriy Yermak said in an address late Friday. Today Ukraine is the holy grail of Europe, and without exaggeration, Ukraine is reviving those principles that gave life to current Western civilization.
He said options include supplying Ukraine with air defense systems or fighter jets, or creating an air police force to protect civilian infrastructure.
Hebrew-language news site Walla reports that sources with knowledge of the preparations surrounding the summit said Shoukry will arrive in Israel on Sunday, joining US Secteray of State Anthony Blinken, the UAEs Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Bahrains Abdullatif bin Rashid Al- Zayani and Moroccos Nasser Bourita for the gathering.
The US State Department Spokesperson Ned Price says Blinken and Prime Minister Bennett will discuss the US-Israel relationship, the Ukraine war and Iran, among other topics.
LVIV, Ukraine  At least five people were wounded in two strikes today on the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, the regional governor says, in a rare attack on a city that has escaped serious fighting since Russian troops invaded last month.
A giant menorah at the Drobytsky Yar site, where tens of thousands of Jews were killed by the Nazis during the Second World War, has been heavily damaged after Russian artillery shelling hit the area, Israels ambassador to Ukraine says, citing local sources.
There is no immediate response from Saudi Arabia, which retaliated to yesterdays attacks by launching airstrikes against Sanaa and Hodeida and destroying four explosives-laden boats.
Markian Lubkivskyi, an adviser to the Ukrainian defense minister tells the BBC: I believe that today the city will be fully under the control of Ukrainian armed forces.
Rockets hit an oil storage facility and an unspecified industrial facility, wounding at least five people. A thick plume of smoke and towering flames could be seen on Lvivs outskirts hours after the attacks.
The minister says arms orders and supplies are taking place as planned despite difficulties we are having today from the Western sanctions imposed after Putin sent troops to Ukraine on February 24.
The bombing was later revealed to have hit buildings near the memorial, and there was no damage to the monument itself.
Just as there are modesty patrols in Mea Shearim that if theres a Haredi man or woman not behaving properly, they threaten them, he says, adding the group also photographed male Bedouin students.
Bennett and Gantz are reportedly set to meet tomorrow in a bid to clear the air.
Russian-backed separatists have controlled part of the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine since 2014, and Russian forces have been battling to seize more of the region from Ukraine, including the besieged city of Mariupol.
Breaking down the countrys Oblasts, the office says 64 children have been killed in Kyiv, 50 in Donetsk, and 44 in Kharkiv.
The collapse, captured by satellite images, marks the first time in human history that the frigid region had an ice shelf collapse.
Yesterday, White House national security advisor Jake Sullivan told reporters that Biden will give a major address tomorrow that will speak to the stakes of this moment, the urgency of the challenge that lies ahead, what the conflict in Ukraine means for the world, and why it is so important that the free world sustain unity and resolve in the face of Russian aggression.
Lviv mayor Andriy Sadovyi confirms a Russian air assault on the outskirts of his city, which injured 5 and hit an industrial facility that stores fuel. Large black plumes are emanating from the blast site and CNN footage confirms fires are raging, which Sadovyi says is tied to fuel stores.
The mayor of Mariupol says he spoke to Frances ambassador to Ukraine about options for evacuating civilians after French President Emmanuel Macron said he would propose such plans to Russia, Sky News reports.
Asked what he thinks about Russias change in strategy after meeting refugees in Warsaw, Biden responds: I am not sure they have.
George Osborne says the decision was made in agreement with the Raymond  Beverly Sackler Foundation. The family, which owns Purdue Pharma, has faced criticism over the firms role in the US opioid crisis, and other museums and educational institutions have removed the familys name from buildings and exhibit galleries.
In the south, Blinken with Lapid and the foreign ministers from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Morocco will hold a summit.
MOSCOW  Russia accuses Azerbaijan of violating a ceasefire agreement by entering the Russian peacekeeping missions zone in the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh and using drones to strike Karabakh troops.
Writing on messaging app Telegram, the ministry says today that reports saying that Shoigu was recovering at Moscows Burdenko military hospital were obviously fake.
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden is meeting with Ukraines foreign and defense ministers at the Marriott Hotel in central Warsaw in his first talks with top Kyiv officials since Russias invasion began last month.
Treasury Secretary Grant Shapps says that the two aircraft will be detained indefinitely after a three-week investigation that had already grounded the planes. The Times of London describes the aircraft as a $45 million Bombardier Global 6500 and a $13 million Cessna Citation Latitude.
The British Museum will remove the name of the Sackler family from galleries, rooms and endowments, the museums chairman announces.
The crowd of about 1,000 includes some of the Ukrainian refugees who have fled for Poland and elsewhere in the midst of the brutal invasion.
Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry is expected to attend the historic diplomatic summit in Israel on Sunday, joining foreign ministers from the UAE, Bahrain, and Morocco  signatories to the US-brokered Abraham Accords in 2020  for the two-day event.
Rudskois statement also was a suggestion that Russia may be backing away from trying to take Kyiv and other major cities where its offensive has stalled. Zelenskyy notes that Russian forces have lost thousands of troops but still havent been able to take Kyiv or Kharkiv, the second-largest city.
Active COVID-19 infections stand at 70,886, with the number of serious cases dipping to 290.
The city of Trostianets in the Sumy region has been liberated from Russian occupation troops, the Ukrainian defense ministry announces on social media, citing the 93rd Brigade.
TEHRAN, Iran  The European Unions coordinator for talks to restore the Iran nuclear deal, Enrique Mora, says hes hoping to close gaps in the negotiations ahead of his expected arrival in Tehran.
Russian forces in Ukraine appear to have shifted their focus from a ground offensive aimed at Kyiv to instead prioritizing what Moscow calls the liberation of the contested Donbas region, suggesting a new phase of the war.
In his nightly video address to the nation Friday, Zelensky appears to be responding to Col. Gen Sergei Rudskoi, deputy chief of the Russian general staff, who said Russian forces would now focus on the main goal, the liberation of Donbas.
MOSCOW  Russias defense minister reappears on television images broadcast today, after his two-week absence from view prompted questions from journalists.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Concerned parties have signaled for weeks that the negotiations are close to an agreement, but that political decisions are required from Tehran and Washington.
The governor says residents of Slavutych took to the streets with Ukrainian flags to protest the Russian invasion.
The strikes come a day after an attack by Yemeni rebels on an oil facility near Jeddah which set off a huge fire.
Satellite photos show the area has been shrinking rapidly the last couple of years, and now scientists wonder if they have been overestimating East Antarcticas stability and resistance to global warming that has been melting ice rapidly on the smaller western side and the vulnerable peninsula.
The Kremlin says US President Joe Bidens branding of his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin as a butcher lowers the chances for an improvement in ties between Moscow and Washington, amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Todays statement comes a day after a wave of drone and missile attacks hit targets across Saudi Arabia, including an oil plant near the Formula One race in Jeddah, triggering an inferno.
An ice shelf the size of New York City has collapsed in East Antarctica, an area long thought to be stable and not hit much by climate change, concerned scientists say.
Moscows assault on its pro-democracy neighbor has largely stalled with no major advances and Ukrainian forces even able to counterattack in places.
Russias unconscionable and immoral invasion has brought devastation and destruction to Ukraine, DiNapoli says in a statement, adding that the violent and unpredictable foreign policy made the country an unacceptable investment risk.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine says Saturday its forces have recaptured the northeast town of Trostianets, near the Russian border, one of the first towns to fall under Moscows control in its month-long invasion.
US President Joe Biden is slated to deliver a major address later today during his visit to Poland, the White House says.
The White House attempts to clarify, soon after US President Joe Biden finished speaking in Poland, that he was not calling for a new government in Russia.
Israel needs to utilize the meeting at Sde Boker tomorrow to lead an international process of declaring the Iranian proxy as a terror organization. This is the time to stand by our regional allies, tweets MK Zvi Hauser of the coalitions New Hope party.
Working on closing the remaining gaps in the ViennaTalks on the JCPOA, Mora tweets ahead of his trip. We must conclude this negotiation. Much is at stake.
The Russian army fled Trostianets leaving behind weapons, equipment and ammunition, the defense ministry statement says.
Number one is the situation when Russia is struck by a nuclear missile. The second case is any use of other nuclear weapons against Russia or its allies. The third is an attack on a critical infrastructure that will have paralyzed our nuclear deterrent forces, Medvedev says.
Slavutych is located north of Kyiv and west of Chernihiv, outside the exclusion zone that was established around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant after the 1986 disaster. It is home to workers at the Chernobyl site. Russian troops overran and seized control of the plant on the first day of the invasion into Ukraine on February 24.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is again appealing to Russia to negotiate an end to the war, but says Ukraine would not agree to give up any of its territories for the sake of peace.
He borrows the words of Polish-born Pope John Paul II and cites anti-communist Polish dissident and former president, Lech Walesa, as he warns that Putins invasion of Ukraine threatens to bring decades of war.
A Holocaust memorial near the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv has been damaged in alleged Russian bombardments, according to images posted on social media. The information could not be verified immediately.
It is likely Russia will continue to use its heavy firepower on urban areas as it looks to limit its own already considerable losses, at the cost of further civilian casualties, the report adds.
In the first days of the war, Ukraine reported that the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial site in Kyiv was hit by Russian airstrikes. However, the bombing was later revealed to have hit nearby buildings, and there was no damage to the monument itself.
LVIV, Ukraine  Authorities in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, have announced a new 35-hour curfew in the city.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko says the curfew will run from 8 p.m. local time tonight to 7 a.m. on Monday, with local residents allowed to leave their homes only to get to a bomb shelter.
Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boichenko says in a television address that the situation in the city remained critical, with street fighting taking place in the city center.
The report says those in the besieged port city of Mariupol must make their own way to nearby Zaporizhzhia, because Russian forces are refusing to let buses through.
DiNapoli had announced a freeze on any new investments and a review of current ones in the days soon after Russia started its invasion of Ukraine, leading to the decision to divest.
Russia continues to besiege a number of major Ukrainian cities including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol, the ministry says in a new intelligence report.
Russian forces have been accused of risking nuclear disaster in Ukraine by attacking the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europes largest, and Chernobyl.
LONDON  Britain has seized two jet aircraft belonging to Russian billionaire Eugene Shvidler as Western governments seeking to end the war in Ukraine put pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin by targeting the luxury lifestyles of his closest supporters.
Earlier this week, the Kremlin referred to a conversation between the minister and Putin on the occasion of a report on developments of the special military operation at a meeting of the Russian security council, brushing aside speculation about Shoigus prolonged absence.
The Health Ministry reports 17,595 new coronavirus cases have been recorded this weekend, including 11,663 infections confirmed yesterday.
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden calls the conflict in Ukraine a strategic failure for Russia, but says ordinary Russians are not our enemy.
The Russians opened fire into the air. They threw flash-bang grenades into the crowd. But the residents did not disperse, on the contrary, more of them showed up, Pavlyuk says.
According to Ukrainian sources, Drobytsky Yar memorial site near Kharkiv was damaged today by artillery shelling. I visited Drobytsky Yar, a place where 20,000 Jews were killed by the Nazis during 1941-42, a couple of months ago. pic.twitter.comvUeu0JQmnz
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett is preventing Defense Minister Benny Gantz from attending an upcoming meeting in Ramallah between Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Jordans King Abdullah II, Channel 13 news reports.
The top US diplomat will also take part in the Negev Summit with Lapid and their counterparts from the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Bahrain and Egypt.
According to the network, Gantz was due to take part in this weeks meeting to discuss efforts to prevent an escalation in violence over Ramadan.
Klitschko says that shops, pharmacies, gas stations, and public transport will not be operating during the curfew.
Sadovyi, writing on his official Telegram account, adds that residential buildings were unaffected and municipal services are still running.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine says the United States does not object to the transfer of warplanes to Kyiv to help it fend off the Russian invasion, after the Pentagon previously rejected a high risk offer from Poland.
Civilians will be allowed to safely evacuate from four cities in the Kyiv Oblast and six cities in the Luhansk Oblast, the news site says.
The New York State Common Retirement Fund has a value of almost $280 billion, with about an estimated $110 million invested in Russian companies.
Ukraines deputy prime minister says 10 humanitarian corridors have been agreed for today, the Kyiv Independent reports.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrives in Israel for landmark meetings with Arab countries which normalized relations with Israel in the US-brokered Abraham Accords.
The loss of Ukrainian wheat already has worried Mideast nations like Egypt, which relies on those exports.
You can count on that For your freedom and ours, he tells Duda, who says that Poles are feeling a great sense of threat as a result of the conflict in neighboring Ukraine.
On February 27, three days after the start of the invasion, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his defense chiefs to put the countrys nuclear forces on high alert in a highly choreographed meeting in front of TV cameras.
Russian forces fire on a nuclear research facility in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, Ukrainian officials say.
In an infographic published by the office on Telegram, it adds that another 199 children have been wounded in Russias bombardments.
In early March, Russia imposed prison terms of up to 15 years for publishing fake news about the army.
Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid will be hosting the event on Sunday and Monday. The sources tell Walla efforts are being made to host Jordans foreign minister as well.
He also notes Muslims in Ukraine would have to fight during the upcoming holy fasting month of Ramadan.
For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power, Biden said at the very end of a speech in Polands capital that served as the capstone on a four-day trip to Europe.
We have to ensure this sacred month of Ramadan is not overshadowed by the misery of people in Ukraine, he says.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
As Chair britishmuseum weve reached agreement with the Raymond  Beverly Sackler Foundation. The Sackler name will be removed from the galleries,rooms  endowments they supported. Were moving into a new era, presenting our great collection in different ways for new audiences
ALBANY, New York  New York states public pension fund will be getting rid of any Russian investments, state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli announces.
Journalists from numerous outlets report hearing the sound of explosions in Lviv, as a plume of smoke is seen outside the western Ukrainian city.
Last night, US defense officials said the city in southern Ukraine was once again contested.
Russia is deliberating bragging they can destroy with nuclear weapons, not only a certain country, but the entire planet, Zelensky says.
Ukraines Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba lashes Russia and calls for Israeli condemnation after Russian forces damage a Holocaust memorial near the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv.
And we are ready to turn this declaration into a final and permanent commitment in the event that Saudi Arabia commits to ending the siege and stopping its raids on Yemen once and for all.
Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians voted for mayor and city council in major cities across the West Bank today. The first round of municipal voting was held in early December.
On behalf of the UAE, Israel has lobbied the US to relist the Houthis as a terror group. The UAE is allied with Saudi Arabia against the Houthis and has also been targeted by the rebels.
No dates accompany the images on state television, but Shoigu refers to a finance ministry meeting that took place yesterday.
DOHA, Qatar  EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell says that a new deal on Irans nuclear program will be sealed within days.
Iran has been engaged in negotiations to revive the accord with Britain, China, France, Germany, and Russia directly, and the United States indirectly, since April 2021.
This Menora in Drobytskyi Yar near Kharkiv never threatened anyone. It commemorates the memory of over 15,000 Jews murdered by Nazis, Kuleba says.
And, of course, each time such personal insults narrow the window of opportunity for our bilateral relations under the current US Administration. It is necessary to be aware of this, he adds.
Looking forward to connecting with old friends and deepening ties as we work to build on our wide-ranging partnerships, he writes on Twitter.
They understand perfectly that they are going to defend Russia, they are going to defend Ossetia too, Bibilov says.
The mayor of Kherson, which has been held by Russian forces since March 2, said a new Ukrainian flag had been hung on the City Council building after a smaller flag was damaged by Russian forces. https:t.coYhARQWl8ox pic.twitter.comZOYY5uqbfk
He called on the United Nations and world powers to come to his aid, as he has in a series of other addresses given around the world since the start of the war on February 24. He compared Russias destruction of the port city of Mariupol to the Syrian and Russian destruction wrought on the city of Aleppo in the Syrian war.
Russia has the largest number of nuclear warheads of any country, according to the SIPRI peace research institute in Stockholm, which puts the figure at 6,255.
Putins friends who made millions out of his regime will not enjoy luxuries whilst innocent people die, Shapps says on Twitter.
While in Israel, Blinken will meet with Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, Foreign Minister Yair Lapid, Defense Minister Benny Gantz, and President Isaac Herzog.
In what was billed by the White House as a major address, Biden speaks in front of the Royal Castle, one of Warsaws notable landmarks that was badly damaged during War II.
WARSAW, Poland  The US has a sacred commitment to the NATO military alliances collective defense, US President Joe Biden tells his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda during a visit to Warsaw.
Governor Oleksandr Pavlyuk says Russians also kidnapped the citys mayor, but some media reported later in the day that the mayor was released swiftly. Neither claim could be verified independently.
Blinken is also expected to discuss with top Israeli officials the possible revival of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, and, with Israeli and Arab officials, how they will manage amid the plunge in global wheat supplies due to Russias war against Ukraine.
The defense ministry publishes a video showing Sergei Shoigu, a staunch ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, chairing a meeting on Russias defense procurement.
Because if fascism is not crushed at the distant frontiers, tomorrow it will again manifest itself here.
We have a special document on nuclear deterrence. This document clearly indicates the grounds on which the Russian Federation is entitled to use nuclear weapons, The Guardian quotes him as saying in the interview.
DOHA, Qatar  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has made a surprise video appearance at Qatars Doha Forum, calling on the energy-rich nation and others to boost their production to counteract the loss of Russian energy supplies.
He criticizes Russia for what he described as threatening the world with its nuclear weapons.
The United Jewish Community of Ukraine is also reporting on damage caused to the site, blaming Russian artillery shelling.
Officials in Washington have no objections to the transfer of aircrafts. As far as we can conclude, the ball is now on the Polish side. We will look further into this matter in our conversations with Polish colleagues, Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba says today in written comments.
Speaking at Warsaws Royal Castle in Warsaw, Biden also says Russia has strangled democracy and sought to do so elsewhere and tells Ukraine: We stand with you. Period.
The military operation will continue until its objectives are achieved, the coalition says in a statement quoted by SPA.
Biden also uses a speech in Polands capital to make a vociferous defense of liberal democracy and the NATO military alliance, while also saying Europe must steel itself for a long fight against Russian aggression.
Russian troops have destroyed Drobytsky Yar Holocaust memorial near Kharkiv. Amid WW2, the Nazis have killed here 15,000 Kharkiv Jews. Early this war, Russian army has hit Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial in Kyiv, where over 30,000 Jews were killed. pic.twitter.comr3l8W5QCRd
The truce came on the seventh anniversary of the Saudi-led coalitions intervention to support Yemens government after the Iran-backed Houthis seized the capital Sanaa in 2014.
The EU diplomat, who coordinates talks between Iran and the US, is due to arrive in Tehran tonight, state news agency IRNA reports. He is scheduled to meet Irans chief nuclear negotiator Ali Bagheri tomorrow.
And the fourth case is when an act of aggression is committed against Russia and its allies, which jeopardized the existence of the country itself, even without the use of nuclear weapons, that is, with the use of conventional weapons, he adds.
It publishes images showing Ukrainian soldiers and civilians among heavily damaged buildings, and what appears to be abandoned Russian military equipment along with a signpost to the town.
The UK froze Shvidlers UK assets last week as it announced a new round of sanctions on Russian companies and wealthy individuals. Shvidler was sanctioned because of his links to those who have backed the war in Ukraine and because he has profited from his support for the Putin regime, the UK said.
Another video from Slavutych via suspilne, as Russian forces tried to forcibly disperse the rally, protesters did not leave  a resident claims Russian forces were pushed out of the city unconfirmed pic.twitter.com0RCiaOUH8g
Maksym Kozytskyy says police found the man had recorded a rocket flying toward the target and striking it. Police also found on his telephone photos of checkpoints in the region, which Kozytskyy says had been sent to two Russian telephone numbers.
He adds: The future of Europe rests with your efforts. He called on countries to increase their exports of energy  something particularly important as Qatar is a world leader in the export of natural gas.
There were two missile strikes within Lviv, the regional governor Maksym Kozytsky says, adding that according to preliminary data, five people were injured.
Our guys are going to fulfill their military duty with a proudly raised banner, the leader of South Ossetia, Anatoly Bibilov, says on Telegram.
In this battle, we need to be clear-eyed. This battle will not be won in days, or months, either, Biden says.
The announcement comes on the 31st day of the Kremlins military campaign in pro-Western Ukraine, with thousands of people killed and more than 10 million displaced.
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden casts doubt on signals from Russia that it is planning to focus its war aims in Ukraine only on controlling the eastern Donbas region.
Putins forces are under great strain in many parts of the country, and the United States and other countries are accelerating their transfer of arms and supplies to Ukraine. In recent days, US officials have said they see evidence of Ukrainian defenders going on the offensive in a limited way in some areas.
The secretary will underscore the unwavering U.S. commitment to Israels security, discuss the challenges posed by Iran, and engage on Israeli-Palestinian issues, a statement from the State Department says.
The State of Israel expresses its sorrow to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia after the horrific attack by the Iranian-backed Houthis, Bennett says.
Tomorrows meeting is due to be attended by Foreign Minister Yair Lapid and his counterparts from the United States, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco, and Saudi Arabia.
The US Secretary of State of State departs for a trip to the Middle East that includes stops in Israel, the West Bank, Morocco, and Algeria.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett releases a statement denouncing the attack launched by Yemens Houthi rebels on Saudi Arabias capital Riyadh and the Red Sea port city of Jeddah.
SANAA, Yemen  Yemens Houthi rebels announce a three-day truce and dangle the prospect of a permanent ceasefire if the Saudi-led coalition ends its operations against the impoverished country.
It appears too early to know whether this means President Vladimir Putin has scaled back his ambitions in Ukraine, but Russian military moves this week indicate a recognition of the surprisingly stout Ukrainian resistance. Russian-backed separatists have controlled part of the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine since 2014.
The United Kingdoms Defense Ministry says Russian troops are reluctant to enter and fight in urban areas, and instead rely on continued indiscriminate bombardments.
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden portrays Ukraines resistance against Russian forces as part of a great battle for freedom and says the world should prepare for a long fight ahead.
This Menora in Drobytskyi Yar near Kharkiv never threatened anyone. It commemorates the memory of over 15.000 Jews murdered by Nazis. Damaged by Russian shelling today. Why Russia keeps attacking Holocaust Memorials in Ukraine? I expect Israel to strongly condemn this barbarism. pic.twitter.comm7AiT4zlBg
As a result of the shelling, one of the industrial facilities, where fuel is stored, is on fire. Housing infrastructure was not affected.
The governor of Ukraines Lviv region says a man has been detained on suspicion of espionage at the site of one of the two rocket attacks that rattled the city today.
Russian forces are proving reluctant to engage in large scale urban infantry operations, rather preferring to rely on the indiscriminate use of air and artillery bombardments in an attempt to demoralise defending forces, it says.
Biden will deliver remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, hold Russia accountable for its brutal war and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principles, the White House says in a statement according to Reuters.
However, the network says Bennett put the kibosh on Gantzs participation, feeling it would distract from the summit in southern Israel between the foreign ministers of Israel, the US, the UAE, Bahrain, Morocco, and Egypt, which is set to begin tomorrow.
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden calls for Russian leader Vladimir Putins removal, saying, For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power.
They are destroying our ports, Zelensky said. The absence of exports from Ukraine will deal a blow to countries worldwide.
.SecBlinken is in Jerusalem where he'll meet with NaftaliBennett  other Israeli officials. He'll discuss the strong U.S.-Israel relationship, Russia's war against Ukraine, and Iran, among other topics, while seeking to make tangible improvements to Israeli  Palestinian lives. pic.twitter.com1I0bOnPFkX
According to Prof. Daniel Chamovitz, the group was made up of three people who photographed female Bedouin students and sent the pictures back to their clans if they were not modest enough.
Let there be no doubt that this war has already been a strategic failure for Russia, Biden says in a speech at the Royal Castle in Warsaw.
Trostianets, with a pre-war population of around 20,000 people, is located between the larger settlements of Sumy and Kharkiv in east Ukraine, which have been under intensive Russian attacks since the invasion began on February 24.
Ukraines prosecutor general office says at least 136 children have been killed since the Russian invasion began a month ago.
This attack is further proof that Irans regional aggression knows no bounds  reinforces the concern of Irans IRGC being removed from the FTO list.
We are very close but there are still some issues pending, Borrell tells reporters on the sidelines of the Doha Forum in Qatar. I cannot tell you when or how, but it is a matter of days.
He also says the IRGC has said an agreement should not be held up over the issue, while vowing not to cross the Islamic Republics red lines.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
WARSAW, Poland  US President Joe Biden calls his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin a butcher while meeting Ukrainian refugees in Warsaw.
Shoigu had last appeared in public on March 11 despite his leading role in Russias military campaign in Ukraine.
The Ukrainian parliament, citing the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, says, It is currently impossible to estimate the extent of damage due to hostilities that do not stop in the area of the nuclear installation.
Damaged by Russian shelling today. Why Russia keeps attacking Holocaust Memorials in Ukraine? I expect Israel to strongly condemn this barbarism.
He doesnt say how many troops have been deployed, but posts a video showing several buses and trucks on the move.
MK Zvi Hauser of the coalitions New Hope party calls for Israel to push for the declaration of the Houthis as a terror group during the Negev Summit starting tomorrow, following the attack by the Iran-backed rebels on targets in Saudi Arabia.
How did we discover this? Because they complained, he says during a cultural event in the southern city. Its a complicated situation societally because they cant complain publicly.
He also says that when the university learned about the cell, we were startled, Jews and Arabs both.
Yermak also repeats the Ukrainian presidents calls for help in closing the skies over Ukraine to stop Russian bombing and missile attacks. The West has refused to impose a no-fly zone for fear of widening the war.
For a second day in a row, the transmission rate also ticks down slightly, to 1.4. The R number measures how many people each coronavirus carrier infects, with any reading above 1 meaning the virus is spreading at an increasing rate.
