Kyiv pauses civilian evacuations from eastern Ukraine amid ceasefire disagreement
20220417
https://www.timesofisrael.com/kyiv-pauses-civilian-evacuations-from-eastern-ukraine-amid-ceasefire-disagreement/
Ukrainian authorities have urged people in the eastern Donbas area to move west to escape a large-scale Russian offensive to capture its composite regions, Donetsk and Lugansk.
As of this morning, April 17, we have not been able to agree with the occupiers on a ceasefire on the evacuation routes. That is why, unfortunately, we are not opening humanitarian corridors today, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk wrote in a statement on social media, referring to Moscows forces.
Vereshchuk also urged Russian forces to allow for evacuations from the besieged and devastated port city of Mariupol, which Moscows forces claim to have brought under their control.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russias defense ministry said Sunday that it had struck a military plant outside Kyiv, as Moscow intensifies its attacks on the Ukrainian capital.
Ukraine said on Sunday that it was pausing the evacuation of civilians from the war-scarred east of the country for a day after failing to agree terms with Russian forces.
Last month, Russia said it was withdrawing troops from northern Ukraine  including from around the capital  to focus on gaining control of the eastern Donbas region.
The mayor of Brovary Igor Sapozhko said that some infrastructure objects were hit in the early hours of Sunday morning.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said this week that if Russian forces kill Kyivs troops remaining to defend the city, then a fledgling negotiation process to end nearly two months of fighting would be ended.
They have also recently accusedRussian forces of targeting evacuation infrastructure, including buses and a train station in Kramatorsk where more than 50 people were reported killed in Russian strikes.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In recent days, Russia has carried out several attacks on military plants in and outside Kyiv.
Once again, we demand the opening of a humanitarian corridor for the evacuation of civilians, especially women and children, from Mariupol, she wrote.
An AFP journalist in Brovary did not witness any signs of destruction, smoke or fire.
During the night, high-precision, air-launched missiles destroyed an ammunitions factory near the settlement of Brovary, Kyiv region, the ministry said in a statement on Telegram.
