Large protests against Russian invasion of Ukraine in Berlin other European cities
20220313
https://www.timesofisrael.com/protests-against-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-held-in-berlin-other-european-cities/
In Russia, where demonstrations against the war in Ukraine have been typically met with a heavy police response, rights group OVD-Info said more than 800 people had been detained in 36 cities as of early evening Moscow time.
Earlier Sunday, Ukrainian nationals in Taiwan and supporters also staged a march in Taipei to protest the Russian invasion.
Meanwhile, Russia said Sunday that negotiators were making headway at talks to resolve the fighting in Ukraine.
In Cyprus, dozens of Russian nationals joined Ukrainians in the coastal resort town of Limassol Sunday to protest the war in Ukraine. About 50 Russians converged on Limassols promenade prior to joining with other protesters to chant slogans such as Stop the war, stop Putin and waving blue and white flags they said were the Russian national flag without the red stripe that represented blood and violence.
Norbert Herring, who held up a sign that read What are you doing to your neighbor? as the crowds filed past the Russian Embassy, said the images from Ukraine reminded him of the bombing of cities during World War II.
Earlier Sunday, a senior Ukraine adviser and presidential aide, Mikhailo Podolyak, wrote on Twitter that Russia had stopped issuing ultimatums and instead carefully listens to our positions.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
An AFP journalist reporting from a protest in the capital Moscow witnessed at least a dozen arrests and said police were taking away anybody without press papers. A young woman was shouting peace to the world as she was taken away by two policemen, the journalist said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Saturday that Russia had adopted a fundamentally different approach in the talks.
Protests were also staged in Warsaw, London and the German cities of Frankfurt, Hamburg and Stuttgart.
Leonid Slutsky, a senior member of Russias negotiating team, told the state-run television network RT that significant progress was made following several rounds of talks hosted on the border of neighboring Belarus.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Law enforcement in Moscow said Sunday evening they had detained around 300 people in the capitals center for breaches of public order. In Russias second city Saint Petersburg, AFP saw multiple arrests, including a protester being dragged across the ground. According to AFP, several journalists were detained.
In Rome, Pope Francis decried the barbarianism of the killing of children and other defenseless civilians in Ukraine. He told a crowd estimated by the Vatican to number 25,000 people gathered in St. Peters Square for his customary Sunday noon appearance that the attacks must stop before cities are reduced to cemeteries.
My own expectations are that this progress could develop over the next few days into a unified position held by both delegations in documents to be signed, agencies cited him as saying.
If we compare the positions of both delegations at the start of the talks and now, we see significant progress, he told the network according to Russian news agencies.
Protester Evgeniya Shlikava, who has been living and working in Cyprus for five years, told The Associated Press that despite Russian propaganda, Ukraine didnt deserve this action from our government and that protesters demand an immediate end to the war that we dont support.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
German trade unions called a protest in Berlin, where sunny weather boosted the turnout. The march led from the citys Alexanderplatz  a large square named after Russian Tsar Alexander I  to a site near the Brandenburg Gate.
I do believe that the person who did the most to make Russia weak and not united is Vladimir Putin himself, said Shlikava, who faulted the Russian president and his supporters for bringing the worlds wrath on a Russia proud of its humanistic values and culture. But now Russia is the aggressor for the whole world, and we protest it.
The number of people protesting nationwide appeared to be far fewer than the last major protests a week ago, when OVD-Info listed more than 5,000 people who were detained.
Some of the riot police had the letter Z in the colors of the Russian flag on their helmets, the AFP reporter said. The letter, seen on Russian tanks and vehicles in Ukraine, has become a symbol of support for what Moscow calls its special military operation.
Tens of thousands of people rallied Sunday in cities across Europe to protest against Russias ongoing war in Ukraine, with small vigils taking place in Russia as well despite a crackdown by authorities against such demonstrations.
Were against this war so we wanted to show our solidarity, said Aleksandra Belozerova, a Russian studying in Germany. Its the least we can do in this situation.
Meanwhile Russian President Vladimir Putin this week said there had been some positive shifts in the dialogue and that negotiations were being held almost daily.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Many participants carried flags in the blue and yellow colors of Ukraine, while others bore banners reading Stop the War and Peace and Solidarity for the people in Ukraine.
Several participants at the Berlin protest said they were Russians ashamed about what their country was doing.
Negotiators from Moscow and Kyiv have held several rounds of talks since Putin sent in troops to the country. Turkey this week hosted a first meeting between the Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers.
Her friend, Aliia Biktagirova, held a sign with letters for the Russian phrase for No War represented as asterisks to reflect the censorship she said is taking place in Russia concerning the conflict.
