Latvia removes controversial Soviet monument
20220825
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/latvia-removes-controversial-soviet-monument/
Latvia takes down a Soviet-era monument in Riga following Russias invasion of Ukraine, despite protests from the Baltic states ethnic Russian minority to keep it.
Half of Latvia is watching the livestream of the demolition works taking place right now.
Latvia, like fellow Baltic states Estonia and Lithuania, is a NATO and EU member that has shown strong support for Ukraine in the conflict with Russia.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Demolition machinery is used to remove the 79-meter 259-foot World War II memorial, which has become a rallying point for pro-Kremlin supporters in Latvia, according to an AFP journalist at the scene.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Local officials were forced to take down the monument after parliament voted to remove all remaining Soviet statues, plaques and bas-reliefs by mid-November.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Built in 1985, the Monument to the Liberators of Soviet Latvia and Riga from the German Fascist Invaders featured statues of soldiers and a woman surrounding a central obelisk.
Looks like today is the day that Latvia will tear down the 80-meter-high Soviet monument in Riga which is  glorifying the Red Army.
