Leaders of France Germany and Italy visit Ukraine with message of European unity
20220616
https://www.timesofisrael.com/leaders-of-france-germany-and-italy-visit-ukraine-with-message-of-european-unity/
The Ukrainian military was using the high ground to exchange fire with Russian forces across the river.
Ukraine is also expected to reiterate its pleas for allies to send more weapons, with officials saying only a fraction of what they have asked for has so far been delivered.
The new package features howitzers, ammunition, anti-ship missile systems, and additional rockets for new artillery systems that Ukraine will soon put in the field.
Biden said that he told Zelensky in a phone call Wednesday that the United States will stand by Ukraine as it defends its democracy and support its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unprovoked Russian aggression.
Its scary, very scary, 83-year-old Lysychansk pensioner Valentina said. Why cant they agree at last, for Gods sake, just shake hands?
KYIV AFP  The leaders of France, Germany and Italy visited Kyiv on Thursday in a show of European support for Ukraine, as Russia presses its brutal offensive in the east of the country.
Ukraine is really in a very critical situation and therefore, its an urgent need to step up, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg told journalists.
Elsewhere, Russia launched a missile strike in Ukraines northeast Sumy region, killing four people and injuring six others, governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky said on Telegram.
Despite reservations among some member states, EU leaders are expected to approve Ukraines candidate status, though with strict conditions attached.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
And that we will continue it as long as it is necessary for Ukraines fight against Moscow, he said.
Kyivs army is holding back the enemy as much as possible, he said on Telegram. For almost four months they have dreamt of controlling Severodonetsk and they do not count the victims.
China has refused to condemn Moscows invasion of Ukraine and has been accused of providing diplomatic cover for Russia by criticizing Western sanctions and arms sales to Kyiv.
Addressing the food insecurity crisis is of paramount importance to prevent a larger number of people moving, the United Nations refugee chief Filippo Grandi told reporters.
Moscows forces have destroyed the three bridges spanning a river between the city and Lysychansk.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Scholz told German daily Bild that they want to show not only solidarity, but also assure that the help that were organizing  financial, humanitarian, but also, when it comes to weapons  will continue.
Hundreds of civilians are trapped in a Severodonetsk chemical plant, which is under constant bombardment, according to Ukrainian authorities.
Russian President Vladimir Putin meanwhile underscored that he was not as isolated internationally as his foes would wish with a call with Chinas leader Xi Jinping, their second reported call since Russia attacked Ukraine.
They are due to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, at a time when Kyiv is pushing to be given official candidate status to join the EU.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Sergiy Gaiday  the governor of the Luhansk region, which includes the city  said Thursday around 10,000 civilians remain trapped in the city, out of a prewar population of some 100,000.
In Brussels Wednesday, Ukrainian defense minister Oleksiy Reznikov and other officials met with some 50 countries of the Ukraine Defence Contact Group at NATO headquarters asking for a surge in weapons and ammunition.
France  which holds the rotating presidency of the EU until the end of this month  Germany and Italy view Ukraines aspirations to join the bloc favorably.
From an elevated position in Lysychansk, an AFP team saw black smoke rising from the chemical factory in Severodonetsk and another area in the city.
The United Nations warned a hunger crisis that has been worsened by the war in Ukraine, traditionally a breadbasket to the world, could swell already record global displacement numbers.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi arrived in the Ukrainian capital by train from Poland, according to an AFP reporter travelling with them.
Fighting in eastern Ukraine is focused on the industrial city of Severodonetsk, and the Russians appear close to consolidating control after weeks of intense battles.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Other leading figures to have visited Ukraine since the start of the war include British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and UN chief Antonio Guterres.
On Wednesday, US President Joe Biden announced $1 billion worth of new arms for Ukrainian forces.
But officials and leaders in the bloc caution that, even with candidacy status, membership could take years or even decades.
Asked by a journalist why he had come to Ukraine, Macron said: For a message of European unity.
It is the first time that the leaders of the three European Union countries have visited Kyiv since Russias February 24 invasion.
