Macron vows EU ready to back Ukraine for the long term
20220823
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/macron-vows-eu-ready-to-back-ukraine-for-the-long-term/
Six months after the conflict erupted, Our determination has not changed and we are ready to maintain this effort for the long term, Macron says today in a video address to participants in the Crimea Platform conference in Kyiv.
Ukraines Western allies have supplied Kyiv with billions of dollars worth of military equipment and other aid that staved off a quick defeat. But they are wary of joining the fight directly against the Russian forces that now occupy large parts of Ukraines east and south.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
This destabilization of the international order and the disruptions that have followed, on the humanitarian level, in terms of energy and food, are the consequences of the choice made by Russia and Russia alone to attack Ukraine on February 24, he says.
KYIV, Ukraine  French President Emmanuel Macron vows that the EUs support for Ukraine as it struggles against Russias invasion would continue for the long term.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Against this there can be no weakness, no spirit of compromise, because its a matter of our freedom, for everyone, and of peace everywhere around the world, Macron adds.
