Monitor blasts Russias horrendous use of cluster bombs in Ukraine
20220825
https://www.timesofisrael.com/monitor-blasts-russias-horrendous-use-of-cluster-bombs-in-ukraine/
Unequivocally condemning ongoing use of cluster munitions in Ukraine is crucial to strengthen the stigma against these weapons, said Wareham.
Russia is continuing to produce cluster munitions and has used at least six types in Ukraine during 2022, including at least two new ones, according to the report.
In total, 26 countries and three other territories are known or thought to have cluster munition contamination.
Of the casualties, 144 were civilians, while children accounted for 66 percent of all casualties where the age group was known.
There is no evidence of Ukraine acquiring cluster munitions from other countries this year, the CMC said.
Neither Russia nor Ukraine have joined the convention prohibiting the use, transfer, production, and stockpiling of cluster bombs, which has 110 state parties and 13 other signatories.
The attacks mostly affected civilian infrastructure and where their status was known, all of the casualties in Ukraine were civilians, said the CMC.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukraine is the only country where cluster munitions are currently being deployed, the CMC said in an overview of their use around the world.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Laos and Vietnam have massive contamination at more than 1,000 square kilometers 386 square miles, followed by Cambodia and Iraq.
The use of cluster munitions, which indiscriminately scatter 'bomblets', has been criticised by human rights groups and some governments.Ukraine  Kharkiv pic.twitter.comCTfOGzLrC1
While these early reports do not yet represent a full or precise account of the situation, they clearly indicate the extensive and horrendous impact of cluster munitions in Ukraine, the report added.
Video shared on Telegram apparently shows a cluster bomb attack on the city of Kharkiv, northeast Ukraine.
GENEVA, Switzerland AFP  Russias extensive cluster bombing in Ukraine has had a horrendous impact, causing hundreds of civilian casualties and damaging homes, schools, and hospitals, a monitoring body said Thursday.
Ukrainian forces also appear to have used cluster munitions at least three times, the civil society campaign said.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, hundreds of cluster munition attacks by Russian forces have been documented, reported, or are alleged to have occurred, the Cluster Munition Coalition said in an annual report.
Last year, 149 new cluster munition casualties were recorded  59 killed and 90 injured  across nine countries and two other territories, chiefly Syria, Iraq, Laos, and Yemen.
Russias extensive use of internationally-banned cluster munitions in Ukraine demonstrates a blatant disregard for human life, humanitarian principles, and legal norms, the CMCs Mary Wareham said.
Preliminary data indicates at least 689 casualties during the first half of 2022: 215 killed and 474 injured.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
The state parties are due to meet next Tuesday at the United Nations in Geneva.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Dropped from planes or fired from artillery, cluster bombs explode in mid-air, scattering bomblets over a wide area. They pose a lasting threat as many fail to explode on impact and effectively act as landmines.
Focusing on the war in Ukraine, the report said there had been a devastating number of cluster munition attacks during Russias invasion.
The CMC urges Russia to immediately put an end to these indiscriminate attacks, it said.
The total number was sharply down on the 360 casualties in 2020, and way down on the Syria-dominated 1,117 in 2016.
