More than 250 detained across Russia in protests against Ukraine invasion
20220313
https://www.timesofisrael.com/more-than-250-detained-across-russia-in-protests-against-ukraine-invasion/
MOSCOW, Russia  Russia detained more than 250 people on Sunday for protesting Moscows military operation in Ukraine, as the conflict continues for a third week.
The letter, seen on Russian tanks and vehicles in Ukraine, has become a symbol of support for what Moscow calls its special military operation.
Its scary to go outside, of course. They are detaining everyone. Many of my friends have been detained in the past few days. Some were even expelled from university, she told AFP.
Tens of thousands of people were also expected to gather in cities across Europe to protest against the ongoing war in Ukraine.
OVD-Info, which monitors arrests during protests, said police had detained 268 people during demonstrations in 23 Russian cities.
Dressed in a yellow hat and blue jacket, 20-year-old Kristina said she was expressing her protest by wearing the colors of the Ukrainian flag.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian nationals in Taiwan and supporters staged a march Sunday in Taipei to protest the Russian invasion.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Trade unions called a protest in Berlin where sunny weather was expected to boost the turnout. Organizers planned to march from the citys Alexanderplatz  a large square named after Russian Tsar Alexander I  to a site near the Brandenburg Gate.
They may be out of the headlines but Russia-wide protests against the war havent stopped. Neither have the arrests. This is Yekaterinburg today  peaceful rallies already happening in multiple Siberian cities, and soon beginning in Moscow and St Petersburg. pic.twitter.comEXR0Lz1647
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In Saint Petersburg, AFP saw multiple arrests, including a protester being dragged across the ground. The citys central Nevsky Avenue was closed off by police with a dozen police vans parked along the road. According to AFP, several journalists were detained.
A young woman was shouting peace to the world as she was taken away by two policemen, the journalist saw.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Ukrainian nationals in Taiwan and supporters protest against the invasion of Russia during a march in Taipei, Taiwan, March 13, 2022. Chiang Ying-yingAP
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
An AFP journalist present at a protest in the capital Moscow witnessed at least a dozen arrests and said police were taking away anybody without press papers.
Some of the riot police had the letter Z in the colors of the Russian flag on their helmets, the AFP reporter said.
