Moscow Israeli mercenaries fighting with farright Ukrainian unit
20220504
https://www.timesofisrael.com/moscow-israeli-mercenaries-fighting-with-far-right-ukrainian-unit/
Speaking Tuesday with The Times of Israel, a senior adviser to Zelensky said Lavrovs comments border on Holocaust denial and prove Moscow is a threat to Jews everywhere. He also predicted Israel would move closer to Ukraine, citing Lavrovs remarks and war crimes allegedly committed by Russian forces.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Azov rose to prominence in 2014, when its far-right activists took up arms to fight pro-Russian separatists in Ukraines eastern Donbas region but have since fallen under the command of Ukraines military.
His remarks sparked outrage in Israel, which called the statement unforgivable and outrageous and a terrible historical error.
Israel has attempted to strike a balance between support for Ukraine and preserving open ties with Russia, to Kyivs dismay, though it has begun to speak out more stridently against Moscow and has agreed to begin sending helmets and flak jackets, rather than purely humanitarian aid.
By suggesting that Israelis are fighting alongside Azov  viewed by Russia as fascists and Nazis  Moscow is compounding tensions that started after Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Sunday that Hitler had Jewish blood.
There are believed to be hundreds of Israeli volunteers in Ukraine, but there are no exact figures.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Zakharova appeared to be referring to Ukrainian-born Israelis and native Israelis who traveled to Ukraine to join volunteer units after the Russian invasion, though there have not been reports of them fighting alongside Azov.
Its members are part of the Ukrainian resistance in the port city of Mariupol, holed up inside the Azovstal steel plant against which Russian forces launched a major assault on Tuesday.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Doubling down, Russias foreign ministry on Tuesday accused Israel of backing the neo-Nazi regime in Kyiv. Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky is of Jewish descent.
A spokeswoman for Russias foreign ministry on Wednesday claimed Israeli mercenaries were fighting alongside the far-right Azov Regiment in Ukraine, further fueling tensions with Israel after Russia suggested Adolf Hitler had Jewish blood.
Israeli mercenaries are practically shoulder to shoulder with Azov militants in Ukraine, Maria Zakharova told pro-Kremlin Sputnik radio in an interview.
They have been fighting alongside the Ukrainian army against Russian troops, who on February 24 launched a military campaign in the pro-Western country.
