NATO chief says war in Ukraine most dangerous situation in Europe since WWII
20220804
https://www.timesofisrael.com/nato-chief-says-war-in-ukraine-most-dangerous-situation-in-europe-since-wwii/
Addressing the event and his speech on Twitter, Stoltenberg later wrote: In a more dangerous world, we must always stand up for our values. This includes supporting Ukraines fundamental right to self-defense from Russias war of aggression.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Meanwhile, US senators delivered overwhelming bipartisan approval to NATO membership for Finland and Sweden Wednesday, calling expansion of the Western defensive bloc a slam-dunk for US national security and a day of reckoning for Putin over his invasion of Ukraine.
This is the most dangerous situation in Europe since World War Two. If President Vladimir Putin even thinks of doing something similar to a NATO country as he has done to Georgia, Moldova or Ukraine, then all of NATO will be involved immediately, Stoltenberg warned.
Its in our interest that this type of aggressive policy does not succeed, he said of the Russian invasion, according to the Reuters news agency.
Speaking at a political event held in his native Norway, the European official said the continent may be dragged into a long conflict and must continue supporting Ukraine via arm shipments.
What happens in Ukraine is terrible but it would be much worse if there was a war between Russia and NATO, he said, stressing the importance of preventing Moscow from continuing its invasion, which he said was an attack on the current world order.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats in contrast to many of NATOs newcomers formerly from the orbit of the Soviet Union, many with smaller militaries and economies. North Macedonia, NATOs most recent newcomer nation, brought an active military of just 8,000 personnel when it joined in 2020.
US President Joe Biden encouraged their joining and welcomed the two countries government heads to the White House in May, standing side by side with them in a display of US backing.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Thursday that the war in Ukraine was the most dangerous moment for Europe since World War II, stressing that Russia must not be allowed to win.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Failing to do so, Stoltenberg suggested, may lead to a greater conflict between Russia and NATO.
US State and Defense officials consider the two countries net security providers, strengthening NATOs defense posture in the Baltics in particular. Finland is expected to exceed NATOs 2 GDP defense spending target in 2022, and Sweden has committed to meet the 2 goal.
Sweden and Finland applied in May, setting aside their longstanding stance of military nonalignment. It was a major shift of security arrangements for the two countries after neighboring Russia launched its war on Ukraine in late February.
This is not just an attack on Ukraine, an independent democratic nation with more than 40 million people, its also an attack on our values and the world order we want, the NATO chief was cited as saying.
