Nearly 1400 detained at antiwar rallies across Russia as troops invade Ukraine
20220224
https://www.timesofisrael.com/kremlin-believes-solid-majority-of-russians-will-support-invasion-of-ukraine/
In the early hours of Thursday morning, Putin announced he was launching a major militaryoperationinUkraine.
The Investigative Committee, a government body that investigates major crimes, warned Russians of legal repercussions for joining unsanctioned protests related to the tense foreign political situation.
More than 700 people were detained in Moscow and over 340 people in the second-largest city Saint Petersburg, the monitor said.
More than 1,391 people have already been detained in 51 cities, said OVD-Info, which tracks arrests at opposition rallies.
Peskov did not say how long Moscowsoperationcould last, saying that it will be President Vladimir Putins decision and based on results.
But Peskov said that it was not possible to fully isolate Russia, and that its relations with certain countries were already strained.
I amagainstthis war, Navalny was heard saying in a video published by independent news outlet Dozhd.
The Russian interior ministry said it will take all necessary measures to ensure public order.
It said it was responding to social media calls to protestagainstPutins decision to attack Ukraine.
This war between Russia and Ukraine was unleashed to cover up the theft from Russian citizens and divert their attention from problems that exist inside the country, Navalny said.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said a solid majority of Russians support Moscows recognition of east Ukraines rebels. That is why we can expect that this will be supported too, Peskov said.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
There are no fresh independent polls indicating the public mood in Russia on war withUkraine.
The Kremlin said earlier it believes Russians will support Moscows military operation in Ukraine, saying the duration of the mission will depend on results and last as long as necessary.
In a move that appeared to be aimed at silencing any outward criticism of the invasion inside Russia, authorities warned anti-war sympathizers from gathering for protests of the military operation.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
MOSCOW  Russian police have detained almost 1,400 people at anti-war protests across Russia after President Vladimir Putin sent troops to invade Ukraine, an independent monitor said Thursday.
One should be aware of the negative legal consequences of these actions in the form of prosecution up to criminal liability, it said.
In doing so, he defied a barrage of international sanctions and weeks of calls from Western leaders not to make any moves againstUkraine.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Of course, we may have problems with a number of states due to the invasion, but we had problems with these states even before that.
Jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny said earlier on Thursday that he wasagainstthe invasion in a speech during his trial, held behind bars.
