Netanyahu Government showing only weakness in face of looming Iran deal
20220307
https://www.timesofisrael.com/netanyahu-government-showing-weakness-in-face-of-looming-iran-deal/
Bennett, Foreign Minister Yair Lapid, and Defense Minister Benny Gantz are simply not ready to confront even our allies, he said.
Whether or not an agreement is signed, it will not be the end of the road for us  nor should it be for the countries of the region and the world, which must continue to act against Iranian aggression, Gantz said, adding that Israel will take all measures necessary  political, economic and if needed, also military, in order to defend our sovereignty and ensure the security of the citizens Israel.
In implied criticism of Prime Minister Naftali Bennetts involvement in potentially brokering Ukraine-Russia talks, Netanyahu said the looming Iran deal is what the government must be dealing with now.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
That prompted Iran to begin rolling back its own commitments and enrich uranium to a purity level only a short technical step away from what is needed to produce nuclear weapons.
The original 2015 agreement gave Iran sanctions relief in exchange for curbs on its nuclear program, but the US unilaterally withdrew from it in 2018 under then-president Donald Trump, who reimposed heavy economic sanctions.
On Sunday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called the Russian demand irrelevant, as the nuclear deal and sanctions on Moscow over the Ukraine war were totally different.
In the Bennett-Gantz-Lapid government there is only weakness, weakness, and more weakness, claimed Netanyahu in a Likud faction meeting in the Knesset. Bennett, Lapid and Gantz are surrendering like rabbits while the Iranians are fighting like lions, he declared.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
It is during this important time, when a nuclear agreement is being negotiated in Vienna, that we must remember: today, Iranian aaggression is conducted without it holding nuclear weapons. If Iran reaches a nuclear threshold, it will become even more dangerous to world peace, Gantz said.
If they dont see, if they dont hear Israel opposing it, why should they oppose it themselves? Netanyahu added, claiming that Israels strong opposition to the last deal in 2015 helped the US exit the deal in 2018.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Netanyahu also argued that the current governments silence detracts from the legitimacy of our future action against Irans nuclear sites and said the Iranians were fighting like lions at the negotiating table.
The silence of Israel during these days  except for some pro forma statements  leads our friends in the US to also silence their own opposition to the deal, he said.
Separately Monday, Gantz called for the world to act against Iranian aggression, vowing that Israel would continue to act regardless of any deal reached by world powers with Iran.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
But talks have become bogged down, due to tensions between Russia and the West over its invasion of Ukraine late last month. On Saturday, Russia demanded guarantees at least at the level of the secretary of state that US sanctions would not affect Moscows interactions with Tehran. That threw into question the months of negotiations held so far on restoring the 2015 deal, which saw Iran agree to drastically limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions.
Opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday assailed the government for its purported silence in the face of the Iran nuclear talks that are said to be nearing their conclusion in Vienna.
