Netanyahuled bloc would fall 1 seat short of majority if elections held  poll
20220607
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog-june-07-2022/
Kahana, a close ally of Bennett, also brushes off the coalitions failure to reappoint him as religious affairs minister last night.
Some of them may wish for an opportunity to address the court because we would argue that there is lifelong trauma and pain that has been inflicted on them, Parekh says.
Several months ago, the government raised the total number of work permits for Gazans to 20,000, but it takes time to fill the quota.
Israeli Ambassador to the UN Gilad Erdan has been elected to serve as one of the vice presidents of the UN General Assembly.
The text was submitted overnight, a European diplomat tells AFP. A second diplomat confirms the news.
The Health Ministry will advise older Israelis and others deemed at risk to don a face covering indoors, according to Hebrew media reports, amid an uptick in coronavirus cases.
DHS also mentioned the attack in Buffalo, New York, in which a racist 18-year-old with an assault rifle murdered 10 Black people, and a 2019 attack in El Paso, Texas, that targeted Hispanics.
People who definite themselves as right-wing are voting against the ability of Israel to rule in Judae and Samaria West Bank. They are in fact saying, Im in the opposition now so Ill vote against everything and the country can burn,' Saar tells a group of high schoolers, according to the Ynet news site.
If the coalition cant pass bills like this, its on a downward slope that we know the end of, he says.
According to the survey aired by the Kan public broadcaster, Netanyahus Likud party would be the largest in the Knesset with 35 seats if elections were held, followed by Foreign Minister Yair Lapids centrist Yesh Atid with 20.
Both the Buffalo and El Paso attackers indicated they were inspired by the 2019 attacker of two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, DHS says.
Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov says today that the Russian artillery hit a howitzer supplied by Norway and two other artillery systems given to Ukraine by the United States. He says that the Russian artillery barrage destroyed other Ukrainian equipment in the countrys east while the Russian air force hit Ukrainian troops and equipment concentrations and artillery positions.
Police in the Bavarian city were also twice called to a disturbance at one of the citys famous beer cellars, where a group of around 300 England fans were disturbing the peace.
Shalev Hulio is the CEO of the Tel Aviv-based NSO Group. The court gives no date for the judges trip.
Modernas experimental COVID-19 vaccine that combines its original shot with protection against the Omicron variant appears to work, the company announces.
In an interview with Channel 12 news, he blames coalition parties with members who didnt support the bill for breaking up the government.
It is the first prosecution in the US of a female Islamic State battalion leader, says First Assistant US Attorney Raj Parekh, who tells a judge that some of the more than 100 women and girls who received training may wish to speak at Fluke-Ekrens sentencing hearing.
A criminal complaint against Fluke-Ekren was filed under seal in 2019 but not made public until she was brought back to the US to face charges.
In an updated advisory, the Department of Homeland Security also highlights the risk of violence tied to upcoming events including a Supreme Court ruling on abortion rights, the loosening of border controls and the November Congressional elections.
Marine Lt. Col. Anton Semelroth, a Pentagon spokesman, says Ukrainian troops are training on the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS, at Grafenwoehr training base in Germany and elsewhere in Europe.
A 1-year-old boy in the southern city of Beersheba has died after falling from a play structure at a local nursery.
She adds that the commission operates under secrecy, without revealing who is writing the reports for the panel and how the three commissioners were selected.
The 11 men and one woman  convicted either on drugs-related or murder charges  were hanged yesterday morning in the main prison of Zahedan in Sistan-Baluchestan province close to the borders with Afghanistan and Pakistan, Norway-based Iran Human Rights IHR says.
The National Council of Resistance of Iran, outlawed in the country, also says that the 12 executions had taken place in Zahedan yesterday.
The move would raise the number of work permits to 15,000, up from the current 12,000.
On the eve of the game, two England fans are reportedly arrested in Munich city center for giving the Nazi salute, which is banned in Germany.
In a Facebook post about the incident, Audrey Rozenhaft wrote that he was left unconscious and said that authorities have allowed for an explosion of crime and violence in the area. Rozenhaft was left with minor injuries, including a concussion, according to Le Parisien.
Erdan will be one of 21 ambassadors to fill the role, chairing meetings and setting the agenda for the next GA session, which begins in September.
This triumph sends a clear message to our enemies that they will not prevent us from participating in leading roles at the UN and in the international arena, he adds, noting Iranian and Syrian opposition to his candidacy.
The death of Major General Roman Kutuzov was reported earlier by a war correspondent for Russian state TV but has not been confirmed by officials in Moscow.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
It is a sign of growing Western impatience after talks to revive the 2015 landmark nuclear accord with Iran stalled in March.
In April, a funeral for Major General Vladimir Frolov was held in Russias second city, Saint Petersburg, with local authorities confirming that he met a heroic death in Ukraine.
We have moved to a stage in which we live alongside the virus, but the virus doesnt take account of our desire to live alongside it, the statement says.
Sunnis make up between five and 10 percent of Shiite-majority Irans population of 83 million people.
A detention memo filed by First Assistant US Attorney Raj Parekh says she trained children how to use assault rifles and at least one witness saw one of her children  approximately 6 or 7 years old  holding a machine gun in the familys home in Syria.
Former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahus right-religious bloc would win 60 seats  one short of a parliamentary majority  if new elections are held, according a television poll released this evening, while Justice Minister Gideon Saars New Hope party would fail to enter the Knesset.
Forced displacement, threats of forced displacement, demolitions, settlement construction and expansion, settler violence, and the blockade of Gaza are identified as contributing factors to recurring cycles of violence by the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory, which also covers East Jerusalem and Israel.
The announcement appears to be a message directed at the United States and meant to elicit pressure from Washington on Turkeys President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to put aside his offensive plans.
Citing rising coronavirus cases, the Health Ministry issues a statement advising Israelis considered at risk to wear face masks indoors.
Justice Minister Gideon Saar hits out at opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahus right-religious Knesset bloc for refusing to support a government-backed bill extending Israeli law to settlers in the West Bank, after a proposal to renew the measure was defeated yesterday with the help of several coalition lawmakers.
VIENNA  The United States, Britain, France and Germany have submitted a motion to the UN atomic energy watchdog to censure Iran over its lack of cooperation with the agency, two diplomats say today.
Our heroes are holding their positions in Severodonetsk. Fierce street fights continue in the city, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video address late yesterday.
The commission is set to report to the Human Rights Council each year, starting next week.
Officially, England fans have been allocated 3,466 tickets for the match at the Allianz Arena, but there are fears thousands more could get in by using fake information to buy tickets from the German FA.
The warning also says foreign groups like Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State group, and people backed by the Chinese, Iranian and Russian government, could encourage and amplify violence and conspiracy theories to deepen divisions in US society.
Fluke-Ekren, who once lived in Kansas, was brought to the US in January to face a criminal charge of providing material support to a foreign terrorist organization. She moved to Egypt in 2008 and starting in late 2016, according to prosecutors, she led an all-female Islamic State unit in the Syrian city of Raqqa that was trained in the use of AK-47 rifles, grenades and suicide belts.
The US agreed to send four of the medium-range, precision rocket systems to Ukraine as part of a $700 million package approved last week, and officials said it would take about three weeks of training before they could go to the battlefront.
TEHRAN, Iran  An Iranian court has sentenced a man to death over an April shrine attack in the Shiite holy city of Mashhad that killed two clerics, the judiciary says today.
The HIMARS is mounted on a truck and can carry a container with six rockets, which can each travel about 45 miles 70 kilometers.
Barseghian did not mention the alleged antisemitic element of the incident. Police are investigating the allegations, she said.
COVID-19 vaccine makers are studying updated boosters that might be offered in the fall to better protect people against future coronavirus surges.
WASHINGTON  US federal authorities warn of possible copycat mass shootings after an 18-year-old gunman slaughtered 19 children and two teachers at a primary school in Texas, two weeks ago.
Of the 12, six were sentenced to death for drug-related charges and six were sentenced for murder. None of the executions had been reported by domestic media or confirmed by officials in Iran, it says.
Additionally, Munichs fire service was called out to a city center hotel after an England fan lit a flare out of a window, which spread smoke through the building, triggering the smoke alarm.
Strasbourg Mayor Jeanne Barseghian condemns the incident in a statement, writing that we condone no violence, and when it targets democratic discourse its particularly shocking.
The 18-page report, released today, focuses on root causes of the conflict. The Commission took two trips to research the report, one to Geneva and the other to Jordan.
Regional Cooperation Minister Esawi Frej joins criticism of fellow Meretz lawmaker Ghaida Rinawie Zoabi for helping defeat a coalition bill to renew the so-called settler law, appearing to suggest she should resign.
The vote is likely to happen on Thursday during the weeklong meeting of the IAEAs 35-member Board of Governors, one of the diplomats said.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Analysts have said Erdogan is taking advantage of the war in Ukraine to push his own goals in Syria  even using Turkeys ability as a NATO member to veto alliance membership by Finland and Sweden as potential leverage.
BARCELONA, Spain  A Spanish judge will travel to Israel to seek testimony from the head of tech company NSO, the maker of the controversial Pegasus spyware used in tapping politicians phones in Spain, the countrys National Court says today.
There has also been concern over a recent upsurge of executions in Iran, as the countrys leaders are confronted with protests over price rises for basic goods.
Modernas preliminary study results show people given the combination shot experienced an eight-fold increase in virus-fighting antibodies capable of targeting the Omicron mutant, the company announces.
Individuals in online forums that routinely promulgate domestic violent extremist and conspiracy theory-related content have praised the May 2022 mass shooting at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, and encouraged copycat attacks, the DHS advisory says.
NSO says that it only sells its Pegasus spyware to governments for security purposes. Pegasus has been linked to the hacking of other political leaders and activists in other countries. NSO has denied playing any part of this apparent misuse of its evasive technology that has come to light thanks to the work of digital-rights groups inspecting individual phones.
Local media at the time identified the assailant as Abdolatif Moradi, a 21-year-old Sunni extremist and ethnic Uzbek who had entered Iran illegally via the Pakistani border a year earlier.
In late March, hundreds gathered in Russia-annexed Crimea for the funeral of Andrei Paliy, the deputy commander of Russias Black Sea fleet, who died in combat near Ukraines port city of Mariupol.
The poll says Saars right-wing New Hope wouldnt clear the minimum threshold of 3.25 percent of the total vote that parties must clear to enter the Knesset.
Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Sunday that any Western deliveries of longer-range rocket systems would prompt Moscow to hit objects that we havent yet struck.
Initially, two men who approached Liron Rozenhaft, 41, last week called him a dirty Jew after reading the name of his wife, Audrey Rozenhaft, on the posters, Le Parisien reported. She is running as a candidate for the center-right Republicans party in the 1st constituency of Bas-Rhin, which includes the citys center and multiple outer districts, in elections scheduled for June 23.
ALEXANDRIA, Virginia  An American woman is set to plead guilty today to leading an all-female battalion of Islamic State militants in Syria, court records show.
The attack came days after two Sunni clerics were shot dead outside a seminary in the northern town of Gonbad-e Kavus.
After being repelled from other parts of the country, including Kyiv, Russia has concentrated its assault on the eastern Donbas region and had been making slow but steady progress.
PARIS  Iran has carried out a mass execution of 12 inmates at a prison in its southeast, an NGO says today, as concern grows over the rising number of executions in the Islamic Republic.
The court says that Jos Luis Calama has decided to lead a judicial commission that will travel to Israel to take testimony from the CEO of the company that commercializes the Pegasus program.
It says recent attacks by men acting alone demonstrated the challenge of protecting vulnerable targets and also outlined the possibilities to potential attackers.
Police have launched a major manhunt to find Nachum, who has been missing for days. Yesterday, police said they were working on the assumption shes still alive.
Such an outcome would effectively replicate the current stalemate in the Knesset, where neither the opposition nor the government led by Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has had a parliamentary majority since a member of the premiers Yamina party quit the coalition.
The defense has appealed the verdict at the Supreme Court, which will review the case, the spokesman adds.
BEIRUT  The US-backed and Kurdish-led forces in northern Syria say that they will turn to the government in Damascus for support should Turkey go ahead with its threat to launch a new incursion into the war-torn country.
She made a mistake. In her place, I would resign if I were against a certain vote in principle, he tells the Kan public broadcasters Arabic-language station.
MOSCOW  Pro-Kremlin separatists in Ukraine confirm the death of another Russian general during Moscows military campaign in the country.
The probe was triggered during a special session of the council on May 27  following fighting between Israel and Palestinian terrorists in the Gaza Strip  when the UN Human Rights Council decided to establish a commission of inquiry to investigate all alleged violations of international humanitarian law and all alleged violations and abuses of international human rights law in Israel, East Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza.
Prosecutors have also said Fluke-Ekren wanted to recruit operatives to attack a college campus in the US and discussed a terrorist attack on a shopping mall. She told one witness that she considered any attack that did not kill a large number of individuals to be a waste of resources, according to an FBI affidavit.
Data gathered by Iran Human Rights shows that Baluch prisoners accounted for 21 percent of all executions in 2021, while only representing 26 percent of Irans population, IHR adds.
Finance Minister Avigdor Libermans right-wing secularist Yisrael Beytenu would get five seats, according to the survey, which predicts the coalitions left-wing Meretz faction and the Islamist Raam party would each get four seats.
KYIV, Ukraine  Russia reports its forces have taken full control of residential neighborhoods in Ukraines flashpoint city of Severodonetsk, after Kyiv said its troops were fighting on in the eastern hub despite being outnumbered.
The report devotes only a few paragraphs out of 18 pages to violations by Hamas and other Palestinian terror groups, says Anne Herzberg, NGO Monitors Legal Adviser and UN representative. Similarly, the report attacks foundational policies of Israel, making multiple false claims regarding discrimination in order to build a case of racism and so that this permanent COI can later accuse Israel of apartheid.
The three suspects, also Sunnis, were arrested in late April, but were said to have no connection with terrorist groups, state media reported at the time.
The far-right Religious Zionism party is forecast as the third-largest party with 10 seats, while the ultra-Orthodox Shas faction and the coalitions Blue and White each pick up eight seats in the poll.
It says targets of attack could include public gatherings, religious institutions, minority groups and ideological opponents.
According to Channel 12 news, police opened an investigation and detained a caretaker for questioning.
The announcement comes as Russian forces and their separatist allies are carrying out a major assault on Ukraines eastern Donbas region, with fierce fighting taking place for the city of Severodonetsk.
Asked if hell sit with a government in Netanyahu, Saar says, I havent changed my opinion, referring to past vows not to join a coalition led by the former premier.
The cyberattack coincided with a diplomatic rift between Spain and Morocco. But Spains government, which took the case to Spanish court on discovering the hacks last month, has only said that the hacks came from an external power.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Others have seized on the event to attempt to spread disinformation and incite grievances, including claims it was a government-staged event meant to advance gun control measures.
ALEXANDRIA, Virginia  An American woman who prosecutors say led an all-female battalion of Islamic State militants in Syria pleads guilty in a case that a prosecutor called a first of its kind in the United States.
The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, or SDF, says today after a meeting of its command that its priority is to reduce tension near the border with Turkey but also prepare for a long fight if Ankara carries out its threat.
A plea hearing for Allison Fluke-Ekren is to take place in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, according to a court notation. Her lawyer doesnt immediately return an email seeking comment.
The poll, which was conducted today, comes after a bill backed by Saar to renew a measure extending Israeli laws to settlers in the West Bank failed to pass, in a major blow to the coalition.
Yesterday she proved with her actions that she is no longer part of Yamina, Kahana tells the Democrat TV conference. I believe there will be consequences for this.
According to ministry figures, 3,731 new infections were recorded yesterday  the highest since late April  and 17.7 percent more cases have been confirmed over the past week compared to the preceding seven days.
According to a ministry statement, the 34-year-old was hospitalized at Tel Avivs Ichilov Hospital with monkeypox symptoms after returning from overseas. It doesnt specify where he had been.
Deputy Religious Affairs Minister Matan Kahana suggests rebel MK Idit Silman, a fellow member of Prime Minister Naftali Bennetts Yamina party, could be declared a defector after she opposed the coalition yesterday on a pair of key votes.
As long as our generals fight shoulder to shoulder with soldiers, our country and our nation will be invincible, Pushilin says on Telegram, posting a black and white photo of Kutuzov.
The resolution urging Iran to cooperate fully with the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA marks the first time since June 2020 when a similar motion censuring Iran was adopted.
A gag order is lifted on publishing the name of Walaa Khalaila, who is suspected in the disappearance of his partner Sapir Nachum.
Whether Im religious affairs minister or deputy minister is less important. What is important is the governments stability, Kahana says.
Moscow has been pushing for control of the strategic industrial hub as part of its bid to conquer a vast swath of eastern Ukraine but Kyivs forces have so far managed to hold out.
During the closed session of todays Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee meeting, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett told lawmakers that he ordered another 3,000 work permits be issued to Palestinians in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip, according to the Kan public broadcaster.
A report by the UN Commission of Inquiry on Israel and the Palestinians blames Israels persistent discrimination against Palestinians for violence between the two sides.
The boy was taken in critical condition to the citys Soroka Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.
Liron Rozenhaft says that the two men pulled down the posters and followed him elsewhere on a scooter. Several other men followed in pursuit. He says he told the men that France is still a democracy.
The information is made public after the judge removed the seal of secrecy from the case concerning the hacking of the cellphones of Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Snchez and Spains ministers of defense and interior in May and June 2021.
Ending Israels occupation, in full conformity with Security Council resolutions, remains essential in stopping the persistent cycle of violence, says commissioner Miloon Kothari in a statement released by the UN Human Rights Council. It is only with the ending of occupation that the world can begin to reverse historical injustices and move towards self-determination of the Palestinian peoples.
BERLIN  English soccer fans are arrested for making Nazi salutes in Munich ahead of todays Nations League tie away to Germany, according to local reports.
The leader of Ukraines pro-Russian separatists in Donetsk, Denis Pushilin, today expresses his sincere condolences to the family and friends of Kutuzov, who showed by example how to serve the fatherland.
After failing to pass a bill renewing the extension of Israeli laws to settlers in the West Bank, Justice Minister Gideon Saar says he wont take back his comments from last week that the government has no right to exist if the measure doesnt pass.
The poll gives both the Haredi ultra-Orthodox UTJ and the center-left Labor party seven seats, with Bennetts right-wing Yamina and the predominantly Arab Joint List getting six seats apiece.
Noting indoor masking is no longer required except in limited circumstances, the ministry says it still recommends that people at greater risk from COVID-19 put on a mask inside.
Since Moscow sent troops into Ukraine on February 24, Ukraines forces claimed to have killed several of Russias top brass but their exact number is not known as Moscow is tight-lipped on its losses.
About 900 Ukrainian service members have received training on a variety of weapons by the US so far, including on howitzers which are being delivered to the front lines.
Allison Fluke-Ekren breaks down sobbing after admitting in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia to conspiring to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization, a charge that carries a maximum 20-year prison sentence.
The guilty plea resolves a criminal case that came to light in January after Fluke-Ekren, 42, who once lived in Kansas, was brought to the US to face accusations that she led an Islamic State unit of women and young girls in the Syrian city of Raqqa and trained them in the use of automatic rifles, grenades and suicide belts.
Erdogan has repeatedly said over the past weeks that hes planning a major military operation to create a 30-kilometer 19 mile deep buffer zone inside Syria along Turkeys border, through a cross-border incursion against US-allied Syrian Kurdish fighters  an attempt that failed in 2019.
They were all members of the Baluch ethnic minority who mainly adhere to the Sunni strain of Islam rather than the Shiism that is dominant in Iran, it adds.
In the coming months, we expect the threat environment to become more dynamic as several high-profile events could be exploited to justify acts of violence against a range of possible targets.
The woman executed  identified only by her surname Gargij  was sentenced for the murder of her husband and arrested in 2019, it says.
The survey, conducted by Kantar Insights, included 552 respondents. It has a 4.4 margin of error.
This new position gives Israel another platform to present the truth about our country and our contributions to the world, despite the ongoing lies of the Palestinians and others at the UN, Erdan says.
The April 5 attack on the Imam Reza shrine, where pilgrims had gathered to worship during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, killed two clerics and injured a third.
The person who stabbed two clerics in the Imam Reza shrine at Mashhad was sentenced to death, judiciary spokesman Massoud Setayeshi tells a news conference in the capital Tehran.
On the ground, the situation has been tense with near daily exchanges of fire and shelling between the US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters on one side and Turkish forces and Turkey-backed Syrian opposition gunmen on the other.
Yesterday, England head coach Gareth Southgate said he hoped the behavior of traveling fans would not embarrass us.
Numerous lawmakers have tested positive amid the recent rise in cases, with Public Security Minister Omer Barlev becoming the latest politician to announce hes tested positive for COVID-19.
JTA  A group of men violently assaulted a Jewish man while he was putting up campaign posters for his wife, who is running for a legislative seat in Strasbourg, France, the victim has told police.
MOSCOW  The Russian military says it has destroyed several artillery systems provided by the West in the latest series of strikes on Ukrainian targets.
WASHINGTON  The US military has begun training Ukrainian forces on the sophisticated rocket systems that the Biden administration agreed last week to provide, but that Russia has said could trigger wider airstrikes in Ukraine.
Serious morbidity is also up, with 103 patients currently hospitalized in serious condition, though new fatalities have been lower over the past week than the week before.
One of the clerics, Mohammad Aslani, died immediately while the death of the second, Sadegh Darai, was announced two days later.
ANKARA, Turkey  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov begins a two-day visit to Turkey for talks on unblocking grain exports from Ukraine, which have been stalled by Moscows offensive.
The residential areas of the city of Severodonetsk have been fully liberated, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu tells a defense ministry meeting today.
Altogether, the parties that currently make up the government  minus New Hope  would have 54 seats Netanyahus Likud and its partners would have 60, while the unallied Joint List would have six. Without a majority, Netanyahu would be unable to replace Bennett as prime minister, potentially prolonging the current Knesset gridlock.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
In a report late last month, the IAEA said it still had questions that were not clarified regarding traces of enriched uranium previously found at three sites, which Iran had not declared as having hosted nuclear activities.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Activists have long expressed concern that executions in Iran disproportionately target members of Irans ethnic and religious minorities, notably Kurds in the northwest, Arabs in the southwest and Baluch in the southeast.
Charging documents in the case trace Fluke-Ekrens travels and activities in the Middle East over the last decade, though they dont shed light on what inspired her alleged allegiance to foreign militant groups.
Severodonetsk  the largest city still in Ukrainian hands in the Luhansk region of the Donbas  has been the focal point in recent weeks.
Though the report places the lions share of blame on Israel, it also points a finger at the Palestinian Authority for its own human rights violations and failure to hold elections, and at the Hamas terror group, ruler of the Gaza Strip, for showing little regard for human rights.
The Russian army is still seeking to establish control over the citys industrial zone and the nearest settlements, he adds, amid conflicting reports of who is in control of what.
