New US sanctions on Russian oligarchs include VP of World Jewish Congress
20220602
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/new-us-sanctions-on-russian-oligarchs-include-vp-of-world-jewish-congress/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The latest US penalties imposed over Russias invasion of Ukraine include real estate mogul God Nisanov, one of the richest men in Europe, who is also a vice president of the World Jewish Congress.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Also included in the announcement by the departments of Treasury, State and Commerce are sanctions on Sergei Roldugin, considered a custodian of Putins offshore wealth, and Alexey Mordashov, one of Russias wealthiest billionaires, along with his wife and two adult children.
Russias elites, up to and including President Putin, rely on complex support networks to hide, move, and maintain their wealth and luxury assets, Brian Nelson, undersecretary of the Treasury for terrorism and financial intelligence, said in a statement. We will continue to enforce our sanctions and expose the corrupt systems by which President Putin and his elites enrich themselves.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The US announces new sanctions on Russian oligarchs and elites, including some of the richest men in Europe and their families, as well as penalties targeting more Kremlin officials, businessmen linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin and their yachts, aircraft and firms that manage them.
The actions are part of US President Joe Bidens promise, after the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February, to pursue Russian elites ill-gotten gains.
