Nuclear monitor loses contact with Chernobyl radiation sensors raising alarm
20220309
https://www.timesofisrael.com/nuclear-monitor-loses-contact-with-chernobyl-radiation-sensors-raising-alarm/
Russia also attacked and seized Europes largest atomic power plant, Zaporizhzhia, last week, drawing accusations of nuclear terror from Kyiv.
The situation for the staff was worsening at the site, the IAEA said, citing the Ukrainian nuclear regulator.
Zaporizhzhia alone has six reactors of a more modern, safer design than the one that melted down at Chernobyl.
More than 2,000 staff still work at the plant as it requires constant management to prevent another nuclear disaster.
VIENNA, Austria  The Chernobyl nuclear power plant is no longer transmitting data to the UNs atomic watchdog, the agency said Tuesday, as it voiced concern for staff working under Russian guard at the Ukrainian facility.
On February 24, Russia invaded Ukraine and seized the defunct Chernobyl plant, site of a 1986 disaster that killed hundreds and spread radioactive contamination west across Europe.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Im deeply concerned about the difficult and stressful situation facing staff at the Chornobyl nuclear power plant and the potential risks this entails for nuclear safety, said Grossi.
The IAEA said two of those were still operating, the plants personnel were working in shifts and radiation levels remained stable.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The Agency is looking into the status of safeguards monitoring systems in other locations in Ukraine and will provide further information soon, it said.
More than 200 technical staff and guards remain trapped at the site, working 13 days straight since the Russian takeover.
I call on the forces in effective control of the site to urgently facilitate the safe rotation of personnel there.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The UN agency called on Russia to allow workers to rotate because rest and regular shifts were crucial to the sites safety.
International Atomic Energy Agency chief Rafael Grossi indicated that remote data transmission from safeguards monitoring systems installed at the Chornobyl NPP had been lost, the agency said in a statement.
With remote data transmission cut off and the Ukrainian regulator only able to contact the plant by email, Grossi reiterated his offer to travel to the site or elsewhere to secure the commitment to the safety and security of Ukraines power plants from all parties.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The IAEA uses the term safeguards to describe technical measures it applies to nuclear material and activities, with the objective of deterring the spread of nuclear weapons through early detection of the misuse of such material.
The defunct plant sits inside an exclusion zone that houses decommissioned reactors as well as radioactive waste facilities.
