Officials Mariupol theater serving as shelter blocked by rubble after Russian strike
20220317
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/officials-mariupol-theater-serving-as-shelter-blocked-by-rubble-after-russian-strike/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Kyrylenko says the airstrike also hit the Neptune swimming pool complex. Now there are pregnant women and women with children under the rubble there. Its pure terrorism! the official says.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The words "children" were written in Russian outside the Mariupol Drama Theater before it was bombed today by Russian forces. Local authorities and media said the building had been used as a shelter for hundreds of Ukrainian civilians. ????: Maxar pic.twitter.com1blPSY9UaE
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian officials say the status of people sheltering in a theater in Mariupol is still uncertain because the entrance was under the rubble caused by a Russian airstrike.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional administration, says on Telegram that several hundred residents of Mariupol were sheltering in the Drama Theater. He rejects the claims by the Russian military that the Azov battalion was headquartered in the theater, stressing that only civilians were in it when it was struck.
At least as recently as Monday, the pavement outside the once-elegant theater was marked with huge white letters spelling out CHILDREN in Russian, according to images released by the Maxar space technology company.
