Planning an attack UK says Moscow trying to install proRussia leader in Ukraine
20220123
https://www.timesofisrael.com/planning-an-attack-uk-says-moscow-trying-to-install-pro-russia-leader-in-ukraine/
Murayev, the man named by London, lost his seat in the Ukrainian parliament when his party failed to win five percent of the vote in 2019 elections.
The head of Germanys navy later resigned following controversial remarks on the crisis, a defense ministry spokesman said on Saturday.
Britains Foreign Office on Saturday updated its travel advice to Ukraine in light of the ongoing crisis.
But Truss warned on Friday that Moscow still risked becoming embroiled in a terrible quagmire if it invaded.
The other four politicians named by the UK were Mykola Azarov, Sergiy Arbuzov, Andriy Kluyev and Volodymyr Sivkovich.
Sivkovich, a former deputy secretary of the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council, was sanctioned by the United States this week for allegedly working with Russian intelligence.
Britain is among a handful of Western nations rushing lethal weapons  such as anti-tank missiles  to Ukraine, dramatically increasing the prospect of Russian casualties.
Azarov served as prime minister under pro-Moscow president Viktor Yanukovych. Both fled Kyiv for Russia following the 2014 uprising in Ukraine that toppled a government that had rejected pressure to move the country closer to the West.
The accusations came at the end of a week of intense international diplomacy, which concluded with Antony Blinken and Sergei Lavrov, Washington and Moscows top diplomats, agreeing to keep working to ease tensions.
London said it had seen evidence that several former Ukrainian politicians had maintained links with Russian intelligence services, and that former MP Yevgen Murayev was being considered as a potential leader.
But Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Saturday condemned Germany for its refusal to supply weapons to Kyiv, urging Berlin to stop undermining unity and encouraging Vladimir Putin.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The claims came hours after a senior UK defense source said that Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu had accepted an invitation to meet British counterpart, Defense Secretary Ben Wallace, to discuss the crisis.
Some of those in contact with Russian intelligence officers were currently involved in the planning for an attack on Ukraine, the British Foreign Office said in a statement, though did not release details of the evidence. A US official called the alleged plot deeply concerning.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In Washington, US National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne said: This kind of plotting is deeply concerning.
He is considered to be an owner of Ukrainian TV station Nash, which regulators have been seeking to shut down since last year, accusing it of airing pro-Russian propaganda.
AFP  Britain alleged Saturday that it had information Moscow was looking to install a pro-Russian leader in Kyiv, as fears of a Russian invasion of Ukraine grow.
Tensions have soared in recent weeks as tens of thousands of Russian troops mass on Ukraines border, along with an arsenal of tanks, fighting vehicles, artillery and missiles.
Kay-Achim Schoenbach said the idea that Russia wanted to invade Ukraine was nonsense, adding that Putin deserved respect, in comments at a think-tank meeting in New Delhi on Friday.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The information being released today shines a light on the extent of Russian activity designed to subvert Ukraine, and is an insight into Kremlin thinking, said British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
The Ukrainian people have the sovereign right to determine their own future, and we stand with our democratically elected partners in Ukraine, she said.
Few military experts believe that Kyivs smaller forces  although rapidly modernizing  could repel an outright Russian invasion.
Russia has put pressure on Ukraine since the 2014 uprising, Moscow seized the Crimean peninsula in 2014 and a few weeks later a pro-Russian insurgency broke out in eastern Ukraine that has since claimed more than 13,000 lives.
It also advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Ukraine and British nationals are advised to register their presence in the country.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Russia must de-escalate, end its campaigns of aggression and disinformation, and pursue a path of diplomacy.
The department now advises against all travel to Ukraines Donetsk oblast, Lugansk oblast and Crimea.
Given the last defense bilateral between our two countries took place in London in 2013, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has offered to meet in Moscow instead, the source said.
