PM Israel doing more than most to aid Ukraine while balancing complex considerations
20220321
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/pm-israel-doing-more-than-most-to-aid-ukraine-while-balancing-complex-considerations/
Israel also operates in other dimensions there are not many countries that operate on such a scale, he says.
Ukraine has criticized Israel for its failure to arm Kyiv or even send defensive military kit such as flak jackets and helmets.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett says that Israel is providing Ukraine with a large amount of aid, at a scale not provided by most other countries, while balancing a number of complex considerations.
Israel has been reaching out with aid in the crisis in Ukraine for several weeks, right from the first moment through various channels, Bennett says.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
We are managing this unfortunate crisis in a sensitive, benevolent and responsible manner, while balancing the various considerations  and they are complex, Bennett says.
Zelensky criticized Jerusalem bitterly in a speech to Israeli lawmakers on Sunday, repeatedly invoking the Holocaust and slamming Israel for failing to arm his country and impose sanctions on Russia.
The prime minister of Israel, Mr. Naftali Bennett, is trying to find a way of holding talks. And we are grateful for this. We are grateful for his efforts, so that sooner or later we will begin to have talks with Russia, possibly in Jerusalem, Zelesnky said, according to a translation by Reuters.
Bennett is speaking at the departure ceremony for an Israeli delegation flying out to set up a field hospital in Ukraine, his first public statement on the matter following a caustic speech by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
