PM Israel safeguarding its interests while communicating with both Russia and Ukraine
20220301
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/pm-israel-safeguarding-its-interests-while-communicating-with-both-russia-and-ukraine/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
The State of Israel has taken a measured and responsible line from the start, which allows us to not only safeguard our interests, but also to help. To be one of the few that can communicate directly with both parties, and assist where requested. And we do help, quietly, he says in a speech at the Mossad headquarters.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
We are not obligated by the agreement and we are certainly not obligated by the date that allows Iran in two and a half years to assemble countless centrifuges.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett says Israel has worked from the start of Russias invasion of Ukraine to help where it can while protecting its interests.
Bennett also touches on the talks between Iran and world powers on a nuclear deal, which he says are approaching the moment of truth  its money time.
The presence of Russian forces in Syria requires Israel to coordinate with Moscow when the IDF carries out strikes on Iranian-backed targets in that country. Israel also has close ties with Ukraine.
Bennett refers to the sunset clause in the potential agreement, which the premier says in two and a half years will allow Iran to install and operate advanced centrifuges.
