Puppets poetry go underground to entertain Ukrainians sheltering in Kharkiv metro
20220417
https://www.timesofisrael.com/puppets-poetry-go-underground-to-entertain-ukrainians-sheltering-in-kharkiv-metro/
A small crowd follows the reading, in which Zhadan holds forth a surreal lyrical monologue detailing an assortment of animals.
With a cast of caricature dolls including a mustachioed king and a herd of pigs, Oleksandra Shlykova and Anton Andriushchenko tell the story of how princesses are different, entrancing the kids and their parents.
A person cannot live only with war, said Zhadan  a literary celebrity in poetry-obsessed Ukraine.
Its laced with profanity, a far cry from the family-friendly staging in the metro underground. Nevertheless, its objectives are similar.
Truth and humor gives you a boost and makes you happy, said Oksana, who declined to give a surname.
The walkways of the metro stations are now lined with bedding and mounds of belongings. The stationary carriages have been divided into makeshift homes.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Toiletries line the train windows and inhabitants pry open the sliding doors to access their spaces. The main walkway smells of the soup being ladled out to those living here.
A live performance is always an emotion that is here and now, said 47-year-old Shlykova after concluding the show with a flourished bow and inviting the children to play with the puppets.
We exchange emotions and it lifts our spirits. Its hard to describe it, you have to feel it.
Serhiy Zhadan reads out verse overlaid with melodica music in a purple neon-lit soundproof chamber.
When you watch this performance you remember the stories and you alter the way you see the world, said 37-year-old Oksana, who brought her two daughters to the show.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
KHARKIV, Ukraine AFP  In a subterranean metro station serving as a bomb shelter in eastern Ukraine, two flamboyant puppeteers act out a tabletop fairytale for a gaggle of spellbound children.
Using a mobile phone sound system, the pair elicit giggles and gasps from their audience perched on steps lined with cardboard  an auditorium improvised to prevent the cold and damp seeping into their bones.
They are also distracting them from the near constant bombardments raining down on the city of Kharkiv above them, as Russia escalates its offensive in eastern Ukraine.
Deep underground, the metro stations of Kharkiv are now home to residents of the eastern metropolis fearful of the battle raging above.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
It is very important for them to hear a word, to be able to sing along, to be able to express a certain emotion.
On Friday, shelling of residential areas of the city killed 10 people. On Saturday, a strike claimed two more lives.
Across town a poetry performance takes place in a white brickwork bunker down some narrow stairs past a ramshackle workshop.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Zhadan describes the poem as a brutal lullaby based on a satire of a childrens book.
Since pulling back from its northern offensive to capture the capital of Kyiv, the Kremlin has scaled up attacks on Ukraines eastern flank, including Kharkiv just 21 kilometers 13 miles from the Russian border.
They are living in an underground shelter nearby, and came over to this one to escape the grim tale unfolding above.
