Putins rabbi calls for end to war in Ukraine offers to mediate
20220303
https://www.timesofisrael.com/putins-rabbi-calls-for-end-to-war-in-ukraine-offers-to-mediate/
In 2000, the Italian-born Lazar split off from the Russian Jewish Congress, an umbrella group representing the countrys Jews, and assumed the title of chief rabbi. The title is also claimed by Rabbi Adolf Shayevich, who is still considered Russias chief rabbi by the Congress.
Lazars comments on Wednesday came amid fiery condemnations of Russia and its invasion by fellow Chabad rabbis in Ukraine, notably St. Petersburg-born Rabbi Moshe Azman, who explicitly called on Russian Jews to act to end the war.
God expects every believer to do everything in their power to save human lives. Personally, I am ready for any mediation, ready to do anything I can and beyond to silence the guns and to stop the bombs, Rabbi Berel Lazar wrote in a post on a Russian Jewish website on Wednesday.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
A prominent rabbi considered close to Russian President Vladimir Putin has called to end the countrys war against Ukraine, offering to help mediate between the two sides.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Now is the time for joint action. Therefore, I appeal to all religious leaders in Ukraine, Russia, Europe, and other continents to join forces for peace. We, loyal to One God alone, should use all our influence, all our power to stop the chaos and prevent further casualties, he said.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Lazar, a follower of the Chabad movement, has served as chief rabbi of Russia for some 20 years  though the position is somewhat contested  and has long been known to have the ear of the Russian president, occasionally earning him the moniker Putins rabbi.
Since then, Lazar has maintained close ties with the Russian government and its president Putin. He officiates regularly at Kremlin-sponsored events, gave Putin a tour of the Western Wall in Jerusalem in 2012, and appeared alongside the Russian president when he hosted former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Moscow in 2018.
He has, however, occasionally criticized the Russian leader, for expelling American Chabad rabbis from the country and for providing Syria with a powerful air defense system.
His call to end the war on Wednesday appeared to be a major break from Lazars previous stances on Russias policies regarding Ukraine. In 2014, when Russia effectively annexed the Crimean peninsula, Lazar denounced fellow-Chabad Ukrainian rabbis who opposed the move and told them to remain quiet about the activity of politicians.
