Putin congratulates Hungarys Orban on election win hopes to further build ties
20220404
https://www.timesofisrael.com/putin-congratulates-hungarys-orban-on-election-win-hopes-to-further-build-ties/
The head of the Russian state expressed confidence that, despite the difficult international situation, the further development of bilateral ties of partnership fully meets the interests of the peoples of Russia and Hungary, the Kremlin said in a statement.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has singled Orban out for criticism over his reluctance to take a tougher stance against Russia.
Official results from Hungarys general election on Sunday showed Orbans Fidesz party had won a fourth term in office by a much greater margin than pre-election polls had suggested, after a campaign overshadowed by the Ukraine conflict.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The nationalist Hungarian prime minister has been one of his rare allies in Europe and in NATO.
Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Monday after his party won a fourth term in office and said he hoped to further build ties, the Kremlin said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The 69-year-old Russian leader has been increasingly isolated internationally after he sent troops into pro-Western Ukraine on February 24.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Diplomatically, Orban fell into line with EU support for Kyiv despite his longstanding closeness to Putin. But at home, Orban has struck a neutral and even anti-Ukrainian tone at times, refusing to let weapons for Ukraine cross Hungarian territory.
