Putin and Macron agree on need for deescalation in Ukraine France says
20220128
https://www.timesofisrael.com/putin-and-macron-agree-on-need-for-de-escalation-in-ukraine-france-says/
The two presidents agreed to continue efforts in favor of de-escalation and dialogue, it added.
Does he want to be the one to say that Russia is a power of disequilibrium, or is he ready to show de-escalation? he asked.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Now the ball is in Putins court, Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told RTL radio Friday before the phone call between the leaders.
The two leaders spoke for more than an hour on Friday morning during a call that was described by the French side as serious and respectful which highlighted fundamental differences but also a joint desire to keep talking.
Its up to Vladimir Putin to say if he wants confrontation or consultation. We are ready for consultation. But it still takes two to do it, he said.
His relatively conciliatory tone has contrasted with the more strident rhetoric about the probability of a Russian invasion from Frances NATO allies the UK and United States.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Macron said earlier this week that Russia was behaving as a power of disequilibrium in the region but had also made clear he wanted to speak with Putin, whom he invited to France for talks during his summer holidays in 2019.
The conversation enabled us to agree on the need for a de-escalation, the aide said during a briefing with journalists.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
President Putin expressed no offensive plans and said he wanted to continue the talks with France and our allies, the French official said on Friday, adding that the Russian leader said very clearly that he did not want confrontation.
The president reaffirmed Frances full solidarity with Ukraine and stressed the nations determination to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country, in a context of high volatility, the Elysee said.
French President Emmanuel Macron and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin agreed on the need for a de-escalation in the Ukraine crisis during a call on Friday, with the Russian leader saying he had no offensive plans, an aide to Macron said.
France hosted more than eight hours of talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Paris on Wednesday which were seen as a test of whether Putin wanted to lower tensions, having massed around 100,000 troops on Ukraines border.
Le Drian said that there was of course still the risk of a Russian invasion of Ukraine, warning that such a move would have massive repercussions for Moscow.
