Putin says Russian interests security nonnegotiable as global sanctions close in
20220223
https://www.timesofisrael.com/putin-says-russian-interests-security-non-negotiable-as-global-sanctions-close-in/
French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said EU foreign ministers unanimously agreed on an initial sanctions package, as he also canceled a meeting with his Russian counterpart.
Theres no question that Russia is the aggressor, so were clear eyed about the challenges were facing, the president said. Nonetheless, there is still time to avert the worst case scenario that will bring untold suffering to millions of people.
The interests of Russia, the security of our citizens, are non-negotiable for us, Putin said in a video address to mark the Defender of the Fatherland Day, a public holiday in Russia.
Our country is always open for direct and honest dialogue for the search for diplomatic solutions to the most complex problems, he said.
Germany also announced it was halting certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia.
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said at a press conference that Russia was behaving like thugs and bullies, and they should be called out.
Bidens address followed a wave of sanctions announced by Britain and the European Union, after Putin recognized the self-declared Donetsk and Lugansk rebel republics.
Putins plans remained unclear, but Western officials have been warning for weeks he has been preparing an all-out invasion of Ukraine, a move that could spark a catastrophic war in Europe.
Kyiv showed no sign of backing down, with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba meeting Biden to appeal for more military aid.
A shell hit the roof of 59-year-old Valentyna Shmatkovas apartment block overnight, shattering all the windows in her two-room apartment.
A Ukrainian soldier died Tuesday and six suffered injuries in clashes with Moscow-backed rebels in the east, the army said.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
He said Japan will also suspend visa issuance to the people linked to the two Ukrainian rebel regions and freeze their assets in Japan, and will ban trade with the two areas.
Kishida repeated his strong condemnation of Russia for violating Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as international law.
However, despite Bidens call for diplomacy, the US signaled it no longer believes Russia is serious about avoiding conflict, as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he had canceled a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov scheduled for Thursday.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Now that we see the invasion is beginning and Russia has made clear its wholesale rejection of diplomacy, it does not make sense to go forward with that meeting, Blinken said.
The US-led sanctions will hurt the global financial and energy markets, Anatoly Antonov, Russias ambassador to the US, said in a Facebook post, adding that ordinary Americans will feel the full consequences of rising prices.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance had every indication that Moscow continues to plan for a full-scale attack on Ukraine.
But we werent expecting this. We never thought Ukraine and Russia wouldnt end up agreeing.
In the frontline town of Shchastya, shellfire rang out around an electric power station as fearful residents awaited the Russian deployment.
But he left the door open to a final effort at diplomacy to avert a full-scale Russian invasion.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that Russias security interests were non-negotiable, but that he was ready to look for diplomatic solutions amid raging tensions with the West over Moscows aggression against Ukraine.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The National Security Committee of Morrisons cabinet approved sanctions and travel bans that target eight members of the Russian Security Council. They also agreed to expand previous sanctions and to align with the United States and Britain by targeting two Russian banks.
The announcements from Canberra and Tokyo came a day after US President Joe Biden announced tough new sanctions against Russia for beginning an invasion of Ukraine, but said there was still time to avoid war, even as Putin signaled plans to send troops beyond Russias borders.
Britain slapped sanctions on five Russian banks and three billionaires, and Canada followed suit with similar measures.
Biden said Washington would continue to supply defensive weapons to Ukraine and deploy more US troops to reinforce NATO allies in Eastern Europe.
Biden announced what he called the first tranche of sanctions, including steps to starve Russia of financing and target financial institutions and the countrys elites.
Kyiv recalled its top diplomat from Moscow as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned that Putins recognition of the breakaway regions heralded further military aggression against Ukraine.
Morrison said that targeted financial sanctions and travel bans will be the first batch of measures in response to Russian aggression toward Ukraine.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Japans Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said that his government will ban new issuance and distribution of Russian government bonds in Japan in response to the actions Russia has been taking in Ukraine.
Australia and Russia have imposed sanctions on each other since 2014. The sanctions were initiated by Australia in protest of Russian involvement in the Ukraine conflict.
Meanwhile, Japan and Australia were the latest countries to impose sanctions on Russia on Wednesday, announcing stringent penalties for Moscow and individuals connected with the military action.
