Routine gas pipeline shutdown starts amid German suspicion of Russia
20220711
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/routine-gas-pipeline-shutdown-starts-amid-german-suspicion-of-russia/
German politicians have dismissed Russias technical explanation for last months reduction in gas flows through Nord Stream 1, saying the decision was a political gambit to sow uncertainty and push up prices.
A major gas pipeline from Russia to Germany shuts down for annual maintenance amid German concern that Russia may not resume the flow of gas as scheduled.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The Nord Stream 1 pipeline, Germanys main source of Russian gas, is scheduled to be out of action until July 21 for routine work that the operator says includes testing of mechanical elements and automation systems. The operators data shows the gas flow dropping as planned this morning.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
German officials are suspicious about Russias intentions, particularly after Russias Gazprom last month reduced the gas flow through Nord Stream 1 by 60. Gazprom cited technical problems involving a gas turbine powering a compressor station that partner Siemens Energy sent to Canada for overhaul and couldnt be returned because of sanctions imposed over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
German Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck has said he suspects that Russia may cite some little technical detail as a reason not to resume gas deliveries through the pipeline after this months maintenance.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Canada said over the weekend that it would allow the part to be delivered to Germany, citing the very significant hardship that the German economy would suffer without a sufficient gas supply.
