Russian invaders cannot conquer us Zelensky says
20220313
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/russian-invaders-cannot-conquer-us-zelensky-says/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says Russias military will be repelled, that humanitarian corridors are working, and that the international community must support Ukraine more.
He says the Russian leadership is turning the country into an isolated state like North Korea, where poverty will reign, alongside violence.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The Russian invaders cannot conquer us. They do not have such strength. They do not have such spirit. They are holding
We still need to hold on. We still need to fight. Every day and every night we must look for ways to cause maximum damage to the enemy, he says.
The 17th day of the war is over. A war for the right to be free, Zelensky says in a video posted online.
Wherever Russia has come to a foreign land, dreams are impossible. Only a hard struggle for survival, he says.
The Russian invaders cannot conquer us. They do not have such strength. They do not have such spirit. They are holding only on violence. Only on terror, he says.
