Russia claims to kill 5 Ukrainian saboteurs who crossed border
20220221
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-claims-to-kill-5-ukrainian-saboteurs-who-crossed-border/
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba denied claims of a cross-border attack as well as a string of other claims issued by Russian officials throughout a tense day that has intensified fears that the Kremlin is paving the way for an invasion of Ukraine.
Russia annexed the Ukrainian region of Crimea in 2014 and Moscow-backed separatists hold an enclave in the eastern districts of Luhansk and Donetsk.
Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said there was no sign of Russian forces withdrawing from the border and that Moscow-backed rebels continue to shell Ukrainian positions.
Putins spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: Its premature to talk about any specific plans for organizing any kind of summits, adding that no concrete plans had been put in place.
MOSCOW AFP  The Russian military said Monday that it had killed five saboteurs who crossed into Russia from Ukraine, the latest claim fueling tensions along Moscows border with Ukraine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Biden has said that US intelligence believes that Putin has made a decision to invade Ukraine and that commanders are readying units to attack within days.
The report comes as Kyiv and Washington have accused Russia of plotting false flag operations to fake Ukrainian attacks in order to serve as a pretext for an all-out assault.
Ukraine also does NOT plan any such actions. Russia, stop your fake-producing factory now, he wrote.
Russian officials had earlier also said that a Ukrainian shell had destroyed a border facility used by Russias Federal Security Service FSB.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The use of Ukraine as an instrument of confrontation with our country poses a serious, very big threat to us, Putin said during a carefully stage-managed meeting of Russias national security council, adding that Moscows priority was not confrontation, but security.
It will be a war waged by Russia on the Ukrainian people to repress them, to crush them, to harm them, the White House official said.
It is today possible to move towards a summit it is up to President Putin to make his choice, the source said.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Mounting concern over an invasion quickly overshadowed a French diplomatic initiative, backed by Germany, to push for a summit between Putin and Biden.
A French presidential official later called on Putin to make a quick decision on the meeting, calling the situation very dangerous.
We understand that there are no prospects for the implementation of the 2015 Minsk peace accords, agreed in the capital of Belarus to end fighting between Ukraines army and pro-Moscow rebels in the east of the country, Putin told his security council.
Putin also warned that Western powers were using Moscows feud with Ukraine to threaten Russias own security.
In recent weeks, according to US intelligence, Moscow has massed an invasion force of troops, tanks, missile batteries and warships around Ukraines borders in Belarus, Russia, Crimea and the Black Sea.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Monday that he no longer felt that a key 2015 plan agreed with France, Germany and Kyiv would be able to resolve Ukraines separatist conflict.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told NBC News that a Russian invasion of its neighbor would be an extremely violent operation followed by a brutal occupation.
No, Ukraine did NOT: attack Donetsk or Luhansk, send saboteurs or APCs armored personnel carriers over the Russian border, shell Russian territory, shell Russian border crossing, conduct acts of sabotage, Kuleba said in an English-language tweet.
