Russia blames Ukraine for car bombing that killed daughter of Putins brain
20220822
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-blames-ukraine-for-car-combing-that-killed-daughter-of-putins-brain/
The agency said that Vovk and her daughter left Russia for Estonia after Duginas killing, using a different vehicle license plate on their way out of the country.
Dugin, who has been slapped with US and European Union sanctions, has promoted Russia as a country of piety, traditional values and authoritarian leadership, and spoken with disdain about Western liberal values.
In an appearance on Russian television just Thursday, Dugina said, People in the West are living in a dream, in a dream given to them by global hegemony. She called America a zombie society in which people opposed Russia but couldnt find it on a map.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The car bombing, unusual for Moscow since the turbulent 1990s, is likely to aggravate tensions between Russia and Ukraine.
His daughter expressed similar views and had appeared as a commentator on nationalist TV channel Tsargrad, where Dugin had served as chief editor.
On Sunday, Denis Pushilin, head of the Russia-backed separatist Donetsk Peoples Republic in Ukraines east, quickly blamed the blast on terrorists of the Ukrainian regime, trying to kill Alexander Dugin.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Dugin has been a prominent proponent of the Russian world concept, a spiritual and political ideology that emphasizes traditional values, the restoration of Russias global clout and the unity of all ethnic Russians throughout the world. He has vehemently supported Russian President Vladimir Putins move to send troops into Ukraine and urged the Kremlin to step up its operations in the country.
Russias Federal Security Service FSB, the main KGB successor agency, said that Duginas killing had been prepared and perpetrated by the Ukrainian special services.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Daria Dugina, the 29-year-old daughter of Alexander Dugin, a philosopher, writer and political theorist whom some in the West described as Putins brain, died when an explosive planted in her SUV exploded as she was driving Saturday night.
In this photo taken on August 11, 2016, Alexander Dugin, the neo-Eurasianist ideologue, sits in his TV studio in central Moscow, Russia. AP PhotoFrancesca Ebel, File
While Dugins exact ties to Putin are unclear, the Kremlin frequently echoes rhetoric from his writings and appearances on Russian state television. He helped popularize the Novorossiya, or New Russia concept that Russia used to justify the 2014 annexation of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula and its support of separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine.
Dugina herself was sanctioned by the United States in March for her work as chief editor of United World International, a website that the US described as a disinformation source. The sanctions announcement cited a United World article this year that contended Ukraine would perish if it were admitted to NATO.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
In Mondays statement, the FSB accused a Ukrainian citizen, Natalya Vovk, of perpetrating the killing and then fleeing from Russia to Estonia.
Daughter of the prominent Russian Nazi ideologist Alexander Dugin, Darya Platonova Dugina publicly described Ukrainians as subhumans and called for the Russian occupation of Ukraine and extermination of Ukrainian identity. I am sorry if I am not sorry about her death. pic.twitter.comQA2KRnmacy
MOSCOW AP  Russias top counterintelligence agency on Monday blamed Ukrainian spy services for organizing the killing of the daughter of a leading Russian nationalist ideologue in a car bombing just outside Moscow.
The explosion took place as Dugins daughter was returning from a cultural festival she had attended with him. Russian media reports cited witnesses as saying the SUV belonged to Dugin and that he had decided at the last minute to travel in another vehicle.
The FSB said that Vovk arrived in Russia in July with her 12-year-old daughter and rented an apartment in the building where Dugina lived to shadow her. It said that Vovk and her daughter were at a nationalist festival that Alexander Dugin and his daughter attended just before the killing.
