Russia reports using advanced hypersonic missile in Ukraine for first time
20220319
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-reports-using-advanced-hypersonic-missile-in-ukraine-for-first-time/
Hypersonic missiles, like traditional ballistic missiles which can deliver nuclear weapons, can fly at more than five times the speed of sound.
The United States, China, Russia, and at least five other countries have been working on hypersonic technology. China and Russia, in contrast to the US, have focused on developing hypersonic missiles compatible with nuclear weapons, according to the Congressional Research Service.
While countries like the United States have developed systems designed to defend against cruise and ballistic missiles, the ability to track and take down a hypersonic missile remains a question.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The Kinzhal aviation missile system with hypersonic aeroballistic missiles destroyed a large underground warehouse containing missiles and aviation ammunition in the village of Deliatyn in the Ivano-Frankivsk region, the Russian defense ministry said Saturday.
MOSCOW  Russia used its newest Kinzhal hypersonic missiles for the first time in Ukraine on Friday to destroy a weapons storage site in the countrys west, the Russian defense ministry said.
The Kinzhal missile was one of an array of new weapons Putin unveiled in a state-of-the-nation address in 2018.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has termed the Kinzhal Dagger missile an ideal weapon that flies at 10 times the speed of sound and can overcome air-defense systems.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russia has never before admitted using the high-precision weapon in combat. State news agency RIA Novosti called it the first use of the Kinzhal hypersonic weapons during the conflict in Ukraine.
Washington has raised concerns about China and Russias efforts to develop the technology, saying that it could raise tensions in the Indo-Pacific.
Crucially, a hypersonic missile is maneuverable like the much slower, often subsonic cruise missile, making it harder to track and shoot down.
But ballistic missiles fly high into space in an arc to reach their target, while a hypersonic flies on a trajectory low in the atmosphere, potentially reaching a target more quickly.
