Russia tests new intercontinental ballistic missile threatens West
20220420
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-tests-new-intercontinental-ballistic-missile-threatens-west/
Of course, this will simplify the serial production of the system by enterprises of the military-industrial sector and accelerate its delivery to the Strategic Missile Forces, he added.
MOSCOW  The Russian military said Wednesday it successfully performed the first test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile, a weapon President Vladimir Putin said would make the West think twice before harboring any aggressive intentions against Russia.
Amid the new Western sanctions that banned the exports of high-tech products to Russia and specifically targeted its arms industries in response to Moscows action in Ukraine, Putin emphasized that the Sarmat is built exclusively from domestic components
Dmitry Rogozin, the head of the state Roscosmos agency that oversees the missile factory building the Sarmat, described Wednesdays test as a present to NATO in a comment on his messaging app channel.
It has been fitted to the existing Soviet-built intercontinental ballistic missiles instead of older type warheads, and the first unit armed with the Avangard entered duty in December 2019.
Speaking to senior officials, Putin hailed the Sarmat launch, claiming that the new missile has no foreign analogs and is capable of penetrating any prospective missile defense.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said that Russia had given the US an advance notice about the launch in line with the New START nuclear arms control treaty between Moscow and Washington.
It said the launch was fully successful, proving the missiles characteristics in all phases of its flight.
This really unique weapon will strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces, reliably ensure Russias security from external threats and make those, who in the heat of frantic aggressive rhetoric try to threaten our country, think twice, Putin said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a concert marking the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea at the Luzhniki stadium in Moscow on March 18, 2022. Sergei GUNEYEV  POOL  AFP
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The Sarmat is a heavy missile that has been under development for several years to replace the Soviet-made Voyevoda, which was code-named Satan by the West and forms the core of Russias nuclear deterrent.
Russias Defense Ministry said the Sarmat ICBM was launched Wednesday from the Plesetsk launch facility in northern Russia and its practice warheads have successfully reached mock targets on the Kura firing range on the far eastern Kamchatka Peninsula.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The ministry said the Sarmat is capable of carrying hypersonic glide vehicles along with other types of warheads. The Russian military had previously said that the Avangard hypersonic vehicle could be fitted to the new missile.
Rogozin said the Sarmat is set to be commissioned by the military this fall after the completion of its trials, calling it a superweapon.
Russia properly notified the United States under its New START obligations that it planned to test this ICBM, he said. Such testing is routine. It was not a surprise. We did not deem the test to be a threat to the United States or its allies.
The military has said that the Avangard is capable of flying 27 times faster than the speed of sound and making sharp maneuvers on its way to target to dodge the enemys missile shield.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The test launch of the Sarmat missile comes amid soaring tensions between Moscow and the West over the Russian military action in Ukraine and underlines the Kremlins emphasis on the countrys nuclear forces.
The Sarmat is the most powerful missile that has the highest range in the world, and it will significantly bolster the capability of the countrys strategic nuclear forces, the Defense Ministry said in a statement.
