Russian POWs say they were used like a meat shield They sent us to death
20220302
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/russian-pows-say-they-were-used-like-a-meat-shield-they-sent-us-to-death/
In another clip, a captured trooper tells his mom: They sent us to death, the whole fuing battalion. Everybody was killed They dont even take away the bodies.
???????? Russian boy taken prisoner is shocked, says everything they told him about Ukraine in his home Russia was bullshit. pic.twitter.comju0ESfaR4J
He warns her, however, not to make too much trouble back home. If you start making a lot of noise the FSB will be after you, he says, in reference to the Russian internal security agency.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
We acted like Nazis. We attacked people here, so they were forced to defend their territory, a soldier adds.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
We were deceived and used like a meat shield, says yet another, according to the translation provided in the clip.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Everything they say to us is bullshit I just dont understand why we were told all this crap in Russia, a soldier says in another video while talking to his family. We have been fuing left here just like pigs.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukrainian forces continue to publish videos of captured Russian prisoners describing being kept in the dark about the invasion even as it was underway, and condemning the Russian militarys conduct.
In one, a soldier says his commander refused to tell him where the unit was going.
