Russia pulls diplomatic staff from Ukraine amid escalating tensions
20220222
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-pulls-diplomatic-staff-from-ukraine-amid-escalating-tensions/
Russian troops have entered in Donbas, the name for the area where the two separatist regions are located, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in Paris. We consider Donbas part of Ukraine.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson went as far as naming five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals who the UK hit with sanctions on Tuesday.
The Russian announcement of evacuations came shortly after the Russian parliaments upper house gave Putin permission to use the Russian army abroad.
Shocked by Putins order to deploy troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, world leaders moved quickly Tuesday to impose as forceful a response as possible in hopes of averting a full-blown war in Europe.
The rest of the European Union soon followed, with a first set of sanctions taking aim at Duma legislators who voted in favor of recognizing separatist regions in Ukraine, as well as several Russian officials. They also sought to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Members of the upper house, the Federation Council, voted unanimously to allow Putin to use military force outside Russia  effectively formalizing a Russian military deployment to the rebel regions, where an eight-year conflict has killed nearly 14,000 people.
Germany made the first big move, taking steps to halt the process of certifying the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia  a lucrative deal long sought by Moscow, but criticized by the US for increasing Europes reliance on Russian energy supplies.
This package of sanctions will hurt Russia and it will hurt a lot, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after chairing a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Paris.
But in a distinction that could complicate a European and Western response, he added: I wouldnt say that it is a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Western leaders have long warned that Moscow would look for cover to invade  and just such a pretext appeared to come Monday, when Putin recognized as independent two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where government troops have fought Russia-backed rebels in a conflict that has killed over 14,000 people. The Kremlin then raised the stakes further Tuesday, by saying that recognition extends even to the large parts now held by Ukrainian forces.
And if Putin pushes further into Ukraine, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg insisted the West would move in lockstep. If Russia decides once again to use force against Ukraine, there will be even stronger sanctions, even a higher price to pay, he said.
But confusion over what exactly was happening in eastern Ukraine threatened to hobble a Western response.
With tensions rising and a broader conflict looking ever more likely, the White House began referring to the Russian deployments as an invasion after initially hesitating to use the term  a red line that US President Joe Biden has said would result in the US levying severe sanctions against Moscow.
MOSCOW, Russia  Russia on Tuesday said it would soon evacuate its diplomatic staff from Ukraine to protect their lives, after lawmakers allowed Russian President Vladimir Putin to use force abroad.
The White House decided to begin referring to Russias actions as an invasion because of the situation on the ground, according to a US official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Condemnation from around the world was quick. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he would consider breaking diplomatic ties with Russia and Kyiv recalled its ambassador in Moscow.
Several Western countries, including Israel, have relocated their embassies from Kyiv to the city of Lviv near the Polish border, as the US and its allies have for months accused Russia of planning an attack on Ukraine.
Putins move to recognize the territories independence opened the door for him to formalize his hold on them and send forces in, though Ukraine and its Western allies have charged Russian troops have been fighting there for years. Moscow denies those allegations.
To protect the lives and safety of diplomats, the Russian leadership decided to evacuate the personnel of Russian foreign missions in Ukraine, which will be implemented in the near future, Moscows foreign ministry said in a statement.
For weeks, Western powers have been bracing for an invasion as Russia massed an estimated 150,000 troops on three sides of neighboring Ukraine. They warned an attack would cause massive casualties, energy shortages in Europe and economic chaos around the globe  and promised swift and severe sanctions if it materialized. The EU and Britain announced Tuesday that some of those measures were coming.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia has recognized the rebel regions independence in borders that existed when they proclaimed their independence in 2014  broad territories that extend far beyond the areas now under the rebel control and that include the major Black Sea port of Mariupol.
The ministry said that its diplomats have received threats and that its embassy and consulate have been under repeated attacks.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
