Russia renews assaults on Kyiv Chernihiv regions amid Ukrainian counterattacks
20220728
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-renews-assaults-on-kyiv-chernihiv-regions-amid-ukrainian-counterattacks/
It added that Ukraine has used its new long-range artillery to damage at least three of the bridges across the Dnieper River, which Russia relies upon to supply the areas under its control. The 1,000-meter-long Antonivsky bridge, which Ukrainian forces struck on Wednesday, is likely to be unusable, the British Defense Ministry concluded.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russian forces on Thursday launched massive missile strikes on Ukraines Kyiv and Chernihiv regions, areas that havent been targeted in weeks, while Ukrainian officials announced an operation to liberate an occupied region in the countrys south.
Their forces have highly likely established a bridgehead south of the Ingulets River, which forms the northern boundary of Russian-occupied Kherson, the British Defense Ministry said on Thursday.
Kyiv regional governor Oleksiy Kuleba said on Telegram that a settlement in the Vyshgorod district of the region was targeted early on Thursday morning an infrastructure object was hit. It wasnt immediately clear if there were any casualties.
Oleksiy Danilov, the secretary of Ukraines National Security and Defense Council, in televised remarks on Wednesday said he was cautious in assessing the timeline of the possible counteroffensive. I would really like it to be much faster, he said, adding that the enemy is now concentrating the maximum number of forces precisely in the Kherson direction.
Russian troops withdrew from the Kyiv and Chernihiv regions months ago, failing to capture either. The renewed strikes on the areas come a day after the leader of pro-Kremlin separatists in the east, Denis Pushilin, publicly called on the Russian forces to liberate Russian cities founded by the Russian people  Kyiv, Chernihiv, Poltava, Odesa, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, Lutsk.
A very large-scale movement of their troops has begun, they are gathering additional forces, Danilov warned.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, also came under a barrage of shelling overnight, its mayor Ihor Terekhov said. The southern city of Mykolaiv was fired at as well, with one person sustaining injuries.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian military continued to counterattack in the occupied southern region of Kherson, striking a key bridge over the Dnieper River on Wednesday.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Chernihiv governor Vyacheslav Chaus at the same time reported that multiple missiles were fired from the territory of Belarus at the Honcharivska community.
Ukrainian media on Thursday quoted Ukraines presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovich, as saying that the operation to liberate Kherson has already begun. Arestovich said Kyivs forces were planning to isolate Russian troops there and leave them with three options  to retreat, if possible, surrender or be destroyed.
