Russia threatens to ramp up missile attacks on Kyiv
20220316
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-threatens-to-ramp-up-missile-attacks-on-kyiv/
As a result of the strike on the Zhulyansky machine-building plant Vizar, the workshops for the production and repair of long-range and medium-range anti-aircraft missile systems, as well as anti-ship missiles, were destroyed, the ministry said.
Later the same day, the head of Russias Belgorod region said a village close to the border was shelled by Ukraine, while residents from this and a nearby village had been evacuated as a precaution.
Separately, the Russian defense ministry said Friday its strategic rocket forces eliminated up to 30 Polish mercenaries in a strike on the village of Izyumskoe, not far from the city of Kharkiv in northeastern Ukraine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The ministry also said its S-400 missile system shot down a Ukrainian Mi-8 helicopter that carried out an attack on civilians in the locality of Klimovo in Bryansk region on April 14.
The reported rocket strike was one of the biggest against foreign targets in Ukraine since another missile killed what the Russian military claimed was up to 180 foreign mercenaries in Western Ukraine last month.
The number and scale of missile strikes against targets in Kyiv will increase in response to any terrorist attacks or sabotage committed by the Kyiv nationalist regime on Russian territory, the ministry said in its daily update.
MOSCOW  Russias defense ministry warned Friday it will intensify attacks on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv in response to strikes on Russian soil, after accusing Ukraine of targeting Russian border towns.
It added that Russian troops hit a military factory outside Kyiv late Thursday using Kalibr sea-based long-range missiles.
On Thursday, Moscow accused Ukraine of sending helicopters to bomb a village in Russias Bryansk region  not far from the border with Ukraine  injuring eight people.
It said the mercenaries belonged to a private Polish military company, but did not say whether any Ukrainian troops were also killed.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Kyiv has denied the helicopter attack, instead accusing Russia of staging the incidents to stir up anti-Ukrainian hysteria in the country.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
