Russia threatens to target Western arms shipments to Ukraine
20220312
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-threatens-to-target-western-arms-shipments-to-ukraine/
He also denounced the US sanctions against Moscow as an unprecedented attempt to deal a serious blow to various sectors of the Russian economy, but noted that Moscow will act in a measured way to avoid hurting itself.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
We warned the United States that the orchestrated pumping of weapons from a number of countries is not just a dangerous move, it is a move that turns these convoys into legitimate targets, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told state television.
Ryabkov said Washington had not taken Moscows warnings seriously and added that Russia and the US were not holding any negotiation processes on Ukraine.
Much of the rest included humanitarian and economic assistance, strengthening regional allies defenses, and protecting their energy supplies and cybersecurity needs.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
He said Moscow had warned about the consequences of the thoughtless transfer to Ukraine of weapons like man-portable air defense systems, anti-tank missile systems and so on.
Ryabkov said that Russia has no intention to expel Western media and businesses amid the soaring tensions with the West, adding that we arent going to escalate the situation.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Russia on Saturday said its troops could target shipments of Western weapons in Ukraine, where the Russian army has been advancing since late February.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
An unprecedented $350 million in emergency military aid announced in late February has already been delivered to Ukrainian forces in the form of Stinger anti-aircraft missiles and portable Javelin anti-tank missiles.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The US Senate on Friday approved $13.6 billion in aid for Ukraine which will go towards arming and equipping the country along with the Pentagons costs for sending American troops to other Eastern European nations skittish about the warfare next door.
