Russians visited Iran twice in June to assess combat drones for Ukraine US says
20220716
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russians-visited-iran-twice-in-june-to-assess-combat-drones-for-ukraine-us-says/
To our knowledge, this is the first time a Russian delegation has visited this airfield for such a showcase, Sullivan added.
Iran said Tuesday that no special development had taken place in technological cooperation with Russia following the invasion of Ukraine in February.
We are releasing these images captured in June showing Iranian UAVs that the Russian government delegation saw that day. This suggests ongoing Russian interest in acquiring Iranian attack-capable UAVs.
The White House said earlier this week that it believes Moscow is looking to acquire hundreds of the drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs  and that Tehran is set to train Russian forces to use them as soon as this month.
WASHINGTON Russian officials have recently visited Iran twice to assess combat drones, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said Saturday, as Moscow looks to bolster its arsenal for the war in Ukraine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
A Russian delegation has visited an airfield in Kashan, central Iran, at least twice in the last month to examine weapons-capable drones, according to national security adviser JakeSullivan46 and satellite imagery obtained exclusively by CNN. pic.twitter.comlCFVB26bU3
Satellite imagery released by the White House shows Shahed-191 and Shahed-129 drones at or flying near the site.
It was important to make it clear to the world that we know that Russia needs these additional capabilities, Kirby said Tuesday. They are expanding their resources at an accelerated rate.
Drones have played a crucial role on both sides of the war in Ukraine, for everything from firing missiles from a distance, to dropping small bombs on targets, to conducting reconnaissance.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
John Kirby, a spokesman for the national security council, told CNN this week that the drones can be used both for reconnaissance and to deliver munitions.
The US and allies have recently provided longer-range precision weapons to Ukrainian forces, like the Himars precision-guided missiles, boosting their capability to strike Russian targets and repel Moscows intensifying attacks in the east.
Irans military hosted two showcases for Russian delegations at the Kashan airfield, on June 8 and again on July 5, Sullivan said in a statement.
We assess an official Russian delegation recently received a showcase of Iranian attack-capable UAVs, Sullivan said Saturday.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Ukraines forces have had particular success in using Turkish-made Bayraktar armed combat UAVs, and the US and other allies have supplied Kyiv with many types of smaller drones.
