Russia pummels Kharkiv as massive convoy nears capital Kyiv
20220301
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-pummels-kharkiv-as-massive-convoy-nears-capital-kyiv/
Both cities lie between territory held by Russian-backed separatists and the Crimean peninsula annexed by Moscow in 2014, and Russian forces have been working to join the two regions.
The comments came after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked NATO to impose a complete no-fly zone for Russian airplanes, helicopters and missiles.
Australia had committed to provide both lethal and non-lethal defensive support for Ukraine through NATO, he said.
More than 350 civilians, including 14 children, have been killed since the invasion last Thursday, Ukraine says, while more than half a million people have fled the country.
The images also showed additional ground forces deployments and ground attack helicopter units in southern Belarus near the Ukraine border, Maxar said.
Satellite photos showed a convoy of Russian forces north of Ukraines capital stretching for 40 miles. The vast convoy of armored vehicles, tanks, artillery and support vehicles was nearing Kyiv, according to satellite imagery from Maxar Technologies.
Mariupol and Volnovakha are ours! Kyrylenko wrote on Facebook. The two cities are under pressure from the enemy but they are holding on. In Mariupol, electricity lines have been cut and the city is without power.
Britains deputy prime minister again rejected calls for NATO to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying it would risk widening the war by putting the alliance in direct conflict with Russian forces.
At a press conference aired on state television, Shoigu said Moscow aims to demilitarize and de-Nazify Ukraine, as well as protect Russia from a military threat created by Western countries.
A spokesman for the separatists military said civilian safety of movement is guaranteed until Wednesday in the corridors.
The Russian army has been regrouping and massing its forces over the past 24 hours primarily to encircle and take control of Kyiv and other major cities, the general staff of Ukraines armed forces wrote on Facebook.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
In the capital, many were preparing for a fresh assault with makeshift barricades dotting the streets.
The separatist forces in Donetsk said they have established two corridors for the evacuation of civilians from Mariupol, an indication that a large attack could be imminent.
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison elaborated on his countrys plans after revealing a day earlier that his government would provide Zelensky with lethal military equipment. Morrison had promised only non-lethal military equipment last week.
Initial ceasefire talks between Moscow and Kyiv on Monday failed to secure a breakthrough, with Russia shelling residential areas in Ukraines second-largest city Kharkiv and other areas of the country after the negotiations.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Were talking missiles, were talking ammunition, were talking supporting them in their defense of their own homeland in Ukraine and well be doing that in partnership with NATO, Morrison said.
This file photo taken on January 6, 2022 shows Australias Prime Minister Scott Morrison speaking to the media during a press conference at Parliament House in Canberra. AFP
Regional administration chief Oleh Sinehubov said that Kharkivs administration headquarters also came under Russian shelling. Images posted online showed the buildings facade and interior badly damaged by a powerful explosion that also blew up part of its roof. The state emergencies agency said that attack wounded six people, including a child.
Russian shelling pounded civilian targets in Ukraines second-largest city again Tuesday and a 40-mile convoy of tanks and other vehicles threatened the capital Kyiv  tactics Ukraines embattled president said were designed to force him into concessions in Europes largest ground war in generations.
Kharkivs Mayor Igor Terekhov, quoted by Ukrainian media, warned that Moscows armored vehicles and tanks are everywhere around the city.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Russias movements have been stalled by fierce resistance on the ground and a surprising inability to dominate Ukraines airspace.
Meanwhile, the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol on the Azov Sea has been left without electricity following attacks from advancing Russian forces, the head of the region Pavlo Kyrylenko said.
Russian forces have made little progress in their advance to Kyiv over the past 24 hours, probably because of logistical difficulties, the ministry said.
Missile attack on the Kharkiv regional administration, Sumska 64. Grad shelling at residential areas. Putin now in total war with Ukraine. pic.twitter.comeXyfA4E4YI
Russia has been shelling Kharkiv, pounding civilian targets there. Casualties mounted and reports emerged that more than 70 Ukrainian soldiers were killed after Russian artillery recently hit a military base in Okhtyrka, a city between Kharkiv and Kyiv.
Australia said Tuesday it will provide Ukraine with $50 million in missiles, ammunition and other military hardware to fight Russian invaders.
Explosions were also reported in and around Brovary, a city on the outskirts of the capital.
Dominic Raab told Sky News that Britain instead is pressuring Russian President Vladimir Putin to change course by working with other countries to ratchet up sanctions and investigate war crimes during the conflict.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Western nations have increased weapons shipments to Ukraine to help its forces defend themselves  but have so far ruled out sending in troops.
Russia will continue the offensive in Ukraine until its goals are achieved, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said, almost a week into Moscows invasion.
Were not going to impose a no-fly zone because it would put us in a position where we would have to enforce it by, in effect, shooting down Russian planes, Raab said in an interview with Sky.
The UK Ministry of Defense said Russia has failed to gain control of the skies over Ukraine, forcing it to shift to night operations to reduce its losses.
We will greet them with Molotov cocktails and bullets to the head, bank employee Viktor Rudnichenko told AFP. The only flowers they might get from us will be for their grave.
