Russia pours in troops assails eastern Ukraine in potentially pivotal battle
20220420
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-pours-in-troops-assails-eastern-ukraine-in-potentially-pivotal-battle/
A few thousand Ukrainian troops, by the Russians estimate, remained holed up in a sprawling Mariupol steel plant, representing what was believed to be the last major pocket of resistance in the city.
Key to the campaign is the capture of Mariupol, the now-devastated city in the Donbas that the Russians have besieged since the early days of the war. Taking Mariupol would deprive Ukraine of a vital port and complete a land bridge between Russia and the Crimean Peninsula, seized from Ukraine from 2014.
If successful, the Russian offensive in what is known as the Donbas would essentially slice Ukraine in two and give Russian President Vladimir Putin a badly needed victory following the failed attempt by Moscows forces to storm the capital, Kyiv, and heavier-than-expected casualties nearly two months into the war.
A European official, also speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss military assessments, said Russia also has 10,000 to 20,000 foreign fighters in the Donbas. They are a mix of mercenaries from Russias private Wagner Group and Russian proxy fighters from Syria and Libya, according to the official.
The US official said that the offensive in the Donbas has begun in a limited way, mainly in an area southwest of the city of Donetsk and south of Izyum.
An explosion also rocked Kramatorsk, killing at least one person and wounding three, according to AP journalists at the scene.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The eastern cities of Kharkiv and Kramatorsk came under deadly attack, and a hospital was reported shelled in the southern town of Bashtanka. Russia also said it struck areas around Zaporizhzhia and Dnipro west of the Donbas with missiles.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Moscows forces bombarded numerous Ukrainian military sites, including troop concentrations and missile-warhead storage depots, in or near several cities or villages. Those claims could not be independently verified.
Military experts said the Russians goal is to encircle Ukrainian troops from the north, south and east.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In what both sides described as a new phase of the war, the Russian assault began Monday along a front stretching more than 300 miles 480 kilometers from northeastern Ukraine to the countrys southeast. Ukraines military said Russian forces tried to break through our defenses along nearly the entire front line.
The Ukrainians have ignored previous such offers, and there was no immediate confirmation a ceasefire occurred.
While Ukraine portrayed the attacks on Monday as the start of the long-feared offensive in the east, some observers noted that an escalation has been underway there for some time and questioned whether this was truly the start of a new offensive.
The Kremlin-backed leader of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, whose forces have taken part in the fighting in Mariupol, said on a messaging app that Russian forces would root out the Ukrainian resistance within hours and take full control of the steel mill on Tuesday. Kadyrov is known for his bluster and has repeatedly predicted the citys fall in the past.
A senior US defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the Pentagons assessments of the war, said the Russians had added two more combat units, known as battalion tactical groups, in Ukraine over the preceding 24 hours. That brought the total number of units in the country to 78, all of them in the south and the east, up from 65 last week, the official said.
Justin Crump, a former British tank commander now with the strategic advisory company Sibylline, said the Ukrainian comments could, in part, be an attempt to persuade allies to send more weapons.
What theyre trying to do by positioning this, I think, is focus peoples minds and effort by saying, Look, the conflict has begun in the Donbas, Crump said. That partly puts pressure on NATO and EU suppliers to say, Guys, were starting to fight now. We need this now.
Eyewitness accounts and reports from officials have given a broad picture of the extent of the Russian advance. But independent reporting in the parts of the Donbas held by Russian forces and separatists is severely limited, making it difficult to know what is happening in many places on the ground.
Weeks ago, after the abortive Russian push to take Kyiv, the Kremlin declared that its main goal was the capture of the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists have been fighting Ukrainian forces for eight years.
In his nightly address to the nation, Zelensky said that the situation in Mariupol remained unchanged and that the Russian military was blocking attempts to establish a humanitarian corridor out of the city and save people.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
A Russian victory in the Donbas would deprive Ukraine of the industrial assets concentrated there, including mines, metals plants and heavy-equipment factories.
Associated Press journalists in Kharkiv said at least four people were killed and three wounded in a Russian attack on a residential area of the city. The attack occurred as residents attempted to maintain a sense of normalcy, with municipal workers planting spring flowers in public areas.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia assaulted cities and towns along a boomerang-shaped front hundreds of miles long and poured more troops into Ukraine on Tuesday in a potentially pivotal battle for control of the countrys eastern industrial heartland of coal mines and factories.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
European and American arms have played a key role in enabling the outgunned Ukrainians to hold off the Russians. The Dutch prime minister told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Tuesday that the Netherlands would send heavier material, including armored vehicles.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
On Tuesday, Russia issued a new ultimatum to the Ukrainian defenders to surrender, saying those who come out will keep their lives, and said a ceasefire was being declared in the area so the combatants could leave the plant.
That would translate to about 55,000 to 62,000 troops, based on what the Pentagon said at the start of the war was the typical unit strength of 700 to 800 soldiers. But accurately determining Russias fighting capacity at this stage is difficult.
In Bashtanka, an unspecified number of people were wounded when Russian forces shelled the hospital, destroying the emergency room and dialysis area, the head of the regional council, Anna Zamazeyeva, said on Facebook.
