Russian negotiator cites progress in talks with Ukraine
20220313
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/russian-negotiator-cites-progress-in-talks-with-ukraine/
Earlier today, a senior Ukraine adviser and presidential aide, Mikhailo Podolyak, wrote on Twitter that Russia had stopped issuing ultimatums and instead carefully listens to our positions.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
MOSCOW  Russia says that negotiators are making headway at talks to resolve fighting in Ukraine, more than two weeks after President Vladimir Putin ordered his army over the borders of its pro-Western neighbor.
If we compare the positions of both delegations at the start of the talks and now, we see significant progress, he tells the network according to Russian news agencies.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin this week said there had been some positive shifts in the dialogue and that negotiations were being held almost daily.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
My own expectations are that this progress could develop over the next few days into a unified position held by both delegations in documents to be signed, agencies cite him as saying.
Negotiators from Moscow and Kyiv have held several rounds of talks since Putin sent in troops to the country. Turkey this week hosted a first meeting between the Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers.
Leonid Slutsky, a senior member of Russias negotiating team, tells the state-run television network RT that significant progress was made following several rounds of talks hosted on the border of neighboring Belarus.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said yesterday that Russia had adopted a fundamentally different approach in the talks.
