Russia accuses Ukraine of torturing prisoners of war with starvation electric shock
20220628
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-accuses-ukraine-of-torturing-prisoners-of-war-with-starvation-electric-shock/
According to its statement, one of the soldiers said Ukrainian medics treated him without anesthetic and that he was beaten, tortured with electricity in captivity.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Another injured Russian soldier, who had a limb amputated, said he was badly beaten and had his wound irritated by Ukrainian medics, the statement said.
The testimonies of the freed Russian soldiers are examples of violations of the Geneva Convention on prisoners of war, the Russian committee said.
MOSCOW, Russia  Russia said on Tuesday it was investigating the torture of Russian soldiers held prisoner in Ukraine and recently released as part of a prisoner swap with Kyiv in late June.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Last week Moscow and Kyiv exchanged 144 prisoners of war each  the biggest exchange since the start of Moscows Ukraine campaign launched on February 24.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The Russian Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes, said in a statement that it was verifying facts of inhuman treatment of Russia soldier prisoners in Ukraine.
