Russia adds own resolution on Ukraine war crisis to UN General Assembly scrum
20220322
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/russia-adds-own-resolution-on-ukraine-war-crisis-to-un-general-assembly-scrum/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield says supporters of the France-Mexico resolution are working with South Africa and assembly members to address any concerns in their resolution in order to try to have only one resolution put to a vote in the assembly.
The United Nations will now face three resolutions Wednesday on the worsening humanitarian situation in Ukraine, after Russia decided to call for a vote on its Security Council resolution, which makes no mention of Russian aggression against its smaller neighbor.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
A rival South African draft resolution, which makes no mention of Russias aggression, circulated Monday. It has been sent to the assembly, and could also be put to a vote on Wednesday.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
A letter sent to the assembly president Monday from the two countries and 20 others, including Ukraine and the US, asks for a resumption of its special session on Wednesday to put the resolution to a vote.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Thomas-Greenfield says the supporters are hoping to get the same vote for the France-Mexico resolution as for the March 2 General Assembly resolution, which demanded an immediate halt to Russias military action and withdrawal of all its forces. That vote was 141-5, with 35 abstentions, and was hailed by its supporters as a demonstration of Russias global isolation.
Israel supported the resolution after pressure from the US, which had expressed disappointment with its efforts to avoid condemning Russia. It is unclear whether it will do so again.
The General Assembly is also scheduled to consider two rival resolutions  one that makes clear Russia is responsible for the humanitarian crisis, and one that does not.
France and Mexico decided to seek a humanitarian resolution in the 193-member General Assembly, after Russia signaled it would veto the measure in the Security Council. The measure makes clear that the aid crisis is a result of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
