Russian Nobel Peace Prize winner donates his medal to help Ukrainian refugees
20220322
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russian-nobel-peace-prize-winner-donates-his-medal-to-help-ukrainian-refugees/
Last week, Novaya Gazetas front page showed an image of the protest by a news editor who held up a poster condemning Russias actions during a state television news broadcast, while it blurred out part of the posters slogan.
MOSCOW  The joint Russian winner of last years Nobel Peace Prize, Dmitry Muratov, said Tuesday he will donate his medal to help Ukrainian refugees.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Since 2000 it has seen six of its journalists and contributors killed, including investigative reporter Anna Politkovskaya.
Several days after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Muratov joined more than 1,000 writers from around the world in expressing solidarity for the people of Ukraine enduring their darkest hours.
Muratov said he wanted to share the medal with peaceful refugees and wounded and sick children who need emergency treatment.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
In a letter organized by the campaign group PEN International, and sent also in Ukrainian and Russian, the authors wrote that they stand united in condemnation of a senseless war, waged by President Putins refusal to accept the rights of Ukraines people to debate their future allegiance and history without Moscows interference.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Muratov, editor of Russias leading opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta, was awarded the 2021 prize alongside Maria Ressa of the Philippines for their efforts to safeguard freedom of expression.
We ask auction houses that can put this world-famous award on sale to get in contact, he wrote.
Novaya Gazeta has become one of the few remaining media outlets publishing viewpoints in opposition to the Kremlin.
In his message, the journalist also called for a ceasefire and prisoner exchange, the return of the bodies of those killed and provision of humanitarian corridors and aid.
The legal move is part of Moscows crackdown on independent media and online platforms since the conflict broke out.
Writing on Telegram, he said that he and the newspaper had decided to donate the gold medal to a fund to help Ukrainian refugees.
Novaya Gazeta said after conflict broke out in Ukraine it would not cover the events, citing new legislation on reporting on the military, which means media must describe Russias actions in Ukraine as a military operation.
