Russia praises Indias balanced stance on Ukraine after Security Council abstention
20220227
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/russia-praises-indias-balanced-stance-on-ukraine-after-security-council-abstention/
Despite being a member of the Quad grouping with Australia, Japan and the United States, India has neither explicitly condemned Moscows actions, nor called them an invasion so far.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
India, along with China and the UAE, did not vote on the resolution Friday, a move in line with the fine balance Delhi has sought to strike between partnerships with Moscow and Western allies.
India and Russia have a relationship, including in the defense and security sector, that we dont have, US State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters.
Since the assault, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken with both Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Russias Vladimir Putin, expressing concern over the violence.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russia has praised Indias independent and balanced position after Delhi abstained from a UN Security Council vote that deplored Moscows aggression against Ukraine.
On Saturday, Washington urged Delhi to use its influence with Russia to protect the rules-based international order.
We have asked every country that has a relationship and certainly those countries that have leverage to use that leverage in a constructive way.
Highly appreciate Indias independent and balanced position at the voting in the UNSC, the Russian embassy in India tweets on Saturday, hailing the countries special and privileged strategic partnership.
New Delhi and Moscow were close throughout the Cold War, a relationship that endures to this day, and Russia continues to be Indias biggest arms supplier.
