Russian deputy FM Moscow disappointed by Israeli officials antiRussian comments
20220519
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/russian-deputy-fm-moscow-disappointed-by-israeli-officials-anti-russian-comments/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Of course, we were a little disappointed in such anti-Russian statements by a number of responsible persons in Israel, because this does not correspond to the nature of the traditionally friendly relations that we have been building for 30 years since the late 80s, says Bogdanov in response to a question from the TASS Russian news agency.
He also stresses that Russia cherishes the special nature of relations with Israel, especially around the memory of World War II.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The minister makes his comments on the sidelines of the Russia  Islamic World: KazanSummit 2022 in the Russian republic of Tatarstan.
Russias Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov says that Moscow was a little disappointed by recent anti-Russian statements by Israeli officials.
Bogdanov adds that he expects Israel to take a more balanced and objective position on the war in Ukraine, according to TASS.
In this regard, we have common positions, and we celebrate Victory Day on May 9, unlike many Western countries.
