Russian troops invading rebelheld Ukraine West says as sanctions readied
20220222
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russian-troops-invading-rebel-held-ukraine-west-says-as-sanctions-readied/
Russian troops have entered in Donbas, the name for the area where the two separatist regions are located, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in Paris. We consider Donbas part of Ukraine.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson also said the UK would slap sanctions on five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals.
The White House, however, began referring to Russian troop deployments in eastern Ukraine as an invasion after initially hesitating to use the term  a red line that President Joe Biden has said would result in the US levying severe sanctions against Moscow.
Sweeping through more than a century of history, Putin painted todays Ukraine as a modern construct used by the West to contain Russia despite the neighbors inextricable links.
Russia has long denied it has any plans to invade Ukraine, instead blaming the US and its allies for the current crisis and describing Ukraines bid to join NATO as an existential challenge to Russia. Putin reiterated those accusations in an hourlong televised speech on Monday, when he announced that Russia would recognize the rebels.
Polands Defense Ministry and British Health Secretary Sajid Javid said Russian forces had entered Ukraines east, with Javid telling Sky News that the invasion of Ukraine has begun.
We are ready to show you what the real decommunization would mean for Ukraine, Putin added ominously in an apparent signal of his readiness to raise new land claims.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko insisted that no units had yet crossed the frontier.
In response to the moves thus far, top EU officials said the bloc was prepared to impose sanctions on several Russian officials and banks financing the Russian armed forces and move to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets. They gave few details.
But in a distinction that could complicate a European and Western response, he added: I wouldnt say that it is a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Western leaders have long warned that Moscow would look for cover to invade  and just such a pretext appeared to come Monday, when Putin recognized as independent two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where government troops have fought Russia-backed rebels in a conflict that has killed over 14,000 people. The Kremlin then raised the stakes further Tuesday, by saying that recognition extends even to the large parts now held by Ukrainian forces.
EU foreign ministers are meeting later Tuesday to discuss the measures  but they did not appear to include the massive punishment repeatedly promised in case of a full-fledged invasion.
But confusion over what exactly was happening in eastern Ukraine threatened to hobble a Western response.
For weeks, Western powers have been bracing for an invasion as Russia massed an estimated 150,000 troops on three sides of neighboring Ukraine. They warned an attack would cause massive casualties, energy shortages in Europe and economic chaos around the globe  and promised swift and severe sanctions if it materialized. The European Union and Britain announced Tuesday that some of those measures were coming.
The Kremlin hasnt confirmed any troop deployments to the rebel east, saying it will depend on the security situation.
The White House has also moved to respond, issuing an executive order to prohibit US investment and trade in the separatist regions, and additional measures  likely sanctions  were to be announced Tuesday. Those sanctions are independent of what Washington has prepared in the event of a Russian invasion, according to a senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.
The White House decided to begin referring to Russias actions as an invasion because of the situation on the ground, according to a US official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
The Russian moves also pushed Germany to suspend the certification process for Nord Stream 2 pipeline that was to bring natural gas from Russia. The pipeline was built to help Germany meet its energy needs, particularly as it switches off its last three nuclear power plants and phases out the use of coal, and it has resisted calls by the US and others to halt the project.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Condemnation from around the world was quick. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he would consider breaking diplomatic ties with Russia and Kyiv recalled its ambassador in Moscow.
Even as alarm spread across the globe, Zelensky, Ukraines president, sought to project calm, telling the country in an address overnight: We are not afraid of anyone or anything. We dont owe anyone anything. And we wont give anything to anyone.
In a stark warning to Ukraine, Putin charged that it has unfairly inherited Russias historic land granted to it by the Communist rulers of the Soviet Union and mocked its effort to shed the Communist past in a so-called decommunization campaign.
As world leaders scrambled to decide on their response, legislation that will likely set the stage for a deeper move into Ukrainian territory moved through Russias parliament.
The bills, which sailed quickly through the Kremlin-controlled parliament, envisage military ties between Moscow and the separatist regions, including possible deployment of Russian military bases in the separatist regions.
Putin warned Monday that the Western rejection of Moscows demands gives Russia the right to take other steps to protect its security.
Putins move to recognize the territories independence opened the door for him to formalize his hold on them and send forces in, though Ukraine and its Western allies have charged Russian troops have been fighting there for years. Moscow denies those allegations.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia has recognized the rebel regions independence in borders that existed when they proclaimed their independence in 2014  broad territories that extend far beyond the areas now under the rebel control and that include the major Black Sea port of Mariupol.
We think this is, yes, the beginning of an invasion, Russias latest invasion into Ukraine, said Jon Finer, principal deputy national security adviser. He said latest was important. An invasion is an invasion and that is what is under way.
Vladislav Brig, a member of the separatist local council in Donetsk, told reporters that the Russian troops already had moved in, but more senior rebel leaders didnt confirm that. Late Monday, convoys of armored vehicles were seen rolling across the separatist-controlled territories. It wasnt immediately clear if they were Russian.
Russia says it wants Western guarantees that NATO wont allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members. Moscow has also demanded the alliance halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The administration resisted initially calling the deployment of troops because the White House wanted to see what Russia was actually going to do. After assessing Russian troop movements, it became clear it was a new invasion, the official added.
His foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, will be in Washington on Tuesday to meet with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, the State Department said.
Amid the soaring tensions, Biden and Putin tentatively agreed to a meeting in a last-ditch effort to avoid war. But the US always said that if Russia moved in, the meeting would be off.
MOSCOW AP  Western leaders said Tuesday that Russian troops have moved into rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine after President Vladimir Putin recognized their independence  but some indicated it was not yet the long-feared full-fledged invasion.
For now, no one is planning to send anything anywhere. If there is a threat, then we will provide assistance in accordance with the ratified treaties, he said.
