Russian envoy to Israel dismisses reports Putin is ill Dont hold your breath
20220606
https://www.timesofisrael.com/russian-envoy-to-israel-dismisses-reports-putin-is-ill-dont-hold-your-breath/
Newsweek reported Thursday that Putin underwent treatment for advanced cancer in April and survived an assassination attempt in March.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russias invasion of Ukraine reached its 100th day on Friday with Russian forces hammering the Donbas region in their push to capture the countrys east.
Russias ambassador to Israel on Sunday downplayed recent reports alleging President Vladimir Putin is in ill health.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Viktorov was also questioned on growing allegations of war crimes by Russian troops in Ukraine. He denied this outright, saying: There are no mass graves, there are no war crimes and no war crimes were committed.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The report, citing US intelligence officials, warned against jumping to any conclusions or predicting Putins demise.
Russias invasion of its neighbor has killed thousands and forced millions to flee, with Ukraines east bearing the brunt of the assault.
Viktorov added: I can say he appears on TV every day. His health allows him to continue his important work for the country.
He added that he felt humiliated to be asked to respond to Ukrainian claims of genocide because it is no more than a media campaign.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said Kyivs forces are losing up to 100 soldiers per day.
