Shelling kills 1 in Ukraine Russia wants nuke plant pledges
20220814
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/shelling-kills-1-in-ukraine-russia-wants-nuke-plant-pledges/
As fighting steps up in southern Ukraine asRussias warcloses in on six months, concern has grown sharply about theZaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which is held by Russian forces and has been hit by sporadic shelling.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Both Ukraine and Russia blame each other for the shelling, which officials say has damaged monitoring equipment and could lead to a nuclear catastrophe.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
It is important that the Ukrainians stop their shelling of the station and provide security guarantees to members of the mission. An international team cannot be sent to work under continuous artillery shelling, he is quoted as saying by Russian state news agency Tass.
KYIV, Ukraine  Russian forces fire rockets at the Mykolaiv region in southern Ukraine, killing at least one person.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Meanwhile, a Russian diplomat calls on Ukraine to offer security assurances so that international inspectors could visit a nuclear power station that has come under fire.
The Mykolaiv region is just to the north of the Russian-occupied city of Kherson, which Ukrainian forces have vowed to retake. The Ukrainian emergency service says one person was killed in shelling this morning, in the Mykolaiv region settlement of Bereznehuvate.
Russias envoy to international organizations based in Vienna, Mikhail Ulyanov, calls on Ukraine to stop attacking the plant in order to allow an inspection mission from the International Atomic Energy Agency.
