Sorting facts from fiction in Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220302
https://www.timesofisrael.com/sorting-facts-from-fiction-in-russian-invasion-of-ukraine/
The UN human rights office says it has recorded the deaths of 136 civilians, including 13 children, in Ukraine since the start of Russias invasion on Feb. 24. The toll may be far higher.
US President Joe Biden warned that if the Russian leader didnt pay a price for the invasion, the aggression wouldnt stop with one country.
Britains Defense Ministry said it had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
A senior Western intelligence official estimated more than 5,000 Russian soldiers have been captured or killed, although overall soldier death tolls remained unclear.
China says one of its citizens was shot and injured while evacuating from Ukraine. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said the incident occurred on Tuesday while the person was leaving on their own.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov claimed Wednesday that the airstrike on a TV tower in the capital of Kyiv did not hit any residential buildings.
In Zhytomyr, a city about 140 kilometers 85 miles west of Kyiv, a Russian airstrike hit a residential area near a hospital late Tuesday, Mayor Serih Sukhomlin said in a Facebook video. Ukraines emergency services said the strike killed at least two people, set three homes on fire and broke the windows in the hospital.
Moscow made new threats of escalation, days after raising the specter of nuclear war. A top Kremlin official warned that the Wests economic war against Russia could turn into a real one.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky described Russias escalation of attacks on crowded cities as a blatant terror campaign.
The administration headquarters in Kharkivs city center also was targeted. Images showed the building badly damaged by a powerful explosion that blew up part of its roof. Closed-circuit television footage showed a fireball engulfing the street in front of the building, with a few cars rolling out of the billowing smoke. An emergency official said the bodies of at least six people had been pulled from the ruins and at least 20 other people were wounded.
Associated Press journalists in Ukraine and beyond are documenting military activity during Russias invasion. With disinformation rife and social media amplifying military claims and counterclaims, determining exactly what is happening can be difficult. Heres a look at what could be confirmed Wednesday as Russias military assault on Ukraine was in its seventh day.
China wont join the United States and European governments in imposing financial sanctions on Russia, the countrys bank regulator said.
The UN refugee agency says more than 874,000 people have fled Ukraine and the figure is rising exponentially  putting it on track to cross the 1 million mark within hours or possibly within a day.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Russian shelling hit civilian targets in Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv. In video verified by the AP, explosions burst through a residential area of the city.
A Kremlin spokesman says a Russian delegation will be ready on Wednesday evening to resume talks with Ukrainian officials about the war. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that in the second half of the day, closer to evening, our delegation will be in place to await Ukrainian negotiators.
Images showed a TV tower in Kyiv on fire. Ukraine officials said a Russian strike on the tower killed five people and left five more wounded. Local media had reported Ukrainian TV channels stopped broadcasting shortly after the strike. An official with Zelenskys office said some channels had resumed broadcasting.
The Ukrainian state emergency service said there was a Russian strike on the regional police and intelligence headquarters. It said three people were wounded.
Russia claimed its military has taken control of the area around Ukraines largest nuclear power plant. Thats according to the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear watchdog.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Zelensky expressed outrage Wednesday at the attack on the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial, and concern that other historically significant and religious sites, such as St. Sophias Cathedral, could be targeted.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Ukraines Defense Ministry said in a statement that Belarussian troops are concentrated close to the countries border. The ministry said at the end of the day Tuesday there had been significant aircraft activity and a column of vehicles with food and ammunition approaching.
Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraines east in recent days. Residents also reported the use of such weapons in Kharkiv and Kiyanka village. The Kremlin denied using cluster bombs.
Powerful blasts could be heard Tuesday night in central Kyiv. People on the ground reported car alarms were set off by the blasts, a first in the central part of the capital city where Russian forces are encroaching.
