Tens of thousands of Syrians enlisting to fight alongside Russia in Ukraine war
20220308
https://www.timesofisrael.com/tens-of-thousands-of-syrians-enlisting-to-fight-alongside-russia-in-ukraine-war/
BEIRUT, Lebanon AFP  Russia has drawn up lists of 40,000 fighters from the Syrian army and allied militias to be put on standby for deployment in Ukraine, a war monitor said Tuesday.
Another 18,000 men had registered with Syrias ruling Baath party and would be screened by the Wagner Group, a Russian private military contractor with links to the Kremlin, the monitor said.
Those fighters are either combatants drawn from the army or pro-regime militias who have experience in street warfare and received Russian training.
The official Syrian state TV broadcasted this footage of Syrian soldiers who are ready to be deployed to support the Russian army in Ukraine.Multiple visits in military planes occurred between Syria and Moscow in the last 10 days. pic.twitter.com7fFfhAYx2j
Wagner started the whole thing in Deir Ezzor only dozens have registered so far, he said.
In a country where soldiers earn between $15 and $35 per month, Russia has promised them a salary of $1,100 to fight in Ukraine, the Observatory reported.
The Observatory said it had no confirmed reports yet of any Syrian recruits leaving for Ukraine.
The situation is extremely dire. There is no electricity, heating, or household gas, he said, adding he had registered at an air force intelligence office near Damascus.
Abdel Rahman said Russia had drawn Syrian army recruits from the 25th Special Mission Forces Division, once better known as the Tiger Forces, and from the Russian-run 5th Division.
Until now no names have been written down, no soldiers registered in any centers nor has anyone traveled to Russia to fight in Ukraine, Omar Rahmoun of the National Reconciliation Committee told AFP.
A picture taken during a guided tour with the Russian army shows a Russian army trainer L gesturing during an instruction session with Syrian elite soldiers at an army base in Yafour, some 30 kilometers west of Damascus, September 24, 2019. Maxime POPOV  AFP
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The Kremlin said last week that volunteers, including those from Syria, were welcome to fight alongside the Russian army in Ukraine.
More than a decade of war has pushed 90 percent of the population into poverty, a factor Syrians for Truth and Justice said was a key factor in the recruitment.
While money is the main driver for Syrian mercenaries on both sides of the conflict, rights groups said Ankaras proxies often exploited fighters and withheld wages.
A man walks past destruction by airstrikes on the town of Ariha, in Idlib province, Syria, on January 30, 2020. AP PhotoGhaith Alsayed, File
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russian officers deployed as part of the force Moscow sent to Syria in 2015 to support Damascus had approved 22,000 of them, Abdel Rahman said.
Syrian Democratic Forces fighters walk in a field in Hassakeh, northeast Syria, January 26, 2022. AP PhotoBaderkhan Ahmad
Last week, pictures were shared of a Syrian soldier they said had died in Ukraine, but it later appeared he had been killed in his homeland in 2015.
A Syrian soldier told the activist group this month that he enlisted to fight in Ukraine because he could not find a job after his military service.
Syrian mercenaries have already fought on opposing sides of foreign conflicts, in Libya and Nagorno-Karabakh.
An AFP reporter in northern Syria said the factions preparing for Ukraine include the Sultan Murad, Sulaiman Shah and Hamza divisions, all of which had previously sent hundreds of fighters to fight in Libya and Azerbaijan.
Turkey-backed rebels in northern Syria are also gearing up to send fighters on the opposing side.
We are tired of the hunger I will go and never come back. From Ukraine, I plan to go to Europe, another said.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
They are also entitled to $7,700 in compensation for injuries and their families to $16,500 if they are killed in combat.
In a country that lacks basic necessities, some have no choice but to fight for a few hundred dollars.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
More than 40,000 Syrians have registered to fight alongside Russia in Ukraine so far, said Rami Abdel Rahman, who heads the UK-based monitor.
Fighters from the Palestinian Liwaa al-Quds group and the Baath partys military branch had also enlisted.
Regime-allied forces opened recruitment centers in the eastern towns of Al-Mayadeen and Deir Ezzor, according to Omar Abu Layla, who heads the Deir Ezzor 24 media outlet.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and activists said Russian officers, in coordination with the Syrian military and allied militia, had set up registration offices in regime-held areas.
Moscow is recruiting Syrians who acquired combat experience during Syrias 11-year-old civil war to bolster the invasion of Ukraine it launched on February 24.
