To Secure World Freedom Russia Must be Stopped
20220304
https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/to-secure-world-freedom-russia-must-be-stopped/
The Chinese political leadership would clearly be emboldened by a Russian victory in Ukraine, perhaps enough to grab Taiwan and totally eradicate what is left of free Hong Kong as well. The Iranians will see a victory by Russia in the face of no opposition by the West as carte blanche to attempt to obliterate Israel. Russia itself will be further emboldened to act against Scandinavian countries, and has already issued a warning to Finland and Sweden that they had better abandon any ideas of joining NATO. No doubt, other troublesome world leaders will go down similar paths of their choosing.
There is no doubt the war is abhorrent. There is also no doubt that when thinking about going to war and realizing that as a result we in the West run the risk of being displaced ourselves, our minds turn to diplomacy. However, reasoning with someone who has a loaded weapon aimed at your head defies logic. What is at stake here is nothing less than our right to live in a civilized world where nations observe international norms and recognize the sovereignty of others. When that standard is breached, it must be neutralized at the earliest possible moment.
Some say this is not 1938. Indeed, it is not. Today military technology is far advanced from what was the norm then, atomic warheads are available in abundance and the damage is instantly visible in the palms of everyones hands. It is, to be sure, 1938 on steroids. That means that we actually have less time to act and react.
There is no way to describe the Russian attack on the sovereign nation of Ukraine except as an unprovoked land grab supported by attacks on every major area of Ukraine accompanied by a ground invasion by Russias military. Invading a country in an effort to bring it to its knees without prior provocation is plain and simple, an act of war. In this case an act of war which was perpetrated after giving the world assurances that there was not going to be an invasion, even in the face of the prior buildup of over 100,000 Russian troops adjacent to Ukraines borders.
To insure democracy we have to put what we presently have at risk before other bad actors try to capitalize on Putins success. Every tool at the disposal of the West needs to be used to stop the wanton destruction of Ukraine, which did nothing to justify the Russian invasion. That includes not only extensive economic sanctions but the physical destruction of Russias war machine, at least to the extent that it will cripple the countrys capability to supply its troops in Ukraine with provisions and supplies.
Sadly, the response of the western liberal democracies falls short of what is clearly required to stop the Monster of Moscow from achieving his goal of taking over Ukraine and returning it to domination by Russia. Diplomacy, while important, will not solve this problem. Setting up facilities to handle the over one million Ukrainians refugees who have fled the country for safer climes is important, but will not solve the problem. History has taught us that force must be met with force and the West has no choice but to go to war with Russia if the free world is to retain its freedom.
Former US President, Ronald Reagan said: Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didnt pass it to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same. Nobody thought we would be here in Europe yet again but given the reality of the situation, there is no other choice but to respond to Russia in kind, frightening as that may be to contemplate. We have been here before and should have learned our lesson.
Putin is employing hardware policies. It is a military attack. Military attacks cannot be stopped by UN resolutions. Military attacks cannot be stopped by so-called soft diplomacy that we heard so much, that Ive heard, from the White House and from the State Department. This from Putins former economic advisor Andrei Illarionov in an interview with the US Newsmax.
Intelligent people know that eventually a war will need to be fought. If the choice is made now to do nothing militarily, there will be another Ukraine and Europe will descend into the kind of chaos that has not been seen since World War II.
In the particular situation in which we find ourselves today, it is clear that Putin should have been stopped in 2014 when Russia annexed Crimea. Instead, the leadership of the West chose to look the other way, disinviting Putin to world economic summits but otherwise acting as if what he did there was acceptable. It was not acceptable then and it is not acceptable now. Sadly, the longer the West waits to react in kind, the more difficult it will be to stop the Russian attempt, once again, at world domination.
To be sure, it is not only Ukraine that is at risk here. There are a lot of bad actors in the world who are watching what Putin does to determine if they can replicate his actions without penalty in their corners of the world as well.
