Ukrainian negotiator says Russia realizing real cost of war
20220306
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukrainian-negotiator-says-russia-realizing-real-cost-of-war/
Talks with Russia are beginning to be constructive, a Ukrainian negotiator says, describing what he perceives as an apparent shift in Moscows attitude towards Ukrainian resistance and biting international sanctions.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
At the very start of the war, they were insisting on total domination. They werent expecting that Ukraine would deliver such severe resistance, Podolyak says in an interview with the Canadian daily The Globe and Mail, in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The Russians have lost massive amounts of equipment and manpower. Sanctions like weve never seen before are collapsing their economy. Their country has become an outlaw on the international scene and their propaganda doesnt work at all, Podolyak says.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
They are starting to realize the real price of war only now. And now we are starting to have constructive negotiations, adds the official, who participated in the first two rounds of talks between Russia and Ukraine, held on the border of Belarus.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, says he has noted a change in Russias approach as it realizes the real price of war.
