Ukraine defends eastern city from Russian bombardment
20220523
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-defends-eastern-city-from-russian-bombardment/
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Buoyed by a visit from a neighbor and ally, Ukrainians were digging in to defend the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk, which came under heavy bombardment from Russian forces trying to take the industrial area known as the Donbas.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called the visit a historic opportunity not to lose such strong relations, built through blood, through Russian aggression. All this not to lose our state, not to lose our people.
Unfortunately, in Europe there have also been disturbing voices in recent times demanding that Ukraine yield to Putins demands, he said. I want to say clearly: Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future. Only Ukraine has the right to decide for itself.
President Andrzej Duda received a standing ovation when he thanked the lawmakers for letting him speak where the heart of a free, independent and democratic Ukraine beats. Duda said Ukraine need not submit to conditions given by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Zelensky called the interview itself a date on air, and the couple, who have two children, joked in front of the journalists.
Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova has said her office was prosecuting war crimes cases against 41 Russian soldiers for offenses that included bombing civilian infrastructure, killing civilians, rape and looting.
In a general staff morning report, Russia said it was also preparing to resume its offensive on Slovyansk, a city in Donetsk province that saw fierce fighting last month after Moscows troops backed away from Kyiv.
He said the Russians had occupied several towns and cities in Luhansk after indiscriminate, 24-hour shelling. Haidai said Moscow was concentrating forces and weaponry there, bringing in forces from Kharkiv to the northwest, Mariupol to the south, and from inside Russia.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
On Monday, a Ukrainian court was expected to reach a verdict for a Russian soldier who was the first to go on trial for an alleged war crime. The 21-year-old sergeant, who has admitted to shooting a Ukrainian man in the head in a village in the northeastern Sumy region on February 28, could get life in prison if convicted.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Kyiv is the place from which one clearly sees that we need more America in Europe, both in the military and in this economic dimension, said Duda, a right-wing populist leader who clearly preferred the former US president, Donald Trump, over Biden in the 2020 election.
Ukrainian officials have said little since the war began about the extent of their countrys casualties, but Zelensky said at a news conference Sunday that 50 to 100 Ukrainian fighters were being killed, apparently each day, in the east.
We are joking, but we are really waiting, like everyone else, to be reunited, like all families in Ukraine who are separated now, waiting for their relatives and friends who want to be together again, he said.
Frances European Affairs minister Clement Beaune on Sunday told Radio J it would be a long time before Ukraine gains EU membership, perhaps up to two decades. We have to be honest, he said. If you say Ukraine is going to join the EU in six months, or a year or two, youre lying.
Poland is ramping up efforts to win over EU members who are more hesitant about accepting Ukraine into the bloc. Zelensky has urged the 27-member EU to expedite his countrys request to join, and it is to be discussed at a Brussels summit in late June.
Sievierodonetsk is the main city under Ukrainian control in Luhansk province, which together with Donetsk province make up the Donbas.
To bolster its defenses, Ukraines parliament voted Sunday to extend martial law and mobilize the armed forces for a third time, until August 23.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
While Russian and Ukrainian forces battled along a 551-kilometer 342-mile wedge of Ukraines eastern industrial heartland, Polands president traveled to Kyiv on Sunday to support Ukraines European Union aspirations, becoming the first foreign leader to address the Ukrainian parliament since the start of the war.
The sole working hospital in Sievierodonetck has only three doctors and supplies for 10 days, he said.
In other developments, Ukraines first lady, Olena Zelenska, gave a rare interview to national broadcaster ICTV alongside her husband and said she has hardly seen him since the war began.
Our family, like all Ukrainian families, is now separated, she said, adding that she speaks to him mostly by phone.
It was Dudas second visit to Kyiv since April. Poland has become an important ally of Ukraine, welcoming millions of Ukrainian refugees and becoming a gateway for Western humanitarian aid and weapons. It is also a transit point for some foreign fighters who have volunteered to fight the Russian forces.
Luhansks governor, Serhii Haidai, said Sunday that the Russians were simply intentionally trying to destroy the city engaging in a scorched-earth approach.
In Enerhodar, a Russian-held city 281 kilometers 174 miles northwest of Mariupol, an explosion Sunday injured the Moscow-appointed mayor at his residence, Ukrainian and Russian news agencies reported. Ukraines Unian news agency said a bomb planted by local partisans wounded 48-year-old Andrei Shevchuk, whose lives near the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, Europes largest.
Unfortunately, we cannot sit together, have dinner with the whole family, talk about everything, she said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The conflict was not confined to Ukraines east. Powerful explosions were heard early Monday, for example, in Korosten, about 160 kilometers 100 miles west of Kyiv, the towns deputy mayor said. It was the third straight day of apparent attacks in the Zhytomyr District, Ukrainian news agencies reported.
On the battlefield, grinding, town-by-town fighting continued as Russian troops try to expand the territory that Moscow-backed separatists have held since 2014 in the Donbas.
Duda credited the US and President Joe Biden for unifying the West in supporting Ukraine and imposing sanctions against Moscow.
The Ukrainian military said Russian forces had mounted an unsuccessful attack on Oleksandrivka, a village outside of the city.
