Ukraine denies saboteurs crossed into Russia rebels ask Putin for recognition
20220221
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-denies-saboteurs-crossed-into-russia-rebels-ask-putin-for-recognition/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukraine firmly denies Russian claims that Russian forces killed five Ukrainian saboteurs who allegedly crossed the border to stage an attack.
No, Ukraine did NOT: attack Donetsk or Lugansk, send saboteurs or APCs armored personnel carriers over the Russian border, shell Russian territory, shell Russian border crossing, conduct acts of sabotage, Kuleba says in an English-language tweet.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Russian officials had earlier also said that a Ukrainian shell had destroyed a border facility used by Russias Federal Security Service FSB.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Also, the rebel leaders of east Ukraines two self-proclaimed republics ask Russian President Vladimir Putin to recognize the independence of their breakaway territories in a coordinated appeal.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
I ask you to recognize the sovereignty and independence of the Lugansk Peoples Republic, separatist Leonid Pasechnik says in a video aired on Russian state television. Denis Pushilin, the rebel head of the Donetsk Peoples Republic, makes a similar appeal.
Ukraine also does NOT plan any such actions. Russia, stop your fake-producing factory now, he says.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba denies a string of claims issued by Russian officials throughout a tense day that has heightened fears that the Kremlin is paving the way for an invasion of Ukraine.
