Ukraine retreats from key Luhansk redoubt in major gain for Russia
20220703
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-retreats-from-key-luhansk-redoubt-in-major-gain-for-russia/
Belarus, a Russian ally, supported the February 24 invasion and has been accused by Kyiv of launching its own attacks on Ukrainian territory.
On Sunday, Russia accused Ukraine of firing three cluster missiles at the city of Belgorod near the Ukrainian border, which came after Belarus said on Saturday that it had intercepted Ukrainian missiles.
Ukraine will also face demands for broad reforms, especially in cracking down on corruption, after Brussels recently granted Kyiv candidate status, in its push to join the 27-member bloc.
On Monday, leaders from dozens of countries and international organizations gather in the Swiss city of Lugano for a conference on Ukraines reconstruction. The aim is to provide a roadmap for the war-ravaged countrys recovery.
The continuation of the defense of the city would lead to fatal consequences, in the face of Russias superiority in numbers and equipment, the army said in a statement.
In order to preserve the lives of Ukrainian defenders, a decision was made to withdraw.
Lysychansk was the last major city in the Luhansk area of the eastern Donbas region still in Ukrainian hands, and taking control of it frees up Moscows forces to advance on Kramatorsk and Sloviansk in neighboring Donetsk.
Russian forces seized Lysychansks twin city of Severodonetsk last week, following weeks of intense fighting.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Farmer Sergiy Lyubarsky, whose fields are close to the frontline, warned that time was running out to harvest this years crop.
The latest blow to Ukrainian resistance came after Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese on Sunday pledged further military support, including armored vehicles and drones, during a meeting with Zelensky in Kyiv.
In peacetime, Ukraine is a major agricultural exporter, but Russias invasion has damaged farmland and seen Ukraines ports seized, razed or blockaded  sparking concerns about food shortages, particularly in poor countries.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russia previously accused Kyiv of conducting strikes on Russian soil, particularly in the Belgorod region.
A Ukrainian official said Sunday that his countrys forces had put out of action a Russian military base in Melitopol, while the Ukrainian army said the air force had destroyed around 20 Russian units and two ammunition depots.
Zelensky said colossal investments would be needed, as 10 regions of Ukraine had been affected in the war, with many towns and villages needing to be rebuilt from scratch.
Western powers have accused Putin of using the trapped harvest as a weapon to increase pressure on the international community, and Russia has been accused of stealing grain.
In what would represent an escalation of the conflict, Moscow said its anti-aircraft defenses shot down three Tochka-U cluster missiles launched by Ukrainian nationalists against Belgorod, close to the Ukrainian border.
Two people were killed and three wounded  including two children  in a strike on the town of Dobropillya, local authorities in Donetsk said.
We do not intend to fight in Ukraine, he was quoted as saying by state news agency Belta on Saturday.
Unfortunately, steel will and patriotism are not enough for success  material and technical resources are needed.
It was intense, and it was shooting from all sides, said a woman sheltering in a cellar.
The town of Melitopol is covered in smoke, said the citys exiled mayor Ivan Fedorov.
The city of Siversk, 30 kilometers west of Lysychansk, saw overnight shelling, residents and an official told AFP.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had earlier denied Russian claims of Lysychansks fall before the Ukrainian army announced the retreat on Sunday evening.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
We can wait until August 10 at the latest, but after that, the grains are going to dry out and fall to the ground, he said.
On Saturday, Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko accused Kyiv of provocation and said his army intercepted missiles fired at his country by Ukrainian forces around three days ago.
Elsewhere, the mayor of Sloviansk, 75 kilometers 45 miles west of Lysychansk, reported the heaviest Russian shelling for a long time, saying a child had been among six people killed, with another 15 people wounded.
SIVERSK, Ukraine AFP  The Ukrainian army retreated from the strategic city of Lysychansk on Sunday, as Russia claimed a major victory by seizing control of the entire eastern Luhansk region.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Fierce fighting continues along the entire frontline, in Donbas, Zelensky said in an address late Saturday, accusing enemy activity of intensifying in the wider region around Ukraines second city of Kharkiv.
The Ukrainian withdrawal followed weeks of fierce fighting and marked a decisive breakthrough for Moscows forces more than four months after their invasion and after turning their focus away from the capital Kyiv.
