Ukraine says has proof Russia used banned cluster bombs
20220328
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-says-has-proof-russia-used-banned-cluster-bombs/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russian troops have been held at bay from advancing on Odesa, Ukraines main port city on the Black Sea.
Kherson is the only major city that Russian forces have captured since their invasion began, but Ukrainian troops have sought to recapture the mid-sized city on the route from Russian-occupied Crimea to Odesa.
But we have proof of the utilization of cluster bombes in the Odesa region and in the Kherson area, she says.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Venediktova says that journalists are bringing to light cases of possible use of cluster bombs and other banned weapons.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Cluster bombs spread dozens of tiny explosive charges across an area, some of which may not explode immediately, in effect becoming anti-personnel mines that pose a threat to civilians long after a conflict ends.
But I can only mention instances where I have very concrete proof, for example when I have bomb fragments or soil samples and analyses, she says, without providing additional details.
A UN treaty concluded in 1997 banned the use of anti-personnel mines, but neither Russia nor the United States signed, although Ukraine did.
Pressure groups like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said that they collected proof of use of cluster bombs in areas where civilians were present in Ukraine.
Asked by journalists about the use of such munitions by Russians in their bombardments of the Ukrainian capital since the invasion began over a month ago, Venediktova says she does not have concrete proof, but that investigations are under way.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine has proof that Russian forces have used banned cluster bombs in two southern regions of the country, Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova says.
