Ukraine says shelling causes damage threat of radiation leak at nuclear plant
20220827
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-says-shelling-causes-damage-threat-of-radiation-leak-at-nuclear-plant/
Kyiv and Moscow have traded accusations over shelling in the vicinity of the complex, located in the city of Energeia.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The operator said that as of midday Saturday 0900 GMT the plant operates with the risk of violating radiation and fire safety standards.
It came back online on Friday afternoon but Zelensky warned the worst case scenario is constantly being provoked by Russian forces.
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA is urging for a mission to the plant as soon as possible to help stabilize the nuclear safety and security situation there.
As a result of periodic shelling, the infrastructure of the station has been damaged, there are risks of hydrogen leakage and sputtering of radioactive substances, and the fire hazard is high, the nuclear agency said on Telegram.
The Zaporozhye facility was seized by Russian troops in the opening weeks of the February invasion and has remained on the front line ever since.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
On Thursday, the plant was cut off from Ukraines national power grid for the first time in its four-decade history due to actions of the invaders, Enervator said.
Enervator said Moscows troops had repeatedly shelled the site of the plant in southern Ukraine over the past day.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the power cut was caused by Russian shelling of the last active power line linking the plant to the network.
KYIV, Ukraine  There is a risk of a radioactive leak at Ukraines Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant  Europes largest  which is occupied by Russian troops, the state energy operator said Saturday.
