Ukraine sees military openings as Russia fixed on besieged Mariupol
20220403
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-sees-openings-as-russia-fixed-on-besieged-mariupol/
Zelensky alleged that as Russian troops have shifted, theyve left mines around homes, abandoned equipment, and even the bodies of the dead. Those claims could not be independently verified, but Ukrainian troops were seen heeding the warning.
Some residents escaped on their own, including Tamila Mazurenko, who reached Zaporizhzhia, a city still under Ukrainian control that has served as a hub for other evacuations.
Mariupol is in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas region, where Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian troops for eight years. Its capture would create an unbroken land corridor from Russia to Crimea, which Moscow seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Even as flickers of hope emerged for Ukraine in some places, Zelensky said he expects towns where Russian forces depart to endure missile and rocket strikes from afar and for the battle in the east to be intense. In his evening address Saturday, he called for his people to do whatever they can to ensure the countrys survival, even acts as simple as showing each other kindness.
I have only one question: Why? she said of her citys ordeal. Our normal life was destroyed. And we lost everything. I dont have any job, I cant find my son.
Many still in Mariupol await the fulfillment of promises to help them reach safety. Among those trying to get residents out was the International Committee of the Red Cross, which still hadnt reached the city on Saturday, a day after local authorities said it had been blocked by Russian forces.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Though the geography of the battlefield morphed, little changed for many Ukrainians more than five weeks into a war that has sentmore than 4 million peoplefleeing the country as refugees.
Peace will not be the result of any decisions the enemy makes somewhere in Moscow. There is no need to entertain empty hopes that they will simply leave our land. We can only have peace by fighting, Zelensky said.
As Ukrainian troops moved cautiously to retake territory north of Kyiv, the country and its Western allies said Russia is building strength in eastern Ukraine. Where Russian troops recede, Ukraine said it would continue its attacks, shelling and targeting them as they pull out.
In towns and cities surrounding Kyiv,signs of fierce fighting were everywhere in the wake of the Russian redeployment. Destroyed armored vehicles from both armies lay in streets and fields along with scattered military gear.
The Russians couldnt make one like it so they destroyed it, said Oleksandr Merkushev, mayor of nearby Irpin.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Residents of Ukraines besieged southeastern coast awaited possible evacuation Sunday as the countrys president said Russias obsession with capturing a key port city had left it weakened and created opportunities for his military.
With Mariupol to the east of Odesa squarely in Russias crosshairs, Ukraine insists it has gained a leg up elsewhere in the country, leading totroops retaking territorynorth of the capital of Kyiv as Russian forces departed.
The head of Ukraines delegation in talks with Russia said Moscows negotiators informally agreed to most of a draft proposal discussed during face-to-face talks in Istanbul this week, but no written confirmation has been provided. However, Davyd Arakhamia said on Ukrainian TV that he hopes that draft is developed enough so that the two countries presidents can meet to discuss it.
In Bucha, northwest of Kyiv, Associated Press journalists watched as Ukrainian soldiers, backed by a column of tanks and other armored vehicles, used cables to drag bodies off of a street from a distance for fear they may have been booby-trapped. Locals said the dead  AP counted at least six  were civilians killed without provocation by departing Russian soldiers.
Ukrainian troops were stationed at the entrance to Antonov Airport in the suburb of Hostomel, demonstrating control of the runway that Russia tried to storm in the first days of the war.
Ukraine has gained invaluable time, time that is allowing us to foil the enemys tactics and weaken its capabilities, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said late Saturday.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
About 100,000 people are believed to remain in the Sea of Azov city, less than a quarter its prewar population of 430,000, and dire shortages of water, food, fuel, and medicine persist.
When a nation is defending itself in a war of annihilation, when it is a question of life or death of millions, there are no unimportant things And everyone can contribute to a victory for all, the president said. Some with weapons in their hands. Some by working. And some with a warm word and help at the right moment. Do everything you can so we stand together in this war for our freedom, for our independence.
Inside Mariupol, though, surrounded by Russian forces for more than a month and brutalized by some of the wars worst attacks, conditions remain dire and prospects for escape uncertain.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Two loud explosions were heard in Odesa on the Black Sea early Sunday and black smoke was seen rising above the city. There was no official information about what caused the explosions in Ukraines largest port where its navy is headquartered.
Inside the compound, the Mriya, one of the biggest planes ever built, lay wrecked underneath a hangar pockmarked with holes from the February attack.
