Ukraine Putin has told his troops to create a manmade catastrophe at Chernobyl
20220312
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-claims-putin-ordered-to-create-man-made-catastrophe-at-chernobyl/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The Vienna-based UN nuclear watchdog said that it still isnt receiving data from monitoring systems installed to monitor nuclear material and activities at Chernobyl, but transmission from the Zaporizhzhia plant  Ukraines biggest, which Russian forces seized last week  has been restored after being lost earlier this week.
Ukraines intelligence services said that the man-made catastrophe will be carried out by Russian operatives who entered the compound on Friday with a group of specialists sent by Belarus.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
Ukrainian authorities are claiming that Russian President Vladimir Putin has directed his troops who have taken over the Chernobyl nuclear reactor to create a man-made catastrophe at the site, media outlets reported on Saturday citing the Ukrainian Defense Ministry.
The IAEA said on Friday it was informed by Ukraine that technicians have started repairing damaged power lines at Chernobyl in an effort to restore power supplies.
On Wednesday, Ukrainian authorities said that Chernobyl, the site of the 1986 nuclear disaster, was knocked off the power grid, with emergency generators supplying backup power.
The Ukrainian regulator said additional fuel was delivered for generators, but it remains important to fix the power lines as soon as possible. The IAEA reiterated that the disconnection will not have a critical impact on essential safety functions at the site.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA has downplayed Ukrainian panic over the Russian takeover but is trying to negotiate a solution between the sides.
The order appeared to be part of what the US is saying will be a false flag used by Russia to escalate its fighting in Ukraine and even employ chemical weapons, the ministrys Intelligence Directorate indicated Friday.
The Ukrainian nuclear regulator said Friday that workers repaired one section of the lines, but there was damage in other places, the IAEA said. Repair efforts would continue despite the difficult situation outside the plant, which was taken by Russian forces early in the invasion, it said.
