Ukraine says agreed with Russia on 10 humanitarian corridors including in Mariupol
20220319
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-says-agreed-with-russia-on-10-humanitarian-corridors-including-in-mariupol/
They include a corridor from the besieged port city of Mariupol, several in the Kyiv region and several in the Luhansk region.
Satellite images yesterday from Maxar Technologies showed a long line of cars leaving Mariupol as people tried to evacuate. Zelensky said more than 9,000 people were able to leave the city in the past day.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk announces today that 10 humanitarian corridors have been agreed on with the Russians.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
She also announces plans to deliver humanitarian aid to the city of Kherson, which is currently under control of the Russian forces.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russian forces are blockading the largest cities with the goal of creating such miserable conditions that Ukrainians will cooperate. He said the Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in central and southeastern Ukraine.
