Ukraine requests Russia be kicked off internet Apple halts sales to Russian market
20220302
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-requests-russia-be-kicked-off-internet-apple-halts-sales-to-russian-market/
We will continue to evaluate the situation and are in communication with relevant governments on the actions we are taking. We join all those around the world who are calling for peace, the Apple statement said.
Kicking Russia off the internet would be an annoyance to Russian hackers but it wouldnt stop them since they could still use different top-level internet domains. But it would badly isolate the Russian public from international discourse.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Video sharing app TikTok told AFP it had restricted Russian state-owned media access on its platform in the EU, while Microsoft said it was removing RT from its app store and would change its search engine Bings algorithm to shift RT and Sputnik content to lower in results.
Apple also said that it has disabled both traffic and live incidents in Apple Maps in Ukraine as a safety measure for Ukrainian citizens.
ICANN had no immediate comment but the regional internet naming authority for Europe and the former Soviet Union, RIPE NCC, rejected the request.
The announcement came just as the European Union banned Russian RT and Sputnik from broadcasting in the bloc while banning certain Russian banks from the SWIFT bank messaging system.
In a letter sent Monday to the president of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, Ukraines deputy minister for digital transformation, Mykhailo Fedorov, cited the atrocious crimes of Russias invasion, including its alleged breach of the Geneva Conventions in attacking civilian targets.
Facebooks parent Meta said Monday it would be restricting access in the European Union to RT and Sputnik.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Twitter and Facebook have both been hit with access restrictions in Russia since the invasion of Ukraine and are now largely unusable, said web monitoring group NetBlocks.
Social media platforms have become one of the fronts in the attack, home to sometimes false narratives but also real-time monitoring of a conflict that marks Europes biggest geopolitical crisis in decades.
In anemail to members, RIPEs executive board said it believes the means to communicate should not be affected by domestic political disputes, international conflicts or war.
Tech firms from Facebook to TikTok and Microsoft had already moved to curb the reach of Russian state-linked news outlets, which stand accused of pushing misinformation about Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
Federov said the crimes have been made possible mainly due to the Russian propaganda machinery and cited cyberattacks from the Russian side that have impeded the ability of Ukrainians and their government to communicate.
Western governments, sporting organizations and big companies have cut Russia off or dealt it punishing sanctions over the internationally condemned attack on its neighbor.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Federov asked that ICANN revoke, permanently or temporarily, the domains .ru and .su and shut down the root servers in Moscow and St. Petersburg that match domain names and numbers.
Ukraine has effectively asked that Russia be kicked off the internet, but the request was rejected by a regional authority.
I appeal to you to stop supplying Apple services and products to the Russian Federation, including blocking access to the Apple Store! Ukraines digital minister Mykhailo Fedorov wrote in a letter he posted to Twitter Friday.
We have paused all product sales in Russia. Last week, we stopped all exports into our sales channel in the country, said an Apple statement.
We are deeply concerned about the Russian invasion of Ukraine and stand with all of the people who are suffering as a result of the violence, the statement said.
Ukraines defiant government, which has urged its people to battle Russian forces, has asked for help from all quarters, including Apples CEO Tim Cook.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Meanwhile, tech giant Apple announced Tuesday a halt in all product sales in Russia, the latest fallout over Moscows invasion of Ukraine after Kyiv asked for Russia to be booted from the internet entirely.
The iPhone maker also announced Apple Pay and other services have been limited, while Russian state-owned media RT and Sputnik news apps were no longer available for download outside Russia.
