Ukraine flogs Russia after missiles buzz Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant
20220426
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-flogs-russia-after-missiles-buzz-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant/
Missiles lying at a low altitude directly over the site of the ZNPP Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, where there are seven nuclear facilities with a huge amount of nuclear material, poses huge risks, Energoatoms acting chief Petro Kotin said, according to Reuters.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has sparked concerns around the nations nuclear facilities, including at Chernobyl, site of the worlds worst-ever nuclear accident.
But he added that there have been some moments when the levels have gone up because of the movement of the heavy equipment that Russian forces were bringing here and when they left.
Russian troops took over the site on February 24, the first day of Russias invasion of Ukraine, taking Ukrainian soldiers prisoner and detaining civilian staff.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukraines state-run atomic energy company Energoatom said cruise missiles flew over the plant during an airstrike that targeted the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia, which local authorities said killed at least one person and wounded another.
Grossi, head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, was visiting the site on the 36th anniversary of the worlds worst nuclear disaster. Russian troops pulled out of the site in late March as they regrouped after being stymied in their advance on nearby Kyiv.
After all, missiles could hit one or more nuclear facility, and this threatens a nuclear and radiation catastrophe around the world.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukrainian officials have said Russian soldiers may have been exposed to radiation after digging fortifications in many places at the site and stirring up clouds of dust with their armored vehicles.
The head of the UN atomic watchdog said Tuesday that Russias temporary takeover of the Chernobyl site was very, very dangerous and raised radiation levels, but they have now returned to normal.
Ukraine slammed Russia after several missiles flew at low altitude over the Zaporizhzhia power plant, Europes largest nuclear facility, warning that Moscows invasion could lead to a nuclear catastrophe.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Eventually, 350,000 people were evacuated from a 30-kilometer 19-mile radius around the plant, an exclusion zone that remains uninhabited, apart from some elderly residents who returned despite an official ban.
The situation was absolutely abnormal and very, very dangerous, Rafael Grossi told reporters as he arrived at the sarcophagus that covers the nuclear reactors radioactive remains.
A Russian assault on the plant in March drew global concern that the fighting could accidentally trigger a nuclear accident at the plant. Fires broke out at the plant during the fighting, but reactors were not affected.
On April 26, 1986, an uncontrolled nuclear chain reaction destroyed the reactor in an accident that was initially covered up by the Soviet authorities.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
TheChernobylpower stations three other reactors were successively closed, with the latest shutting off in 2000.
