Ukrainians rush back from abroad to join fight against Russia
20220227
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukrainians-rush-back-from-abroad-to-join-fight-against-russia/
I am afraid, but I am a mother and want to be with my children. What can you do? Its scary but I have to, she said.
We have to, we Ukrainians have to take our children away to allow our boys to fight, she said.
Lesa, 36, from Lviv, spoke to the AP just before entering the checkpoint building, following her brother into Ukraine.
Israeli law has a provision forbidding citizens from joining a foreign military  with a potential punishment of up to three years in prison. This is not applicable if the State of Israel has an agreement with the foreign country in question, though it was not immediately clear if this was the case with Ukraine. It is not illegal for a foreign country to recruit people in Israel.
At the checkpoint in Medyka, in southeastern Poland, many stood in a line early Sunday to cross into Ukraine.
Polands border Guard said some 156,000 people have entered from Ukraine since Thursday, when the invasion started, while some 22,000 have gone in the opposite direction.
There are about 200,000 Ukrainian workers in the Czech Republic, the majority of them men.
In Israel, the Ukrainian Embassy posted a call for anyone willing to join the fight against Russia to travel to Ukraine. The invitation, marked Urgent on the embassy Facebook page, was later removed.
Polands Border Guard said Sunday that some 22,000 people have crossed into Ukraine since Thursday, when Russia invaded the country.
Members of the group declined to give their names, or only gave only their first names, citing their security and that of their families.
Czech railways said Ukrainian men traveling back to Ukraine can take any train free of charge. They need to travel through Poland or Slovakia to reach Ukraine.
I talked to my parents and I cried. And I just decided to myself that I cant watch that and I cant just stay in Poland as Russians destroy our independence, destroy our cities, kill our citizens, kill our children, kill our elderly people, he told the AP in English.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has stayed in the capital, Kyiv, boosting the morale of Ukrainian fighters as Russian troops were closing in on the city and huge explosions lit up the sky early Sunday.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Another man in the group said: The Russians should be afraid. We are not afraid.
Zelensky has banned men of military age, 18 to 60, from leaving the country. Ukrainian authorities have also called on foreign volunteers to come and fight in Ukraines defense. He announced Sunday he was raising the pay of those fighting for Ukraine.
I want to go back to join the army, to fight. We will see, we hope we will win, he said.
On Friday, before the Facebook post was published, the Ukrainian ambassador to Israel told journalists that it was legal for Israelis to volunteer for the Ukrainian military.
Another young woman, Alina, said she was returning to get her children and take them out of Ukraine.
In the nearby city of Przemysl, Janiel, 27, was also preparing to return. An engineer by education, he has been working in construction in Wroclaw, Poland, but could not remain knowing his homeland was being attacked.
Before the recent exodus, there were at least 1 million Ukrainians in Poland, working or studying. The women often work as nannies and caretakers for the elderly across the European Union, and in many cases leave their children back in Ukraine with grandparents or other relatives.
At least 368,000 people have fled Ukraine into Poland and other neighboring countries in the wake of the Russian invasion, the UN refugee agency, the UNHCR, said Sunday.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Israeli leaders are cautious in how they speak of Russias aggression against Ukraine. The country is home to hundreds of thousands of people with roots in Ukraine or Russia, or in both countries, and has sought good ties with both Moscow and Kyiv.
Denis, 28, who has spent six months working at construction sites in Poland, said he was returning to Ukraine where his everything is.
The Czech Republic, which borders Poland to the southwest, is planning to support Ukrainian families living in the country whose men decide to return home to fight.
MEDYKA, Poland AP  While hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians flee their country, some Ukrainian men and women are returning home from across Europe to help defend their homeland in the face of Russias invasion.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
We have to defend our homeland. Who else if not us? said a mustachioed man in front of a group of some 20 Ukrainian truck drivers walking to the checkpoint to enter Ukraine. They came from across Europe to return to Ukraine.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
On Ukraines side of the border, a man was directing those arriving to a place where cars and buses were waiting to take them onward.
Im on my own here in Poland. Why should I be here? So I go, for the homeland, said Denis, with a small Ukrainian blue-and-yellow national flag on his winter jacket.
The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs is preparing bonuses to families who would lose income if the men need to join the Ukrainian army, Czech Minister Marian Jurecka said.
