Ukraine says it will free Russian POWs  if their mothers come to collect them
20220302
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-says-it-will-free-russian-pows-if-their-mothers-come-to-collect-them/
The defense ministry has published telephone numbers and and an email address to provide information about captured Russians, and mothers will be invited to Kyiv to collect their missing sons.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
???????? ???? Ukraine allows captured Russian soldiers to call home. Another Russian prisoner with tears in his eyes calls his mother in Russia. pic.twitter.com31c1JCXtt8
You will be received and taken to Kyiv where your son will be returned to you, the ministry statement says. Unlike Putins fascists, we Ukrainians are not waging war against mothers and their captured children.
A decision has been taken to hand over captured Russian troops to their mothers if they come to collect them in Ukraine, in Kyiv, the defense ministry says in a statement.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Kyiv has sought to undermine Russian public support for the invasion by opening a telephone hotline for Russian parents to find out if their sons are among the dead or captured.
Ukraine invites the worried mothers of Russian troops captured on the battlefield to come and collect their sons, in an apparent attempt to embarrass Moscow.
