Ukraine says it got only 10 of weapons requested from West
20220614
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-says-it-got-only-10-of-weapons-requested-from-west/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
We cant wait very long, because the situation is very complicated, she added, referring to the creeping Russian advance in Donbas, where Moscows forces are poised to take over the entire Luhansk region.
No matter how hard Ukraine tries, no matter how professional our army is, without the help of Western partners we will not be able to win this war.
We need to know clear deadlines because every day theres a delay, were talking about the lives of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians, she said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
From what we said we need, we got about 10 percent, Anna Malyar said in televised remarks, saying the West should speed up its delivery schedule.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russia, he said, had hundreds of times more equipment and weapons than Ukraine, which did not have enough long-range weapons nor armored vehicles, and because of that we are losing people, he said.
Earlier, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky again appealed for heavy weapons from the West, criticizing the restrained behavior of some European leaders which he said had slowed down arms supplies very much.
I am grateful for what is coming, but it must come faster, he told Danish journalists in an online briefing.
If theres no speeding-up of weapons deliveries, there will be stagnation people will continue dying. If we are given weapons, well move forward, he added.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraine has received just 10 percent of the weapons it requested from the West to help fight off the Russian offensive, the Ukrainian deputy defense minister said Tuesday.
The speed with which Ukraine was able to retake territory occupied by Russia really depends on this aid and weapons.
There should be a clear timeframe for such deliveries as every delay cost Ukraine dearly and risked more territory falling into Russian hands.
