Ukraine says it has only received 10 of weapons pledged by West
20220614
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-says-it-has-only-received-10-of-weapons-pledged-by-west/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukraine has received just 10 percent of the weapons pledged by the West to help Kyiv to fight off the Russian offensive, the deputy defense minister says.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
From what we said we need, we got about 10, Anna Malyar says in televised remarks, saying the West should speed up its delivery schedule.No matter how hard Ukraine tries, no matter how professional our army is, without the help of Western partners we will not be able to win this war.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
There should be a clear timeframe for such deliveries as every delay costs Ukraine dearly and risks more territory falling into Russian hands, she says.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
We need to know clear deadlines because every day theres a delay, were talking about the lives of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians, she adds.We cant wait very long, because the situation is very complicated, she says, referring to the creeping Russian advance in Donbas, where Moscows forces are poised to take over the entire Lugansk region.
