Ukraine soldier dies in shelling attack by Russiabacked separatists
20220223
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-soldier-dies-in-shelling-attack-by-russia-backed-separatists/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
US and NATO officials say Russia is now poised to invade Ukraine after surrounding it with 150,000 soldiers and then staging a series of military drills, including with its ally Belarus.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday recognized the independence of Ukraines two separatist regions, approving the deployment of regular troops into the region.
Nine Ukrainian soldiers have died since the beginning of the year, with six of them killed in intensifying clashes over the past four days, according to an AFP tally based on official sources.
But Putin has not said when he might dispatch his force, saying on Tuesday that it would depend on the situation on the ground.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukraines army did not specify the location of the attack, saying only that one soldier suffered fatal injuries and another was wounded in the shelling.
A Ukrainian soldier has died in a shelling attack near the frontline with the Moscow-backed separatist east, the armed forces say, as fears mount of a Russian invasion.
