Ukraine accuses Russia of attacking civilians in Mariupol evacuation corridor
20220308
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-accuses-russia-of-attacking-civilians-in-mariupol-evacuation-corridor/
Ukraine accuses Russia of violating an evacuation corridor aimed at enabling civilians to leave the beleaguered southern port city of Mariupol.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The evacuation corridor from Mariupol was announced hours after Ukraine said civilians would begin evacuating from the northeastern city of Sumy.
Ukrainian foreign ministry spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko tells the BBC that Russian forces are attacking the corridor between Mariupol and Zaporizhzhia.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Nikolenko says eight trucks and 30 buses were taking humanitarian aid into Mariupol and the vehicles were then to be used to evacuate civilians from Mariupol back to Zaporizhzhia.
The enemy has launched an attack heading exactly at the humanitarian corridor, the defense ministry says on Facebook, adding the Russian army did not let children, women and elderly people leave the city.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Ukraine has accused Russia of reneging on previous escape route agreements by bombarding them, or by only guaranteeing routes into Russia or Belarus.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
