Ukraine accuses Russia of using nuclear plant as base to shell surrounding areas
20220716
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-accuses-russia-of-using-nuclear-plant-as-base-to-shell-surrounding-areas/
The president of Ukrainian nuclear agency Energoatom said Friday in a televised interview that the situation was extremely tense, with up to 500 Russian soldiers controlling the site.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Kyiv has opposed such a visit, with Energoatom declaring that an IAEA trip to the site would only legitimize its occupation by nuclear terrorists.
The Zaporizhzhia region where the plant is located is largely under Russian control, and Moscow-backed separatists said Thursday they are planning to stage a referendum on joining Russia this year.
Located on the Dnipro river in southeastern Ukraine, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant has been under Russian control since the early weeks of Moscows invasion, though it is still being operated by Ukrainian staff.
They physically control the perimeter. The occupiers heavy machinery and trucks with weapons and explosives remain on the territory of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, he said.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
The IAEA has said it needs to visit the plant to conduct essential maintenance work.
The occupiers bring their machinery there, including missile systems, from which they already shell the other side of the river Dnipro and the territory of Nikopol, Petro Kotin said, referring to the city across the water.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The pressure on the occupiers to leave the territory of the plant is insufficient, he added, before taking aim at the International Atomic Energy Agency.
On Thursday, IAEA chief Rafael Grossi once again stressed the importance of being able to travel to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant to conduct essential safety, security and safeguards activities, according to a statement.
KYIV, Ukraine  Russia is using Europes largest nuclear power plant as a base to store weapons including missile systems and shell the surrounding areas of Ukraine, an official with Kyivs nuclear agency has said.
He also reiterated his growing concern about the severe and challenging conditions facing staff at the ZNPP and the impact of such conditions on the safety and security of the plant.
The agency has not been able to visit the plant since the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
