Ukraine War Lessons for Israel
20220415
https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-war-lessons-for-israel/
No two wars are alike, nor are warring combatants. Nevertheless, everyone can learn and adapt perhaps adopt as well lessons from one war to their own situation. Certainly, Israel can and should, given that war has unfortunately been a given every several years. This is not to say that Israel  Ukraine in this regard. Quite the reverse: in the Middle East, Israel is by far the strongest military power so that some lessons have to be derived from the Russian experience so far.
Second, urban warfare is extremely treacherous, especially given that the locals are far more knowledgeable about the environment alleys, buildings, hiding places etc.. One of the reasons that the Russians have not taken any major cities yet? is that they fear the massive casualties that would ensue due to Ukrainian snipers, Molotov Cocktail throwers etc. This is also a principle that the IDF is keenly aware of it explains why despite its huge firepower advantage over Hamas, the IDFs leadership has always been loath to invade Gaza in a door-to-door infantry attack.
Third, despite the growing sophistication of offensive weapons, defensive materiel seems to be advancing at even a faster pace. The Ukrainian use of Turkish drones and American anti-tank Javelin missiles close to 100 accuracy and lethality! have devastated the Russian tank corps and arguably is the main reason the Russians could not further advance on Kiev and conquer it. Israeli tanks are more sophisticated and better built than the Russian tanks, but these defensive weapons are hard to guard against and perhaps even more important, are far cheaper than the tanks themselves. Thus, Israel now has to ask itself whether its famous armored divisions can win land battles as they did in the past  and for what price in soldiers and economic damage. Certainly, there is still a place for tanks in modern warfare, but the tactics have to change to meet the new  and far more challenging  anti-tank weapons that enemy armies can deploy.
Sixth and finally, right is not merely a moral issue but a psychological advantage too. The Russian soldiers didnt even know that they were going to invade the Ukraine and according to reports they are not very happy fighting their cousins many Russians have close family living in the Ukraine. The Ukrainians morale, on the other hand, is very high  defending their homeland. This too explains in good part how they are able to hold off the Russian juggernaut. The lesson for Israel is clear: while Israeli soldier morale is usually quite high, the countrys leaders should not assume that just because the enemys leadership is unpopular undemocratic, corrupt etc., the population wont fight hard against any perceived Israeli invasion or even attack. Rally-round-the-flag is a universal principle, as can be seen by Putins relatively high domestic polling with many Russians being told that the campaign is about the homeland i.e., the Ukraine as historically part of Russia.
The Ukraine is thousands of kilometers away from the Middle East Israel would do itself a disservice in not taking to heart some lessons of that distant war  geographically far, but lesson-wise quite close to home.
First and foremost, fighting in enemy territory necessitates far more manpower than in a defensive war everything else being equal militarily, about three times as many soldiers on the offense compared to those on the defense. Given that Israels unwavering strategy has always been to take the fight to enemy territory, the result is clear: unless the country is willing to dig into its reserve units, attacking enemy countries can be a chancy affair Gaza doesnt have much of a standing army, so that this point, specifically, does not apply to fighting Hamas.
Fifth, if Right Makes Might  and as I just noted, Israel needs all the moral support it can get if pushed to war  then it has to ask itself to what extent it pays to try and walk a tightrope between other national war combatants when clearly one is in the right, and the other wrong. Yes, Israel cant completely disregard its relationship with Russia given the Syrian situation, but for the long term, Israel has to be perceived as being solidly in the worlds democratic camp if it wishes to gather support when it needs such. Sending medical help to the Ukraine is nice and honorable, but Israel cant plaster over its initial waffling on which side to be. Statesmanship entails making very hard choices  sometimes sacrificing some important short-term needs for absolutely critical, longer-term survival basics.
Fourth, if in the past might makes right, the Ukraine-Russia War has turned that around: Right Makes Might. The formidable economic sanctions imposed by the worlds economic powerhouses sans China on Russia are a direct outgrowth of the almost universal feeling in the democratic world that Russian aggression is completely egregious i.e., there is no acceptable reason for its invasion. Here too Israel has known for some time that while it claims to maintain a free hand regarding its national security, in reality it is somewhat hamstrung by the perception among several nations that Israels attacks on its neighbors must be a product of clear and present danger in order to garner support. Thus, public diplomacy what used to be called propaganda is critical in ensuring that Israel can fight without a hand tied behind its back when it feels the need to do so. Among the other talents that Israeli Prime Ministers must have to succeed, talking to the world is certainly up there as one of the more important skills  Ukraines President Zelensky has proven that!
