Ukraine calls on Russia to pull back its troops from the border
20220130
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-calls-on-russia-to-pull-back-its-troops-from-the-border/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
If Russian officials are serious when they say they dont want a new war, Russia must continue diplomatic engagement and pull back military forces it amassed along Ukraines borders, and in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Kyivs Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Moscow has denied plans for an invasion and said it does not want war but is seeking security guarantees from Washington and NATO to curb the eastwards expansion of the alliance.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
During a phone conversation with his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian on Saturday, Kuleba said it was important to stay vigilant and firm during negotiations with Moscow.
KYIV, Ukraine  Kyiv on Sunday urged Moscow to pull back its troops from Ukraines border and continue dialogue with the West, if it is serious about de-escalating tensions that have soared, thanks to fears of a Russian invasion.
These include a guarantee that NATO will not admit new members, in particular Ukraine, and the United States will not establish new military bases in ex-Soviet countries.
The Kremlin has deployed over 100,000 troops and heavy armor along Ukraines borders, according to the West, which fears that the Kremlin will stage an incursion.
