Ukraine affirms Russian strike on missile warehouse but no confirmation on hypersonic weapon
20220319
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/ukraine-affirms-russian-strike-on-missile-warehouse-but-no-confirmation-on-hypersonic-weapon/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Ukraines Air Forces spokesman Yurii Ihnat tells the Ukrainskaya Pravda newspaper, however, that it is yet to be confirmed whether the missile the Russians used was indeed Kinzhal, the countys latest hypersonic missile, or some other kind.
According to Russian officials, the Kinzhal, carried by MiG-31 fighter jets, has a range of up to 2,000 kilometers about 1,250 miles and flies at 10 times the speed of sound.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Earlier today, a spokesman of the Russian Defense Ministry, Igor Konashenkov, said the Russian military hit the underground warehouse in Delyatyn with the hypersonic Kinzhal missile in its first reported combat use.
LVIV, Ukraine  A Ukrainian military official has confirmed to a local news outlet that Russian forces carried out a missile strike yesterday on a missile and ammunition warehouse in the Delyatyn settlement of the Ivano-Frankivsk region in western Ukraine.
