Ukraine says Russia plotting to create a proMoscow peoples republic in Kherson
20220312
https://www.timesofisrael.com/ukraine-says-russia-plotting-to-create-a-pro-moscow-peoples-republic-in-kherson/
Ukraines ombudsman Lyudmyla Denisova wrote on Telegram that Russian occupying forces were phoning lawmakers from the local legislature, asking them to vote for the plan.
Russians now desperately try to organize a sham referendum for a fake peoples republic in Kherson, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Severe sanctions against Russia must follow if they proceed. Kherson is  will always be Ukraine, the minister added.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Denisova said such a referendum would be illegal on the occupied territory, since under Ukrainian law any issues over territory can only be resolved by a nationwide referendum.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian officials on Saturday accused Russia of planning a fake referendum on creating a pro-Moscow peoples republic in the southern Black Sea city of Kherson.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Kuleba drew a parallel with Russias annexation of the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea in 2014, when it held a referendum on joining Russia after deploying troops there.
Russian forces seized the port city, which has a population of 290,000 people, on March 3 following a three-day siege. It was the first major city to fall following Moscows invasion.
