UN votes to suspend Russia from Human Rights Council with Israels backing
20220407
https://www.timesofisrael.com/un-votes-to-suspend-russia-from-human-rights-council-with-israels-backing/
Despite pressure from Moscow for a no-vote, several African countries only abstained, such as South Africa and Senegal. Also abstaining were Brazil, Mexico, and India.
War criminals have no place in UN bodies aimed at protecting human rights, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter. Grateful to all member states which supported the relevant UNGA United Nations General Assembly resolution and chose the right side of history.
Lapid said that Thursdays vote does not change our position on the UN Council, which is an extremist, morally flawed, biased and essentially anti-Israel body that has been exploited since its inception by countries violating human rights in the world as a political tool, including to attack Israel.
Russia voiced regret at its suspension, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov telling Britains Sky News, Were sorry about that And well continue to defend our interests using every possible legal means.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Jerusalem has also moved slowly toward the Wests position against Russia more broadly, though there has been a delegation of responsibility between Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, who until recently sought to mediate between the sides and has largely avoided criticizing Russia, and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid, who has been much more vocal in his criticism. Both men condemned the massacre that took place in Bucha, but only Lapid fingered Russia as responsible.
The vote was 93-24 with 58 abstentions, significantly lower than the vote on two resolutions the assembly adopted last month demanding an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine, withdrawal of all Russian troops, and protection for civilians. Both of those resolutions were approved by at least 140 nations. Still, the measure received the two-thirds support needed to pass.
While the Human Rights Council is based in Geneva, its members are elected by the General Assembly for three-year terms. Russias term ends in December 2023.
But Washington has admitted there is little anyone can do about Russias position on the Security Council, where it has a veto.
UNITED NATIONS  The UN General Assembly voted Thursday to suspend Russia from the global organizations leading human rights body over allegations of horrific rights violations by Russian soldiers in Ukraine, which the United States and Ukraine have characterized as war crimes.
Israel today supported a decision by the UN General Assembly to suspend Russia from its membership in the UN Human Rights Council, in the wake of the war in Ukraine, its unjustified invasion of it and the killing of innocent civilians, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement following the vote.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has also called for Russia to be expelled from the UN Security Council so it cannot block decisions about its own aggression, its own war.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
After last Mays Gaza war, UNHRC members voted overwhelmingly to launch an open-ended probe into Israels treatment of the Palestinians, infuriating Jerusalem further.
The US argues that this punishment  suspending Russia from the Geneva-based organization that is the UNs main human rights monitor  is more than symbolic and in fact intensifies Russias isolation after the assault on Ukraine that began on February 24.
The brief resolution that was approved Thursday expressed grave concern at the ongoing human rights and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, particularly at the reports of violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law by the Russian Federation, including gross and systematic violations and abuses of human rights.
US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield launched the campaign to suspend Russia from its seat on the 47-member Human Rights Council in the wake of videos and photos of streets in the town of Bucha strewn with corpses of what appeared to be civilians after Russian soldiers retreated. The deaths have sparked global revulsion and calls for tougher sanctions on Russia, which has vehemently denied its troops were responsible.
But on Thursday it once again joined the bloc of countries that voted against Russia  a stance it has maintained since drawing the Biden administrations ire for declining to co-sponsor the first UN Security Council resolution against Moscows invasion of Ukraine in February. It has joined the West in condemning Russia in several UN resolutions since.
Russia is the second country to have its membership rights stripped at the Human Rights Council, which was established in 2006. In 2011, the assembly suspended Libya when upheaval in the North African country brought down longtime leader Muammar Gaddafi.
The countries voting against included China, a Moscow ally that has steadfastly abstained from criticizing the invasion. Others were Iran, the former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan, and communist Cuba, as well as Russia itself, Belarus, and Syria.
Explaining their decision not to support the resolution, some countries called it premature, noting that there are ongoing investigations into whether war crimes have occurred, or said it would undermine the credibility of the Human Rights Council and the United Nations. Others said the resolution reflected American and European geopolitical agendas and what opponents called Western hypocrisy and selective outrage about human rights.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Ukraine said it was grateful for the decision to suspend Russia from the UN Human Rights Council, saying war criminals should not be represented in the body.
Israel has avoided aligning too closely with either side since Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24. It is one of the few countries that maintains relatively warm relations with both Ukraine, a fellow Western democracy, and Russia, which controls the airspace over Syria, in which Israel operates to target Iranian proxies.
Israel  backed at times by the US  has long accused the Human Rights Council of anti-Israel bias and has generally refused to cooperate with its investigators.
