UNs top court set to rule on Russias invasion of Ukraine
20220316
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/uns-top-court-set-to-rule-on-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/
Russia must be stopped, and the court has a role to play in stopping that, Ukraines representative Anton Korynevych told the ICJ.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Kyiv wants the court to take provisional measures ordering Russia to immediately suspend the military operations.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
The International Court of Justice will hand down its judgement at 1500 GMT in The Hague after Ukraine filed an urgent application shortly after Russias attack on February 24.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The hearing comes as the number of refugees fleeing Ukraine topped three million and Russian forces step up strikes on residential buildings in Kyiv. At the same time, both Ukraine and Russia say progress is being made in talks on ending the fighting.
THE HAGUE  The UNs top court is set to rule on Ukraines urgent request for Russia to immediately halt its invasion, with Kyiv claiming that Moscow falsely accused its pro-Western neighbor of genocide to justify the war.
Ukraine accuses Russia of illegally trying to justify its war by falsely alleging genocide in Ukraines Donetsk and Lugansk regions.
