US EU announce new partnership to undercut Russian energy further isolate Putin
20220325
https://www.timesofisrael.com/us-eu-announce-new-partnership-to-undercut-russian-energy-further-isolate-putin/
Western leaders are also concerned that Putin could use chemical or even nuclear weapons to regain momentum in the war.
Although the initiative will likely require new facilities for importing liquified natural gas, the partnership is also geared toward reducing reliance on fossil fuels in the long run through energy efficiency and alternative sources of energy, according to the White House.
He will be briefed on the humanitarian response to the refugees streaming out of Ukraine and those still suffering inside the country. He also will meet with US service members from the 82nd Airborne Division, who serve alongside Polish troops.
Under the plan, the US and other nations will increase liquified natural gas exports to Europe by 15 billion cubic meters this year, though US officials were unable to say exactly which countries will provide the extra energy this year. Even larger shipments would be delivered in the future.
Russian energy is a key source of income and political leverage for Moscow. Almost 40 of the European Unions natural gas comes from Russia to heat homes, generate electricity and power industry.
US President Joe Biden asserted that Russian President Vladimir Putin uses energy to coerce and manipulate his neighbors and uses the profits from its sale to drive his war machine.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Even if the US can ship more gas to Europe, the continent may struggle to receive it. Import terminals are located in coastal areas, where there are fewer pipeline connections for distributing it.
Ursula von der Leyen, head of the EUs executive arm, said it is important for Europe to shift away from Russia and toward energy suppliers that are trustworthy, friendly and reliable.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Biden was leaving Brussels after the announcement and heading to Rzeszw in Poland, where US troops are based roughly an hours drive from the Ukrainian border.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Biden is then expected to fly to Warsaw for talks Saturday with Polish President Andrzej Duda and an address to the Polish people before he departs for Washington.
Getting more liquefied natural gas to Europe could be difficult, even though the US has been dramatically increasing its exports in recent years. Many export facilities are already operating at capacity, and most new terminals are still only in the planning stages.
At the same time, they will try to keep their climate goals on track by powering gas infrastructure with clean energy and reducing methane leaks that can worsen global warming.
The US is in a unique position because it has flexible LNG that can be rerouted to Europe or to Asia, depending on whos willing to pay that price, said Emily McClain, gas markets analyst at Rystad.
Although Ukraine has resisted the Russian invasion much more successfully than initially expected, the conflict has become a grueling and bloody affair, with thousands of casualties on each side and millions of refugees fleeing the country.
Most US shipments already go to Europe, according to the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, an industry lobbying group. Although much of the supply is already contracted out to buyers, there are still opportunities to shift its destination.
BRUSSELS AP  The United States and European Union on Friday announced a new partnership to reduce the continents reliance on Russian energy, a step top officials characterized as the start of a years-long initiative to further isolate Moscow after its invasion of Ukraine.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
And if all Europes facilities were operating at capacity, the amount of gas would likely be only about two-thirds of what Russia delivers through pipelines.
The president said such a step is not only the right thing to do from a moral standpoint but its going to put us on a stronger strategic footing.
We aim to reduce this dependence on Russian fossil fuels and get rid of it, she said.
While in Brussels, Biden participated in a trio of summits hosted by NATO, the Group of Seven industrialized nations and the European Union, all on Thursday. The extraordinary series of meetings reflects heightened concerns about the war in Ukraine, which has entered its second month.
Biden said the partnership he announced jointly with a top European Union official will turn that dynamic on its head by reducing Europes dependence on Russian energy sources, as well reducing the continents demand for gas overall.
