US lawmakers seek to restrict trade with Russia oil price surges markets plummet
20220307
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/us-lawmakers-seek-to-restrict-trade-with-russia-oil-price-surges-markets-plummet/
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says that Washington is in active discussions with European nations about banning Russian oil imports, although he stopped short of announcing an outright boycott.
The price per barrel of Brent oil has increased 33 since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
The price Brent North Sea crude oil, the European benchmark, soars to a near 14-year high of $140 due to the Ukraine war, heading toward the all-time high of $147.50.
KPMG International says in a statement it will be incredibly difficult to have its Russia and Belarus firms leave the network. KPMG has more than 4,500 employees in the two countries.
Congress intends to approve the Biden administrations request for $10 billion in humanitarian, military and economic support for Ukraine, Pelosi said, as part of omnibus government funding legislation this week.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
In a letter to Democrats released Sunday night, Pelosi says the legislation under consideration would also repeal normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus and begin the process of denying Russia access to the World Trade Organization.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says the House is exploring legislation to further isolate Russia from the global economy, including banning the import of its oil and energy products into the US.
KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers both say they will end their relationships with their Russia-based member firms. KPMG said it is also pulling out of Belarus.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The two other Big Four companies  Deloitte and Ernst  Young  didnt immediately return Associated Press requests for comment.
Amid rising gasoline prices in the US, the Biden administration has yet to call for an oil import ban on Russia.
Even if oil is technically still exempt from sanctions, Russian oil exporters are struggling to find buyers. Shell is one of the only companies still buying Russian oil, although it says it will donate the profits to Ukrainian causes.
As stock markets open after the weekend in Asia, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index in Japan tumbles over three percent.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
PricewaterhouseCoopers says it has 3,700 employees at its PwC Russia firm and is working on an orderly transition for the business.
The price of gold rises to more than $2,000 in Asian trade as investors flee to the safe-haven commodity. The price is of gold is at its highest level since September 2020.
Pelosi says the House would also empower the Biden administration to raise tariffs on Russian imports.
