US official predicts largescale invasion says Russia fired more than 100 missiles in first hours of attack
20220224
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/us-official-predicts-large-scale-invasion-says-russia-fired-more-than-100-missiles-in-first-hours-of-attack/
A senior US defense official says todays attack by Russia appears to be the first phase in what will likely be a multiple-phased, large-scale invasion.
The official, who speaks on condition of anonymity, said its not clear how many Russian troops are in Ukraine now, and the main targets of the air assault have been barracks, ammunition warehouses, and 10 airfields. The official says Russian ground forces began to move into Ukraine from Belarus around 5 a.m. eastern time.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
The official says it began around 9:30 p.m. US eastern time, with land- and sea-based missile launches. The official says that roughly more than 100 missiles, primarily short-range ballistic missiles, but also medium-range ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, surface-to-air missiles, and sea-launched missiles, were launched in the first few hours of the attack.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The official says the Russians are moving on three axes: From Crimea to Kherson, from Belarus toward Kyiv, and from the northeast to Kharkiv.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
