US Russia top envoys to hold new Ukraine crisis talks after key UN session
20220131
https://www.timesofisrael.com/us-russia-top-envoys-to-hold-new-ukraine-crisis-talks-after-key-un-session/
The United States and Britain on Sunday flagged new and devastating economic sanctions against Russia, as Washington and its allies step up efforts to deter any invasion.
In London, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Britain would unveil sanctions legislation targeting a much wider variety of Russian economic targets.
Putin will not stop with Ukraine, Senator Bob Menendez said on CNN, indicating that penalities could be levied over actions Russia has already taken in Ukraine and warned of devastating sanctions that ultimately would crush Russia should Moscow invade.
With tensions soaring, the United States said it was prepared to push back against any disinformation Moscow put forward in what is expected to be one of the most closely watched United Nations sessions in years.
Western leaders are pursuing a two-pronged approach, stepping up military assistance to Ukraine but also undertaking a full-court diplomatic effort to defuse the crisis.
Analysts say an array of sanctions hitting Russian banks and financial institutions would not only affect daily life throughout Russia but could roil major economies in Europe and elsewhere.
The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, meanwhile, took a tough stance, saying it was crucial Washington send a powerful message to President Vladimir Putin that any aggression against Ukraine would come at a very high cost.
Citing NATOs presence near its border, Russia has put forward security demands to Washington and the US-led military alliance.
WASHINGTON, United States AFP  The Russian and US foreign ministers are set to hold fresh talks Tuesday after a UN Security Council meeting on Ukraine, with Washington vowing to work with Western allies to beef up sanctions should Moscow decide to invade its neighbor.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Nuland said the White House was working closely with the Senate, and that any sanctions measures would be very well-aligned with those coming from European allies.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on Sunday welcomed the increased military support while also endorsing Londons diplomatic initiative.
Were going to go in the room prepared to listen to them, but were not going to be distracted by their propaganda, she said Sunday. And were going to be prepared to respond to any disinformation that they attempt to spread during this meeting.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The Security Council is due to convene later Monday over the crisis as fears of an imminent incursion grow, despite Kremlin denials.
That plea, from a country also eager for Western support  particularly since Moscow seized Crimea in 2014 and began fueling a deadly separatist conflict in the countrys east  has raised eyebrows in Washington.
They include a guarantee that NATO will not admit new members, in particular Ukraine, and that the United States will not establish new military bases in ex-Soviet countries.
Relations between Russia and the West are at their lowest point since the Cold War.
In the face of the Russian build-up, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called on the West to tone down the rhetoric.
But Russia has repeatedly denied posing a threat to the one-time Soviet republic and said Sunday it wanted respectful relations with the United States.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The upcoming call is the latest in a flurry of diplomatic meetings between senior diplomats from Moscow, Brussels and Washington over the conflict in Ukraine and disagreements over security concerns in Europe.
Russia on Monday is likely to try to block the 15-member council from holding its US-requested meeting, but the Security Council is unified. Our voices are unified in calling for the Russians to explain themselves, Washingtons UN envoy Linda Thomas-Greenfield told ABC News.
Canada on Sunday announced the temporary repatriation of all non-essential employees from its Kyiv embassy. And its defense minister, Anita Anand, said Canadian forces in Ukraine were protectively being moved west of the Dnieper river.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Lavrov and Blinken will have a telephone conversation on Tuesday, Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told a press briefing.
Britain is preparing to offer NATO a major deployment of troops, weapons, warships and jets, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced Saturday. At the same time, he is expected to speak with Putin next week.
US Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland told CBS a proposal on security issues presented last week by the US and NATO to Russia may have stirred interest in Moscow.
Russia announced Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will speak with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
