US says Russian forces lose momentum in face of stiff Ukraine resistance
20220225
https://www.timesofisrael.com/us-says-russian-forces-lose-momentum-to-stiff-ukraine-resistance/
Nor have they been able to command air space. The Pentagon says that Ukrainian air defense systems are still working and the countrys air force is still able to fly and threaten Russian aircraft.
The official said that they had moved about a third of their combat power into Ukraine, and the rest remain in place just outside.
But so far, while Russian forces have focused on military targets, they have not been able to disrupt the Ukrainian military structure.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russian forces, which entered Ukraine early Thursday, have yet to seize any major cities, or gain control of airspace, the official said.
Russians have also sought to take control of the Kakhovka hydroelectric plant on the Dnieper river north of Crimea, launching cyberattacks on the plant, the official said.
They have not achieved the progress that we believe they anticipated they would, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
The Pentagon believes that Moscow wants to seize control of Kyiv and replace the Western-leaning government with allies of the Kremlin.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The Pentagon would not estimate how many Russian forces had entered Ukraine, after having amassed more than 150,000 along the countrys borders before attacking.
Starting with a massive missile barrage, Russia launched its invasion along three axes: the first a push from Belarus directly north toward Kyiv the second from Russias Belgorod region toward the major city of Kharkiv in northeast Ukraine and the third, from Crimea in the south towards Kherson.
Their momentum, particularly as it comes to Kyiv, has slowed over the last 24 hours, the official said.
As we see it right now Ukrainian command and control is intact, the official said.
We continue to have indications that its not going quite the way that they had anticipated.
And many worry that the powerful Russian force, with massive backup still awaiting on Ukraines border, could conquer Kyiv within days.
A good indicator of that is no population centers have been taken. None, the official said.
While Russian forces have reached the outskirts of Kyiv, they have not been able to enter, and fighting remains heavy around Kharkiv, which also has not fallen.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
In the south, Russians continue to push to Kherson but are also widening the front, landing amphibious forces to Crimeas east to threaten Mariupol.
WASHINGTON  Russias drive to seize control of Ukraine quickly has lost momentum amid resistance from Ukrainian fighters on the ground and in the air, a senior US defense official said Friday.
