US says no sign Belarusian forces are fighting alongside Russia in Ukraine
20220312
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/us-says-no-sign-belarusian-forces-are-fighting-alongside-russia-in-ukraine/
WASHINGTON  The United States has not seen evidence that troops from close Russian ally Belarus are in Ukraine, the Pentagon says.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
That represents about 10 percent of the more than 800 Russian missiles fired into Ukraine since the invasion began, the official said.
We havent seen any indications that Belarusian troops or forces have moved inside Ukraine, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby tells reporters.
Russian troops have fired nearly 400 missiles from inside Ukraine while just under half have been fired from Russia, the official said.
The Pentagon spokesman says the United States has noted comments by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko that his countrys forces would come to the defense of the rear of Russian forces should they be attacked.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Were not tracking any imminent involvement by Belarusian forces, Kirby says. Thats not to say that it couldnt happen or that it wouldnt happen.
A senior US defense official said earlier that Russian forces have launched more than 80 missiles into Ukraine from Belarus.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats the first time that hes ever said anything about Belarus perhaps getting involved, Kirby says, but there are no indications at this time that they have or that thats in the offing.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
