US warns Moscow of massive consequences heavy sanctions over Ukraine crisis
20220125
https://www.timesofisrael.com/us-warns-moscow-of-massive-consequences-heavy-sanctions-over-ukraine-crisis/
Canada announced it was following Britain and the US in pulling families of its diplomats out of Ukraine.
Negotiations in European cities this month have failed to ease tensions, though US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov agreed at a meeting in Geneva on Friday to keep talking.
US President Joe Biden said he would consider imposing economic sanctions personally targeting Putin if the Russian president orders a new attack on Ukraine.
The gradualism of the past is out, the official told reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Washington has promised to provide written answers to Moscows demands this week, while already making clear that it rejects giving Russia a veto on Ukraines aspirations to join NATO.
A day after Washington said it was putting 8,500 US troops on alert for possible deployment to bolster NATO forces in Europe, the Russian military announced it was conducting new drills involving 6,000 troops near Ukraine and within the Crimea region.
Moscow denies plans to invade the country, where in addition to seizing Crimea it backs separatist forces controlling a swath of eastern Ukraine.
Ukraines military is heavily outgunned by Russia and no Western country is considering deploying troops to help repel any attack by Moscow.
The US and its European allies are scouring global markets for alternative energy sources to mitigate fallout from any conflict, as Europe already finds itself struggling with soaring mid-winter energy prices.
In addition to the Macron-Putin talks later, the French government said Russian and Ukrainian officials would meet, along with French and German counterparts, in Paris on Wednesday.
If President Putin decides to make this reckless choice, we will provide additional defensive material to the Ukrainians above and beyond what weve already sent, she said.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
According to White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, the US assessment is that the risk of invasion remains imminent.
New measures would include restrictions on exports of high-tech US equipment in the artificial intelligence, quantum computing and aerospace sectors, the US official said.
We are prepared to implement sanctions with massive consequences that go far beyond previous measures implemented in 2014 after Russia invaded Ukraines Crimea region, a senior US official said.
However, the US has stepped up deliveries of weapons, with Blinken on a visit to Kyiv last week confirming another $200 million in aid. A shipment arrived on Saturday and another batch was due Tuesday.
If Russia decides to weaponize its supply of natural gas or crude oil, it wouldnt be without consequences to the Russian economy, a senior US official told reporters.
What were talking about are sophisticated technologies that we design and produce and cutting them off would hit Putins strategic ambitions to industrialize his economy quite hard, the official said.
The new government in EU economic powerhouse Germany in particular has faced criticism from Kyiv over its refusal to send defensive weapons to Ukraine, as well as hesitating over one of the harshest economic sanctions under discussion  cutting Moscow from the global SWIFT payments system.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
We continue to watch the accumulation of significant combat power, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said.
Addressing European concerns that Russia could curb energy exports to heavily dependent Europe in retaliation against sanctions, the senior US official said Russia would also be hurting itself.
AFP  The United States on Tuesday warned Moscow and Russian President Vladimir Putin of damaging sanctions, including high-tech export curbs, as Russian combat troops massing around Ukraine launched new exercises.
The US and its European Union allies accuse Russia of seeking to upend European stability by threatening invasion of Ukraine, a former Soviet republic striving to join NATO and other Western institutions.
According to Western officials, the Kremlin has already deployed more than 100,000 troops on Ukraines borders, with reinforcements arriving from all over Russia.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
At a ceremony for the latest shipment arriving in Kyiv, US charge daffaires Kristina Kvien said our preference is diplomacy.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
In a bid to break the growing tension, French President Emmanuel Macron said he would talk by telephone with Putin on Friday, seeking clarification on Moscows intentions.
Russia instead blames the West for the tension and has put forward a list of demands, including a guarantee that Ukraine never join NATO and that NATO forces already in the former Soviet bloc pull back.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson echoed the threats, saying sanctions would be heavier than anything weve ever done before.
Although the EU sources about 40 percent of its supply from Russia, Moscow also relies heavily on sales of energy for its national budget, meaning its an interdependency, the official said.
But in case of an attack by Russia, the Kremlin will face fierce resistance, the losses to Russia will be heavy.
The drills included firing exercises with fighter jets, bombers, anti-aircraft systems and ships from the Black Sea and Caspian fleets, the defense ministry said.
