Visiting Ukraine US attorney general vows help to prosecute Russia for war crimes
20220621
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/visiting-ukraine-us-attorney-general-vows-help-to-prosecute-russia-for-war-crimes/
Im here to express the unwavering support of the United States for the people of Ukraine in the midst of the unprovoked and unjust Russian invasion, Garland tells reporters after meeting with Ukraines Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova near the Polish-Ukrainian border.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Most notorious have been the allegations of wanton murder of scores of civilians in Bucha, just outside the Ukrainian capital.
Garland is stopping in Ukraine on his way to the US-EU ministerial meeting in Paris.
Nearly four months after Russia invaded Ukraine, Kyiv says it has identified thousands of suspected war crimes cases.
US Attorney General Merrick Garland pledges during a visit to Ukraine to help prosecute war crimes committed since the Russian invasion in late February.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
The United States is sending an unmistakable message  there is no place to hide, Garland says. We and our partners will pursue every avenue available to ensure that those who are responsible for these atrocities are held accountable.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Im here to continue our discussions, myself and the prosecutor general, of the actions that the United States is taking to assist the Ukrainian authorities in holding accountable those responsible for the atrocities or the war crimes that the entire world has seen, he says in remarks broadcast on Fox News.
