Zelensky They are blackmailing local leaders
20220313
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/zelensky-they-are-blackmailing-local-leaders/
City council members in Kherson, a southern city of 290,000, rejected plans for a new pseudo-republic yesterday, Zelensky says.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russia is trying to create new pseudo-republics in Ukraine to break his country apart, President Volodymyr Zelensky says in his nightly address to the nation.
Zelensky called on Ukraines regions, including Kherson, which was captured by Russian forces, not to repeat the experience of Donetsk and Luhansk. Pro-Russian separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in those eastern regions in 2014.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Russia recognized the Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Luhansk Peoples Republic before invading Ukraine in February. Moscow said it had to protect the separatist regions, and is demanding that Ukraine recognize their independence too.
Ukraine will stand this test. We need time and strength to break the war machine that has come to our land, Zelensky says.
The occupiers on the territory of the Kherson region are trying to repeat the sad experience of the formation of pseudo-republics, Zelensky says. They are blackmailing local leaders, putting pressure on deputies, looking for someone to bribe.
