Zelensky calls for unrestricted NATO military aid
20220324
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/zelenskyy-calls-for-unrestricted-nato-military-aid/
It has been a month of defending ourselves from attempts to destroy us, wipe us off the face of the earth, he said. We have lasted six times longer than the enemy had planned  but the Russian troops are destroying our cities, killing civilians indiscriminately, raping women, kidnapping children, shooting refugees, capturing aid columns and looting.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Zelensky notes that Ukrainian skies are still not closed to Russian aircraft and missiles and that Ukraine hasnt received the fighter jets or modern air-defense systems it requested. He says Ukraine also needs tanks and anti-ship systems.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
We will see who is a friend, who is a partner and who has sold out and betrayed us, he says in an emotional speech. Together we should not allow Russia to break anyone in NATO, the EU or G-7, to break them and drag them to the side of war.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
LVIV, Ukraine  Speaking on the eve of the NATO summit, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky callson the alliance to provide effective and unrestricted support to Ukraine, including any weapons the country needs to fend off the Russian invasion.
He appeals to Western countries to stay united in the face what he says are Russias efforts to lobby its interests with some partners to bring them over to its side.
Switching to Russian, Zelensky appealed to Russians to leave Russia so as not to give your tax money to the war. Tens of thousands of Russians already have fled Russia since the war began, fearing the intensifying crackdown at home.
We ask that the alliance declare that it will fully assist Ukraine to win this war, clear our territory of the invaders and restore peace in Ukraine, he says during his nightly video address to the nation.
