Zelensky calls again for peace talks but says Ukraine wont give up any territory
20220326
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/zelensky-calls-again-for-peace-talks-but-says-ukraine-wont-give-up-any-territory/
In his nightly video address to the nation Friday, Zelensky appears to be responding to Col. Gen Sergei Rudskoi, deputy chief of the Russian general staff, who said Russian forces would now focus on the main goal, the liberation of Donbas.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Russian-backed separatists have controlled part of the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine since 2014, and Russian forces have been battling to seize more of the region from Ukraine, including the besieged city of Mariupol.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is again appealing to Russia to negotiate an end to the war, but says Ukraine would not agree to give up any of its territories for the sake of peace.
Rudskois statement also was a suggestion that Russia may be backing away from trying to take Kyiv and other major cities where its offensive has stalled. Zelenskyy notes that Russian forces have lost thousands of troops but still havent been able to take Kyiv or Kharkiv, the second-largest city.
