Zelensky warns of cruel Russian action to ruin Ukraines independence day
20220821
https://www.timesofisrael.com/zelensky-warns-of-cruel-russian-action-to-ruin-ukraines-independence-day/
KYIV, Ukraine  Russia could do something particularly cruel during the upcoming week as Ukraine marks 31 years of independence, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned.
Ukraines Independence Day on Wednesday, August 24, will also mark six months since Russia invaded the former Soviet republic.
Russia could try to do something particularly disgusting, particularly cruel, Zelensky said in his nightly address late Saturday.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Four civilians were reported killed by Russian fire in Donetsk, said the regions pro-Kyiv governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
One of the key objectives of the enemy is to humiliate us and to sow despondency, fear and conflict, but we have to be strong enough to resist all provocation and make the occupiers pay for their terror, he said.
In the northeastern city of Kharkiv, the governor announced a curfew from the evening of August 23 to the morning of August 25.
Kharkiv has been under regular Russian bombardment for weeks and on Sunday emergency services said two more civilians were killed in overnight strikes.
We will not allow any provocation by the enemy. Be as vigilant as possible during our independence holiday, Oleg Synegubov wrote on Telegram.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
There has been speculation that Russia will put Ukrainian fighters captured during the siege of Mariupol on trial to coincide with the independence anniversary.
