Zelensky after Knesset speech We understand Israel must protect its citizens
20220321
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/zelensky-after-knesset-speech-we-understand-israel-must-protect-its-citizens/
The prime minister of Israel, Mr. Bennett, is trying to find a way of holding talks. And we are grateful for this. We are grateful for his efforts, so that sooner or later we will begin to have talks with Russia, possibly in Jerusalem, Zelensky says, according to a translation by Reuters.
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
In a caustic address to Knesset members on Sunday Zelensky repeatedly invoked the Holocaust and criticized Israel for failing to arm his country and impose sanctions on Russia. His comparisons to the Holocaust drew criticism from some Israeli lawmakers.
Hebrew media reported that Bennett and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid were surprised by the ferocity of the Ukrainian presidents critique in the speech, but senior political sources said Israel would not change its policy.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
Im sure you feel our pain, but can you explain why were still waiting for your help when other countries are giving help? Why isnt Israeli help, or even entry permits, forthcoming? he asked.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Of course, Israel has its interests, strategy to protect its citizens. We understand all of it, Zelensky says in a video he posts daily to social media.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky changes tack and thanks Israel in his nightly video address, after criticizing Israel in a speech to lawmakers earlier in the day.
Ill leave you to provide the answers to these questions, but I want to point out that indifference kills. Calculations can be wrong. You can mediate between countries, but not between good and evil.
