Zelensky Israel will have to live with not providing arms to Ukraine sanctioning Russia
20220320
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/zelensky-israel-will-have-to-live-with-not-providing-arms-to-ukraine-sanctioning-russia/
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
Zelensky invokes the Russian missile attack that struck near the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial in Ukraines capital Kyiv  You know that theres a memorial to the victims of the Holocaust and a Jewish cemetery there  and says missiles have targeted Uman, where tens of thousands of Israelis come each year to visit the grave of Rabbi Nachman.
You know how to defend your interests and help Ukraine. To defend Ukrainians. To protect the Jews of Ukraine, he says. We can ask many times why were not getting weapons from you. Why Israel hasnt imposed serious sanctions on Russia?
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Im sure you feel our pain, but can you explain why were still waiting for your help when other countries are giving help? Why isnt Israeli help, or even entry permits, forthcoming?
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
Ukrainians made their choice 80 years ago. We saved Jews and thats why there are righteous Gentiles among us.
He questions specifically why Israel has not provided weapons to Ukraine nor imposed sanctions on Russia. He notes that Israels Iron Dome rocket defense system is the best  apparently referring to Israels unwillingness to supply it to Ukraine, as Zelensky has previously requested.
Ill leave you to provide the answers to these questions, but I want to point out that indifference kills. Calculations can be wrong. You can mediate between countries, but not between good and evil.
