Zelensky asks Turkey to block Russian warships entering Black Sea
20220226
https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/zelensky-asks-turkey-to-block-russian-warships-entering-black-sea/
The Kremlin has a key naval base in Syria, and recently held large naval drills in the Mediterranean and Gulf of Oman.
I thank my friend Mr. President of ???????? RTErdogan and the people of ???????? for their strong support. The ban on the passage of ???????? warships to the Black Sea and significant military and humanitarian support for ???????? are extremely important today. The people of ???????? will never forget that!
Do you rely on The Times of Israel for accurate and insightful news on Israel and the Jewish world? If so, please join The Times of Israel Community. For as little as $6month, you will:
I thank my friend President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the people of Turkey for their strong support. The ban on the passage of Russian warships to the Black Sea and significant military and humanitarian support for Ukraine are extremely important today. The people of Ukraine will never forget that! Zelensky writes on Twitter.
A senior Turkish official tells the Middle East Eye news site that Turkey hasnt made a decision to close the straits to Russian ships yet.
Were really pleased that youve read  X Times of Israel articles in the past month.
So now we have a request. Unlike other news outlets, we havent put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community.
For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE, as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asks Turkey to block Russian warships from traversing the Dardanelles or Bosphorus straits, which link the Mediterranean to the Black Sea.
Thats why we started the Times of Israel ten years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.
