Zelensky is also playing the Nazi card
20220314
https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/zelensky-is-also-playing-the-nazi-card/
Addressing the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations in a Zoom talk recently, Zelensky likened Russias destructive and seemingly indiscriminate bombardments of Ukrainian cities to Nazi Germanys genocidal campaign to murder Jews on an industrial scale.
Putin may be committing war crimes in Ukraine, but his intention is not to kill Ukrainians, whom he has described as Slavic blood brothers. Russias invasion, unlike Germanys aggression eight decades ago, is not underpinned by genocidal goals.
Apparently intent on extinguishing Ukraines independence as a sovereign state, Russian President Vladimir Putin appears ready to conquer and occupy Ukraine come what may.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is feeling the intense, burning heat of Russias unwarranted and unacceptable invasion of Ukraine. The Russian army is advancing on all fronts, despite ferocious resistance by the Ukrainian armed forces, and Kyiv, the capital, is virtually surrounded.
Truth is always the first casualty of war. And in this war, which is roiling Europe tremendously, a similar pattern of deceit and deception has emerged.
This is just pure Nazism, he said, noting that Russian missiles have landed near the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial in Kyiv. This is just pure Nazi behavior. I cant even qualify this in any different manner.
Zelenskys anguish is understandable. Russia had no right whatsoever to invade Ukraine. Its invasion is a malign and vicious violation of a neighbors sovereign territory and a horrible body blow to the established political order in Europe.
Comparing Putins actions to Nazi Germanys onslaught in the Soviet Union from 1941 onwards, Zelensky said, Listen, all of this already happened in Europe. All this happened during Nazi times when the German army rolled through Europe and everyone gave the Jewish people away.
Putin is equally guilty of exploiting the Holocaust. His claim that the invasion was launched to deNazify Ukraine  a democratic country which has every right to statehood  is facile, cynical, misleading and self-serving.
And now that Russian tanks, artillery, missiles and aircraft are raining death and destruction on Ukraine on a daily basis and on a level that has not been seen in Europe since World War II, the Ukrainian government fears that Putin seriously wants to conquer Ukraine and absorb it into Russia.
So when Zelensky invokes Nazi Germany and the Holocaust to denounce Russia he is skating on extremely thin ice. He is distorting and mangling history for his own ends. And he knows perfectly well that Russian gunners did not deliberately intend to bombard the area around the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial, but rather a nearby television tower.
The brute force that Putin has deployed to subdue Ukraine is utterly deplorable. Yet Putin is not Adolf Hitler, whose diabolical objective was to murder Jews and Slavs in racial warfare. Nor is Russia comparable to Nazi Germany, whose invading armies were pulverized by the Soviet Unions Red Army over a four-year period in the costliest battles of the war.
It is very unfortunate that Putin has mischaracterized the war as a struggle against fascism, when, in fact, it is brazen imperialist attempt by Russia to subjugate a peaceful neighboring state. And it is lamentable that Zelensky has resorted to inaccurate Holocaust analogies to bolster Ukraines case against Russia.
In light of these horrific developments, Zelensky is growing increasingly desperate. So much so that he has falsely begun comparing his besieged and bleeding nation to the plight of European Jews during the Holocaust.
