Fox News Lies Says Biden Gave Putin Money To Invade Ukraine
20220520
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/05/fox-news-blames-biden-giving-putin-money
Charles Hurt, who is also the Washington Times opinion editor was up first and he went where no cultist went before.
Hurt made sure to claim he hates Putin before adding,"Heap all the scorn we can heap on Vladimir Putin."
Hurt continued,"The reason the gas prices are where they are is because of the decisions Joe Biden made when he came into office."
WTF? Who knew President Biden had the authority to regulate gas and oil prices all by his lonesome?
Really, Hurt said that. Russia's invasion has no bearing on energy prices as most of the world refuses to buy from Russia.
It's as if energy companies aren't price gouging their customers while CEOs make record profits once again.
"And the reason that Vladimir Putin had the money to invade Ukraine in the first place is because Joe Biden jacked up the gas prices," Hurt claimed.
Maybe  Charles Hurt will take Trump up on his suggestion and drink some bleachIvermectin cocktail if he gets COVID.
I thought it was NATO's fault by enticing Ukraine to join that forced Putin to take action?
It's as if there were no COVID supply chain problems caused by world wide shut downs.
"But the idea that Joe Biden is sitting there and blamed Vladimir Putin for the price of gasoline today is so absurd," Hurt said.
After a reporter gave Harris a dire report, Faulkner used a New York Post front page to bash the sitting U.S. president.
Fox News contributor Charles Hurt ranted like a clown that it's Biden's fault Russia invaded Ukraine because he purposely jacked up the gas prices which is somehow funded Putin's invasion.
Earlier today on Fox News' The Faulkner Focus, host Harris Faulkner was fired up and did a long segment on rising prices in America.
It's as if a worldwide pandemic that has killed over a million Americans never happened.
It's as if the entire world never shut down production  trying to quell infections and deaths from Covid19 in 2020.
Hurt continued, "And for him to sit here and spend all this time blaming Vladimir Putin for his mistake - it's appalling."
