Karma Comes For Russian Woman Mocking Ukrainian Refugees Fck Your Ukraine
20220809
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/08/karma-comes-russian-woman-mocking
A young woman from Russia has gone viral on social media with several scandalous videos mocking Ukrainian citizens.
The woman promotes herself on Telegram or TikTok under the pseudonym "The First Man from Germany" and most of the posts are aimed at mocking Ukraine or the citizens of this country.
The Russian woman is also active with Russian propaganda speeches on the Telescope social network.
In Salzburg, Austria, a young Russian woman walks down the street recording herself attempting to taunt refugees from Ukraine.She says screw your Ukraine, lets have a referendum in Kherson, and similar things. pic.twitter.comwDXBKzigwd
love you guys - as some one said fck around and find out https:t.cocxdZrYBfTi pic.twitter.comeBBcwj2btt
The incident occurred in Salzburg, Austria on Monday morning. By Monday afternoon she'd been identified and her hotel and flight reservations had been cancelled.
The woman was later seen on Telescope and Telegram railing against the Ukrainians for "ruining" her vacation. It'd be an awful shame if she gets deported from Germany and has to make her way back to Mother Russia.
"The Russian woman tells them, 'To hell with your Ukraine !', 'Let's hold a referendum in Kherson!' and other nonsense", show the administrators of the Twitter channel Visegrd 24.
In a video posted on August 8, the young woman verbally assaults two young Ukrainian refugees in Salzburg, most likely in the Austrian capital.
For a Russian citizen who shouted insulting phrases towards Ukrainians in Germany, Booking canceled her booking in Vienna pic.twitter.comXIrQ0OZ82o
This Russian woman has recorded herself walking around cities in Germany and Austria, harassing Ukrainian refugees.She has big channel on Telegram and seems to live in Germany with her husband.She has also bragged online that she is staying in Germany illegally.Deportation? pic.twitter.comdVLBmGsAfX
