Kremlin TV Turns Into Screaming Match
20220326
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/03/kremlin-tv-turns-screaming-match
Political analyst Vitaly Tretyakov concluded: The situation is serious... We have to admit that there was no psychological breakthrough in our operation, where the opposing side would lose their will to resist... The resistance from the Ukrainian side is neither stopping nor weakening. Tretyakov pointed out that despite the Russian medias attempted depictions of Zelensky as a drug addict, he is being perceived by the West as a leader of a country that has been attacked. He also questioned the wisdom of liberating Ukrainians who dont seem to want to be liberated and vehemently hate seeing the Russian troops on their territory. Tretyakov noted the unwavering determination of Western leaders to squeeze the Russian economy by imposing punishing sanctions.
Visibly angered, state TV host Olga Skabeeva repeatedly shouted at the outspoken pundit, accusing him of panicking and questioning his support for the Russian military. Skabeeva yelled that his commentary has a smell of something untoward.https:t.comDzkQ9A0cL
Julia Davis at The Daily Beast captured the wild scene from Thursday's show of 60 Minutes, from the state-backed Russia TV. Host Olga Skabeeva was visibly shaken by the negative comments. And why wouldn't she be? Both she and her co-host husband Yevgeny Popov have gotten fabulously wealthy being official mouthpieces for the Kremlin and both have been officially sanctioned by several western governments. If Putin goes down so do they.
Host Olga Skabeeva was visibly rattled by the depressing realities brought to the forefront by Tretyakovs comments. She sniped, So you sprinkled the ashes all over your head, but what do we do now? Whats our plan? Everything is bad, nothing is working out? Skabeeva angrily questioned whether Tretyakov had anything to offer aside from criticism. After he pointed out that societies tend to get tired of any military campaigns rather quickly, Skabeeva argued, If youre tired, that doesn't mean that everyone else is tired. Visibly angered, she repeatedly shouted at Tretyakov, questioning his support for the Russian military and telling the pundit that his commentary has a smell of something untoward.
The Australian Government has included in its sanctions list an additional 22 "Russian propagandists and disinformation operatives" including Margarita Simonyan and Olga Skabeeva, as well as the Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, his elder son Viktor and his wife Galina pic.twitter.comppNIWRlkRq
State TVs talking heads have tried in vain to paint a rosy picture of the Kremlins invasion, but the cracks are starting to show. On Thursday, with screens depicting dramatic images of demolished Mariupol flashing behind them, hosts of the state television show 60 Minutes, Olga Skabeeva and Evgeny Popov, tried to point out the positives. They noted that Russia promised to pay compensation to some Ukrainians from the affected territories10,000 rubles each, amounting to a mere $100 dollars.
