Russian Bastards Kill Mother And Baby Girl In Odessa Missile Attack
20220424
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/04/russian-bastards-kill-mother-baby-daughter
"These were the best 40 weeks ever. Our girl is 1 month old now. Daddy got her her first flowers. It's a whole new level of happiness." posted 11 weeks agoToday both the woman who posted it and the baby she's writing about were killed by a Russian missile in Odesa. pic.twitter.comUjej7K94Ci
Valeria was a new mother, her baby daughter Kira was just three month old. Russia took away their lives today when its rocket hit a residential building in Odesa.Valerias husband and Kiras father Yuri posted these pictures of them. pic.twitter.compendbL6bi2
"I can not believe it. We weren't exactly close friends, but we were friends, that's for sure. We were colleagues for a year and a half, working closely with this wonderful, sincere and kind girl. She has a very small daughter. Had. Three months old. And she didn't survive. Unspeakably sorry. I want to scream and climb the wall.
These were the best 40 weeks ever. Our girl is 1 month old now. Daddy got her her first flowers. Its a whole new level of happiness, she wrote on Instagram.
The mother, named in local reports as Valerie Glodan, had posted on social media just a few weeks ago saying she had experienced a new level of happiness since the birth.
Yesterdays press conference with Zelensky was very emotional.People cried when he answered a question about 3-month-old Kira who was killed in Odesa.Unfortunately, or fortunately, I don't know how to share the pain of those who have lost their kids. pic.twitter.comBiXQdzyFQC
A mother and her three-month-old baby were among six people killed by a missile strike on Ukraine on Saturday,
russian missile killed today this beautiful mom and her angel baby in Odesa. I have no words to describe devastation. The picture was posted by her husband Yuriy. RIP, we will revenge pic.twitter.compz128Lbjnw
In a press conference on Saturday, President Zelensky mourned the death of the infant, telling reporters: The war started when this baby was one month old. Can you imagine what is happening?
They are just bastards. ... I don't have any other words for it, just bastards.
Zelensky speaking at a press conference in Kyiv about today's missile strike in Odessa : "8 people dead, 20 wounded... A 3-months old baby has died. He was a month old when the war began... Bastards ! There is no other word. Bastards."Ukraine UkraineWar UkraineInvasion pic.twitter.comlxp1Wzm582
Nothing is more disgusting than deliberately targeting civilians during a war for the sole purpose of creating terror. It's the very definition of a terrorist act. President Zelensky reacted angrily in a press conference on Saturday held on a platform in the Kyiv subway when asked about meeting with Putin in Turkey, saying he had no desire to 'sunbathe with scum' but has to meet with him some time for this conflict to end.
