Russia Finally Gets Their Tank Parade On The Streets Of Kyiv
20220820
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/08/russia-finally-gets-their-tank-parade
The striking image of the rusted weapons is a harsh indictment of Russias inability to seize Kiev.
And why are so many Russian tanks being destroyed and are so dangerous for their crews? Here's a clue.
Locals wandering through the streets of the capital and pausing to observe dozens of military vehicles parked in the middle of the road were captured on camera today and shared on social media.
In the captured Russian T-80BVM, instead of dynamic protection, there is just rubber. Ukraine Russia pic.twitter.comSWHkRidYuk
Another minus one hostile infantry fighting vehicle on the account of the "MTR AZOV"Russian equipment was destroyed by a member of an anti-tank company with the help of Javelin pic.twitter.comGxcZwDVTrb
Australia will transfer 300 DefendTex D40 barrage ammunition to Ukraine.These units are launched from a 40-mm grenade launcher or manually. pic.twitter.comAJFDxUB9nh
It comes as Britain blasted the poor performance' of its military forces this week, while statistics indicate that over 44,000 Kremlin soldiers have been killed and almost 1,800 tanks have been damaged.
Ukraine also did this back in May, putting the burned-out Russian tanks on display for public viewing. Now there are just a lot more of them. As AFP writes for their video, "In contrast to annual pompous military parades, this year Ukraine is parading destroyed Russian military equipment, in an exhibition for the country's upcoming 31st Independence Day on 24 August." Independence from the former Soviet Union.
Ukrainian drone destroying a Russian t72b3 with a precise drop. I am always impressed by how easy Russian vehicles burn. It is like they let Michael Bay design their equipment. pic.twitter.comz5HYEbLQ3z
Ukrainian forces destroy 2x Russian tanks with a SkifStuhna-P anti-tank missile system.The Skif has greater range than NLAW  Javelin missiles and is three times cheaper to manufacture than the Javelin missile.Ukraine UkraineRussiaWar pic.twitter.comQzOaUwdAdZ
The Ministry of Defenses daily intelligence report stated that Moscow had lost a considerable number of combat tanks because they lacked explosive reactive armour ERA technology.
As Putins invasion of Ukraine continues to sputter, downtown Kyiv has been transformed into a vast open-air exhibition of destroyed and captured Russian tanks.
