Russian Beachgoers Flee Crimea In Panic After Ukrainian Missile Attack
20220809
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/08/russian-tourists-flee-crimea-panic-after
Russian tourist cries as she flees Crimea after yesterdays Ukrainian missile strike on a Russian airbase in Sevastopol.I don't want to leave Crimea. It's so cool here and its like being at home. sobsTime for Russians to realize they started a war pic.twitter.comY0UyxhwHdP
Russian beachgoers were astounded when the Novofedorivka airbase came under attack. The base is over 200km from any Ukrainian-controlled territory and was thought to be beyond their striking capability. Some have speculated that the United States is now supplying Ukraine with the ATACMS missile system which could be responsible for the strike as it has a range of about 300km.
'Because of these events, the mass exodus of the families of the Russian military who lived in Kherson began,' the statement read.
Hordes of Russians have seemingly begun fleeing the annexed Crimean peninsula after more than a dozen explosions rocked a crucial Russian airbase yesterday.
The cause of the explosions has not yet been confirmed, but more clips which emerged today showed the charred remains of a Russian fighter jet and the smouldering wreckage of several cars on torn up tarmac destroyed in the devastating blasts.
This video shot near the Novofedorivka air base in Crimea show two practically simultaneous, separate explosions. The Russian claim that there was an explosion of ammunition at the base, causing secondary explosions, is thus likely false. pic.twitter.comIrnin3JQQY
100 km traffic jam - people want to leave Crimea.Do you think Russians will finally begin to understand that it's really a war? pic.twitter.comKmwLqkxWGI
Russia's Defence Ministry denied the base on the Black Sea had been attacked, instead calling it an accidental munitions detonation. RT editor, Margarita Simonyan, tweeted that the explosions were caused by 'sabotage' and that the idea that Ukraine could have done this was bullshit. And other stupidity.
The blasts rang out around 3:30pm local time yesterday afternoon at the Russian-held Novofedorivka military airbase in Western Crimea, leaving one dead and five injured.
The base, which sits at least 130 miles from the nearest Ukrainian-controlled territory, is located within sight of a popular beach and videos circulating yesterday on the Telegram messaging app showed dozens of shocked beachgoers watching trails of smoke snaking from the base before hastily evacuating the shore.
It comes as the regional administrators of Ukraine's southern Kherson region, currently under Russian occupation, said Russian families there had 'started to panic' after Ukrainian armed forces attacked two key bridges used by Putin's troops as supply routes.
After so many heart-wrenching videos of Ukrainian families fleeing their homes for safety, I dont feel any sorrow for Russians leaving Black Sea beaches in Crimea. https:t.co3OVXCaNakq
UPDATE: The entire airbase has been wiped out, with the loss of 9 fighter jets and 25 aircraft in all, as seen on satellite imagery, leading some on Twitter to ask, "What Russian air defenses?"
If that's true then that is bad news for Russia and Russian tourists whose holidays will definitely be spoiled this year.
Ukraine was rather tight-lipped, although Viktor Andrusiv, a political scientist and former advisor to Ukraine's Ministry of Internal Affairs, wrote on Telegram: "As you can understand - missiles with a range of 200-300km are already in service with us and are being used in our country."
The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine would like to remind everyone that the presence of occupying troops on the territory of Ukrainian Crimea is not compatible with the high tourist season. pic.twitter.comPFl6jBzKh4
Vacationing Russians had seen enough and fled back to Russia, causing a massive traffic jam nearly 100km long.
