Visa And Mastercard Suspend Russian Operations Effective Immediately
20220306
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/03/visa-and-mastercard-suspend-all-russian
Car shipments were paused. Beer stopped flowing. Cargo ships dropped port calls, and oil companies cut their pipelines.
"You   basically have Russia becoming a commercial pariah," said economist   Mary Lovely, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International   Economics in Washington. "Pretty much no company, no multinational,   wants to be caught on the wrong side of U.S. and Western sanctions."
Along with needing to comply with western sanctions against Russia, companies are increasingly aware of the potential reputational risk of  continuing with business as usual in the country, while some have cited  their own corporate responsibility standards for pulling back. They're   also expressing concern about the plight of Ukrainians as the the war  takes a mounting toll on civilians and displaces more than 1 million people.
We can add Visa And Mastercard to the growing list of companies that will no longer do business in Russia.
In separate statements that arrived within minutes of each other on Saturday, Visa cited Russias unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed, while Mastercard referred to the unprecedented nature of the current conflict and the uncertain economic environment.
Mastercard announces they are suspending network services in Russia after President Zelensky called on them to do so during his meeting with US lawmakers this morning.
Visa and Mastercard said any transactions initiated with their cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside the country, while any cards issued outside of Russia wont work at Russian merchants or ATMs.
The decisions come hours after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy called on the companies to halt all business in Russia during a video call with U.S. lawmakers. ...
Russia's  invasion of Ukraine  is leading some of the world's best known brands  from Apple to Disney  and Ikea  to abruptly exit a country that's become a global  outcast.
Follow the link above for a running list of all the companies that have either scaled back or completely cut ties with Russia, which they will be updating.
