Worlds Deadliest Sniper Continues To Troll Russians That Hes Not Dead Yet
20220406
https://crooksandliars.com/2022/04/worlds-deadliest-sniper-continues-troll
Wali, the fun and friendly Canadian sniper has to be one of my favorite characters of this Ukraine thing. "Its a shame, he looks like a nice guy" he says as he blows another Russian general's head off. Same energy as Fargo. pic.twitter.comlwra5RyP5H
Russia Ukraine : A new interview video of Sniper Wali from Canada  combatant of Ukrainian TDF has been released.Apparently, he is still using the Sako TRG-42 sniper rifle from Finland  with Schmidt  Bender PM II rifle scope. pic.twitter.com7J6YVf1rrH
Great wall hangings. Love the wallpaper. We are pro plate. Wali for the win. 1010 StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comQkiVFqreX1
The war in Ukraine has attracted many foreigners to join the fight against Russia. One notable fighter is a Canadian who goes by the war nickname Wali, which means protector or guardian in Arabic. He previously served in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan, with the Canadian military and volunteered in Iraq with the Kurdish resistance in their fight against ISIS. Now, in Ukraine, Wali has become a major thorn in the side of the Russian Army.
Canadian Wali trolls Russians by posing with their expired MRE rations. "And thank you for leaving ammo and grenades behind after retreating. Some of my comrades are now even better armed than before you arrived. Thanks thanks!" https:t.co0QXRqkh17N
Using social media, Wali has publicized many of the supplies left behind by retreating Russian forces. And thank you for leaving ammo and grenades behind after retreating, he wrote on social media. Some of my comrades are now even better armed than before you arrived. Thanks thanks!
'Sniper Wali' has become something of a social media star in the past few weeks and a bit of a folk hero in Ukraine with his talent for killing Russian commanders from absurdly long distances away. The fun and friendly assassin. 'The World's Deadliest Sniper' is a title that Russian propaganda gave to him after they claimed to have killed him - for the first or second or third time, it's hard to keep track - saying that he does not hold any records for the longest kill. "I'm a good sniper. Nothing less, nothing more."
Wali keeps doing media interviews from around the world, and is something of a rockstar in Ukraine now. So how does he manage to stay alive? "Russians are not that smart," he deadpanned.
In an effort to demoralize Ukrainian defenders, Russian media outlets publicized that Wali had been killed on the battlefield. On March 22, the Canadian did an interview to prove that he was still alive. He even taunted the Russians by posing with his sniper rifle in a ball pit. Wali continues to troll Russia online by posing with Russian rations.
Former Canadian Armed Forces sniper "Wali" says he was the last to learn of his own death in Ukraine. Spoke to him this am. He returned from battling Russian forces on the frontlines in the Kyiv region  learned about a Russian disinformation campaign declaring he was killed. pic.twitter.comXTIbgemPGT
Here I am with a Russian military ration! Wali published on Facebook. I would like to thank the Russian Army for bringing this meal to me. I know it hasnt been easy. Thank you for crossing combat zones, muddy roads and areas bombarded by Ukrainian artillery. And thank you to the starving Russian soldiers who sacrificed themselves for me to have this good meal. Hoping to be able to taste several other rations of this kind.
