Analysis Why is Putin obsessed with Ukraine
20220226
https://muscatinejournal.com/news/world/analysis-why-is-putin-obsessed-with-ukraine/article_6ebdaaaf-b42c-5718-94c3-1fc8bf6dafe0.html
All around the world, official buildings turned blue and yellow in solidarity with the people of Ukraine.
In what historians took as an extreme attack on history, Putin said in a rambling speech Monday: "Modern Ukraine was entirely and fully created by Russia."
"The fundamental crisis will not end," Carl Bildt, former prime minister of Sweden and now a senior envoy in Europe,saidon Twitter, "until Putin leaves the Kremlin and Russia finally decides whether it will build a modern nation state or whether it still seeks an empire."
To understand how Putin views Ukraine, and why it's so entangled in his national mythology, first look at a map.
Russian President Vladimir Putin looks at his watch at the end of his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. Putin has urged the West to "immediately" meet Russia's demand for security guarantees precluding NATO's expansion to Ukraine and the deployment of the military alliance's weapons there. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko
Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks to a journalist in St. Petersburg, Russia, Tuesday, July 13, 2021. Putin has described Russians and Ukrainians as "one people" and argued that Ukraine can only be stable and successful if it maintains friendly ties with Russia. Alexei Nikolsky, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP
Refugees crossing from Ukraine to Romania on Friday February 25 spoke of their fears and defiance. Juliana, from western Ukraine, told Reuters: "We are afraid, my husband is still there. We will fight, even if Europe doesn't help us."
Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko
A former KGB operative, Putin has said the collapse of the Soviet Union was one of the greatest disasters of modern history. He says he does not regard the former Soviet republic of Ukraine as a real country, nor Ukrainians as separate people.
The Ukrainian people voted overwhelmingly in 1991, in a democratic referendum, to leave the Soviet Union and become independent.
Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko
Putin now may not want to take over all of Ukraine, but he certainly wants to swallow up enough of the country to render it a submissive ghost nation, experts and analysts say. One scenario floated by U.S. intelligence is that Putin would make the invasion swift and only long enough to install a new leader.
With everything in turmoil from stocks to gas prices, what are the implications for international travel?
Ukraine had also served as a lucrative source for Putin's coffers. A Russian gas pipeline crosses Ukraine en route to Europe, ginning big profits for Moscow  money that Putin used to co-opt friendly Ukrainian politicians as well as to buy off his oligarch cronies, according to Russia experts and former diplomats.
Associated Press journalists around Ukraine and beyond are documenting military activity during Russia's invasion. With disinformation rife and social media amplifying military claims and counterclaims, determining exactly what is happening is difficult. Heres a look at what could be confirmed Friday.
That's the question on many minds as Russia's invasion of the former Soviet republic continues.
Much of the West, probably unwittingly, bought into part of the narrative by referring to Ukraine as "the Ukraine," the way Putin and Russian nationalists do. It's similar to how Americans refer to "the South" or "the Midwest," parts of the U.S., not separate countries.
The pandemic, mass shootings, natural disasters, terror attacks. There's been plenty of tragedy and anxiety for parents to sort through with their kids. Add Russia's escalating invasion of Ukraine to the list.
Belarus, along with several other former Soviet republics, have, or had, Kremlin-friendly leaders. But Ukraine broke from the pattern in a 2014 revolution that seated democratically elected officials and moved the country solidly toward the West. The then-pro-Russia president, Viktor Yanukovych, fled to Moscow in what becameknown as the Maidan revolution.
But as Ukraine sought to step out of Russia's sphere of influence, Putin increasingly sought to draw it back. Following the Maidan revolution, he began eating away at eastern Ukraine, declaring swaths like the Donbas to be Russian because many people there speak Russian and have Russian passports.
There's a Russian adage that you can't have a Russian empire without Ukraine, owing to its long cultural and economic history as the beating heart of the defunct Soviet Union. And Putin is hell-bent on re-creating a new empire to restore his declining country to superpower status.
A new Russian-backed pipeline, called Nord Stream 2, would circumvent Ukraine and take gas directly to Germany. This is the pipeline, not yet up and running, now targeted by U.S. sanctions.
The answer involves a mix of history, geography, and Putin's desire to return his country to the glory days of Soviet Union superpower.
With events rapidly unfolding on TV and across social media, child development experts urge parents to check in with children of all ages but not to worry if those conversations are brief.
Ukrainians began to clean up their homes on Friday after overnight assaults, whilst thousands of others - mainly women and children - fled acr
Tiny Georgia was invaded by Russia in 2008, and the two fought a brief war. Then, as now, Moscow accused Georgia of attacking pro-Russia breakaway enclaves like South Ossetia. France negotiated a cease-fire that ended most fighting, but Georgia did not regain the disputed territory.
Belarus, Ukraine and Georgia  in that order, north to south  are former Soviet Union republics that broke away into ostensibly independent nations after the communist power collapsed in 1991. They sit like a massive land barrier between Russia and Europe to the west.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, center, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, right, and Russian General Staff Valery Gerasimov, left, walk to attend the joint strategic exercise of the armed forces of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus Zapad-2021 at the Mulino training ground in the Nizhny Novgorod region, Russia.
