Putin orders increase in Russian military in the face of Ukraine losses
20220825
https://muscatinejournal.com/news/world/putin-orders-increase-in-russian-military-in-the-face-of-ukraine-losses/article_4c8ce419-03d7-509d-95d4-b9ac9b092362.html
 Fueling fears of a nuclear catastrophe, the Zaporizhzhia power plant in the middle of the fighting in southern Ukraine was briefly knocked out of commission by fire damage to a transmission line, authorities said. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the plant's emergency backup diesel generators had to be activated to provide power needed to operate the plant.
 The death toll from a Russian rocket attack on a train station and the surrounding area climbed to 25, Ukrainian authorities said. Russia said it targeted a military train and claimed to have killed more than 200 Ukrainian reservists in the attack, which took place Wednesday on Ukraine's Independence Day.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a major buildup of his country's military forces Thursday in an apparent effort to replenish troops that have suffered heavy losses in six months of bloody warfare and prepare for a long, grinding fight ahead in Ukraine.
The move to increase the number of troops by 137,000, or 13, to 1.15 million by the end of the year came amid chilling developments on the ground in Ukraine:
Russia Announces Plans , to Bolster Military , Troop Numbers. On August 25, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree to increase the size of his country's military by 137,000 soldiers. . NBC reports that the news comes as Russia's invasion of Ukraine reached the six-month mark. . The move will increase the number of combat personnel in Russia's military by about 10, increasing from 1.01 million to 1.15 million. . According to a Russian government website, the order will take effect on January 1 of 2023. While the decree was reported on by Russian state media, no reason was given for the boost in troop numbers. . NBC reports that the news comes one day after Putin's defense chief confirmed that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has stalled. Russian forces now control large sections of Ukraine's south and east, where many of Moscow's forces have been amassing in the industrial Donbas region. August 24 marked six months since the invasion began, coinciding with Ukraine's Independence Day. . August 24 marked six months since the invasion began, coinciding with Ukraine's Independence Day. . The same day, Kyiv reported that at least 25 people were killed in a Russian rocket strike in Chaplyne in the Dnipropetrovsk region. According to Russia's defense ministry, over 200 Ukrainian soldiers and military equipment headed for the Donbas region were destroyed in the attack
Russia has put Ukraine and all Europeans one step away from a radiation disaster, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address.
Putins decree did not specify whether the expansion would be accomplished by widening the draft, recruiting more volunteers, or both. But some Russian military analysts predicted heavier reliance on volunteers because of the Kremlins concerns about a potential domestic backlash from an expanded draft.
The move will boost Russia's armed forces overall to 2.04 million, including the 1.15 million troops.
