After Ukraine why Poland is new RussiaWest flashpoint
20220322
https://www.indiatoday.in/news-analysis/story/after-ukraine-why-poland-is-new-russia-west-flashpoint-1928207-2022-03-22
Ukraines envoy in Warsaw Andriy Deshchytsia has been quoted as saying that Poland is preparing for a Russian attack. Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko has also said Putin would not stop in Ukraine. Its going to be very little time before Russia attacks Poland.
Now, with Russia reaching its border, Poland is feeling the real heat, and the situation may change dramatically. It's a matter of when and not if, many would argue.
On March 12, Russias deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, said its military would treat arms shipments to Ukraine from Nato countries as legitimate targets.
Ukraine is backed externally by the West, but its not a Nato member. Hence, no direct military involvement of the West. Now, Poland, a Nato member, will be occupying the unenviable space of being right between western Europe and Russia. Unless, of course, Russia completely withdraws from Ukraine and has no say in how its Soviet-era constituent is run. Both possibilities are improbable.
The next day, Russia bombed Ukraines military base, not far from the Poland border, killing more than 35 people. Thats an area from where western arms are crossing into Ukraine and where US or other volunteer fighters are training.
By Darpan Singh: Before Russias invasion on February 24, Ukraine was a strategic buffer between Russia and US-dominated western military alliance Nato North Atlantic Treaty Organization. But the situation is fast changing.
The exodus is stretching housing, schools, medical care and other services and many cities in Poland may collapse, the Polish government has said. But its the security situation thats rattling Poland more.
Poland's foreign minister Zbigniew Rau has called Russian forces in Belarus, only 120-odd miles from Warsaw, a great concern.
For years, Poland warned the West that Russia wanted to redefine boundaries by force, unsuccessfully pushing the European Union and Nato into forming closer relationships with Ukraine. But Polish leaders were then called alarmists suffering from post-communist stress disorder.
With the invasion of Ukraine, many fear Russias Vladimir Putin will further his security interest and pursue the Great Russian Dream of annexing the countries, including Poland.
This, however, hasn't lessened Poland's worries. It has even wanted its Soviet-era, Russian made MiG-29 fighter jets to be sent to Ukraine via an American airbase in Germany. But Washington has rejected the plan, saying jets flying from a US-Nato base into an airspace contested with Russia over Ukraine raise serious concerns for the entire military alliance.
Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has said Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine is a calculated part of his larger geopolitical plan, and that Ukrainian soldiers are also fighting for the freedom of their eastern European neighbours.
However, Poland can no longer be dismissed like that. And Nato knows this. Most weapon convoys sent by the West to help Ukraine are passing through Poland. Warsaw is also sending arms for its neighbour. A large number of US troops are stationed in Poland. Nato has deployed both land and maritime assets across its eastern regions and activated defence plans, should Russia go beyond Ukraine.
The question is: how will the West address the Polish concerns? US President Joe Biden will travel to Poland on March 25 to discuss Russias invasion of Ukraine. Biden will hold a bilateral meeting with President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw. Bidens Poland trip will come a day after meeting in Brussels, Belgium with Nato allies, G7 leaders and European Union leaders.
And Poland and Russia have a history. After occupying Poland for more than a century, before World War I, Russia invaded Poland again during World War II and installed a communist rule after the war that lasted until 1989.
The Polls hold their breath while Russia is training its troops for a bigger war.
More than 2 million out of the total 3.3 million refugees have entered Poland from Ukraine after the invasion that Russia's President Vladimir Putin declared to force his neighbour into showing neutrality with regard to his tussle with Nato that has expanded in eastern Europe by making many erstwhile Soviet constituents its members.
Warsaw's mayor Rafal Trzaskowski has also said something urgent needs to be done about the security situation.
On its east, Poland shares a 600-km border with Ukraine under Russias invasion for about four weeks now and with Belarus a Russian ally. Russian air defences located in Russia and Belarus thats been hostile to Poland cover most of the Polish territory.
If they dont, Natos charter will collapse, and more Soviet constituents may face Russias invasion. Putins recent remarks show that Ukraine might just be part of his ambition to restore some of Russias past glory. He has been deeply hurt by the way the end of the Cold War with the West ended the Soviet Union and Russias global influence.
ALSO READ: Zelenskyy says Ukraine ready to discuss deal with Russia to not seek Nato membership
While these remarks can be seen as an effort to somehow force the West to fight Putin directly, Russia has already shown aggression.
In October 1991, a couple of months before the Soviet Unions collapse, the first free Polish polls were conducted. Since then, the two countries have fought because of Warsaws opposition to Putin and support for Ukraines efforts to join Nato.
And if this happens, it wont be a two-nation conflict. Because Natos charter says, an attack against one of its nations will be viewed as an attack against all. This means all Nato members will be obliged to defend Poland, also a member of the European Union.
