Ammonia leak at Sumy chemical plant in Ukraine after Russian airstrike
20220321
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/ammonia-leak-at-sumy-chemical-plant-in-ukraine-1927622-2022-03-21
On Friday, UN Crisis Coordinator Amin Awad issued a statement that the United Nations and partners had completed the first convoy of urgent humanitarian aid to the city of Sumy, one of the most war-affected areas of the country.
According to a report by Nexta, the State Emergency Service of Ukraine announced that the leak at the plant was eliminated at around 9 am local time. A 50 ton ammonia tank was damaged by the airstrike.
The governor of Sumy Oblast Dmytro Zhyvytsky said on March 21 that ammonia leaked from Sumykhimprom chemical plant at 4:30 a.m. local time as a result of Russian airstrike.
People within the affected area are recommended to take immediate shelter underground. They have been advised to turn on their showers with a fine spray and breathe through a damp bandage preferably moistened with 5 acetic or citric acid solution if ammonia is detected.
ALSO READ  Art school housing 400 refugees bombed in Ukraine's Mariupol, says city council
Earlier this month, a Russian attack near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine erupted in flames, causing international outrage. Russia had denied targeting the site. The Russian military has also seized control of the Chernobyl nuclear plant, the site of the biggest nuclear disaster in history.
The ammonia leak at the plant in Sumy region has been eliminated, according to the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. pic.twitter.com3uwHvELZ49
The estimated area of contamination is around 2.5km from the site. This includes the villages of Novoselytsya and Verkhnya Syrovatka. However, there is no threat to Sumy residents.
By India Today Web Desk: The governor of Sumy Oblast Dmytro Zhyvytsky announced on Monday that ammonia leaked from the Sumykhimprom chemical plant at 4:30 a.m. local time. He claimed that the plant was hit during a Russian airstrike.
