As Russia inches closer to Kyiv US says Ukraine will remain independent long after Putin
20220316
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-zelenskyy-putin-antony-blinken-1925852-2022-03-16
Blinkens comments came amid the visit to Kyiv by three top European Union leaders  prime ministers of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia  on March 15 to signal support to Ukraine. Prime Minister of Slovenia Janez Jansa described the visit as a way to send a message that Ukraine is a European country that deserves to be accepted one day into the EU.
ALSO READ  Russia might use chemical weapons in attack on Ukraine, says Nato chief
By India Today Web Desk: Amid the looming threat of Russia taking over Kyiv, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on March 15 asserted that Ukraine will remain independent. Speaking to US-headquartered media house Cable News Network CNN, he said: There will be an independent Ukraine a lot longer than there's going to be a Vladimir Putin."
According to Biden, The US is working as hard as we can to limit, to stop, to put an end to this war of choice that Russia is committing."
"We're doing that through the support we're providing Ukraine every single day. We're doing that by the pressure we're exerting against Russia every single day," he said. The US, along with its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, has imposed several sanctions on Russia.
Despite the USs vocal support to Ukraine, President Joe Biden said that his country will not take an active part in the war against Russia. The Biden administration is still figuring out the most effective way to get military aid into Ukraine without triggering a direct war with Russia, which could result in a wider conflict involving other nations as well.
Blinken added: "One way or the other, Ukraine will be there and at some point, Putin won't."
However, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has urged his US counterpart Joe Biden for further efforts to cut off Russia from international trade. Zelenskyy also called for blocking Russia's access to international waterways.
New satellite images revealed Russias continued onslaught across Ukraine, resulting in widespread destruction. The fresh images showed damaged houses in a village near Kyiv and burning homes in Mariupol, where more than 2,500 civilians have reportedly died by Ukrainian officials estimate.
According to the estimate put out by the International Organization for Migration, more than three million people have fled Ukraine so far since the start of the Russian invasion.
Although US officials said Ukrainian forces are being supplied with America-made weapons, such as Javelin anti-tank and Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, the White House is under pressure to do more to help the European nation.
