Biden calls Indias response to RussiaUkraine war shaky
20220322
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-updates-biden-india-shaky-response-1927859-2022-03-22
Not mincing words, Biden said: "The Quad is, with the possible exception of India being somewhat shaky on some of this, but Japan has been extremely strong -- so has Australia -- in terms of dealing with Putin's aggression sic." Biden was addressing a meeting of US business leaders in Washington.
By India Today Web Desk: US President Joe Biden on Monday said that among its major allies, India was an exception in its response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Biden termed Indias stand "shaky".
Unlike its Quad partners  Australia, Japan and the United States India has not imposed any sanctions on Russia and has refused to join votes condemning Moscow at the United Nations.
This includes unprecedented sanctions aimed at crippling Russia's currency, international trade and access to high-tech goods.
ALSO READ  Im sure Ill die soon: Mariupol woman's post as Russia closes in on port city
Indias priority has been the safety of its citizens and has focused on the evacuation of Indians from the war-affected areas in Ukraine. On every platform, India has repeatedly urged peace talks to resolve the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
Biden, meanwhile, hailed the US-led alliance, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Nato, the European Union, and key Asian partners, for its united front against Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Biden said there had been "a united front throughout Nato and in the Pacific and that Putin was "counting on being able to split NATO". However, Nato has never been stronger, more united, in its entire history than it is today," he said.
On criticisms of Indian oil refiners reportedly continuing to purchase discounted Russian oil, amid the Wests efforts to isolate Moscow, an Indian government official said last week that the world's third-biggest consumer of crude relies on imports for almost 85 of its needs. However, Russia accounts for a "marginal" amount, comprising less than 1 of this.
However, the official said that the jump in oil prices after the Ukraine conflict has added to our challenges and India must keep focusing on competitive energy sources.
ALSO READ  India's Dalveer Bhandari votes against Russia's military operation in Ukraine at UN court
