Chernihiv residents in Ukraine hope to rebuild lives from scratch but future looks grim
20220418
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-chernihiv-homes-1938883-2022-04-18
We have been here since day one. The first two days, we sat at home in the cellar. On the second day of the war, late in the evening, we came here and to this day we are here. There is no light, no gas, no water in our house, so we are staying here," she said.
Marina has moved into this basement with her entire family  husband, two children, a dog, and elderly parents.
Fierce battles were fought around the city and villages turned into battlefields for days as Russian forces remained in position.
This is now a shelter for the homeless in Chernihiv   the city under siege by Russian forces for 40 days staring at a grim future.
"Our house was destroyed by the Russians mortars. We ran away from there and jumped out of the burning house in 2-3 minutes. Weve only managed to take our dog and documents. Nothing more. I left in what you see me right now," she said.
People still fear that something could happen. They are frightened and have not yet fully recovered from these horrors, he said.
With the Russian occupation and continuous bombardment, the city has seen a human catastrophe as homes are turned into death traps.  With devastation visible all around, the city is limping back to normalcy, but the wounds are fresh, and fear of another Russian attack makes people anxious.
Sergii, 40, who works as an aid worker with the Red Cross, lost his home. But he feels he's fortunate enough to have a place to stay with a friend. Many are homeless and have to live in basements, he says.
By Abhishek Bhalla : A couple, playing cards, an old man trying to keep his dog cheerful, a little girl cuddling up to her father in a bed laid out on the floor  this is what life looks like in the basement of a college building in Chernihiv in Ukraine.
People now queue up for food distributed as part of humanitarian aid by local authorities and welfare groups.
Speaking about rebuilding lives, he said, "When it comes to the restoration of houses, it would take about a year. But if you take the psychological state it would take anything between 5-10 years."
Alla, who is living with her husband and a dog in the basement of a college building with several others, shows pictures of her home up in flames saying "everything is destroyed."
Like all others, Marina wants to get back to the comfort of her home but remains uncertain of the future. "Of course, we want to go home, but it's been scary so far."
Locals say it was only about two weeks ago that the Russians left, and people have had some relief.
Even the dead, it seems, were not spared as the cemetery in Chernihiv was dealt massive damage by Russian attacks.
Showing his small apartment on the eighth floor of a building that has a great view of the town, Sergii says he doesn't even know if his neighbours are alive, as almost every apartment in the building has been reduced to debris.
Chernihiv, 156 km northeast of Kyiv, was pounded from the very first day of the Russian invasion that started on February 24. Russian forces moved in with tanks from the Belarus border, taking over the outskirts of the city.
The Russian assaults have left many homeless. Home after home was bombarded. What remains is just the debris in the ruins.
