China relieved as Ukraine crisis dominates Bidens first Union address with US focus shifting to Russia
20220302
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/china-relieved-as-ukraine-crisis-dominates-biden-s-first-union-address-with-us-focus-shifting-to-russia-1919958-2022-03-02
"No doubt, the unfolding crisis in Ukraine has added a new dynamic to Chinas tortuous relations with the US and its Western allies," Wang Xiangwei, the noted columnist of the Post, wrote in his latest column.
On Tuesday, China, which claims Taiwan as part of its mainland and vows to integrate it, hit back at Washington for sending the security delegation and warned that the US will pay a "heavy price" for its attempts to show support to Taiwans independence.
"But Beijing will certainly gain more room to manoeuvre and more geopolitical benefits if the conflict over Ukraine persists," he said.
"Of course, it is naive to think that Washingtons focus on Russia would lead to any fundamental shift in its relationship with Beijing, like it did more than 20 years ago," he said.
Also read  After Germany  Britain, Biden announces fiscal sanctions on Russia over Ukraine crisis
"I've told Xi Jinping, it is never a good bet to bet against the American people. We'll create good jobs for millions of Americans, modernising roads, airports, ports, and waterways all across America. We will do it all to withstand the devastating effects of the climate crisis and promote environmental justice," Biden said in his first State of the Union address on Tuesday night.
Also read  Russia-Ukraine war: President Zelenskyy dials Joe Biden, seeks support to 'stop the aggressor'
But as Biden spoke, a delegation of security officials headed by former US Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mike Mullen was in Taiwan where it held talks with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen amid apprehensions that Beijing may attempt action akin to Russias military assault in Ukraine to capture the island.
"That ship has already sailed as confronting China was one of the few things that united the politicians in Washington before the Ukraine crisis," he said.
Biden said the US and China were engaged in a race to "win the economic competition of the 21st century, and vowed that the US was embarking on an infrastructure decade, announcing plans this year to fix more than 65,000 miles of highway and 1,500 bridges in disrepair.
Biden's low-key remarks against China, especially when Washington and its European Union allies were carrying out a major campaign against Beijing for its human rights violations in Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, besides Beijings aggressive assertions to integrate Taiwan, came amid projections by Chinese strategic experts that Beijing may get relegated to backseat in US calculations after Ukraine crisis.
By Press Trust of India: A relieved China on Wednesday gave Joe Biden's "dont bet against the American people" jibe against his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping a pass as the Ukraine crisis dominated the US President's maiden State of the Union address unlike the previous years where Beijing used to be a major theme.
"Bidens one-hour speech contained just a handful of mentions for China. But the rising power, which his administration considers a major threat to US interests, was an unmistakable subtext to many of his comments about efforts to counter aggression by illiberal countries," the Hong Kong-based South Morning Post reported.
His remarks hardly ruffled any feathers here as the Chinese Foreign Ministry, which never let a US leader's remarks unchallenged gave it a pass in Wednesdays briefing.
"As the crisis is set to consume the attention of Washington and Brussels and other capitals of the world for the next few years, it is very likely that their united front pressure against China will ease," he said.
However, there were no references to Taiwan in Bidens address nor anything adverse China deemed fit to react.
