Civilian killings in Ukraines Bucha deeply disturbing need independent probe India at UNSC
20220405
https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/india-condemns-civilian-killings-ukraine-bucha-calls-for-independent-probe-1933990-2022-04-05
Watch: Permanent Representative AmbTSTirumurti speak at the UNSC Briefing on the situation in Ukraine MEAIndia IndiainUkraine IndEmbMoscow pic.twitter.comTCSXK0YsaG
India laid emphasis on the humanitarian needs of the Ukrainians. TS Tirumurti said, We hope the international community will continue to respond positively to the humanitarian needs. We support calls urging for guarantees of safe passage to deliver essential humanitarian and medical supplies.
Keeping in view the dire humanitarian situation in Ukraine, India has been sending humanitarian supplies to Ukraine and its neighbours, which include medicines and other essential relief material. We stand ready to provide more medical supplies to Ukraine in the coming days, TS Tirumurti said.
Humanitarian action must always be guided by the principles of humanitarian assistance, i.e., humanity, neutrality, impartiality, and independence. These measures should never be politicized, TS Tirumurti said on Tuesday.
India reiterated its call for immediate cessation of violence in Ukraine and advocated diplomacy in dealing with the ongoing crisis.
India firmly declared that it is in our collective interest to work constructively towards seeking an early resolution to the conflict in Ukraine.
Images and videos of people lying dead on the streets of Bucha, some with their hands tied behind them, have emerged after the Russian pullout from the outskirts of Kyiv. The grisly images of battered bodies left out in the open or hastily buried drew global condemnation and calls for investigation and tougher actions against Russia.
India also declared its commitment to providing more medical supplies to Ukraine in coming days.
Speaking at the UN Security Council meeting on Tuesday, TS Tirumurti, Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations, said, The security situation has only deteriorated, as well as its humanitarian consequences. Recent reports of civilian killings in Bucha are deeply disturbing. We unequivocally condemn these killings and support the call for an independent investigation."
By Geeta Mohan: India condemned the civilian killings in Ukraines Bucha city and supported calls for an independent investigation into the matter.
Addressing the UN, TS Tirumurti said, We have emphasized right from the beginning of the conflict the need to pursue the path of diplomacy and dialogue. When innocent human lives are at stake, diplomacy must prevail as the only viable option. In this context we take note of the ongoing efforts, including the meetings held recently between the Parties.
