Either accept us or admit fear of Russia Ukraine President Zelenskyy to Nato
20220322
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/volodymyr-zelenskyy-nato-afraid-russia-ukraine-russia-war-1927872-2022-03-22
A part of Mariupol now held by Russian forces, reached by Reuters on Sunday, was an eerie wasteland. Several bodies lay by the road, wrapped in blankets. Windows were blasted out and walls were charred black. People who came out of basements sat on benches amid the debris, bundled up in coats.
Russia's invasion, now in its fourth week, has largely stalled, failing to capture any major city, but causing massive destruction to residential areas.
He said, "NATO should either say now that they are accepting us, or openly say they are not accepting us because they are afraid of Russia  which is true. And then we need to calm down and say  ok, there are NATO member countries that can provide us security guarantees without membership in NATO."
"There can't be any 'de-Nazification' in the agreement with Russia. When a country that is treading in the footsteps of the Nazi is accusing us of being Nazi  we can't accept that," he said.
"Let's say they demand to get Kharkiv, or Mariupol, or Kyiv. People in these cities won't let them do it. The only way they can seize the cities is to kill everyone, and take the empty city," he said.
"That's where the compromise exists. That's where the end of the war is," he added, as Moscow's aggression continued in Ukraine.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy also said Ukraine would not accept Russia's ultimatum. He said, "We can't accept an ultimatum from Russia. How can we? After our people were killed... It's impossible, simply impossible."
Mariupol, a port city on the Sea of Azov that was home to 400,000 people, has run short of food, medicine, power and water. Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said its "heroic defenders" had helped thwart Russia elsewhere.
By India Today Web Desk: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Nato was afraid of Russia because of which it was not granting membership to Ukraine amid war with Russia. He said Nato should either grant Ukraine membership or admit it was afraid of Russia.
A total of 8,057 people were safely evacuated on Monday through seven humanitarian corridors from towns and cities under fire, said Vereshchuk. Among those brought to safety were 3,007 residents of Mariupol.
