Elon Musk changes his name to Elona after challenging Vladimir Putin for a fight Heres why
20220316
https://www.indiatoday.in/trending-news/story/elon-musk-changes-his-name-to-elona-after-challenging-vladimir-putin-for-a-fight-here-s-why-1926029-2022-03-16
He even signed off the tweet as Elona and changed his name on Twitter too!
Musk replied to the message in a cheeky way and said, Thank you for the offer, but such excellent training would give me too much of an advantage. If he is afraid to fight, I will agree to use only my left hand and I am not even left-handed.
"You will return from the Chechen Republic a completely different person, Elon, that is, Elona," he had added.
However, Musk has grabbed the attention of netizens for a totally different reason this time. He has changed his name on Twitter to Elona Musk.
After getting a harsh reply from the official Twitter handle of the President of Russia--KremlinRussiaE, Musk even asked Putin to bring his bear.
ALSO READ  Elon Musk challenges Vladimir Putin to a fight. Yes you read that right
By Srimoyee Chowdhury: Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has been grabbing headlines for his stand in the Russia-Ukraine crisis. After Russian fighters and missiles bombarded Ukrainian cities, his company provided internet coverage using its constellation of Starlink satellites. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy also spoke to Musk and announced the country would receive more of its Starlink satellite internet terminals.
Now, in another Twitter post, Musk has shared a Telegram message from Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov. "Elon Musk, a word of advice. Don't measure your strength against that of Putin. Vladimir Vladimirovich will look unsportsmanlike when he beats the hell out of you, a much weaker opponent," Kadyrov wrote.
If he is afraid to fight, I will agree to use only my left hand and I am not even left-handed.
Thank you for the offer, but such excellent training would give me too much of an advantage.
On March 14, Musk tweeted about an open challenge to Russian President Vladimir Putin asking him to engage in a one-on-one fight with him. He even declared that the stakes of the fight were Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Delegation level talks and meetings between foreign ministers of both nations have failed to generate any favourable outcome so far.
