Europes largest nuclear power plant on fire after Russian attack says Energodar mayor
20220304
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/europe-largest-nuclear-power-plant-on-fire-russian-attack-energodar-mayor-1920472-2022-03-04
Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a "special operation" that is not designed to occupy territory but to destroy its neighbour's military capabilities and capture what it regards as dangerous nationalists. It denies targeting civilians.
The invasion of Ukraine is entering its ninth day. Thousands are thought to have died or been wounded as the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two unfolds, creating 1 million refugees, hits to Russia's economy, and fears of wider conflict in the West unthought-of for decades.
Earlier, Ukrainian authorities reported Russian troops were stepping up efforts to seize the plant and had entered the town with tanks.
"As a result of continuous enemy shelling of buildings and units of the largest nuclear power plant in Europe, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant is on fire," Orlov said on his Telegram channel, citing what he called a threat to world security. He did not give details.
On Thursday, the United States and Britain announced sanctions on more oligarchs, following on from EU measures, as they ratcheted up the pressure on the Kremlin.
Russia has already captured the defunct Chernobyl plant, some 100 kilometres 62 miles north of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv.
There has been fierce fighting between local forces and Russian troops, Dmytro Orlov said in an online post, adding that there had been casualties without giving details.
By Reuters: The Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, the largest of its kind in Europe, was on fire early on Friday after an attack by Russian troops, the mayor of the nearby town of Energodar said.
Visa restrictions will be imposed on 19 Russian oligarchs, their family members and associates, the White House said.
ALSO READ: Fall of Kherson: Russia looks at controlling Black Sea coast, advance up north
ALSO READ: Direct talks with Putin 'only way' to end Russia-Ukraine war: Zelenskyy  Top Points
