Fact Check No Russia didnt threaten India of consequences over a possible intervention in Ukraine
20220227
https://www.indiatoday.in/fact-check/story/russia-india-threaten-consequences-intervention-ukraine-war-1918495-2022-02-27
The Prime Minister of India thanked Vladimir Putin for the clarification and asked for assistance in ensuring the security of Indian citizens who currently stay in Ukraine. The President of Russia said that the necessary instructions would be given. Some issues of bilateral cooperation were touched upon in the context of the Russian-Indian summit held in December 2021 in New Delhi, a Russian government readout on the telephonic conversation between the two leaders read.
Ahead of the meet, Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin expressed his confidence that India will continue to support Moscow. He also praised New Delhi's "balanced" and "independent" position on the issue.
The India Today Anti-Fake News War room AFWA found the claim to be false. The screengrab of the news report in circulation is doctored. There are no credible reports to prove a threat to India from Putin over the war in Ukraine.
India on February 25 abstained from voting on a UN Security Council resolution that condemned Russia's "aggression" against Ukraine and demanded the withdrawal of Russian forces from the neighbouring country.
On February 24, the Russian President declared war on Ukraine in a televised address. Putin asked other countries not to interfere in the matter. Any such move would lead to consequences they have never seen, he warned.
While India abstained from voting on a UN Security Council resolution against the Russian invasion, a screengrab of a news report is now viral on social media.
Soon after the invasion began, Ukraine envoy Igor Polikha "pleaded" for India's intervention into the matter. He called PM Modi a "strong global leader" to whom Putin might listen. Igor added he was "deeply dissatisfied" with the way India handled the situation.
"India should not interfere, otherwise be ready to face the consequences," the CNN report quoted Russian President Vladimir Putin as saying. One such post can be seen here.
Even a keyword search on Google failed to get any credible reports of a Russian threat to India amid the ongoing invasion. According to available information, it is safe to conclude there was no reason for friction between India and Russia over Ukraine.
We tracked the timeline of the invasion that began on February 24 to find out any mention of India from either side. Our findings have been listed below.
By Bechu S: Russia is a long-standing ally of India. Many observers were curious to find out how the world's biggest democracy would react to the full-scale invasion of Ukraine by its mighty friend.
India called for a return to the path of diplomacy and respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states.
Dialogue is the only answer to settling differences and disputes, however daunting that may appear at this moment, Tirumurti said in a tweet.
An altered screengrab of CNN is used to claim that Russia warned India of consequences. While Putin asked the world to stay out of Ukraine, there is no evidence to say that Russia singled out India with a threat.
There were reports that Putin made efforts to swing the 2020 US presidential election in favour of Donald Trump. This was the topic being discussed in the original screengrab.
Afterwards, India's envoy to the UN T S Tirumurti provided an explanation of vote EOV that briefed the rationale behind India's stance.
This confirmed that an altered screengrab of CNN is used to claim that Russian President Vladimir Putin threatened India of consequences if the country interferes in the Ukraine crisis.
So, we ran a reverse search of the screengrab in circulation. This led us to a CNN news report from November 2019. It was revealed that the main textbox in the screengrab was altered while the rest of its content was left untouched.
There was no sound of displeasure in the Russian statement that confirmed the communique with India.
In UN Security Council meeting on Ukraine today, India abstained on the vote on draft resolution.
The original text that read Top Russian official jokes about interfering in U.S. elections in 2020 was replaced to include Putin's warning to India. The font was different on both the slides as well. However, the small text box in red that said, "Putin's new punchline" was retained to make it look believable.
We confirmed that India was not mentioned in the speech even once by the Russian leader. His warning was to the world in general and no country was named in particular. Vladimir Putin's full speech from Thursday can be read here.
On the same day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to Putin for an "immediate cessation of violence". A statement from the PMO said Modi called for concerted efforts from all sides to return to the path of dialogue to settle the conflict.
Eleven countries voted in favour of the resolution while India, China and the UAE abstained.
