Fate of Ukraines surrogacy industry hangs in balance amid raging war
20220305
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-updates-fate-surrogacy-industry-1921026-2022-03-05
Additionally, when compared to the US, surrogacy in Ukraine is cheaper. In Ukraine, it costs between $30,000 Rs 23 lakh approx. to $50,000 Rs 38 lakh approx. while it is more than $100,000 Rs 76 lakh approx. in the US.
But the war has thrown up complicated questions regarding surrogates and babies born out of surrogacy in Ukraine. What if a surrogate decides not to leave her country or place of birth or family? There are no said guidelines on the legality of surrogacy during a war.
Ukraine is one of the few countries in the world that allows foreign nationals to opt for surrogacy within its territory. People from the US, Australia and other nations come to Ukraine for surrogacy as they can legally hire a local to gestate their child.
In the past, it has been alleged that clinics in Ukraine have turned into baby factories and surrogates are exploited. Multiple cases have been highlighted in which surrogates who had miscarriages were not paid. In their 2018 report, Al Jazeera highlighted how surrogates in Ukraine were not properly looked after in hospitals and treated like cattle.
Anti-surrogacy groups like StopSurrogacyNowUK have highlighted that surrogates are being overlooked while the plight of intending parents is being spoken of. The advocacy group has written to Special Joint Oireachtas Committee on International Surrogacy member Helen McEntee regarding the situation.
As per a 2018 report in Al Jazeera, 2,000 to 2,500 children are born through every year in Ukraine.
One thing is for sure, surrogates and premature babies stuck in vulnerable zones like Kyiv cannot be moved unless a ceasefire is declared.
Our letter to Special Joint Oireachtas Committee on International Surrogacy member Helen McEntee regarding the situation relating to surrogacy in Ukraine at this time when the international trade in babies is being highlighted by war.
International publications like the Washington Post have highlighted how war has affected surrogate mothers, intending parents and babies born out of surrogacy.
Much less talked about is the impact the war is having on Ukraines sizeable surrogacy industry. Ukraine is known internationally as one of the most popular choices for surrogacy. However, the unprecedented circumstances of war have thrown a spanner in the works of the well-oiled surrogacy machinery in the country.
One of Ukraines leading surrogacy providers, BioTexCom, posted a YouTube video showing how surrogates and babies have been shifted to a safety bunker. The facility can hold up to 200 surrogates.
Many couples are currently seeking legal help with service providers like Growing Families guiding them on what to do next.
BioTexCom on its website has issued an advisory for intending parents stuck in Kyiv. It says, Unfortunately, the level of Russias military aggression against Ukraine exceeded all possible expectations  we urge you to keep calm, do not panic and follow the rules of conduct. We remind you that your life and the life of your child depend on it.
However, there are certain conditions that would-be parents must follow - they must be heterosexual, married and provide a medical reason for opting for surrogacy.
By Sreya Chatterjee: People rushing to bunkers, walking for miles with suitcases, waiting for flights at crowded borders  these are some of the haunting images being flashed from war-hit Ukraine.
