From colourful country to ghost town How Russian invasion left Ukraine in shambles  See before  after pics
20220308
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/how-russian-invasion-left-ukraine-in-shambles-before-after-pics-1922204-2022-03-08
By Priya Pareek: Marvellous monasteries, charismatic cathedrals, historic monuments and cities with fairytale-like landscapes - this was Ukraine for tourists exploring attractions to visit while holidaying in Europe's second-largest country.
A country that once used to attract millions of tourists from across the world is now struggling to protect itself as invaders attack.
ALSO READ  Pain and grief as Ukrainians flee country amid Russian invasion  IN PICS
Touted as one of the top universities in Ukraine, the Kharkiv National University's building was damaged due to heavy shelling by Russia. The before and after images show the extent of damage caused to the building as fire fighters struggled to contain a fire on March 2.
"Big, diverse and largely undiscovered, Ukraine is one of Europes last genuine travel frontiers, a nation rich in colourful tradition, warm-hearted people and off-the-map experiences," - this is how a travel website defined Ukraine before Russia's offensive.
The bridge, which many civilians are still using to flee the Russian invasion, was destroyed by Ukrainian forces to slow down Russian advances. Ukrainians are using the bridge to flee towards Kyiv, which is still controlled by Ukraine.
While tensions have been palpable between the two countries for the past few months, Ukraine's fate changed overnight the minute Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in simple terms - warinvasion which it said was aimed at demilitarisation and denazification.
The Kharkiv City Council building was damaged as Russians continued with their assault on Ukraine pounding central Kharkiv with missiles on March 2.
Heartbreaking images coming from Ukraine show the destruction and damage caused by the Russian invasion. As the cities look unrecognisable, here's a before and after comparison of the same spots to give a sense of the scale of destruction caused by heavy shelling.
Sadly, the US State Department along with other foreign ministers has issued a "Level 4: Do Not Travel" advisory for Ukraine after the Russian invasion. Let alone tourists, even Ukrainian citizens are forced to flee their country seeking shelter in neighbouring nations to escape Russia's brutal assault.
Svobody Square, also known as Freedom Square, was hit by Russian missiles and rockets on March 2. The second-largest city-centre square in Europe and the ninth-largest in the world, Freedom Square is an architectural landmark.
Unfortunately, all that's left for one to see in Ukraine now is heartbreaking scenes of citizens fleeing with tears and fear, the rubble of towers that refused to bow, stains of blood on roads where pedestrians once walked freely and an army of civilians who are the faces of stronger-than-expected resistance in front of Russia's mammoth army.
Though Russia initially said that it would only target military facilities in Ukraine, within 10 days the so-called "military operation" changed the face of Ukrainian cities and reduced many buildings to rubble despite strong resistance by not only President Volodymyr Zelenskyy but also the civilians who armed up and turned into soldiers to protect their motherland.
ALSO READ  Ukraine President Zelenskyy to get highest Czech honours for standing up to Russia
