Girl poses in front of a bombed school in Ukraine wearing her prom dress Powerful photo will shock you
20220608
https://www.indiatoday.in/trending-news/story/girl-poses-in-front-of-a-bombed-school-in-ukraine-wearing-her-prom-dress-powerful-photo-will-shock-you-1960067-2022-06-08
That is a photo that should go in a history book. It is a powerful statement of beauty shining in the face of evil destruction. Her expression says it all. Amazing photo.
Ukrainian resident Anna Episheva shared a photo of her niece with a note detailing the situation. My niece was supposed to graduate this year from her high school. She and her friends bought dresses and were looking forward to this day. Then Russians came. Her school was directly hit and destroyed. Today she came back to what is left of her school and her plans, read the caption.
Anna Episheva: My niece was supposed to graduate this year from her high school. She and her friends bought dresses and were looking forward to this day. Then Russians came. Her school was directly hit and destroyed. Today she came back to what is left of her school and her plans pic.twitter.comq9cJW2j8f0
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukraine planned to publish a special Book of Executioners next week with information about war crimes committed by the Russian army. The war between Ukraine and Russia started after President Vladimir Putin ordered an attack on Ukraine.
By Srimoyee Chowdhury: A heart-wrenching photo of a teenage girl standing in front of her bombed school in Ukraine has shaken the Internet. Shared on Twitter, the picture shows the Ukrainian girl wearing a beautiful red prom dress and standing amid the ruins that was once an educational institute.
The photo has garnered over 40k likes and tons of reactions. People downright declared the photo as a powerful reminder of the cruel fate of millions of innocent Ukrainians. While some wrote about how the photo will go down on the pages of history, others sent their prayers to the people of Ukraine.
I have no words to make up for the horror you must all see and are dealing with in such a dignified way, even though you must want to scream out loud!! Thanks for what you are doing and she is beautiful- I hope she has a beautiful life
Your niece is beautiful, I'm sorry that Ukraine is suffering this horror! You are all admired and incredibly brave. My family and I in the UK send our love to all Ukrainians, stay strong, glory to Ukraine
