Go f yourself Ukrainians change road signs to confuse send message to Russian troops
20220228
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-updates-ukrainians-change-road-signs-to-confuse-send-message-to-russian-troops-1918818-2022-02-28
In another photo shared by the Twitter handle ww3daily, digital signs seemed to have been altered to read Go F Yourselves.
ALSO READ  Go f yourself: Ukrainian soldiers last stand before Russian warship bombs them
ALSO READ  Russia-Ukraine war: Moscow slaps ban on foreigners' bids to sell Russian securities
ALSO READ  Russia-Ukraine war news updates: Tipplers pour vodka down the drain to support Ukrainian resistance efforts
In a move thats both delaying the Russian onslaught on Ukraine and mocking the Russian ground units, Ukrainians have changed road signages to read Go F Yourselves.
Ukravtodor, a Ukrainian government-owned firm, in a Facebook post said that dismantling the countrys road signs was the number 1 priority. The enemy has a pathetic connection, they don't orientate the area. Lets help them go straight to hell, read the posts English translation. The companys Facebook post included an edited photo of a standard road sign. The different directions on the photo read "Go f yourself", "Go f yourself again" and "Go f yourself back in Russia".
Ukrainian soldiers have been taking down street signs and direction markers to confuse Russian invaders. Their digital signs are reading Go Fuck Yourselves. Russia Ukraine pic.twitter.comUemzmySDTV
Ukrainian soldiers have been taking down street signs and direction markers to confuse Russian invaders. Their digital signs are reading Go F Yourselves, the post read.
By India Today Web Desk: When Russia declared war on Ukraine and President Vladimir Putin sent troops to invade the nation on February 24, Ukrainian MP Volodymyr Ariev had said his country would do everything to defend itself. Welcome to hell, he had sought to tell Russian forces in an exclusive conversation with India Today. Now, Ukraine is doing everything to make the road to hell as difficult as possible for the Russian troops.
