How foreign fighters may further complicate RussiaUkraine war
20220325
https://www.indiatoday.in/news-analysis/story/foreign-fighter-complicate-russia-ukraine-war-1929461-2022-03-25
On March 11, Russias President Vladimir Putin pushed a plan to recruit eager foreign volunteer fighters to join his forces in Ukraine. Russias defence minister Sergei Shoigu said 16,000 troops were ready to assist Russia in Ukraine that Putin invaded on February 24 to stop genocides by Zelenskyys regime backed externally by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Nato.
Ramzan Kadyrov, president of Russias Chechen Republic, has also announced that his forces are stationed in the battlefield. He has posted on social media updates and videos of Chechen soldiers involved in military and humanitarian operations in Ukrainian.
Lets first look at how calls were made for these forces to join the war that has led to the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II, with more than 3.6 million people having fled the country so far.
ALSO READ  Ukrainian Army claims Russia wants to end war by May 9: Report
According to multiple estimates, thousands of foreigners may be fighting Russias forces in Ukraine, though there is no independent verification as in the case of Russias claims. Some experts say these numbers are also part of a PR exercise.
Whats also important is that its difficult to demobilise and pull out such unstructured forces even after the actual war is over, as they often resort to blackmailing to squeeze out that much more from whoever gets to control the conflict zone. The presence of foreign fighters shows both Russia and Ukraine are bracing for a long haul.
Even if it wasnt likely to be an in-and-out invasion, many believe a month later that things havent gone as planned. So, mounting casualties and costs are a decisive factor for Putin to hire freelancers. Foreign fighters come cheap and hardly mean any accountability.
Also, using mercenaries helps because news and images of more and more dead soldiers can hurt Putins image back home where protests against the war are already spiralling.
By Darpan Singh: Several estimates from Kyiv and Moscow of foreign fighters joining the Russia-Ukraine war may be part of a PR exercise, experts have suggested. But their presence in the month-long conflict is established, and the numbers are growing. And this may make matters worse.
Ukraine had to make the call because the West has poured military and humanitarian aid for Zelenskyy to take on Russias clearly superior military but so far avoided a direct conflict in the war. The reason: Ukraine is not a Nato member. But it wanted to be part of the US-dominated and Putins rival military alliance that has expanded in eastern Europe by making many erstwhile Soviet constituents its member.
Chechen forces also participated in the 2008 war in Georgia, the first phase of the conflict in Ukraine in 2014-15, and the Syrian war. There are also opposing Chechen forces fighting for the Ukrainian side.
But this is not happening for the first time. The first modern war that witnessed high levels of participation of foreign fighters was the anti-Soviet jihad in Afghanistan in the 1980s. This happened again in Bosnia and Chechnya. Then a similar trend was seen in the Syrian war. And the world saw the complicatedly disastrous outcomes.
Paid foreign fighters dont bother about the rules of conventional warfare and military structures. They operate with impunity, are more destructive as many dont take assigned duties from commanders on the ground. Their movement and actions, primarily urban guerrilla tactics, are challenging to control for conventional militaries.
Russia has indicated that these fighters are coming from Putins ally Syria where a large number of men are eager to freelance because of the countrys shattered economic condition after 11 years of war. 
Putins push to have foreign fighters was prompted by a similar Ukrainian move. But the decision seems to have been guided more by the fact that Russias forces in Ukraine havent been able to achieve the objectives as swiftly as expected because of stiff Ukrainian resistance, with weapons convoys from the West moving in via Poland.
Russia wants Ukraine to acknowledge Crimea that Putin annexed in 2014 in response to Ukrainians ousting their pro-Russian president through mass protests as Russian territory, and recognise Donetsk and Lugansk, controlled by Putin-backed rebels, as independent states.
ALSO READ  At arm's length: Why India is shying away from directly criticising Russia
On the other hand, quite a few dont have training or fighting experience and cannot speak the local language. This might lead to them being captured and executed. The Geneva Convention does not protect paid foreign fighters.
Kyiv has said Moscow is using members of the notoriously private security company the Wagner Group in the war. Zelenskyy has been accusing the Wagner Group of fighting at Kremlins behest in eastern Ukraines Luhansk and Donetsk even before the invasion. Like the Chechens, the Wagner Group has also fought in Putins earlier wars.
ALSO READ  Rishi Sunak, UKs Indian-origin minister, grilled over wifes Infosys link with Russi
On February 27, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for foreign volunteers to join Ukraines forces and, the next day, waved visas for men who could apply based on details on a government website. But there are fears that many have joined the war without following the due process as some countries, including the UK, have warned their citizens fighting in Ukraine could be prosecuted under anti-terror legislation.
