Is it too late West sends arms to Ukraine amid explosive Russian invasion civilian toll rises  Top points
20220227
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/west-new-sanctions-russia-arms-ukraine-war-latest-news-civilian-toll-1918373-2022-02-27
On Saturday, Russian forces were closing in on Ukraines capital of Kyiv. City officials warned of street fighting and urged residents to stay inside and take cover. The occasional blasts and gunfire could be heard in the city.
He also welcomed efforts to open talks with Russia. In a video message, Zelenskyy said the presidents of Turkey and Azerbaijan had offered to help organize talks and that we can only welcome that.
Meanwhile, ten Greek nationals have been killed and six others wounded by Russian bombing near the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, Greece said on Saturday.
Relieved  delighted to see 250 Indians safely return from Ukraine on the airindiain flight at the Delhi Airport. Received  interacted with them along with with my colleague Sh VMBJP Ji. Welcome back! OperationGanga pic.twitter.comKQ8tcHSTeo
According to the United Nations, at least 64 civilians have already died in Ukraine since Russia launched its military attack. The real figures are likely to be a lot higher.
Ukrainian officials reported some success in fending off Russian assaults, but fighting persisted near the capital. Skirmishes reported on the edge of the city suggested that small Russian units were trying to clear a path for the main forces.
By India Today Web Desk: Over the last three days, since Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine, cities and military bases across the country have been under attack by Russian forces. On Saturday, Russian forces were closing in on Kyiv, Ukraines capital city, and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Ukrainians to stand firm.
Belgium is deploying 300 troops in Romania and sending machine guns to Ukraine while France also plans to deliver more military equipment to the war-hit nation.
Russia on Saturday warned it could react by opting out of its last remaining nuclear arms pact and cutting diplomatic ties.
To counter the Russian offensive, the US said it is sending Ukraine up to $350 million in arms and other defensive supplies from US stockpiles with another $250 million in defensive support. The Czech Republic also approved a plan to send more arms to Ukraine.
Although Zelenskyy has been posting video messages, his exact whereabouts are not known. On Saturday, he also spoke to PM Modi about the crisis.
Meanwhile, in the middle of the night, 250 Indians returned safely from Ukraine on an Air India flight.
The United Nations said it has confirmed at least 240 civilian casualties, including at least 64 people killed, in the fighting in Ukraine. However, the real figures are expected to be considerably higher.
In this context, the US and Western allies declared fresh economic sanctions on Moscow on Saturday. The US, Germany and others also announced the delivery of additional arms and equipment to Ukraine to aid the nation in its fight against Russia.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov claimed on Saturday that since the start of Russias attack, its military had hit 821 Ukrainian military facilities, 87 tanks and other targets.
The US, European Union, and United Kingdom have agreed to block "selected" Russian banks from the SWIFT global financial messaging system and to impose "restrictive measures" on its central bank in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine.
Russia claims its assault on Ukraine is aimed only at military targets, but civilians have been killed and injured in the nation.
From Tokyo to London to Taipei, Ukrainians living abroad and hundreds of protesters around the world have turned out on the streets to show their support for Ukraine.
With growing signs that Russia aims to overthrow him and his government, Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Ukrainians to stand firm.
UN officials said nearly 120,000 Ukrainians had left the country for Poland, Moldova and other neighbouring nations since Russia declared war on Thursday.
Calling Russia's invasion of Ukraine a threat to "our entire post-war order," Germany's government announced it will send 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 Stinger surface-to-air missiles to Ukraine's military.
