Joe Biden Zelenskyy discuss security financial and humanitarian aid for Ukraine over phone call
20220306
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/joe-biden-zelenskyy-discuss-security-financial-humanitarian-aid-ukraine-phone-call-1921255-2022-03-06
Zelenskyy took to the Twitter and informed about the talks held with President Joe Biden. The agenda included the issues of security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia, tweeted President Zelenskyy.
In particular, he welcomed the decision this evening by Visa and Mastercard to suspend service in Russia. POTUS noted his administration is surging security, humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine and is working closely with Congress to secure additional funding.
During the conversation, President Biden reiterated his concern about the recent Russian attack on a Ukrainian nuclear power plant, and he commended the skill and bravery of the Ukrainian operators who have kept the reactors in safe condition.
ALSO READ: Russia-Ukraine war: President Zelenskyy dials Joe Biden, seeks support to 'stop the aggressor'
ALSO READ: Putin calls sanctions 'declaration of war', warns against 'no-fly zone' over Ukraine  Top points
President Biden noted his administration is surging security, humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine and is working closely with Congress to secure additional funding,said the White House.
During the conversation, Joe Biden welcomed the decision by Visa and Mastercard to suspend service in Russia.
By India Today Web Desk: US President Joe Biden has called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss ongoing efforts to impose economic costs on Russia and to speed up US military, humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine.
As part of the constant dialogue, I had another conversation with POTUS. The agenda included the issues of security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.
The White House said that both the leaders also discussed talks between Russia and Ukraine during the more than 30-minute call early Sunday.
