More Russian soldiers refuse to fight in Ukraine
20220513
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/story/russian-soldiers-refuse-to-fight-in-ukraine-1949010-2022-05-13
In early February, Moscow had sent around 80 of its main ground combat forces,150,000 men, into the war, according to western officials.
Dmitri and eight others told their officers that they did not want to rejoin the invasion. He was then transferred to Belgorod, a Russian city close to the border with Ukraine. I have served for five years and my contract ends in June. I will serve my remaining time and then I am out of here, he says. I have nothing to be ashamed of. We arent officially in a state of war, so they could not force me to go, he adds.
During the war, the regulations are different. Saying no would mean a higher degree of punishment, he says.
Dmitris refusal to fight highlights some of the military difficulties the Russian army has faced due to Kremlins political decision not to formally declare war on Ukraine and preferring instead to describe the invasion as a special military operation.
It was soon evident that many soldiers did not want to go to Ukraine. The commanders were initially angry over our refusal, but they came to terms with it later as they could not do much, says Dmitri, a member of the unit, who did not wish to reveal his real name.
Russia lacks ground units for a sustainable rotation. The troops are getting tired, he says.
If I dont get the compensation soon, I will go public with it, he adds.
A junior sergeant says he was injured during one of the recent Ukrainian attacks on Russian border territory, but his superiors argued that he should not be given the monetary compensation of up to 2,500, that wounded Russians are entitled to by law, citing that the injury took place on Russian soil.
The BBCs Russian service also received a similar anecdote from Sergey Bokov, a 23-year-old soldier, who at the end of April decided to leave the army after fighting in Ukraine.
Some government-run firms have got letters urging them to sign up staff for the army.
There are no legal grounds to start a criminal case if a soldier refuses to fight while on Russian territory, he says, adding many have chosen to get fired or transferred.
By India Today Web Desk: Soldiers of an elite Russian army brigade, who saw bitter combat with the Ukrainian forces in February end when the war began, did not show willingness to prepare for a second deployment in early April out of fear, The Guardian reports.
However, it will be difficult for the troops to say no if Russia declared a full-scale war.
Officers often threaten them with imprisonment, but we suggest them to say no directly, he says, adding that he does not know of criminal cases against soldiers who did not want to go.
According to rules, Russian troops, who refuse to fight in Ukraine, can face dismissal but cannot be prosecuted, says Mikhail Benyash, a lawyer, who has been advising soldiers who choose that option.
Though it is difficult to mention the number of soldiers resisting another deployment, such anecdotes corroborate military experts' and western governments claims about Russias shortage of infantry troops.
But analysts say such steps will not help Russia in holding the fort for too long. Despite speculations, Putin had not formally declared war during his Victory Day speech on May 9.
I want to return home alive, says the soldier of a unit that was stationed in Russias far east during peacetime and first entered Ukraine from Belarus when the war started.
Benyash says hundreds of soldiers have been seeking advice from him. Some of them include 12 national guardsmen from Russias southern city of Krasnodar, who were dismissed after refusing to go to Ukraine, says the lawyer.
But the forces have faced a significant setback in terms of logistics and poor morale amid strong Ukrainian resistance.
Andrei Kolesnikov, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment, said the authorities may be worried that a general mobilisation will antagonise sections of the population that support the special operation.
Lee says Kremlin can opt for sending conscript units to Ukraine despite Putins pledges. Conscripts can fill in, but they will be poorly trained. Units that are supposed to train conscripts are fighting themselves, Lee says.
A BBC Russian service probe showed that Russias defence ministry had filled employment websites with vacancies, offering people with no combat experience opportunities to join the army on lucrative short-term contracts.
This is unfair. I am fighting just like my peers in Ukraine, risking my life, the soldier says.
Without sufficient battalions, Russia could soon find it difficult to sustain in Ukraine, especially as Ukraine receives better equipment from Nato, he adds.
