No medicines no groceries and no way out What its like living under Russian occupation in Ukraines Kherson
20220306
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/no-medicines-no-groceries-and-no-way-out-what-it-s-like-living-under-russian-occupation-in-ukraine-s-kherson-1921269-2022-03-06
By India Today Web Desk: Kherson, a port city in southern Ukraine, was captured by Russian forces on Wednesday, following several days of heavy bombing and shelling. On Saturday, the citys mayor Ihor Kolykhaiev said that Russian troops were everywhere and the city of nearly 3,00,000 people was without power and water and in desperate need of humanitarian aid.
Even as they live in constant fear under Russian occupation, the locals are determined to stay on. Andriy Abba said he is determined to stay in Kherson regardless of the occupation for as long as the Ukrainian flag remains flying on government buildings.
Yulia Alekseeva, a mother of a two-month-old, told CNN she is struggling to find diapers and other baby products. "There are catastrophically few in the city. We also have a grandmother with dementia who needs diapers and medicines on an ongoing basis, which are also not available," she said.
A local, Andriy Abba, told CNN, Even if we wanted to evacuate women and children from here, it's just plain impossible. They shoot at anyone who tries to leave."
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba shared footage of the protest on Twitter and wrote, "Courageous Kherson inspires Ukraine and the world! Thousands of peaceful Ukrainians protests Russian occupation in front of armed Russian soldiers. What a spirit.
Now living under Russian occupation, the citys residents are afraid to go out even to buy basic necessities, a CNN report said. When they do go out to buy essentials, they often find grocery stores emptied and medicines unavailable.
As per the mayor, the Russians tried to provide aid but the Ukrainian locals refused to take it.
With most inhabitants having either fled or joined the resistance and the few who remain staying locked inside their homes, the roads are empty save for Russian troops.
"We are in hiding. There is a curfew in the city, if people go out after eight in the evening, they shoot to kill, Yulia Alekseeva said.
We're less afraid to be under bombs than to become a part of Russia, said local Svetlana Zorina.
According to residents who spoke to CNN, the Russian troops are shooting at anyone who tries to leave the city. On Thursday, Russian forces shot two men at a checkpoint after they attempted to pass, killing one and seriously wounding the other, a Ukrainian official reported.
A woman undergoing long and complication labour on the outskirts of Kherson had to give birth while consulting with her doctor via video conferencing after Russian forces blocked the medical team from reaching her, the same official narrated. After a day of begging the Russian troops, the mother and child were permitted to reach the hospital.
On Saturday, the locals held a large demonstration in Kherson to protest against the Russian occupation.
