Putin asks Ukraines army to topple govt as Russian troops close in on Kyiv  Top Points
20220225
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russian-president-putin-ukraine-attack-army-kyiv-invasion-chernobyl-1917988-2022-02-25
According to a report by the Associated Press, the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate of Ukraine said that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the decommissioned Chernobyl zone. However, it didn't provide details of the increase in the radiation level.
Russia President Vladimir Putin said he is ready to send a delegation to Belarus capital, Minsk to hold talks with Ukraine. Putin in a conversation with Chinese President Xi Jinping had reiterated Russia's desire to engage in high-level negotiation with Ukraine.
But the sanctions did not deter Russia as they captured Chernobyl nuclear power plant and entered Kyiv. Airstrikes and gunfire incidents were reported as air sirens wailed across the city.
The European Union and the US, meanwhile, announced a new round of sanctions against Russia for a "long-term" impact. The EU will freeze Russian assets in the bloc and halt its banks' access to European financial markets as part of what EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell described as "the harshest package of sanctions we have ever implemented".
By India Today Web Desk: Russian forces are closing in on Kyiv, a day after President Vladimir Putin ordered a special military operation aimed at 'demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine'.
Ukraine's nuclear agency reported an increase in radiation at Chernobyl nuclear power plant. It was captured by Russian forces on February 24.
Russian Defense Ministry has denied such claims. Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible provocations", adding that the radiation levels in the area are normal.
"Last time our capital experience anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany. Stop Putin, Isolate Russia. Severe all ties, " Foreign Minister Dymtro Kuleba said.
However, the agency later said that it was caused by soil disturbances. There has been no damage to nuclear facilities, it said.
Putin said, "I once again appeal to the military personnel of the armed forces of Ukraine: do not allow neo-Nazis to use your children, wives and elders as human shields. Take power into your own hands."
According to government, at least 137 people have died so far. It also claimed that Russia bombed 33 civilian sites in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 13 soldiers who were killed on Snake Island will get 'Hero of Ukraine' honour.
"Russian armoured forces have opened a new route to advance towards Kyiv having failed to capture Chernihiv. The bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain more than 50km from the centre of the city," the report said.
However, Ukrainian forces have taken back control of Melitopol in the Zaporizhzhia Oblast region of southeastern Ukraine. Here are the top developments in the Russia-Ukraine crisis.
Later, in Russia's security council meeting, Putin urged Ukrainian Army to 'take control into own hands', asking them to throw off the elected government.
The Russian Army has reportedly broken into Ukraine from the northeast and the east of Kyiv. Ukrainian military vehicles headed for the city were seized by Russians. Ukraine President Zelensky said invading troops are targeting civilians and explosions can be heard in the besieged capital. Foreign Minister also alleged that Russians targeted kindergarten and orphanage. Russia however denied attacking civilians.
ALSO READ  Russian troops enter Kyiv after taking control of Chernobyl nuclear power plant, says Ukranian President
