Putins invasion was a terrible mistake Russian prisoners of war voice shame about conflict
20220316
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russian-prisoners-of-war-voice-shame-about-conflict-1926127-2022-03-16
"The crimes that we committed we all will be judged the same. Other than that, I cannot say. It's impossible to guess ... They will judge us," said Maxim.
"It was a horrifying fact, not just because it is a crime. It's vandalism. You cannot forgive such things. To bomb a maternity ward?" he said.
By India Today Web Desk: Captured Russian soldiers have described hearing their own air force bombing schools, hospitals and kindergartens in Ukraine, as they admitted Vladimir Putin's barbaric invasion was a 'terrible mistake'.
"Our government told us we need to liberate the civilian population. I want to tell Russian servicemen: lay down your arms and leave your stations, don't come here. Everyone wants peace here," he said.
Slamming the Russian govt, Maxim said, "It's not just about demilitarising Ukraine or the defeat of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but now cities of peaceful civilians are being destroyed. Even, I don't know, what can justify, fk, the tears of a child, or even worse, the deaths of innocent people, children."
"I want to tell our commander-in-chief to stop terror acts in Ukraine because when we come back we'll rise against him," he added.
"I think it was invented as a pretext and is something that the world cannot understand," Maxim said. "But Putin and his circle need this in order to achieve their own objectives. One such step was that it would be beneficial for them to spread disinformation about fascism and Nazism."
"The order was withdrawn. Part of the air force, which had already taken off, was forced to return. We were relieved, believing that things had been settled peacefully," said Maxim, a fighter-bomber pilot. However, he was incorrect. He soon received a list of coordinates for targets in eastern Ukraine, near Izium and Chuhuiv.
"It's terrible  to realise we've made a mistake. It will take years, decades, or centuries to repair relations," he said, adding, "I wish I could sink into the earth and vanish."
Russian officers claimed they were given combat orders the day before Putin declared the invasion. Then something unexpected happened.
"We didn't see any Nazis or fascists. Russians and Ukrainians can communicate in the same language, so we see the good in these people," Maxim said.
READ  Top UN court likely to deliver verdict on Russia's invasion of Ukraine today
Sergey, who was with an artillery unit, said in an earlier media briefing that "at 10:00 am on the 23rd of February they were lined up and told by the commander about Putin's order to attack Ukraine, seize Kyiv and "protect the population against fascism and tyranny in Ukraine."
Maxim further said that the pilots were asked what they thought about Putin's claims that Ukraine was run by neo-Nazis.
He stated that they were aware of what had occurred in places such as Mariupol, where nearly 1,600 people had died since the invasion began.
A captured reconnaissance officer named Vladimir stated that he wishes to tell Putin that terrorist acts in Ukraine must cease.
"It's the most perverse fking form of neo-Nazism, neo-fascism. Who could think of such a thing?, said Maxim, as quoted by CNN.
One fighter-bomber pilot, Maxim, was filmed sobbing as he apologised to Ukrainians for invading their country under Putin's orders.
He said: "It's hard to give a direct assessment of his actions. But, at the bare minimum, judging by the consequences of his orders, he is incorrect."
He said he had only received his "secret combat order" the day before Putin announced the "special military operation" against Ukraine.
