Report war crimes by Russia former government lawyer appeals to Ukrainians
20220225
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/report-war-crimes-by-russia-former-government-lawyer-official-appeals-to-ukrainians-1917967-2022-02-25
By Sumana Nandy: Former deputy Prosecutor General of Ukraine Gyunduz Mamedov said he is collecting evidence of war crimes being committed by Russia in his country for future prosecution.
We defend our freedom, our land. We need effective international assistance. Discussed this with AndrzejDuda. Appealed to the Bucharest Nine for defense aid, sanctions, pressure on the aggressor. Together we have to put ???? at the negotiating table. We need anti-war coalition.
President Zelensky also appealed to Europeans with "combat experience" to fight for Ukraine, reported news agency AFP.
Russia launched a dawn offensive on its neighbour and a former member of the Soviet Union, Ukraine, on Thursday as the country woke up to air strikes, piercing air raid sirens and steadily advancing Russian ground forces. Russian forces are dangerously close to the capital Kyiv, which, according to experts, may fall in hours.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called for an "anti-war coalition", appealing to the Bucharest Nine - a nine-country bloc formed in 2015 as a result of a perceived aggressive attitude from Russia following the Crimea's annexation in 2014 - for defense aid, sanctions, pressure on the aggressor.
Aggression followed by numerous warcrimes against civilians. Criminals must be held accountable for each of them.
"Aggression followed by numerous warcrimes against civilians. Criminals must be held accountable for each of them. Started to collect evidence with human rights activists," Gyunduz Mamedov tweeted, tagging Ukraine's not-for-profit human rights organisation ZMINA, the Ukrainian Helsinki Human Rights Union, human rights organization Truth Hounds, and Ukrainian Legal Advisory Group, an NGO comprising human rights lawyers.
