Russia tightens grip over eastern Ukraine
20220413
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-tightens-grip-eastern-ukraine-putin-zelenskyy-war-1937155-2022-04-13
Recently collected high resolution satellite pictures provided by Maxar Technologies show newly deployed armored vehicles, tents and support equipment in the area west of Soloti. Situated almost 8 km from the Ukraine border, the fields hosting the backup positions are located near the Russian towns of Dubrovka, Biriuch and Leonovka.
Analysis of publicly available visuals along with commercial satellite imagery shows Russia tightening its grip in the region. A recent estimate by the U.S. Department of Defence DoD suggested that Russia is now operating at nearly 80 percent capacity of its combat power that was preassembled before invasion.
Further away in Crimea, large resupply and maintenance facility set up by Russian forces can be seen active at Dzhankoi. Large scale assortment of armoured vehicles along with presence of combat engineering equipment and large transporters is visible in the latest commercial satellite pictures. These large support and maintenance positions appear to have been setup on account of the logistics nightmare suffered by the Russian troops during their failed march on Kyiv. The southern support positions could become critical if Russia manages to take control of Mariupol.
READ  China used compromised cameras to snoop into India's power grids, says US-based group
The port city is strategically important for Russia because of its key location at the south of the Donbas area and proximity with the Sea of Azov. Apart from the advantage of being a major port city, seizure of the city would provide the Russian forces unrestricted land access between Donbas and Russian controlled Crimea. Mariupol is also critical for Russias long-term plans for Donbas area, If they are successful in their operation. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby earlier said that the city was still contested. It is a strategic city for the Ukrainians too, and they continue to fight over it. And, again, we continue to maintain that it's contested, Kirby said.
Although, Russian strikes continue to target some of the far away Ukranian places by missiles attacks, the concentration of Russian ground forces have consolidated on the east, where the Southern Military District Groupings of Russia has taken the lead. Earlier, Kremlin appointed General Alexander Dvornikov, commander of the Southern Military District as its in charge of the military operations. Dvornikovs troops are receiving support from Western District forces in the north east and Airborne Forces in the south.
By Ankit Kumar: As the Russian invasion of Ukraine approaches its 50th day, Russian troops seem to be repositioning rapidly in the east and south of Ukraine. Carrying the profound baggage of an unprecedented setback of failure on the northern front and discernible failure to capture Kyiv in the earlier stages of the operation, the Russian military leadership under the command of a new general seems to focusing on ground-domination of the eastern front.
For past few days, elements of Russian convoys were captured in the satellite imagery, moving along the highways towards south and west, from the eastern borders. New backward support positions have also been noticed in Russian territories, close to the borders. The renewed Russian offensive is supported by regular stream of support convoys coming through Ukraine from Soloti and Valuyki regions of western Russia.
In the south-east, the Ukrainian airbase at Kherson seems to have been converted into a functional Russian base with temporary maintenance area for armoured vehicles. Numerous Russian tanks, trucks, and other military vehicles can be seen fixed in the safety of revetments.
Elements of Russian military convoys with armoured vehicles and trucks are seen passing through Ukrainian cities of Vilkhuvatka, Bilokurakyne, and Kyslivkain the latest imagery. A common feature is lack of off-roading due to muddied ground conditions. The heavy Russian military vehicles found it difficult to navigate through the wet lands in the earlier phase of the Russian campaign. Ukraine had taken advantage of an earlier stalled Russian military convoy and attacked it with help of armed UAVs.
On Wednesday, a senior U.S. DoD official confirmed active Russian convoy north of Ukrainian city of Izium. Estimated to be about 60 km from the city, the likely resupply convoy with some command-and-control elements and enablers is seen moving inside the Ukrainian territory from the north east towards south. We don't really have a whole lot more information about what's in that thing convoy and we do assess that it's moving, but not at breakneck speed a DoD official told reporters in a background briefing at Pentagon.
The U.S. has confirmed that a significant amount of the first 100 Switchblades extended-range loitering drones have reached Ukraine but refused to elucidate if Ukrainian forces are diverting the latest western weaponry towards east. The Ukrainian leadership continues to make desperate plea for superior air firepower in form of fighter jets and upgraded anti-missile systems, suggesting that available weapons and defence systems might not be enough to defend the eastern front.
