RussiaUkraine War Highlights  Red Cross says impossible to proceed with Mariupol evacuation
20220401
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-live-news-updates-zelenskyy-putin-biden-kyiv-mariupol-1932138-2022-04-01
Russia and Ukraine have resumed peace talks by video conference after Moscow reported a Ukrainian strike on a fuel depot in western Russia, reported AFP.
"This is not something that can be perceived as creating comfortable conditions for the continuation of negotiations," Russian spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said. Russia was responding to a reported Ukrainian airstrike on a fuel depot in western Russia. AFP
Demidov, Dymer, Litvinovka, Gavrilovka, Kozarovichi, Zhovtnevoe, Glubovka, Yasnogorodka, Talakun, Sukholuchye, Lipovka, Gavronshchina, Makovishche, Nikolaevka. pic.twitter.commxFppeZCSm
I will head an IAEAorg assistance and support mission to the Chornobyl Nuclear Power Plant as soon as possible. It will be the first in a series of such nuclear safety and security missions to Ukraine.
The governor of Ukraines northern Chernihiv region said Russian troops are withdrawing from the region. Reuters
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine announces the liberation of settlements in Kyiv and Chernihiv regions:
Canadian intelligence has observed numerous Russian-backed disinformation campaigns online in support of Moscow's assault on Ukraine, the Canadian signals intelligence agency said on Friday.
"Russia has created and amplified fake stories and narratives falsely claiming that only military targets were being attacked," the agency wrote on Twitter. Reuters
Russian government on Friday said airstrikes on Russia by Ukraine's military will hinder peace talks that are being held to end the ongoing war.
An aide to the mayor of Mariupol said on Friday that the besieged southern Ukrainian city remained closed for anyone trying to enter and was "very dangerous" for anyone trying to leave. Petro Andryushchenko said Russian forces had since Thursday been preventing even the smallest amount of humanitarian supplies reaching trapped residents, making clear a planned "humanitarian corridor" had not been opened.
British military intelligence said on Friday that Ukrainian forces have retaken the villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka to the south of Chernihiv and located along main supply routes between the city and Kyiv. According to Ukrainian authorities, Russian troops are withdrawing from Chernihiv after weeks of intense shelling. Nato on Thursday claimed that the Russian army is not withdrawing but repositioning itself.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan called for Russia and Ukraine to act with common sense and maintain dialogue in a call with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, his office said on Friday. Erdogan and Putin also discussed peace talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials in Istanbul this week. Erdogan said the "positive and constructive" talks had raised hopes for peace, the Turkish presidency said in a statement. Reuters
According to a senior government official, Ukraine has so far exchanged 86 servicemen with Russia. The second prisoner swap took place on April 1 near Zaporizhzhia Oblast. According to Ukraine Deputy PM Iryna Vereshchuk, 15 of the exchanged soldiers were women. The number of Russian soldiers swapped is yet unknown. AFP, The Kyiv Independent
European Union EU on Friday warned China of 'major reputational damage' if it backs Russia's war on Ukraine. AFP
As the culprit and leading instigator of the Ukraine crisis, the US has led Nato to engage in five rounds of eastward expansion in the last two decades after 1999, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters at a daily briefing on Friday. AP
The head of UN's nuclear watchdog will lead a mission to the Chernobyl plant 'as soon as possible' after Ukraine announced that Russian troops have left the site. The mission will be the first of a series of missions to ensure the safety and security of nuclear power plant.
Ukrainian helicopters have bombed a fuel storage depot in western Russia, sparking a huge fire, the regional governor said on Friday. This is the first reported airstrike by Ukraine on Russian soil. Russia warned that airstrikes in the town of Belgorod would hamper peace negotiations.
The Red Cross said it was "not yet clear" whether the evacuation of civilians would go ahead as planned on Friday. Reuters,AFP
According to reports, Bucha, a city previously occupied by Russian forces, is now under Ukraine's control.
UNESCO on Friday said around 53 Ukrainian historic and religious sites have been damaged during the Russian invasion. AFP
Petro Andryushchenko said Russian forces had since Thursday been preventing even the smallest amount of humanitarian supplies reaching trapped residents, making clear a planned "humanitarian corridor" had not been opened. AFP
According to General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Russian troops have left the following settlements in Kyiv and Chernihiv regions: Demidov, Dymer, Litvinovka, Gavrilovka, Kozarovichi, Zhovtnevoe, Glubovka, Yasnogorodka, Talakun, Sukholuchye, Lipovka, Gavronshchina, Makovishche, Nikolaevka. NEXTA
Lavrov also said on April 1 that "progress" had been made in negotiations on neutral status for Ukraine and the status of Russian-occupied Crimea and Donbas.
Ukraine Parliament has passed a new law that allows the government to confiscate properties belonging to the Russian state or its residents and non-residents connected to the Russian government, who deny or support Russias war. The Kyiv Independent
China is accusing the United States of instigating the war in Ukraine and says Nato should have been disbanded following the break-up of the Soviet Union.
Red Cross on Friday said it is 'impossible' to move ahead with the Mariupol evacuation. An aide to the mayor of Mariupol had said that the besieged southern Ukrainian city remained closed for anyone trying to enter and was "very dangerous" for anyone trying to leave.
Video footage of the purported attack showed what looked like several missiles being fired from low altitude, followed by an explosion. AFP, Reuters
