Russian airline Aeroflot to cancel all flights to Europe from today
20220228
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-crisis-news-russian-airline-aeroflot-flights-europe-uk-1918650-2022-02-28
"We are shutting down EU airspace for Russian-owned, Russian-registered or Russian-controlled aircraft," head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, had also announced.
Foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said the European Union had decided to close its airspace to Russian traffic.
All such planes, including the private jets of oligarchs, will now be unable to land in, take off from or fly over any EU nation.
European nations and Canada moved on Sunday to shut their airspace to Russian aircraft, an unprecedented step aimed at pressuring President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine, the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two.
Earlier in February, the UK Civil Aviation Authority suspended Aeroflot until further notice. This means that Aeroflot will not be permitted to operate flights to or from the United Kingdom until further notice, a UK Civil Aviation Authority spokesperson had said.
Without access to Russia's airways, experts say carriers will have to divert flights south while also avoiding areas of tension in the Middle East.
A reciprocal airspace ban by Russia and the United States would cause longer flight times for U.S. carriers and could require crew changes on East Coast routes to Asia, said U.S.-based analyst Robert Mann of R.W. Mann  Company, Inc.
It could make certain flights too costly to operate for U.S. carriers. "It would just add a lot of expense," he said.
ALSO READ: 2 flights to bring back Indians from Ukraine, Centre to bear evacuation cost, say sources
By India Today Web Desk: After being banned from flying to the United Kingdom, Russian airline Aeroflot has decided to cancel all flights to Europe from Monday February 28.
Germany, Spain and France joined Britain, the Nordics and Baltic states in declaring bans on Russian use of their airspace.
The airline has decided to stop all flights until further notice after the decision by many countries to close their airspace in protest at Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The ban on Russian jets comes as the airline industry continues to grapple with the fallout from the Covid-19 pandemic that is still undermining global demand for travel.
