Russia backs independence for proMoscow regions in eastern Ukraine
20220221
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/story/ukraine-crisis-russia-recognises-independence-of-donetsk-and-luhansk-vladimir-putin-1916075-2022-02-22
By India Today Web Desk: Russian President Vladimir Putin said that Moscow will recognise the independence of two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine. Putin signed a decree recognising the Russian-backed regions as independent.
With this move, Russia can now send troops into Ukraine to supposedly safeguard what it considers two independent nations. Notably, Russia has amassed nearly 150,000 troops along Ukraines eastern and northern borders.
He went on to say authorities in Ukraine have been contaminated by the virus of nationalism and corruption. Putin also claimed the US embassy controls anti-corruption vehicles in Ukraine.
In a televised address, Putin said Russia will recognise the independence of the self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Luhansk.
The Russian president claimed NATO training centres established in Ukraine amount to NATO military bases, despite the country's constitution not allowing foreign military bases on its territory.
Taking to Twitter, President of the EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen wrote: "The recognition of the two separatist territories in Ukraine is a blatant violation of international law, the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the Minsk agreements. The EU and its partners will react with unity, firmness and with determination in solidarity with Ukraine."
ALSO READ  Blast heard in Ukraine's Donetsk Joe Biden, Vladimir Putin agree to meet in principle  Top points
He said the recent events had been a cover for the swift deployment of NATO troops to Ukraine.
The President of Russia alleged that Ukraine plans to create its own nuclear weapons with Soviet nuclear know-how.
He said if Ukraine gets weapons of mass destruction, the global situation will change drastically.
Discussed the events of the last hours with POTUS. We begin the meeting of the National Security and Defense Council. A conversation with BorisJohnson is also planned.
Meanwhile, President Joe Biden held a secure call with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Monday in the aftermath of Russian President Vladimir Putin recognizing two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent entities.
A White House official said the call between the US and Ukrainian leaders lasted 35 minutes.
Putin called Ukraine a US colony with a puppet regime and charged that western intelligence services were helping Ukraine commit crimes.
Putin said Ukraine was not able to achieve stable statehood and was relying on foreign nations such as the United States.
In a long, pre-recorded message, Putin claimed that Ukraine's admission to NATO is a direct threat to Russia's security.
These Ukrainian territories that Russia recognised as independent, are Russian-speaking states witnessing pro-Moscow separatist movements.
