Russian embassy in Delhi terms deaths of Ukrainians in Bucha cynical false flag operation
20220406
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russian-embassy-delhi-deaths-ukrainians-bucha-cynical-false-flag-operation-1934737-2022-04-07
By Geeta Mohan: The Russian Embassy in New Delhi on Thursday issued a statement on the killings of civilians in the Ukrainian city of Bucha by Russian forces.
The statement issued by Russia's diplomatic mission in India comes days after India's permanent representative to the United Nations condemned the "deeply disturbing" reports of civilian killings in Bucha.
While Ukraine has demanded Russia's expulsion from the UN Security Council, Moscow maintains that reports coming out of Bucha are part of an 'elaborate hoax'.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, addressing the UN Security Council earlier this week, had compared the actions of Russian troops in Bucha to those of Islamic State extremists.
"The situation in Ukraine has not shown any significant improvement since the Council last discussed the issue. The security situation has only deteriorated, as well as its humanitarian consequences," Ambassador TS Tirumurti had said during a meeting on Ukraine at the UN Security Council.
"Regrettably, there have been so far widespread hollow allegations against Moscow while there is evidence that it was in fact a cynical false flag operation, perpetrated by Kyiv itself. It is vitally important to take this evidence into account as we seek justice."
"The heinous attack in Bucha brings back the nightmares of Nazi crimes during the Second World War. It raised revulsion and condemnation in Russia and India and globally," the statement read.
"Yesterday I returned from our city of Bucha, recently liberated from Russian troops not far from Kyiv. There is not a single crime that they would not commit there. The Russian military searched for and purposefully killed anyone who served our country," Zelenskyy said in his maiden address to the UN Security Council.
It went on to add, "Russia firmly stands for bringing to justice those involved in this outrageous war crime act. The main challenge is to ensure a genuinely independent and unbiased investigation.
