RussiaUkraine war Damage to both sides so far
20220224
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-damage-to-both-sides-so-far-1917506-2022-02-24
By India Today Web Desk: Missiles rained down, air raid sirens were heard, Ukraine reported Russian tanks and troops pouring across its border. This was the immediate aftermath of Russia declaring war on Ukraine on Thursday.
With the fight spreading almost throughout Ukraines territory, Kiev claimed that Russia had carried out 203 attacks since the day broke.
Soon after his address, explosions were heard in the cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odesa.
A distributed-denial-of-service attack that knocked some government websites offline Wednesday continued and there were sporadic internet outages across the country, said Doug Madory, director of internet analysis for the US network management firm Kentik Inc.
Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine, hitting cities and bases with airstrikes or shelling. Russia President Vladimir Putin warned other countries that any attempt to interfere in Ukraine would lead to consequences you have never seen in history. Putin said Russia does not intend to occupy Ukraine but plans to demilitarize it. He urged Ukrainian soldiers to immediately put down arms and go home.
Ukraines military chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi said Ukrainian troops were fighting the Russian army in the north and the south. He added that a battle was raging near the Hostomel air base 7 kilometers northwest of the capital, Kyiv. In the south, fighting was going on near Henichesk, Skadovsk and Chaplynka.
Ukraines cybersecurity service reported continuing cyberattacks and said cellular networks were saturated with voice calls, suggesting people used text-messaging.
Meanwhile, Russias Defense Ministry claimed that the Russian military destroyed 74 Ukrainian military facilities, including 11 air bases. The Russian Defense Ministry also confirmed the loss of a Su-25 attack jet, but claimed that it was due to pilot error.
Russia also claimed that three people had been injured by what it said were Ukrainian shells that hit residential areas in the southern Belgorod region near the border with Ukraine.
During the day, a Ukrainian military plane with as many as 14 people onboard crashed near the capital Kyiv. Calling it s full-scale war, Ukraines leadership said at least 40 people had been killed so far.
