Russia could restart German telescope that detects black holes without Berlins approval
20220609
https://www.indiatoday.in/science/story/russia-could-restart-german-telescope-that-detect-black-holes-without-berlin-s-approval-1960285-2022-06-09
eROSITA is the primary instrument on board the Russian-German "Spectrum-Roentgen-Gamma" SRG mission which was successfully launched from Baikonur on July 13, 2019, and placed in a halo orbit around the L2 point.
According to the Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics, the main scientific goals are to detect the hot intergalactic medium of 50-100 thousand galaxy clusters and groups, study in detail the physics of galactic X-ray source populations, and detect systematically all obscured accreting Black Holes in nearby galaxies and many up to 3 Million new, distant active galactic nuclei.
By India Today Web Desk: Over three months after the cooperation between Russia, Europe, and western nations broke down, Moscow seems to be going on its own. The Russian space agency, Roscosmos, chief Dmitry Rogozin, who has openly supported the Ukrainian invasion, has said that the country will restart a German satellite unilaterally.
eROSITA, the German satellite, which works in tandem with Russia's ART-XC instrument to look for supermassive black holes hiding in the deep universe, has remained shut since the war broke. The X-ray telescope was a joint German-Russian mission that remains shut after Europe pulled out its staff from the Russian launch center in Baikonur.
While Russia is looking to restart the telescope, experts both in and outside the country have warned that going at it alone without German cooperation could lead to major damages and the recommissioning should take place only with the German team consultation. Russian astrophysicist Rashid Sunyaev has reportedly said that "unilateral action in this situation only adds more mistrust between people."
In a televised interview, Roscosmos chief Dmitry Rogozin said that Russian specialists insist on continuing their work despite Germany's demand to shut down. "I gave instructions to start work on restoring the operation of the German telescope in the Spektr-RG system so it works together with the Russian telescope," German news organisation Deutsche Welle quoted Rogozin as saying.
A decision will be taken in the relevant future, the Russian space agency chief has said. "They  the people that made the decision to shut down the telescope  don't have a moral right to halt this research for humankind just because their pro-fascist views are close to our enemies," added Rogozin.
The Russian space agency has also pulled out its staff from the European spaceport in Kourou, French Guiana.
Rogozin had earlier said that any cooperation with Europe is now impossible after sanctions over the Ukraine war. Europe had on March 17 suspended the joint ExoMars mission with Roscosmos as look to search for better available options to implement the rover mission.
