RussiaUkraine war HIGHLIGHTS  2yearold killed 4 others injured in Russian attack in Kyiv Oblast Report
20220317
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-march-17-us-kyiv-moscow-vladimir-putin-zelenskyy-invasion-1926263-2022-03-17
I love the Russian people. That is why I have to tell you the truth. Please watch and share. pic.twitter.com6gyVRhgpFV Arnold Schwarzenegger March 17, 2022
A two-year-old was killed, and four other people were injured in Russian artillery attack in Novi Petrivtsi village, Kyiv Oblast, the Kyiv Independent reported.
"The cause is still being determined," Adamczyk wrote on Twitter. "Railway operator PKP PLK is working non-stop to minimise the effects of the outage, which has affected about 80 of rail traffic in Poland."
They shall not be forgiven: Ukrainian MP grieves death of journalist girlfriend in Russian shellingUkraine Russia PoojaShali pic.twitter.comWd3wzfoij8 IndiaToday IndiaToday March 17, 2022
In a nine-minute video posted to his Twitter account, Arnold Schwarzenegger urged Vladimir Putin to stop this war and told Russian soldiers their lives are being sacrificed for a senseless war condemned by the entire world.
Two-year-old killed, 4 people injured in Russian artillery attack in Novi Petrivtsi village, Kyiv Oblast.The March 17 strike destroyed a multistoried building and damaged multiple houses, Kyiv Oblast Police reported.Photo: Kyiv Oblast PoliceFacebook pic.twitter.comVpA6kRIkDc
The bomb shelter under the Mariupol Drama Theatre has sustained the bombardment, MP and former Donetsk region governor Serhiy Taruta was quoted by a news agency as saying. People are coming out alive as the rubble is being cleared. The information is yet to be confirmed by officials.
The imposition of economic sanctions will not only fail to solve security problems, but will also harm the normal lives of the people in the relevant countries, disrupt the global market, and make the already slowing world economy even worse, Gao said Thursday. AP
I love the Russian people. That is why I have to tell you the truth. Please watch and share. pic.twitter.com6gyVRhgpFV
Railways ground to a halt in many places across Poland on Thursday, disrupting an important means of transport for Ukrainian refugees after what the transport minister said was a traffic control system outage impacting several countries, Reuters reported.
The Group of Seven G7 richest democracies-- US, UK, Canada, Japan, Germany, France and Italy--  warned in  astatement that war criminals in Ukraine 'will be held responsible'.
The report said initial assessments point to a substantive reduction in access to food and fuel despite efforts to prevent disruptions of supplies of key commodities such as wheat. Meanwhile, rising costs for shipping and for grains and other staple foods is pushing prices higher, hitting poorest people the hardest, the report says. AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Germany on Thursday to help destroy a new "Wall" Russia was erecting in Europe, AFP reported.
Infrastructure Minister Andrzej Adamczyk said that identical faults in the traffic control systems, which are produced by a unit of French train maker Alstom ALSO.PA, had also appeared in India, Singapore and possibly Pakistan.
A Chinese Commerce Ministry official said that Beijing will take necessary measures to protect Chinese companies from actions by other governments related to sanctions against Russia. Ministry spokesman Gao Feng said China opposes any form of unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction without a basis in international law.
The European Space Agency confirmed that it is indefinitely suspending its ExoMars rover mission with partner Roscosmos, Russias state space corporation. The ESA had previously said that the mission was very unlikely because of Russias war in Ukraine. The rovers primary mission was to determine whether Mars ever hosted life. The decision to suspend cooperation with Roscosmos was taken by ESAs ruling council, at a meeting this week in Paris. AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has accused Germany of putting its economy before his country's security in the run-up to the Russian invasion. In an address to Germany's parliament Thursday, Zelenskyy criticized the German government's support for the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project meant to bring natural gas from Russia. Ukraine and others had opposed the project, warning that it endangered Ukrainian and European security. AP news
Two-year-old killed, 4 people injured in Russian artillery attack in Novi Petrivtsi village, Kyiv Oblast.The March 17 strike destroyed a multistoried building and damaged multiple houses, Kyiv Oblast Police reported.Photo: Kyiv Oblast PoliceFacebook pic.twitter.comVpA6kRIkDc The Kyiv Independent KyivIndependent March 17, 2022
Days after Russian missiles struck a military base in Yavoriv, Ukraine, just a few miles from the border with Poland, Britains defense secretary announced that his country will deploy a missile defense system to NATO ally Poland. During a visit to the Polish capital, Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said the United Kingdom is sending the Sky Sabre medium-range anti-air missile system to Poland with about 100 personnel. He said the move is to make sure that we stand alongside Poland in protecting her airspace from any further aggression from Russia.
A report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is warning that the conflict in Ukraine is likely to hinder access to food and fuel for many of the worlds most vulnerable people. The report notes that Russia accounted for nearly a third of wheat imports for Africa, or $3.7 billion, in 2018-2020, while 12, worth $1.4 billion, came from Ukraine.
Air Serbia has cancelled flights to Russia. The Center for Transport Strategies said on March 16 that flights to Russia cannot be booked on the airline's site. Air Serbia was the last European airline that operated in Russia, the Kyiv Independent reported.
Human Rights Watch urged Ukraine to stop publishing videos of Russian prisoners of war. The organisation believes that videos violating their rights, as per report by NEXTA.
Lithuanias parliament has unanimously adopted a resolution calling for a no-fly zone over Ukraine, joining countries including Estonia and Slovenia in the appeal. The resolution said a no-fly zone would allow United Nations peacekeepers to ensure the security of humanitarian corridors and the safety of Ukraines nuclear power plants and nuclear waste storage facilities. AP
At least 21 people have died after Russian shelling of east Ukraine town, local officials were quoted as saying
NATO will not intervene in the conflict in Ukraine, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz was quoted as saying NEXTA, a media organisation based in Eastern Eruope.
They shall not be forgiven: Ukrainian MP grieves death of journalist girlfriend in Russian shellingUkraine Russia PoojaShali pic.twitter.comWd3wzfoij8
