Russia about 10 days away from exhausting ammo manpower Former US Commander
20220315
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-will-run-out-of-ammo-manpower-in-10-days-1925403-2022-03-15
However, experts are of the opinion that Russian forces will soon run out of resources. Lt Gen Ben Hodges told The Faulkner Focus that the Russians went after former ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO, Kurt Volkers training centre in Yavoriv partly to demonstrate that they could reach the lines of communication that bring supplies and support from Poland into Ukraine.
France, which holds the EU presidency, said the bloc in consultation with our international partners, has approved a fourth package of sanctions targeting individuals and entities involved in the aggression against Ukraine, as well as several sectors of the Russian economy.
Meanwhile, the European Union has announced that the 27-nation bloc has approved a new set of sanctions to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.
ALSO READ  35 killed as Russia rains fire on Ukraine military base, hint of resolution in the air
Since the war started last month, the EU has adopted tough measures targeting Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russia's financial system and its high-maintenance oligarchs. Last week, the bloc's nations agreed to slap further sanctions on 160 individuals and added new restrictions on the export of maritime navigation and radio communication technology.
According to Lt Gen Hodges, Russians are about 10 days away from what is called the culminating point, when they just no longer have the ammunition nor the manpower to keep up their assault.
However he reassured that there is no cause for alarm over the attack which occurred close to Nato territories, because the Russians are close to reaching a culminating point where they will have to stop their assault due to a lack of resources.
It also decided to exclude three Belarusian banks from the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication SWIFT, the dominant system for global financial transactions. Altogether, EU restrictive measures now apply to a total of 862 individuals and 53 entities.
Multiple cities in Ukraine have been reduced to rubble with many Ukrainians fleeing the country as Russias invasion of Ukraine entered the 19th day. Russia has shown no signs of halting its assault on Ukraine despite the sanctions being imposed on it by the Western countries.
By India Today Web Desk: Former US commanding general of the United States Army Europe, Lieutenant General Ben Hodges said on Monday that Russians are about 10 days away from reaching the culminating point . Once they reach there, the US commander said, the Russian troops will be "forced to stop their assault on Ukraine due to a lack of resources".
