RussiaUkraine War Highlights  UNGA approves resolution blaming Russia for humanitarian crisis
20220323
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-live-updates-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-moscow-kyiv-mariupol-1928805-2022-03-24
The UN General Assembly has approved the resolution that blames Russia for the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and has called for an immediate ceasefire. India once again abstained from voting on the resolution.
Zelenskyy said, "This morning phosphorous bombs were used. Adults were killed again and children were killed again. Nato has yet to show what the alliance can do to save people. To show that this is truly the most powerful defence association in the world. And the world is waiting. And Ukraine is very much waiting, for real action."
"Nato leaders met today in Brusselsone month since the start of Russias unprovoked  unjustified invasion of Ukraine. We'll continue to support Ukraine with security assistance to fight Russian aggression  uphold their right of self-defence," he said.
Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg on Thursday accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of making a "big mistake" by invading Ukraine, as leaders gathered to discuss overhauling the alliance's eastern defences. AFP
NATO leaders met today in Brussels  one month since the start of Russias unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine. We will continue to support Ukraine with security assistance to fight Russian aggression and uphold their right of self-defense. pic.twitter.comF582A9qDJw
The International Committee of the Red Cross president said on Thursday that he and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov had discussed the need to protect civilians during Moscow's operations in Ukraine. AFP
Group of Seven G7 leaders have announced they are restricting the Russian Central Bank's use of gold in transactions, while the US announced a new round of sanctions targeting more than 400 elites and members of the Russian State Duma.
Nato leaders on Thursday agreed to bolster defenses on its eastern flank and will deploy four new combat units in Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary.
"Russias attack on Ukraine threatens global security. Its assault on international norms makes the world less safe. President Putins escalatory rhetoric is irresponsible and destabilizing," the statement read.
Nato leaders condemned Russias invasion of Ukraine in the strongest possible terms and called upon President Vladimir Putin to immediately stop the war and withdraw military forces from Ukraine. In a statement, they urged Russia to comply with the 16 March ruling by the UN International Court of Justice and immediately suspend military operations.
"UK will provide additional 6,000 missiles to Ukraine, in addition to 4,000 NLAW's  Javelin missiles already supplied. Lethal defensive military aid, including Starstreak high-velocity anti-air missiles, will help Ukrainians continue to defend themselves," he said. Reuters
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday that the country would be providing an additional 6,000 missiles to Ukraine.
The United States and its Nato allies are discussing sending anti-ship missiles to Ukraine, a US official told AFP, after Russian vessels attacked Kyiv's Black Sea ports.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has done a remarkable job leading and strengthening our Alliance  particularly during this critical moment for international security. I welcome the extension of his tenure and look forward to working closely together in the year ahead.
"Russia might use the pretext of Nato preparing a biological attack to carry out the same in Ukraine. We are concerned. If it happens, it'll change the nature of the conflict. It won't just affect Ukraine but also Nato countries," Nato chief said.
"Nato allies have agreed to supply weapons to Ukraine to tackle such attacks. We have activated our chemical, biological, and nuclear defence elements," he added. AP
"Today, the United States is announcing plans to welcome up to 1,00,000 Ukrainians and others fleeing Russias aggression through the full range of legal pathways, including the US refugee admissions program," the White House said in a statement.
This includes travel bans and asset freezes on 18 oligarchs with a combined worth of over 30 billion pounds, including Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich, as well as Putin himself and his foreign minister Sergei Lavrov. AFP
United States President Biden said on Thursday that Nato would continue to support Ukraine with security assistance to fight Russian aggression.
US President Joe Biden and Western allies opened the first of three summits on Thursday focused on increasing pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin over his war in Ukraine, while tending to the economic and security fallout spreading across Europe and the world. Biden and the leaders of other NATO countries met at the alliance's headquarters where they posed for a group photo before retreating behind closed doors for their summit. AFP
Germany on Thursday hinted at the possibility of keeping coal plants open longer as a 'security backup'  amid the Ukraine war. AFP
G7 nations said they are ready to apply 'additional sanctions as required' against Russia and will spare no efforts to hold President Putin and his 'supporters' accountable for the war in Ukraine. AFP
"India abstained on the resolution since what we require now is to focus on cessation of hostilities and urgent humanitarian assistance. The draft resolution didn't fully reflect our expected focus on these challenges," Ambassador TS Tirumurti said.
G7 countries on Thursday called on international organisations to review their ties with Russia. "We in the G7, we're joined together in saying that international organisations and multilateral fora should no longer conduct their activities with Russia in a business-as-usual manner," an official told AFP.
Previously, sanctions against Russian elites, the country's Central Bank and President Vladimir Putin did not impact Russia's gold stockpile, which Putin has been accumulating for several years. Russia holds roughly $130 billion in gold reserves, and the Bank of Russia earlier announced that it would resume the purchase of gold on the domestic precious metals market. AP
Nato leaders extended the mandate of Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg for a year amid the Russia-Ukraine war.
Almost 3.7 million people have fled Ukraine since the war began on 24 February, according to the UN's refugee agency. AFP
Nato leaders meeting in Brussels want China to oppose Russia's invasion of Ukraine and work for a peaceful end to the conflict, a senior US official told AFP.
UK government has decided to impose sanctions on 59 more Russian firms and individuals over Ukraine war. The UK has already imposed a 35 tariff on Russian imports, including vodka. Britain will also deny Russia and its ally Belarus access to Most Favoured Nation tariffs under World Trade Organization rules. As of today, UK has sanctioned more than 500 Russian individuals and entities.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on Thursday said the alliance has activated chemical, biological, and nuclear defence elements in the wake of Russia's attacks on Ukraine.
Ukraine President Zelenskyy on Thursday accused Russia of using phosphorus bombs in Ukraine and called for 'unlimited' military support from Nato.
The US will be taking in up to 100,000 Ukrainian war refugees, the White House said on Thursday.
NATO leaders met at a critical time for our security. We agreed to strengthen our deterrence  defence for the longer-term. We also agreed to give further support to Ukraine  to continue to impose costs on Russia. Transatlantic solidarity remains vital https:t.coe9jW4zopkR
