RussiaUkraine War HIGHLIGHTS  Zelenskyy proposes meeting with Putin in Jerusalem Report
20220311
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-live-india-volodymyr-zelenskyy-vladimir-putin-kyiv-1924434-2022-03-12
Authorities in Italy have reportedly seized a superyacht owned by Russian billionaire Andrey Melnichenko to mount pressure on Russia over the invasion of Ukraine. The superyacht is worth $580 million Rs 4,452 crore.
The Ministry of External Affairs MEA has brought back nearly 18,000 Indians from Ukraine under 'Operation Ganga' since February 26.
A statement by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi's office said the vessel may be the world's biggest sailing yacht. It was seized in the port of Trieste in northern Italy, the statement added.
We are told that there are problems with the internet. The occupiers are trying to prevent residents from coordinating. pic.twitter.comKfqxFWI4RD
The statement adds, "In the northern direction, the enemy carries out engineering equipment of positions in the areas of Mykhailo-Kotsyubynske, Levkovychi, Zhukotka, Hrodna Chernihiv region.
An explosion took place in Podil, Kyiv, as a result of which Sberbank's premises caught fire.
Stephane Dujarric, a spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres, said on Saturday that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has resulted in the internal displacement of as many as 1.9 million people.
Reports had suggested earlier this week that Bennett in a meeting with Zelenskyy urged the latter to accept conditions laid down by Russia.
The claim has also been denied by Mykhailo Podolyak, an aide to President Zelenskyys chief of staff.
The Ukrainian Defence Ministry has issued a statement claiming that Russian forces bombed a mosque in the port city of Mariupol where as many as 80 civilians were taking shelter.
The report adds that Zelenskyy has asked Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to act as an intermediary between Moscow and Kyiv.
A day after the top EU leaders met in Versailles and doused Kyivs bid for a fast-track membership to the EU, Slovak diplomat Michal imeka along with other delegation members representing the bloc came to the western city of Lviv to show their support for Ukraine. The Kyiv Independent
Melitopol: The occupiers kidnapped the mayor of Melitopol, who refused to hand them the city StopPutinNOW StopRussia WARINUKRAINE Ukraine mariodraghi pic.twitter.comoSXCvW1vNq
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Moscow was sending in new troops after Ukrainian forces put 31 of Russia's battalion tactical groups out of action in what he called Russia's largest army losses in decades. It was not possible to verify his statements.
"The enemy has established itself in the northern part of the city of Izyum, does not abandon attempts to capture it."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel Macron are holding a fresh round of talks with their Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin over the invasion of Ukraine.
"Peace process, process of ending the war. It is a 100 per cent that the starting point should be the ceasefire. We should all understand this. It would also allow us to unblock the humanitarian process, evacuation, taking away people as well as delivery of food, water and medicines. We have already talked about this," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said at a news conference.
Macron had said on Friday that the European Union EU will continue applying "pressure" on Moscow if Russian troops intensify bombing Kyiv.
Fighting raged near Kyiv on Saturday and heavy shelling in other areas threatened new attempts to evacuate trapped civilians as France said Russian President Vladimir Putin showed no readiness to end the war in Ukraine.
Referring to his conversation with Chancellor Scholz and President Macron, Zelenskyy wrote on Twitter, "Prospects for peace talks also discussed. We must stop the aggressor together."
The Government of Ukraine has additionally allocated nearly UAH Ukrainian Hryvnia 4 billion to strengthen the country's defense capabilities.
Earlier this week, Russian shelling had caused severe damage to a maternity hospital in Mariupol. While Russia claimed that the hospital was "being used" by far-right Ukrainian outfits, such claims have been categorically debunked by multiple news outlets.
The UN estimates that more than 2.5 million women, children and men have been forced to take shelter in Ukraine's neighbouring countries.
According to a Ukrainian official, 79 children have died and almost 100 have been injured since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
Nepal's Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba took to Twitter on Saturday to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Government of India for ensuring the return of four Nepalese nationals from Ukraine as part of Operation Ganga.
On Saturday, an aide to Zelenskyy released surveillance footage showing the mayor of Melitopol being marched out of the city hall, apparently surrounded by Russian soldiers.
Melitopol: The occupiers kidnapped the mayor of Melitopol, who refused to hand them the city StopPutinNOW StopRussia WARINUKRAINE Ukraine mariodraghi pic.twitter.comoSXCvW1vNq SSSCIP Ukraine dsszzi March 11, 2022
Zelenskyy also spoke to German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel Macron hours after the two leaders held fresh talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
In Melitopol, defiant residents gathered near occupied district administration demanding that Russians release the kidnapped Melitopol mayor Ivan Fedorov - video by Odessa reg governor Maksym Marchenko pic.twitter.comnCrE6OtQd0 Myroslava Petsa myroslavapetsa March 12, 2022
Several thousand residents of Melitopol marched to the administration building to demand the release of Mayor Ivan Fedorov, who was kidnapped by the occupiers.
Several thousand residents of Melitopol marched to the administration building to demand the release of Mayor Ivan Fedorov, who was allegedly kidnapped by Russian forces.
In Melitopol, defiant residents gathered near occupied district administration demanding that Russians release the kidnapped Melitopol mayor Ivan Fedorov - video by Odessa reg governor Maksym Marchenko pic.twitter.comnCrE6OtQd0
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has proposed a meeting with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in Jerusalem, The Kyiv Independent reported on Saturday.
"Our particular gratitude to the authorities in Ukraine and Russia as well as the Red Cross for the evacuation assistance. Ukraine's neighbours -- Romania, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Moldova gave us exceptional support. My sincerest thanks to them," External Affairs Minister EAM S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Friday.
In the village of Kvitneve, a warehouse for frozen food products is on fire after shelling.
"Most of them are in the west and north-west with about 500,000 displaced people in Zakarpatska, 387,000 in Lvivska and about 170,000 in Volynska," Dujarric said.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has denied reports that he proposed to Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that Kyiv should surrender to Moscow.
The video triggered a protest in the Ukrainian city of Melitopol on Saturday with as many as 2,000 residents taking to the streets demanding the mayor's release.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at news conference said, "Some small towns do not exist any more and this is simply a tragedy. I think it is a tragedy, they do not exist anymore, they are simply not there. And the people who lived in them, they are not there any more and they will not return. We are on the frontline and the people that were killed, were killed in the midst of us."
The Kremlin, meanwhile, issued a statement saying Russian President Vladimir Putin in his phone calls with Scholz and Macron slammed what he said was the "flagrant violation of international humanitarian law by Ukrainian forces.
Mariupol has been under siege for nearly a fortnight, resulting in the death of over 1,300 people, as per Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk.
A statement issued by Ukraine's government on Saturday said Russian forces have captured the area on the eastern outskirts of the port city of Mariupol.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Saturday that over 1,300 Ukrainians have been killed since the beginning of the Russian invasion on February 24.
An oil depot is on fire in Vasylkiv, 36 km south of Kyiv, and another was hit in the village of Kryachky.
