Russia has confirmed use of vacuum bombs against Ukraine says UK
20220311
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-russia-has-confirmed-use-of-vacuum-bombs-1924021-2022-03-11
The Russian MoD has confirmed the use of the TOS-1A weapon system in Ukraine. The TOS-1A uses thermobaric rockets, creating incendiary and blast effects.
According to Amnesty International, global humanitarian law prohibits the use of inherently indiscriminate weapons, such as cluster munitions. Launching indiscriminate attacks that kill or injure civilians constitutes a war crime. Dr Marcus Hellyer, a senior analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, told The Guardian that while vacuum bombs will not be used to penetrate a tank, they could be a very destructive weapon against an apartment complex or other building.
They are not illegal even though their effects can be pretty horrific, because of that effect of creating a vacuum and sucking the air out of the lungs of defenders. One of the things we know about Russian tactics is that they are willing to destroy everything," Dr Hellyer added.
Watch the video below for more information about this weapon and its devastating impact.StandWithUkraine pic.twitter.comd8PLQ0PhQD
Also known as an aerosol bomb, it is a two-stage munition with the first charge distributing aerosols made up of very fine material from a carbon-based fuel to tiny metal particles. The second charge ignites that cloud creating a shock wave sucking up the oxygen and making a vacuum around its target. Experts have warned that the blast wave of a vacuum bomb lasts significantly longer than traditional explosives.
By India Today Web Desk: The Russian Ministry of Defence has confirmed the use of its TOS-1A weapon system in Ukraine, the UK's Ministry of Defence tweeted. The TOS-1A uses thermobaric rockets, or vacuum bombs, creating incendiary and blast effects.
ALSO READ  Russia-Ukraine War: Can Putin Use Thermobaric Bomb aka Father Of All Bombs Against Ukraine?
A vacuum bomb, or thermobaric weapon, sucks in oxygen from the surrounding air to generate a high-temperature explosion, typically producing a blast wave of a significantly longer duration than that of a conventional explosive and is capable of vaporizing human bodies.
Earlier, Ukraine had pointed out that Russia was using the thermobaric weapons system. Ukraine's ambassador to the United States, Oksana Markarova, had accused that Moscow had used a thermobaric weapon. "They used the vacuum bomb today. The devastation that Russia is trying to inflict on Ukraine is large," the ambassador had said.
