RussiaUkraine WarUpdates Satellite images show new Russian positions less than 50 miles from Ukraine capital
20220224
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/story/russia-ukraine-war-news-updates-satellite-images-troops-capital-kyiv-1917117-2022-02-24
Deployment of Russian artillery near Malakeevo, to the northeast of Valuyki, can be seen in the latest imagery.
As reported earlier, most of the troops and equipment are now field deployed, which means they have been positioned in smaller unit-sized formations in farm land and along tree lines. In Golovchino in western Russia, satellite pictures show field deployment and military convoys, approximately 10 miles north of the border with Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an invasion of Ukraine on Thursday. This was followed by multiple explosions across the country.
A Russian battle group with armoured personnel carriers, support equipment and troops has been observed near Krasnaya Yaruga in Russia, approximately nine miles east of the border with Ukraine.
By Ankit Kumar: Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine in a televised address on Thursday. Satellite pictures collected on Wednesday show new deployment of Russian forces less than 50 miles away from Ukraines capital Kyiv. A number of new deployments have been observed in bordering western Russia. The Belgorod region has become the hub of Russia's latest military activity with multiple new deployments visible in this region. Some of them are less than ten miles away from the border with Ukraine. The high-resolution images have been supplied to India Today by US-based space company Maxar Technologies.
The artillery deployment at Malakeevo is supported by additional positioning of troops and logistics in a nearby location.
Earlier, the US had said that Russian forces were in final position for invasion. "Russia has positioned its forces at the final point of readiness everything seems to be in place for Russia to engage in a major aggression against Ukraine," US Secretary of State Antony Blinken had said.
At another place named Kupino, which is approximately 11 miles north of the border with Ukraine, troops are seen stationed along the tree lines.
Another large deployment can be seen at Malakeevo in western Russia, which is approximately 20 miles north of the border with Ukraine.
A part of a military convoy on the move was also seen in the south of Golovchino.
