Shashi Tharoor tweets old pic of couple with Russia and Ukraine flags amid ongoing crisis Read post
20220225
https://www.indiatoday.in/trending-news/story/shashi-tharoor-tweets-old-pic-of-couple-with-russia-and-ukraine-flags-amid-ongoing-crisis-read-post-1917870-2022-02-25
This image, however, is not a recent snap from Ukraine or Russia. The photograph was taken in 2019 during a concert in Warsaw by Belarusan rapper Max Korzh. It has once again gone viral after Russia invaded Ukraine.
The tweet has gone viral with over 20k likes and tons of like-minded comments. People agreed with Tharoor's point of view and stressed on the importance of peace between the countries.
The message is clear n simple. Yet we, the most intelligent creatures on earth, fail to grasp it. Shame UkraineRussia RussiaUkraineConflict https:t.coYGb1pONkjx
Poignant: A man draped in the Ukrainian flag embraces a woman wearing the Russian flag. Let us hope love, peace  co-existence triumph over war  conflict. pic.twitter.comWTwSOBgIFK
Shashi Tharoor has also shared a highly relatable poem by Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish. The piercing words of the poem will touch your heart.
Poignant: A man draped in the Ukrainian flag embraces a woman wearing the Russian flag. Let us hope love, peace  co-existence triumph over war  conflict, Tharoor captioned the post.
Amid the ongoing crisis, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor shared a picture on his official Twitter profile that gave out a message of hope amid the dark times. The Thiruvananthapuram MP shared a picture of a man and woman standing close to each other. The man has the flag of Ukraine wrapped around him while the woman has the flag of Russia.
ALSO READ  This video of US reporter covering the Russia-Ukraine crisis in six languages is viral. Watch
By Srimoyee Chowdhury: All eyes are glued on Ukraine after Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on the country on Thursday. Social media platforms are being flooded with heart-wrenching photos and videos of people bidding teary farewell to their friends and families. From the viral photo of the couple saying their goodbye at a subway station in Ukraine, to a father and daughter crying and embracing each other, the visuals are plenty  and painful.
Vladimir Putin declared military strikes on Ukraine in a televised address on Thursday, February 24. Attacks across Ukraine left 137 civilians and military personnel dead and 316 injured after the first day of the Russian invasion.
ALSO READ  The Internet thinks The Simpsons 'predicted' the Russia-Ukraine crisis in 1998. Watch viral video
