Survivors of Russian bombings cling on in flattened flats
20220504
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-latest-update-survivors-russian-bombings-1945110-2022-05-04
"Why did they fight to defend me, only to leave me here to die?" she says, referring to Ukrainian forces who managed to keep the Russians from seizing the city of nearly 300,000.
ALSO READ: Ukrainian nurse who lost both legs in landmine blast shares first dance with husband  WATCH
"The grandmother on the fourth floor locked herself up when the bombs fell. When we forced the door open, she was already dead," Sobistiyanska said.
"They will start by repairing the schools. As for the residential homes That will take a lot of people and time. Some have simply burned to the ground."
The ones who left mostly settled with friends and relatives in surrounding villages or joined the exodus fleeing to the more peaceful west of the country and Poland.
"Most people have already left the city," Stanivaya said while showing off the remains of some of the abandoned apartments in her tower block.
Sobistiyanska and two of her neighbours sip cold tea off a kitchen table that takes up half the corridor's width in the dark.
The historic city and its ancient churches overlooking the Desna River began to lose its importance and shrivel when its inland port shut down after the Soviet Unions collapse.
ALSO READ: 2 lakh children among 11 lakh Ukrainians 'forcibly deported' to Russia', says report
City workers were mowing the lawn of a green patch in the middle of a roundabout that was surrounded by barricades and buildings with their walls scarred by shells.
"This is where I was born, this is where I was planning to spend my life. But for that, I need a place to live," he said.
Russian troops bombed and shelled the tower blocks dotting Chernigiv for more than a month.
One young father was pushing his son on a scooter past the skeletal remains of a warehouse.
She remembers the date because that is when Russian mortar fire blew a hole through her apartment on a central street in the battered north Ukrainian city of Chernigiv.
This recovery could require some tough choices. One of them might be whether places such as Chernigiv are worth saving at all.
Ukraine will need foreign aid of historic proportions to try and dig out from the ruins -- should it ultimately withstand the Russian assault.
"And the ones who are returning, when they see what has happened, I don't even know," she sighed. "They are returning to nothing."
"But they have started moving on with their lives," the 44-year-old said. "They have their own problems."
The outgunned Ukrainian forces' ability to defend Chernigiv -- a riverside city 100 kilometres 60 miles northeast of Kyiv famous for its brand of beer -- played a huge role in stalling Russia's assault on the capital in the first weeks of the war.
She says local officials have ordered her to move out but offered no assistance other than the locations of area shelters.
But Sobistiyanska is taking out her boiling anger for her plight on both the Ukrainians and the Russians in the third month of the war.
ALSO READ: Ukraine claims it destroyed 2 Russian patrol boats in Black Sea  Video
Sobistiyanska's neighbour Tetyana Stanivaya says she still finds Chernigiv "very beautiful" and would love to stay.
The wind shoots thick dust through the wall punctures and leaves everyone shivering in their winter coats and wool hats.
Rows of whole buildings around it have functioning shops with few clients and the barest minimum of goods.
Construction worker Daniil Danchenko said his courtyard neighbours were initially happy to let him charge his phone or fill buckets of water that he could then lug up the stairs to his fourth-floor flat.
The ones who stayed behind depend on the goodwill of neighbours whose buildings still have running water and gas.
"But I think that 70 percent of it has been damaged. I have no idea how much it would cost to rebuild it all," the 44-year-old grocer said.
The much more recent closure of the border with Kremlin ally Belarus 50 kilometres 30 miles to the north means the main road running through the city from Kyiv now leads to a dead end.
The Russian withdrawal in the first days of April left behind a hollow shell of a city that now forms part of a broader conundrum for Ukraines Western-backed leadership.
The city now comprises a patchwork of ruins and buildings left completely untouched by war.
The 51-year-old still lives in one of the nine-story tower's hallways and sleeps on its debris-strewn floor.
