This 80yrold man lined up to join the Ukrainian army his pic is going viral
20220225
https://www.indiatoday.in/trending-news/story/this-80-yr-old-man-lined-up-to-join-the-ukrainian-army-his-pic-is-going-viral-1917980-2022-02-25
Someone posted a photo of this 80-year-old who showed up to join the army, carrying with him a small case with 2 t-shirts, a pair of extra pants, a toothbrush and a few sandwiches for lunch. He said he was doing it for his grandkids, read the post.
Someone posted a photo of this 80-year-old who showed up to join the army, carrying with him a small case with 2 t-shirts, a pair of extra pants, a toothbrush and a few sandwiches for lunch. He said he was doing it for his grandkids. pic.twitter.combemD24h6Ae
A picture of an octogenarian man standing in line to join the Ukrainian army is going viral. Shared on Twitter by Kateryna Yushchenko, the picture shows the man standing with a bag, ready to join the army. The contents in his bag will surely make you teary-eyed.
80 years old  he was born when Ukraine was part of the USSR and it was fighting against Nazi occupation. 1991: he saw the independence of Ukraine. The things this man has seen  survived. Now hes willing to do what men dofight against anything that threatens those they love.
The post has garnered over 133k likes and tons of reactions. People couldnt stop appreciating the brave mans love for his country. Many simply shared messages of peace in the comments section.
ALSO READ  This video of US reporter covering the Russia-Ukraine crisis in six languages is viral. Watch
Vladimir Putin declared military strikes on Ukraine in a televised address on Thursday, February 24. Attacks across Ukraine left 137 civilians and military personnel dead and 316 injured after the first day of the Russian invasion.
By Srimoyee Chowdhury: Amid the escalating tension between Ukraine and Russia, social media is buzzing with heart-wrenching photos of Ukrainian citizens. From the viral photo of the couple saying their goodbye at a subway station in Ukraine, to a father and daughter crying and embracing each other, the visuals have left netizens shocked.
ALSO READ  The Internet thinks The Simpsons 'predicted' the Russia-Ukraine crisis in 1998. Watch viral video
Another reason our democracy matters. We cant lose it. Imagine all that he has experienced in those 80 years.
Im ready for the same reasons. I probably wouldnt last long but preserving my grandkids way of life would be more important than my own. I might add I havent been presented with the circumstance so I can only hope. I admire that man.
Bless his heart. After 911 my Dad, who was 70 at the time, wanted to go back in the army in any capacity possible. He said I can sweep the floors, anything to help. Heroes are everywhere and every age.
