This is my home now 13yearolds life in subwayturnedbomb shelter in Kharkiv  Ground Report
20220424
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/this-is-my-home-now-13-year-old-s-life-in-subway-turned-bomb-shelter-in-kharkiv-ground-report-1941228-2022-04-24
For the residents of Kharkiv taking shelter in the subway, this is their life now. One person was calmly working on his laptop, while another was taking a nap with a blanket wrapped around him, even as Russian forces battered the city overhead with bombs and artillery.
Around 90 per cent of Ukraines schools have been functioning and holding classes online since the war broke out on February 24, a testament to the fortitude of the countrys people.
This is my home now. I have been living here for the last two months. I skate all day and I study. I want to go home. I am not afraid, I am optimistic, he said in halting English, determined to get his message around the world.
Pointing to a corner, Irene showed us where Alex takes his lessons and how he spends his time. He is engaged in sketching and studies throughout the day, there are online classes, she added.
As India Todays team walked down the platform of the silent subway station, a 13-year-old boy named Alex approached us. Alex said he arrived at the shelter with his family nearly 69 days ago. The subway is now his school as well as his playground.
Hundreds of people are at present ensconced in a subway station in Kharkiv, which was converted to a bomb shelter in anticipation of a Russian attack on Ukraine. India Today learnt that many of them have not ventured out of their subterranean refuge for the last two months.
In contrast to the chaos outside, everything is laid out methodically and allotted its own place in the shelter. Food, water and other relief materials are next to one pillar, the childrens library and reading shelves for adults by another. Everyone knows which train car the perishables are stored in.
READ  From the war zone: Ukrainian forces take on Russian onslaught to save Kharkiv amid raining missiles
Alexs mother Irene told India Today that she went to their home to retrieve some things five days ago, only to find it in ruins. Thankfully, we came to live here, she said.
By Mausami Singh: Kharkiv, Ukraines second largest city, has been targeted by the enemy right from the start of Russias invasion. The relentless Russian shelling has meant that most of the 1.5 million population has fled. No neighbourhood in Kharkiv has been spared: schools and hospitals have been destroyed, residences have been reduced to rubble. With most of the city uninhabitable, those left behind have retreated underground.
