Twitter calls out global medias racist coverage of Ukraine crisis
20220301
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/twitter-calls-out-global-media-alleged-racist-coverage-russia-ukraine-crisis-1919314-2022-03-01
Ukraine crisis has exposed western institutions like never before! this BBC chap never had the courage to stop that racist slur against all humanity! What about the millions that were killed by American actions in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Libya, Vietnam, Latin America? https:t.coVWNGryjH60
1. The BBC - Its very emotional for me because I see European people with blue eyes and blonde hair being killed - Ukraines Deputy Chief Prosecutor, David Sakvarelidze pic.twitter.comm0LB0m00Wg
The remark sparked anger among netizens, who accused Sakvarelidze of being "racist". Netizens also called out the "racist" coverage by several media houses across the world.
CEO  Editor Global Village Space Moeed Pirzada tweeted "Ukraine crisis has exposed western institutions like never before! this BBC chap never had the courage to stop that racist slur against all humanity! What about the millions that were killed by American actions in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Libya, Vietnam, Latin America?"
ALSO READ  Will Bayraktar drones help Ukraine fight Russia as they aided Azerbaijan against Armenia?
"This isn't Iraq or Afghanistan...This is a relatively civilized, relatively European city" - CBS foreign correspondent Charlie DAgata pic.twitter.coms7sxZrMzM9
This thread exposing rampant racism underlines the need to show solidarity with Ukrainians because they are people, not because they are European - and extend that basic humanity to anyone who suffers war, invasion and occupation. https:t.cohlr7n4Sa1J
President  Director-Counsel of LDF NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Sherrilyn Ifill said: "A responsible media industry would use this opportunity to confront,  undertake to change the dehumanization of non-white people  the trivialization of our suffering that is so routine in press coverage."
Its very emotional for me because I see European people with blue eyes and blonde hair being killed, children being killed every day by Russian President Putins missiles, helicopters and rockets, said David Sakvarelidze.
By India Today Web Desk: The Twitterati has erupted in a show of massive anger against an alleged racist comment by Ukraines deputy chief prosecutor David Sakvarelidze. In a TV interview with the BBC, Sakvarelidze said the war situation unfolding in his country was very emotional for him because European people with blue eyes and blonde hair were being killed every day.
