Two US citizens in Ukraine feared captured by Russia
20220616
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-two-us-citizens-captured-by-russia-1962942-2022-06-16
Drueke's mother, Lois Drueke, said that her son told his family that he was teaching Ukrainian troops how to use US-made weapons.
Two British nationals have been reported killed in the fighting and another two Britons are facing the death penalty after being captured and convicted as mercenaries by a pro-Russian court.
White House spokesman John Kirby said he could not confirm the disappearance of the two Americans but said, "If it's true, we'll do everything we can to get them safely back home."
"It is a war zone. It is combat. And if you feel passionate about supporting Ukraine, there's any number of other ways to do that that are safer and just as effective," Kirby told reporters.
Alexander Drueke and Andy Huynh, both US military veterans who had been living in Alabama, lost contact with their families after combat in Ukraine.
He said that the United States discouraged Americans from traveling to Ukraine, which has endured a nearly four-month war against invading Russian forces.
The Telegraph, which first reported their disappearances, quoted an unnamed fellow fighter who said the two men were captured after running into a larger Russian force during a June 9 battle northeast of Kharkiv.
"According to his family, they have not heard from Drueke in several days," Sewell said in a statement.
Captive Americans would add another layer of complexity to efforts by the United States, which is pumping billions of dollars into Ukraine but trying to steer clear of direct confrontation with Russia.
"Alex felt very strongly that he had been trained in ways that he could help the Ukrainians be strong and push Putin back," she told The Washington Post, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
President Joe Biden earlier Wednesday announced another $1 billion in military aid to Ukraine but has said that US forces will not directly engage Russia, a fellow nuclear power.
The two are the first Americans believed to have been captured or harmed in Ukraine, which Putin invaded in February.
"We will continue to do everything in our power to assist in locating him and finding answers for his family."
By Agence France-Presse: Two Americans who volunteered to support Ukraine have gone missing and are feared to have been taken prisoner by Russia, officials and family members said Wednesday.
