Ukrainian cities turn into ghost towns as Russian invasion enters day9
20220304
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/ukrainian-cities-turn-into-ghost-towns-as-russian-invasion-enters-day-9-1920826-2022-03-04
A chilling video from the city of Chernihiv shows the aftermath of Russian strikes as an apartment building was bombarded, leaving atleast 33 people dead and 18 wounded.
Lakhs of people have fled Ukraine as explosions and gunfire continue to rock major cities, including Ukraines capital Kyiv. Heavy explosions are being heard as close as 20 km from Kyivs city centre.
The images from the separatist region of Donetsk were as disturbing. Residential areas and public spaces were all reduced to rubble. Some women and children left behind were seen taking shelter in bunkers while Russian troops were seen on the streets of Donetsk.
Russian fighter jets have also destroyed a combined heat and power station in Okthtyrka during an aerial bombardment. Russia claims to have so far destroyed 1,612 Ukrainian military infrastructure units.
As Russian forces inch closer to the capital city of Kyiv, this invasion by land, air and sea is seen as the biggest attack on a European state since World War 2.
This aerial view of Borodyanka, a town 40 miles away from the capital Kyiv, shows how Russian troops have attacked civilian infrastructure.
By Nabila Jamal: It is day nine of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Major cities continue to be pounded and shelled, most of them now resembling ghost towns with just smoke and fire left around.
What remain are scorched residential buildings, debris scattered all around, burnt down trucks and smoke coming out of buildings along the main streets. One of the residential buildings has been torn apart as fire still smolders inside. Some brave civilians tried to stop the movement of Russian troops and tanks by putting up sand bags and hedge hogs.
Despite the intense pushback, the Ukranian cities of Borodyanka and Donetsk were completely bombed out. Videos have emerged showing charred buildings, fire burning on the streets, destroyed Russian military vehicles and civilians trying to find their way out of this horror.
Thousands are thought to be dead or injured. Those left behind have stayed to fight for their country, most parts of which are now left in ruins.
