Ukraine The economic significance for Russia and the West  Deep Dive
20220222
https://www.indiatoday.in/news-analysis/story/ukraine-the-economic-significance-for-russia-and-the-west-deep-dive-1916525-2022-02-22
According to some estimates, up to 20 of the proven world reserves of titanium ores are located in Ukraine. But it is one of the few countries with a closed-loop production in the titanium industry - from mining and processing of titanium iron ores to the manufacturer of finished products.
Lithium chemicals are a key component of electric vehicle EV batteries. Most automobile companies are looking at lithium reserves across the globe.
Grain exports are a cornerstone of Ukraines economy. Much of Ukraine's wheat and corn are destined for West Asia and Africa, which are heavily dependent on imports for food items. More than 40 of Ukraines annual corn and wheat shipments have headed to the Middle East or Africa.
In Ukraine, lithium fields are concentrated in Kirovohrad Polokhivske field, Dobra area, Donetsk Shevchenkivske field, and Zaporizhzhia oblasts Kruta Balka area. But there is no mining work happening in the area at the moment.
While Europe depends on Russian natural gas, the US is aspiring to be a more prominent Liquefied natural gas supplier, although the price of LNG would be significantly higher in price than that of Russian gas.
Ukraine this year is aiming to clinch No. 3 in wheat and No. 4 in corn. That ranking could be missed owing to the crisis with Russia.
Russias fight with Ukraine will have a spillover effect on the coal and electricity sector. Last year, India imported coal to meet the domestic coal shortage. And with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, that supply chain is going to take a hit.
Currently, Russia supplies between 40 to 50 of Europes gas consumption through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline and the Ukrainian network. Germany is also a big customer of Russias natural gas. Germany gets 55 of its natural gas from Russia and much of it goes through Ukraine, which earns them their transit fee, equivalent to $7 billion. Thats about four percent of Ukraines GDP.
The one industry that could be majorly affected should the Ukraine-Russia conflict escalate, is the aircraft industry.
The breakaway territories in the Donbas region are rich with natural resources and therefore make the area economically very viable for the future.
Ukraines natural resources are enormous, with exactly 5 of the earths natural and mineral resources. Ores like titanium, iron, and non-metallic raw materials are major Ukrainian exports.
Acting as a buffer between these two opposing blocs, Ukraine has had very tough choices to make in the last decade.
Besides natural gas, Ukraine is loaded with minerals like coal, iron, titanium, and other non-metallic raw materials. Its the leading country when it comes to reserves of iron, titanium, and non-metallic raw materials.
All the strategic positions aside, to Russia and the West, Ukraine of the future is an untouched, untapped, natural resource hotspot. A foothold in Ukraine would mean energy security, an economic driver, and a strong and secure strategic position.
Ukraine today holds the second-biggest known gas reserves in Europe, excluding Russias gas reserves in Asia, albeit largely untapped. When it comes to its natural gas, it has about 1.09 trillion cubic meters, which is an unimaginable amount. But to give you an idea, its enough to be stretched around the earth many times. This is second only to Norways known resources of 1.53 trillion cubic meters.
So, are the following where corn $4.77 billion, seed oils $3.75 billion, iron ore $3.36 billion, wheat $3.11B, and semi-finished iron $2.55 billion are exported mostly to Russia $4.69 billion, China $3.94 billion, Germany $3.08 billion, Poland $2.75 billion, and Italy $2.57 billion.
For instance, the US Boeing has diversified its titanium supply chain since 2014, when Russia was sanctioned for its annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, but it still relies heavily on Russia's VSMPO-AVISMA for the supply of titanium, a lightweight but strong metal that is used widely in planemaking.
The US and Europe could be looking at energy and food security by ensuring Ukraines west tilt, but will Russia allow it. The US has always been wary of Russias dominance in Europe.
This also means that the US is nowhere near the gas race. But, Gazproms Nord Stream II pipeline through the Baltic Sea might have hit a major roadblock with Russian President Putin recognizing the breakaway regions of Ukraine Of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Russia does not want NATO in its backyard. That is non-negotiable. Ukraines current dispensation wants to not only join NATO but also be a part of the European Union.
A Russian invasion means they will bottleneck these exports, which will create food security issues because Ukraine is one of the largest distributors of corn and wheat.
While these enormous gas reserves remain untapped, the country is still a key to the gas transport from Russia to Europe. In 2019, Moscow and Kyiv signed a transit agreement that allows smooth transfer of Siberian gas to the European Union EU through Ukraines large gas transportation system, despite unilateral sanctions by the US. To feed the energy-hungry Europe, Russia initiated the Nord Stream II gas pipeline to transport natural gas which would be reliable, affordable, and sustainable.
On January 31, Boeing in a statement said that the tensions over Ukraine create an adverse climate for their business. In the case of economic sanctions, the supply chain for titanium could be impacted, and further the ability to produce aircraft could be impeded.
Global food security is of top concern if Ukraines exports are disturbed. On the other hand, because of distance, US wheat amounts to less than ten percent of what caters to those regions.
The Donetsk and Dobra mines were up for grabs and there has been stiff competition between Australia-listed European Lithium and Chinese Chengxin Lithium - all want a foothold in the European lithium industry. They are just two of a list of bids published online by the Ukrainian Geological Survey.
But ironically enough, Ukraine relies on gas imports and its mostly because the USSR started large-scale gas extraction in Siberia in the 1970s. So, much of the gas exploration and production has been transferred to Russia and, as a result of this, Ukraines resources remain untapped.
While much of the struggle is military and strategic, that is not the end of the story. Economy, resources, and the fight to lay claim to the abundant rare earth elements that Ukraine is immensely rich of are the reasons to influence the countrys political leanings - Russia or Europe? Owe allegiance to Russia as an erstwhile Soviet state or open up to the West?
In 2019, Ukraine was the 5th largest exporter of iron ore in the world. In the same year, iron ore was the 3rd most-exported product in Ukraine.
Interestingly, in 2021, China was the largest importer of Ukrainian titanium iron ores 24.4. Russia ranked second 15.3, and Turkey ranked third 14.5.
The point that the US is trying to make is to stop Russia from dominating Europe through energy dependence and what Secretary Blinken called weaponizing heat by controlling gas during winter months when Europe needs Russia to stay warm.
Titanium and lithium are some of the most precious metals on the planet today. Why? Lets explain:
And Russias influence is going to grow stronger if they invade parts of Ukraine and are able to withstand global sanctions.
But US-backed Ukraine can prosper and capitalize on its natural resources. Could that be the US pretext to compete with Russia?
By Geeta Mohan: Ukraine has become a major flashpoint between Russia and the West. Its geostrategic position has rendered it vulnerable to the ongoing tensions between the West and Russia.
Also, fossil fuels are not infinite, which means Russia has to look for additional sources of natural gases to tap. They have to look no further than to their west - Ukraine.
