Ukraine says Kyiv under full control of army as Russia ramps up attack
20220227
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/ukraine-says-kyiv-under-full-control-of-army-as-russia-ramps-up-attack-1918429-2022-02-27
With growing signs that Russia aims to overthrow him and his government, Zelensky has vowed to continue battling the invasion and called on Ukrainians to stand firm.
Fighting was reported on Kyiv's outskirts, suggesting that small Russian units were trying to clear a path for the main forces. A curfew was imposed on the capital to ensure people stayed safely indoors. The relative quiet of the city was sporadically broken by gunfire.
Huge explosions lit up the pre-dawn sky south of Kyiv as a Russian missile struck an oil depot near the Zhuliany airport. President Volodymyr Zelensky's office said Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, the country's second-largest city, prompting the government to warn people to protect themselves from the smoke by covering their windows with damp cloth or gauze.
Ukraines military and territorial defense forces engaged and apprehended saboteurs allegedly sent in by the invading Russian forces on the intervening night of February 26-27, added Povoroznyk.
There has been a breakthrough in light equipment including in the central part of the city, Chairman of the Kharkiv Regional State Administration Oleg Sinegubov announced, urging local residents to remain in shelters.
By India Today Web Desk: Ukrainian troops in Kyiv are holding off the Russian advance and remain in full control of the capital, the citys first deputy head of State Administration Mykola Povoroznyk said on Sunday.
The lawmakers remarks came in the wake of Kyiv being pummeled by heavy bombardment and shelling as Russian troops closed in on the capital and attempted to strike and disable crucial landmarks.
Intensifying its offensive, Russia targeted airfields and fuel facilities in the major cities of Kyiv and Kharkiv on Sunday to cripple the fierce resistance put up by Ukraine.
The situation in Kyiv is calm, the capital is completely controlled by the Ukrainian army and defence forces, said Mykola Povoroznyk.
