Ukraine war spills beyond Earth Europe suspends space operations with Russia Mars mission hit
20220301
https://www.indiatoday.in/science/story/ukraine-war-spills-beyond-earth-europe-suspends-space-operations-with-russia-mars-mission-hit-1919284-2022-03-01
"The sanctions and the wider context make a launch in 2022 very unlikely. ESAs Director General will analyse all the options and prepare a formal decision on the way forward by the ESA Member States," the space agency said in a statement.
With Europe breaking ties with Russia in space, the biggest mission set to be hit is the joint ExoMars mission that was to launch later this year. The new sanctions will not further delay the mission, which has already faced several setbacks over the years.
"We will consequently assess for each European institutional payload under our responsibility the appropriate launch service-based notably on launch systems currently in operation and the upcoming Vega-C and Ariane 6 launchers," it said.
The statement, however, did not mention their cooperation on the International Space Station where American, Russian, and European astronauts are living and working together. It did mention that the sanctions were being imposed in close coordination with industrial and international partners, in particular with NASA on the International Space Station.
By India Today Web Desk: Days after Russia invaded Ukraine in a deadly military offensive, the impact is now felt beyond Earth's orbit. The European Space Agency has suspended cooperation with Moscow in space missions, "fully implementing sanctions imposed on Russia." The agency in a statement said that it deplores the human casualties and tragic consequences of the war in Ukraine.
"We are fully implementing sanctions imposed on Russia by our Member States. We are assessing the consequences on each of our ongoing programmes conducted in cooperation with the Russian state space agency Roscosmos and align our decisions to the decisions of our Member States in close coordination with industrial and international partners," ESA said in a statement.
The launch was already postponed from 2020 due to the coronavirus outbreak and technical problems. It was due to blast off from the Baikonur spaceport in Kazakhstan in September using a Russian Proton rocket. Postponing a launch often means waiting for months or years until another window opens when planets are in the right alignment.
The break in the space ties comes in the background of Moscow entering Ukraine by force amid a strong reaction from across the world against President Vladimir Putin's military offensive. The agency said that it is giving absolute priority to taking proper decisions, not only for the sake of our workforce involved in the programmes, but in full respect of our European values.
The goal is to put Europes first rover on the red planet to help determine whether there has ever been life on Mars. A test rover launched in 2016 crash-landed at Mars, highlighting the difficulty of putting a spacecraft on the planet.
At the moment, seven astronauts of European, American, and Russian descent are living on the Space Station.
French President Emmanuel Macron said earlier this month that Europe needs a bolder space policy, arguing that its sovereignty is at stake if it falls behind rival powers in a key field for technology, science and military competitiveness.
Meanwhile, for its Soyuz launch mission from Spaceport in Kourou, Europe said that they have taken note of Roscosmos pulling out its workforce from the launch site. On Saturday, Roscosmos said it was pulling its personnel from the European spaceport in Kourou, French Guiana. Several European satellites have been launched with Russian rockets from there, and more were scheduled over the coming year.
