Ukraine President Zelensky offers weapons to citizens to fight Russia
20220224
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/ukraine-president-zelensky-weapons-citizens-russian-attack-invasion-1917341-2022-02-24
Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced a war on Ukraine. Ahead of the invasion, Putin in a televised speech appealed to Ukrainian soldiers to lay down their arms and go home. He said the clashes between Russian and Ukrainian forces are 'inevitable' and the special military action was 'aimed at demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine'. Russia has seized control of two villages to the east of Ukraine.
By India Today Web Desk: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the government will give weapons to all Ukrainian citizens who want to defend their country against Russian aggression.
Russia treacherously attacked our state in the morning, as Nazi Germany did in 2WW years. As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history. has embarked on a path of evil, but is defending itself  won't give up its freedom no matter what Moscow thinks.
In a tweet, Zelensky further compared the Russian attack to that of Nazi Germany. Russia treacherously attacked our state in the morning, as Nazi Germany did in World War 2. As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history. Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and won't give up its freedom no matter what Moscow thinks, Zelensky wrote.
According to the Joint Forces Command, about 50 Russian occupiers were killed in the Shchastya area today.
President Zelensky said, "For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine. We will lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend our country as part of territorial defense with weapons in their hands."
Meanwhile, Indian Embassy in Ukraine has advised Indians in the country to remain calm. It advised those travelling to Kyiv to temporarily return to their respective cities.
According to Ukraine, at least seven people have been killed and nine wounded in Russian shelling. The Ukrainian army has claimed that the Shchastya region has been brought under Ukrainian control and 50 Russian soldiers were killed. Another Russian plane, the sixth, was destroyed in the Kramatorsk region, it said.
We will lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend our country as part of territorial defense with weapons in hands.
Zelensky also appealed to Russians to stage protests against Moscow's decision to send troops into Ukraine.
