What are chemical weapons and why is the US concerned Russia could use them
20220324
https://www.indiatoday.in/science/story/ukraine-war-chemical-weapons-russia-invasion-biden-putin-zelenskyy-1929071-2022-03-24
According to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons OPCW, munitions, devices, and other equipment specifically designed to weaponise toxic chemicals fall under the definition of chemical weapons.
All weapons have chemicals. Gunpowder is also a chemical mixture. But the chemical weapons that are often spoken about are a dreaded mixture of gases or liquids that have toxic properties and can kill humans, animals, and other forms of life.
Chemical and biological weapons have been at the heart of several invasions in the 21st century that began with the US invading Iraq citing similar reasons. Putin now leveling similar accusations on Ukraine, in justification of his war follows the same tactic.
They are also suggesting that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons in Ukraine. Thats a clear sign hes considering using both of those. Hes already used chemical weapons in the past, and we should be careful of whats about to come, US President Joe Biden said.
The most recent use of chemicals by Russia to target state opponents came in 2020 when Putin's long-time critic and Opposition leader Alexei Navalny was poisoned.
Threat of Russia using chemical weapons in Ukraine looks serious for there is a past. Russia has faced allegations for many years that it has used chemical weapons in targeted killings.
The United States had in March last year accused Syrian President Bashar Assad and Russia of trying to block all efforts to hold Damascus accountable for using chemical weapons during attacks on civilians.
The use of chemical weapons was first recorded during World War-I when chlorine, phosgene a choking agent, and mustard gas which inflicts painful burns on the skin were used to inflict serious damage by both sides of the war. That was just the beginning when these dangerous weapons caused nearly 1,00,000 deaths.
By Sibu Tripathi: With the war in Ukraine raging for nearly a month, the worry is now shifting to the possible use of chemical weapons by Russia in its invasion. US President Joe Biden has said that Russia's false accusation that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons hints that Russias President Vladimir Putin could use it in the coming days.
"We are very much aware of that we need to act in a way that prevents this conflict from going from being a very bloody, ugly, horrific conflict in Ukraine to something that turns out to be a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia, in Europe, and also potentially involving, of course, the United States directly, Stoltenberg told NBC.
The first signs came on March 21 when Russia bombed the Sumykhimprom chemical plant in Ukraine's Sumy. It released ammonia in the area forcing people to remain indoors. The chemical contamination could be a major tactic in advancing Russian troops, whose progress in Ukraine has reportedly been slower than anticipated.
Over the years, these weapons have been perfected and the Cold War era saw significant development, manufacture, and stockpiling of these weapons of mass destruction. According to the United Nations Office of Disarmament Affairs, chemical weapons have caused more than a million casualties globally.
Earlier this month, US national security adviser Jake Sullivan spoke with Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of Russia's Security Council, warning him of consequences for "any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine."
In 2018, Russia was accused of using chemical weapons in an attempted killing of two Russians former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in London.
Navalny fell sick on August 20 during a domestic flight in Russia and was flown while he was in a coma to Germany for treatment two days later. Labs in Germany, France, and Sweden, and tests by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, found that he was exposed to a Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.
The US accused Russia of defending Assad despite its chemical weapons attacks, obstructing independent investigations, and undermining efforts to hold the Syrian government accountable not only for using chemical weapons but for numerous other atrocities.
The war in Ukraine has been going on for 29 days now and Ukrainian forces have not shown any sign of pulling back. The Ukrainian government said it would not obey ultimatums from Russia, which demanded it stop defending besieged Mariupol, where hundreds of thousands of civilians are suffering.
The ammonia released by the Sumykhimprom chemical plant is highly corrosive, and exposure to high concentrations can cause blindness, lung damage, and death. While ammonia is not a chemical weapon, its intentional contamination and uncontrolled spread could make it one.
The US has hinted that it will "respond aggressively" if Russia uses these weapons on Ukraine. Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg last weekend said that any use of chemical weapons would be a blatant and brutal violation of international law, the ban on the use of chemical weapons.
Speaking in Parliament, then UK Prime Minister Theresa May said intelligence experts concluded that the two men charged were officers of Russia's military intelligence service, the GRU.
Meanwhile, Russia's defense ministry has accused Kyiv, without providing evidence, of planning a chemical attack against its own people in order to accuse Moscow of using chemical weapons in the invasion of Ukraine that began on February 24.
