When you say war is natural youre excusing criminals says Yuval Noah Harari
20220303
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/yuval-noah-harari-on-russia-ukraine-war-vladimir-putin-nuclear-threat-1920438-2022-03-03
He added, War is a possibility but it is not an inevitability. Ultimately, war is decided upon by humans. And scholars who try to present wars as natural, they are excusing criminals who start wars and make it more likely that wars will happen.
Harari pointed out that the fact that peace was real could be seen in the defense budget of the countries. He, however, underlined that with war becoming a norm, defense budgets are bound to skyrocket.
The Israeli historian warned against the wide-ranging ramification of the war, and also the pitfalls of regarding war as natural.
Previously in history, wars were destructive but they couldnt destroy humanity. Now with nuclear weapons, and with new weapons, if war is really part of human nature, then we are doomed. Previously, Genghis Khans or Mughals, they could kill millions but not destroy humanity. With the technology of 21st century, if we dont find a way to end war, war will end us," Harari told India Today.
If we accept war as natural, it means military budgets all over the world will again skyrocket, Yuval Nora Harari points out, adding If Putin succeeds, defense budgets around the world will skyrocket. And this money will come from health care, education. And everybody will feel it.
ALSO READ: Zelenskyy says direct talks with Putin 'only way' to end Russia-Ukraine war  Top Points
If Putin succeeds, we will see more and more this kind of aggression all over the world. Countries and tyrants all over the world are watching this. If Putin succeeds, then we will enter a new dark era, Yuval Nora Harari warns.
Israeli historian and author Yuval Noah Harari harariyuval exclusive on Newstrack.When you say war is natural, you are excusing criminals, says harariyuvalRahulKanwal  IndiaTodayExclusive Ukraine Russia RussiaUkraineWarFull Show: https:t.cobEi9paJUDx pic.twitter.comhzfyWkKumu IndiaToday IndiaToday March 3, 2022
WATCH: 'This is an existential danger to the whole humankind': Yuval Noah Harari on Ukraine-Russia war
With the threat of nuclear weapons looming large amidst the Russia-Ukraine war, the Israeli historian also underlined the massive destruction nuclear weapons could cause to humanity.
By India Today Web Desk: More than a week into the war, Russian forces have intensified their attack on Ukrainian cities. But the impact of this war is not limited to just Europe. It has affected the world order. Speaking to India Today, historian and author Yuval Noah Harari said he believes that the Russia-Ukraine conflict is not just a war between Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelenskyy, but one that will impact the entire world.
When you say war is natural, you are excusing criminals. Its not Putins fault, it is human nature. And this is unacceptable. Humans have proven that they are able to make better decisions. The period of peace that we saw in most of the world in recent generations was real, Yuval Nora Harari said.
