Zelenskyy calls for peace talks says only chance for Russia to reduce damage from its own mistakes
20220319
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/russia-ukraine-war-peace-talks-zelenskyy-end-of-war-1926913-2022-03-19
READ  Hope hell be taken out: US Senator again calls for Vladimir Putins assassination
Talking about Putin's address in Moscow, Zelenskyy said, "Many words were heard today in Moscow.. a big rally took place. And I want to pay attention to one detail. It is reported that a total of about 200,000 people were involved in the rally in the Russian capital. 100,000 on the streets, about 95000 at the stadium. Approximately the same number of Russian troops were involved in the invasion of Ukraine. Just imagine 14000 corpses and tens of thousands of wounded and maimed people at that stadium in Moscow."
In a video address, Zelenskyy said, "Meaningful negotiations on peace, on security for us, for Ukraine - are the only chance for Russia to reduce the damage from its own mistakes. It's time to meet. Time to talk."
By Poulomi Saha: Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday said it was time for meaningful talks with Moscow, saying this is Russia's only chance to reduce the damage from its own mistakes.
Meanwhile, Kyiv and Moscow have reportedly made some progress towards guaranteeing Ukraine security outside of the NATO alliance.
"It is time to restore territorial integrity and justice for Ukraine. Otherwise, Russia's losses will be so huge that several generations will not be enough to rebound," he said.
Hundreds of civilians are feared trapped in debris under a bombed-out theatre in Mariupol as Russian forces charged on Ukrainian cities with missiles.
Zelenskyy said over 130 people had been rescued so far. However, there was no information about how many people had died, he said.
ALSO READ  Shoulder to shoulder: Putin praises Russian troops in mega show of strength in Moscow
While rescuers were trying to search for trapped civilians under the debris of a theatre in Mariupol that was bombed by the Russians on Wednesday. As per officials, over a thousand people, including children, were taking shelter in the theatre.
"We know what we need to do, how to do it and at what cost. And we will absolutely accomplish all of our plans," Putin was quoted as saying by Reuters.
The Ukrainian president said the price of war would cause huge losses for Russia which could take generations to recover.
Russian President Vladimir Putin made an appearance at a rally in Moscow and praised the country's troops as they continued their offensive on Ukrainian cities with shelling and missiles.
