Zelenskyy says plans of Final Solution to Ukraine question underway in Moscow
20220321
https://www.indiatoday.in/world/russia-ukraine-war/story/zelenskyy-claims-russia-planning-final-solution-ukraine-question-1927431-2022-03-21
In the video meeting, Zelenskyy declared that it is up to the people of Israel to supply arms to Ukraine or impose sanctions against Russia.
This isnt the first time that Zelenskyy has invoked historical tragedies to appeal to the international leaders. In his address to the US Congress, he summoned the memory of Pearl Harbor and the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks to appeal more help from US in Ukraine's fight against Russia.
By India Today Web Desk: Ukrainian President Zelenskyy on Monday compared the current state of Ukrainians to the genocide of Jews in World War 2. In an address to Israel's Parliament on the Russian invasion, Zelenskyy stated that the threat is the same for us as it was for you.
Zelenskyy alleged that there is complete destruction of people, state, culture, even of the name in Ukraine. That is why I have a right to compare it with WWII World War 2.
s made their choice 80 years ago: to save the Jews. That's why Righteous Peoples of World are among us. Now is your time to make choice"
"One may ask why did not give us air defense systems, or impose strong sanctions agst Russiabut the answer is up to you, Israel's people.
So far, Israel has delivered tons of humanitarian aid to Ukraine and announced that it will be setting up a field hospital there.
Zelenskyy evoked the history between Ukraine and the Jews to invoke the Israeli Parliament. He said the righteous people of the world stand with Ukraine now because it made a choice to save the Jews 80 years ago.
Zelenskyy to Israel:"Threat is the same for us as it was for you: complete destructionof people, state, culture, even of the name. That is why I have a right to compare with WWII. In Moscow, these words are spoken again:'a final solution'toquestion" https:t.coM1p21wHhow pic.twitter.comOcDd3s68qe
Zelenskyy claimed that plans of a final solution to the Ukraine question is underway in Moscow. The "final solution" famously refers to the Nazi plan for the genocide of Jews during World War II.
