US Pledges More Military Aid to Ukraine
20220723
https://tolonews.com/world-179069
"Society believes that all the territories must be liberated first, and then we can negotiate about what to do and how we could live in the centuries ahead."
The Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine has caused Europe's biggest conflict since 1945, forcing millions to flee and turning entire cities to rubble. The Kremlin says it is engaged in a "special military operation" to demilitarise and "denazify" Ukraine. Kyiv and its allies say the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
Kyiv hopes that its gradually increasing supply of Western arms, such as U.S. High Mobility Artillery Rocket System HIMARS, will allow it to recapture territory.
The Russian attack on Nikopol in the south, target of more than 250 rockets in the past week, damaged 11 homes and farm buildings, cut off gas and water pipes, and destroyed a railway track, he added.
Russian forces failed to establish control over Ukraine's second-biggest power plant at Vuhlehirska, northeast of Donetsk, and troops tried to advance west from the city of Lysychansk but were pushed back, the Ukrainian armed forces' general staff said.
But on the war, Zelenskiy said there could be no ceasefire unless lost territory was retaken.
The White House on Friday announced $270 million in fresh support for Kyiv, saying it was doing preliminary work on whether to send fighter aircraft, although such a move would not happen in the near term.
There have been no breakthroughs on the front lines since Russian forces seized the last two Ukrainian-held cities in the eastern province of Luhansk in late June and early July.
In the northeastern, "several powerful strikes" hit the centre of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, on Saturday morning, Mayor Ihor Terekhov wrote in a post on Telegram.
"They hoped that neither our HIMARS nor the Armed Forces and the resistance movement would get them there. But someone definitely got them," Fedorov said from territory still in Ukrainian hands.
Reuters - The United States promised more military support for Ukraine, including drones, and is doing preliminary work on whether to send fighter aircraft, as fighting raged on in the east, with the war about to enter its sixth month.
In the southern town of Nikopol on the Dnipro river, continued Russian shelling killed at least one person, a Ukrainian official said on his Telegram channel.
"Freezing the conflict with the Russian Federation means a pause that gives the Russian Federation a break for rest," he told the Wall Street Journal.
"A 60-year-old woman died," said Oleksandr Vilkul, head of the military administration of Kryvyi Rih in central Ukraine.
Russia's defence ministry did not immediately reply to a request for comment by Reuters outside regular hours.
Ukraine's mayor of Russian-occupied city Melitopol, Ivan Fedorov, reported that two explosions were heard in the early hours of Saturday at the Azov Sea resort Kyrylivka, where he said Russia had moved material to avoid becoming targets for HIMARS.
Moscow and Kyiv signed a landmark deal on Friday to unblock grain exports from Black Sea ports. However, representatives declined to sit at the same table and avoided shaking hands at the agreement ceremony in Istanbul, reflecting wider enmity.
Russia's defence ministry said on Friday its forces had destroyed four HIMARS systems between July 5 and Wednesday, refuted by the United States and Ukraine. read more
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy hailed Friday's agreement as unlocking around $10 billion worth of grain exports, needed to ease a food crisis.
Up river in the Dnipropetrovsk region, rockets targeted a town and nearby villages, the region's governor, Valentyn Reznychenko, said on Saturday.
