The cheapest petrol and diesel prices in Flintshire and Wrexham
20220215
https://www.leaderlive.co.uk/news/19925933.cheapest-petrol-diesel-prices-flintshire-wrexham/
The price of crude oil pulled back on Tuesday morning amid reports Russia has moved some troops away from its border with Ukraine, resulting in 2.7 fall to 93.89 dollars per barrel.
These are the cheapest places to fill up in Wrexham and Flintshire according to the petrolprices.com app:
Data published by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS showed the average price on Monday was the highest since it hit 147.53p per litre in November last year.
Meanwhile, the cost of diesel has also increased to a new record high of 151.57p per litre on Sunday, the organisation said.
Luke Bosdet, the AAs fuel price spokesman, said: The cost of living crisis has been ratcheted up yet another notch, tightening the vice on family spending when it faces other pressures from impending domestic energy cost and tax increases.
With that in mind, we looked for the cheapest places to fill up with petrol or diesel in the region
The new BEIS data showed that the price of diesel increased by 0.8p to 151.10p per litre on Monday compared with last week.
It comes after separate figures from the AA suggested petrol and diesel prices both struck record highs over the weekend.
THE average price of petrol at UK forecourts has jumped by 0.6p to 146.95p per litre, according to Government figures.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Prices have soared on the back of wholesale fuel prices, which have jumped amid a resurgence in demand following the reopening of global economies, but have also been spurred in recent days by concerns that Russian tensions could have an impact on supply.
On Monday, the AA said its data showed the average price of petrol for British drivers surpassed 148p per litre for the first time.
