Complete coverage Ukraine war escalates as Russia appears headed for capital
20220225
https://dothaneagle.com/news/world/complete-coverage-ukraine-war-escalates-as-russia-appears-headed-for-capital/article_e69cbf69-c24c-55bd-865f-47e90b7d03b4.html
Explosions were heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv Friday as Russian forces pressed on with a full-scale invasion that resulted in the deaths of more than 100 Ukrainians in the first full day of fighting and could eventually rewrite the global post-Cold War security order.
Ukrainian leaders pleaded for help as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee, and hotels in Kyiv were being evacuated amid early indications of an assault.
In unleashing the largest ground war in Europe since World War II, Putin ignored global condemnation and cascading new sanctions. With a chilling reference to his countrys nuclear arsenal, he threatened any country trying to interfere with consequences you have never seen, as a once-hoped for diplomatic resolution now appeared impossible.
The audio intercepts obtained by the AP show how deeply unprepared young soldiers  and their country  were for the war to come.
Ukrainian forces braced for more attacks after enduring for hours a Russian barrage of land- and sea-based missiles, an assault that one senior U.S. defense official described as the first salvo in a likely multi-phase invasion aimed at seizing key population centers and decapitating Ukraine's government.
World landmarks lit up in the colors of Ukraine's national flag as people across the globe commemorate a grim year for the country following M
After using airstrikes on cities and military bases, Russian military units moved swiftly to take on Ukraine's seat of government and its largest city in what U.S. officials suspect is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.
This twist on the popular cat caf trend is as cool as cold-blooded animals can get!
Shortly after takeoff, the instructor's head rolled back. As the two pilots knew each other well, the co-pilot thought his companion was "just
