Ukraine Russia sign UN deal to export grain on Black Sea
20220722
https://dothaneagle.com/news/national/ukraine-russia-sign-u-n-deal-to-export-grain-on-black-sea/article_dce277aa-b631-54a9-b814-e37f0729c20c.html
Guterres first raised the critical need to get Ukraine's agricultural production and Russia's grain and fertilizer back into world markets in late April during meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv.
The family of actor Tom Sizemore is currently "deciding end of life matters" following an update from doctors, according to a statement receiv
Ukrainian soldiers talk during heavy fighting against Russia at the front line in Severodonetsk in the Luhansk region of Ukraine, Wednesday, June 8, 2022. AP PhotoOleksandr Ratushniak
"You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all," he said, addressing the Russian and Ukrainian representatives.
Podolyak insisted that no Russian ship would escort vessels and that there would be no Russian representative present at Ukrainian ports. Ukraine also plans an immediate military response "in case of provocations," he said.
A looks at buildings destroyed during Russian attacks on Borodyanka on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, June 4, 2022. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
EDS NOTE: OBSCENITY - A tombstone with the picture of Russian President Vladimir Putin and a derogatory message sits at a checkpoint in the Donetsk oblast region of eastern Ukraine, Sunday, June 5, 2022. The text reads "Putin dickhead." AP PhotoBernat Armangue
Ukraine is one of the world's largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russia's invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments. Some grain is being transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the prices of vital commodities like wheat and barley have soared during the nearly five-month war.
The deal makes provisions for the safe passage of ships. A control center will be established in Istanbul, staffed by U.N., Turkish, Russian and Ukrainian officials, to run and coordinate the process. Ships would undergo inspections to ensure they are not carrying weapons.
A dog walks past shells used by a Ukrainian artillery unit in a village near the frontline in the Donetsk oblast region of eastern Ukraine, Thursday, June 2, 2022, during Russia's invasion. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
In Washington, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the U.S. welcomes the agreement in principle.
A new study says that back-to-back hurricanes that hit the same general place in the United States seem to be happening more often. And Monday
It would "bring relief for developing countries on the edge of bankruptcy and the most vulnerable people on the edge of famine."
Oleg tests a drone on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, June 8, 2022, during the Russian invasion. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
"It will help stabilize global food prices which were already at record levels even before the war  a true nightmare for developing countries," Guterres added.
Ukraine has sought international guarantees that the Kremlin wouldn't use the safe corridors to attack the key Black Sea port of Odesa. Ukrainian authorities have also accused Russia of stealing grain from eastern Ukraine and deliberately shelling Ukrainian fields to set them on fire.
A man sits with a child at Natalka Park in Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, June 7, 2022, during the Russian invasion. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
Russian and Ukrainian officials have blamed each other for the blocked grain shipments. Moscow accused Ukraine of failing to remove sea mines at the ports to allow safe shipping and insisted on its right to check incoming ships for weapons. Ukraine has argued that Russia's port blockade and launching of missiles from the Black Sea made any shipments unviable.
Guterres said the plan, known as the "Black Sea Initiative," would open a path for significant volumes of commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea: Odessa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny."
An injured Ukrainian serviceman and an injured civilian wait for medical treatment in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine during Russia's invasion, Tuesday, June 7, 2022. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
Valik Vladimirovich plays, dressed as a soldier, in Stoyanka on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, May 30, 2022. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
Farmers work in a field near Soledar in eastern Ukraine amid the Russian invasion, Monday, June 6, 2022. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
Nila Zelinska holds her granddaughter's doll that she recovered from her destroyed home during Russia's invasion in Potashnya on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 31, 2022. Zelinska returned after escaping war to find out she is now homeless. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian presidential press office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy listens to a report close to the front line in Donetsk region of Ukraine during Russia's invasion, Sunday, June 5, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
Blood stains mark the stairs inside a building damaged during an overnight missile strike during Russia's invasion in Sloviansk, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 31, 2022. AP PhotoFrancisco Seco
"Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea," Guterres said. "A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever."
The gutted remains of cars sit along a road during heavy fighting at the front line in Severodonetsk in the Luhansk region of Ukraine, Wednesday, June 8, 2022. AP PhotoOleksandr Ratushniak
A security member of a medical rescue team cleans his weapon in the Donetsk oblast region of eastern Ukraine, Saturday, June 4, 2022, during the Russian invasion. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
The Realtor detailed what she saw in a feedback form that was shared with the family days later.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov signed separate deals with U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres and Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar. The ceremony in Istanbul was witnessed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
The mother of Army Col. Oleksander Makhachek mourns during his funeral service in Zhytomyr, Ukraine, Friday, June 3, 2022. According to combat comrades, Makhachek was killed fighting Russian forces when a shell landed in his position on May 30. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
A Ukrainian serviceman takes a break after digging trenches near the frontline in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, June 8, 2022, during the Russian invasion. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
Fans celebrate Ukraine's Andriy Yarmolenko scoring the team's opening goal at a World Cup 2022 qualifying play-off soccer match against Scotland, at a bar in Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, June 1, 2022, amid Russia's invasion. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
Children in train guard uniforms wait for the departure of a children's train in Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, June 4, 2022. The Children's Railways, that lets children drive trains and learn about working the railways, started to run again Saturday around the Syretskyi Park rail track after being closed due to the war with Russia. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
Nastasia Vladimirovna poses for a portrait from inside her home, destroyed by Russian attacks in Mostyshche on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, June 6, 2022. Vladimirovna said she lived here with 18 family members, but that now she and her husband are staying at a neighbor's home. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
"But what we're focusing on now is holding Russia accountable for implementing this agreement and for enabling Ukrainian grain to get to world markets. It has been for far too long that Russia has enacted this blockade," Price said.
Women talk in a park in Borodyanka on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 31, 2022, during the Russian invasion. AP PhotoNatacha Pisarenko
Ukrainian servicemen dig trenches near the frontline during Russia's invasion, in Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, June 8, 2022. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
A resident sits on a sofa amid the rubble of a destroyed house after a Russian missile strike in Druzhkivka in eastern Ukraine, Sunday, June 5, 2022. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
Only weeks after a series of atmospheric rivers deluged California, the state saw heaps of rain and snow on Wednesday. But as worsening climat
ISTANBUL AP  Russia and Ukraine signed separate agreements Friday with Turkey and the United Nations clearing the way for exporting millions of tons of desperately needed Ukrainian grain  as well as Russian grain and fertilizer  ending a wartime standoff that had threatened food security around the globe.
Elena Holovko is attended to as she sits outside her home, damaged by a Russian missile strike, in Druzhkivka in eastern Ukraine, Sunday, June 5, 2022. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
The deal will enable Ukraine to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural products that have been stuck in Black Sea ports due to the war.
Ukrainian and Russian military delegations had reached a tentative agreement last week on a U.N. plan that would also allow Russia to export its grain and fertilizers. Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraine's president, stressed Friday that Ukraine and Russia would sign separate agreements, saying Ukraine "does not sign any documents with Russia."
British citizen Aiden Aslin stands behind bars in a courtroom in Donetsk, in the territory which is under the control of the pro-Russian Government of the Donetsk People's Republic in eastern Ukraine, Thursday, June 9, 2022. Aslin is one of two British citizens and a Moroccan national who were sentenced to death by pro-Moscow rebels in eastern Ukraine for fighting on Ukraine's side. The three men fought alongside Ukrainian troops and surrendered to Russian forces weeks prior. AP Photo
When the cheerleading coach broke the news to Katrina Kohel that she was the only one left on the cheer squad, Kohel was determined to compete anyway.
He proposed a package deal in early June amid fears that the war was endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
Artillery techniques are drawn on a wall inside a house near the frontline of the Russian invasion in the Donetsk oblast region of eastern Ukraine, Thursday, June 2, 2022. AP PhotoBernat Armangue
