Watch Now Ukraine drone hobbyists band together to spy on Russians from the air
20220305
https://dothaneagle.com/news/world/watch-now-ukraine-drone-hobbyists-band-together-to-spy-on-russians-from-the-air/article_92083649-52b3-5c82-a736-58c3ac320520.html
Formed in a fury to counter Russias blitzkrieg attack, Ukraines hundreds-strong volunteer hacker corps is much more than a paramilitary cyberattack force in Europe's first major war of the internet age. It is crucial to information combat and to crowdsourcing intelligence .
Episode 33: Richard Kyte and Scott Rada talk about why it matters how Ukrainians react to the violent incursion by Russia.
In better times, Ukrainian drone enthusiasts flew their gadgets into the sky to photograph weddings, fertilize soybean fields or race other drones for fun.
Kyiv needs you and your drone at this moment of fury! read a Facebook post late last week from the Ukrainian military, calling for citizens to donate hobby drones and to volunteer as experienced pilots to operate them.
Inventions of the volunteer hackers range from software tools that let smartphone and computer owners anywhere participate in distributed denial-of-service attacks on official Russian websites to bots on the Telegram messaging platform that block disinformation, let people report Russian troop locations and offer instructions on assembling Molotov cocktails and basic first aid.
Now some are risking their lives by forming a volunteer drone force to help their country repel the Russian invasion.
Russian troops Friday seized the biggest nuclear power plant in Europe after a middle-of-the-night attack that set it on fire and briefly raised worldwide fears of a catastrophe in the most chilling turn in Moscow's invasion of Ukraine yet.
Russia's war in Ukraine has lasted more than week. Here's a selection of stories that provide a deeper look at what's happening.
We are really a swarm. A self-organizing swarm," said Roman Zakharov, a 37-year-old IT executive at the center of Ukraine's bootstrap digital army.
Consumers facing higher prices for products made with corn and wheat could be in for more pain as global supplies grow tighter because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Drones have played a different role in the war in Ukraine, used in defense and in showing the destruction.
Why are we doing this? We have no other choice. This is our land, our home, said Denys Sushko, head of operations at Kyiv-based industrial drone technology company DroneUA, which before the war was helping to provide drone services to farmers and energy companies.
One entrepreneur who runs a retail store selling consumer drones in the capital said its entire stock of some 300 drones made by Chinese company DJI has been dispersed for the cause. Others are working to get more drones across the border from friends and colleagues in Poland and elsewhere in Europe.
In better times, Ukrainian drone enthusiasts flew their gadgets into the sky to photograph weddings, fertilize soybean fields or race other drones for fun. Now some are risking their lives by forming a volunteer drone force to help their country repel the Russian invasion. "Kyiv needs you and your drone at this moment of fury!" read a Facebook post late last week from the Ukrainian military, calling for citizens to donate hobby drones and to volunteer as experienced pilots to operate them. One entrepreneur who runs a retail store selling consumer drones in the capital said its entire stock of some 300 drones has been dispersed for the cause. "And everybody just started to use those drones to find some enemies in our country, and it's helpful. And I know many examples where it saved the life of our Ukrainian people," said Taras Troiak, co-founder of Quadro.ua, a dealer of drones made by Chinese company DJI. Unlike the much larger Turkish-built combat drones that Ukraine has in its arsenal, off-the-shelf consumer drones like DJI's aren't much use as weapons  but they can be powerful reconnaissance tools. Troiak said civilians have been using the aerial cameras to track Russian convoys and then relay the images and GPS coordinates to Ukrainian troops. Some of the machines have night vision and heat sensors.
Car factories idled, beer stopped flowing, furniture and fashion orders ceased, and energy companies fled oil and gas projects. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has thrown business plans into disarray.
