All major cities currently under attack in Ukraine mapped as Russian assault continues
20220311
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/major-cities-currently-under-attack-26443105
But now, on day 16 of the invasion, which cities are currently under attack and how far have Russian forces reached according to the latest map data available?
The southern city of  Kherson  has fallen to Russian forces, but citizens are continuing to resist what Russian state media has falsely described as liberation.
In the north, civilians are fleeing Sumy, which has spent much of the conflict on the frontline with heavy shelling, along with the loss of basic amenities like water and power.
Troops initially entered from the north via Belarus and western Russia. In the east forces came from the already contested Ukrainian regions of Donestk and Luhansk, while in the south, naval attacks were paired with an invasion from Crimea, which too has been contested since its annexation by Russia in 2014.
Russian forces have attacked areas to the south of the city but are yet to establish a firm grip.
The northern city of  Chernihiv  , close to both the Russian and Belarusian borders, has been under heavy bombardment and the scene of fierce fighting.
Kyiv  , the nations capital, has been the scene of heightened Russian shelling, with Russian forces thought to be closing in on the city.
Fears of widespread civilian loss of life have continued to grow, as images of bodies being dumped in mass graves have surfaced online, after more than a week of siege. Some 1,200 have been killed there.
The eastern city of  Dnipro suffered its first major attack on Friday, March 11. This city holds strategic importance as a means of supplying Ukrainian forces on the eastern front, acting as an artery between the nations east and west.
After more than two long weeks of stoic Ukrainian defence, news has come from the besieged country that Russian forces have advanced three miles closer to the capital, Kyiv.
Mariupol  , a southeastern port city on the coast of the Sea of Azov, is now completely surrounded by Russian forces and is under siege from all angles.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin   here
The 40-mile convoy is thought to have redeployed closer to the city, in what has been interpreted by some as a move to encircle the capital.
At the time of writing the city remains free, despite ongoing attacks. President Zelensky is believed to still be in the city despite being at threat from roving assassination squads.
The Russian column, thought to be up to 40 miles long, ominously disappeared into surrounding towns and forests, according to satellite imagery, after it appeared to become stuck and break down in the early days of the fighting.
Donetsk  and  Luhansk  , eastern Ukrainian cities that have been the epicentre of the pro-Russian separatist movement since 2014, remain under Russian influence.
As Russian forces advance from the north, south and east of Ukraine, Ukrainian troops and citizens alike mount a heroic resistance across multiple different cities - here's what we know about the development of the frontline so far
Residents report being unable to leave and are subjected to brutal Russian shelling and bombardment.
Mykolaiv  , a strategically important city on the banks of the Pivdennyi Buh River close to the Black Sea, southern Ukraine, is thought to be resisting despite heavy bombardment.
To its east, the city of  Kharkiv -  the second largest in the country - has been the scene of brutal fighting. Formerly home to 1.4 million people, the city has become a battlefield.
Missiles and bombs are now commonplace and destruction across the city is widespread. At the time of writing, however, it is not thought to have fallen to the invaders, as the battle for Kharkiv rages on. Dozens of civilians have been reported killed, with shelling nightly.
At the time of writing, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky is still holed up in the city, having pledged to remain in the country until the fighting is done.
Chernobyl  , the site of the 1986 nuclear power plant disaster, has also fallen under Russian control.
On March 11, Dnipro in the east of Ukraine and the countrys fourth-largest city sustained heavy damage from Russian artillery despite having not come under major attack until this point in the conflict.
