Ashton Kutcher voices support for wife Mila Kunis native Ukraine after invasion
20220226
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/ashton-kutcher-voices-support-wife-26334917
Two years later, they were engaged, and in September 2014, their first child - daughter Wyatt - arrived.
The actress and mother-of-two also spoke of her sheltered life under the Soviet Union regime, and said she saw a black man for the first time in her life at the American embassy in Moscow.
Mila Kunis was born and raised in Chernivtsi, Ukraine, which was part of the Soviet Union until 1991. The actress and her parents, along with her brother, moved to America when she was seven years old
She said her mother, who was a primary school teacher back in Ukraine, and her father, who was a mechanical engineer, had given up good jobs and degrees, which were not transferable when they arrived in America.
Youre never really taught about anything else. He explained to me that there are people in this world who are of different colour. Being seven and a half, I asked him, Does that mean there are purple people in this world? she shared.
Mila and Ashton first met on the set of That 70s Show in 1998, and her first-ever kiss was with her future husband during a scene between their characters Jackie Burkhart and Michael Kelso.
She and her parents Elvira and Mark, along with her older brother Michael, moved to the US when she was seven years old, and shes previously spoken about what life was like growing up in the now-defunct Soviet Union.
We arrived in New York on a Wednesday and by Friday morning my brother and I were at school in LA, Mila recalled.
Ashton Kutcher has voiced his support for wife Mila Kunis ' native Ukraine after Russian forces invaded the country.
Actress Mila was born and raised in Chernivtsi, Ukraine, which was part of the Soviet Union until 1991.
The 44-year-old actor took to social media to add his voice to the growing number of famous faces speaking out about the escalating crisis, and shared a poignant post on Twitter.
In 2011, Ashton split from wife Demi Moore, while Mila ended her nine-year relationship with Macaulay Culkin, and the former co-stars reconnected at the Golden Globes in January 2012.
The loved-up couple soon began dating, and made their relationship official in April that year, but kept it secret for months.
My parents both had amazing jobs, and I was very lucky. We were not poor when we lived in Russia, whereas most people were very unfortunate, the Black Swan star told the Daily Telegraph in 2011.
All I had known were Caucasian people with blond hair, brunette hair, and sometimes red hair, she told W magazine in 2011.
The notoriously private couple tied the knot in July 2015, and welcomed son Dimitri one year later.
