BBC Breakfasts Charlie Stayt halts Ukraine interview as MPs child crashes interview
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/bbc-breakfasts-charlie-stayt-halts-26319397
BBC Breakfasts Charlie Stayt was forced to pause an interview with Tory MP Tom Tugendhat over the escalating crisis in Ukraine, as the politicians daughter sweetly interrupted.
He then interrupted himself as the discussion took an unexpected turn when Mr Tugendhats daughter appeared from behind the politician in his home and began tapping him on the shoulder.
"Diplomatically, politically, economically  and eventually, militarily  this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure," the PM said.
The MP put his finger to his lips in a shushing gesture as he looked at his daughter, whose voice was then heard in the background.
He added: "I dont believe that the Russian dictator will ever subdue the national feeling of the Ukrainians and their passionate belief that their country should be free and I say to the British people."
Mr Tugendhat was calling into the BBC morning programme from his home on Thursdays edition of the programme to discuss the President Vladimir Putin s military operation in Ukraine launched early this morning.
The 59-year-old presenter replied: But Mr Tugendhat, you'll be very well aware that if the sanctions -
Charlie then said: I'm sorry, you've got an interruption there, are you okay? Are you okay to carry on?
Boris Johnson has delivered a rare national address after Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine with explosions heard across major cities.
This comes as Boris Johnson addressed the nation on the frightening situation in Ukraine, saying that the Putin regime would be condemned to "pariah status" after unleashing a "tidal wave of violence" against Ukraine.
The politician was then seen whispering to his daughter as his head flicked back and forth between his little one and the BBC Breakfast presenter.
Another wrote: Something rather poignant about Tom Tugendhats BBC Breakfast interview on Ukraine being interrupted by his daughter as he talks about the tragedy of families fleeing the places they love.
Moments before Mr Tugendhats daughter appeared, he said to BBC Breakfasts Charlie: We need to make sure that this is what it is, which is a reflection of an act of war, of a militarised state and the first invasion of a European country since 1939.
BBC Breakfast viewers took to Twitter to gush over the adorable moment, with one writing: Tom Tugendhat showed nothing but a smile and a loving look to his interrupting daughter who was blissfully unaware he was live on telly
Adding: Cant imagine a Russian politician surviving the same experience. Reminds us all of the freedoms we enjoy.
Tory MP Tom Tugendhat was booked to appear on BBC Breakfast from home to discuss the escalating crisis in Ukraine after President Vladimir Putin launched a military operation early this morning
