BBCs Clive Myrie issues warning over UkraineRussia war as he prepares to return to Kyiv
20220314
https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/bbcs-clive-myrie-issues-warning-26466723
"Its freezing cold and you pray those in neighbouring countries will welcome you, not despise you! My thoughts are with the 1million whove fled Ukraine because they might be killed. The millions who fled syria and many other millions escaping repression, poverty, war. They all pray theyll be welcomed in other countries as human beings. Thats all they ask refugees."
Clive was forced to flee Kyiv, but has vowed to return to the city when he can to continue his reporting on what's happening there.
BBC presenter Clive Myrie issued a warning over the war between Ukraine and Russia as he appeared on The One Show today. The journalist will be returning to the country soon
Clive Myrie has issued a warning over the war in Ukraine, after sharing his plans to return to Kyiv.
The BBC presenter appeared on The One Show to discuss his experiences of reporting in the war-torn country, as he spoke of the resilience of the Ukrainian people who are continuing to fight against Russia.
Speaking on The One Show, he said: "This is a war on a different scale because it involves two national armies with the very latest and with the very latest weapons and destroying people and destroying their lives.
He added: "The situation was very bad when I left, and it's now clear that it's getting a lot worse, with clearly indiscriminate attacks on residential areas, hospitals, schools. This really is turning into total warfare."
"They're destroying buildings and wiping places off the map and when you've got two armies going against each other, there's going to be a lot of damage."
He was forced to flee Ukraine's capital of Kyiv in the end, after staying until the very last moment.
Sharing a picture of him and his crew stuck in traffic, he wrote at the time: "It was a long, day of driving and queuing to get out of Kyiv. Imagine having to leave all you know in a hurry because youre being shelled! What do you pack? Do pets come too?
Clive has previously vowed to return to Ukraine to continue to report on what's happening there.
"A quick thank you for all your good wishes over the last 2 weeks, youve all been very kind to me and the BBC teams in Ukraine. Im now heading back to London, but will return. UkraineRussianWar ukraine," he wrote earlier this month.
