BBCs Clive Myrie says Ukraine war will stick with him forever as he plans return
20220330
https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/bbcs-clive-myrie-says-ukraine-26592737
He was forced to leave the capital and returned to the UK but he has vowed to go back to Ukraine.
"My thoughts are with the 1million whove fled  Ukraine because they might be killed.
The BBC journalist has been reporting from both the capital Kyiv as well as the UK, and he admits it is sometimes very hard to switch off from what he has seen both on the ground and in videos.
"I think if you're not able to disentangle yourself from what you see during the day and what you experience, later on in the night when you're with your family and friends then I think there is potentially a problem."
"The millions who fled syria and many other millions escaping repression, poverty, war. They all pray theyll be welcomed in other countries as human beings. Thats all they ask 22 refugees."
"I love music and classical music and jazz in particular. It's about trying to disengage yourself from all of that other stuff because I am a three dimensional human being, my life just doesn't resolve around the news."
BBC's Clive Myrie has admitted certain images from the Ukraine war will never leave him, as he opens up about switching off from the tough things he's seen. He is planning his return to the war-torn country
Clive has been moved by the people he has been reporting on, and in one viral clip shared previously, he shed a tear as he reported from Kyiv for the BBC News at 10 earlier on this month.
"It was a long, day of driving and queuing to get out of Kyiv. Imagine having to leave all you know in a hurry because youre being shelled! What do you pack? Do pets come too? Its freezing cold and you pray those in neighbouring countries will welcome you, not despise you!" he wrote on Twitter as he shared a photo from his journey.
He added: "Touch wood, I'm still able to do that so I do like a nice glass of wine.
Asked how he switches off, he said on BBC's Morning Live: "I am able to compartmentalise. Obviously there are images and there are things that you see that will stick with you, possibly for the rest of your life.
