Belarus approves nuke move as West warned theyre pushing Russia into World War 3
20220228
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-belarus-approves-nuke-move-26344498
"I wouldnt even call it the war. This is a conflict. The war will last for one-two days, but there will be a meat grinder in three days."
Peace talks are now due to be held between Ukraine and Russia, Zelensky confirmed this weekend.
Earlier this week, Lukashenko also warned that the war in Ukraine will "become a meat grinder" if it continues. "The conflict in Ukraine is the thin edge of the wedge. Believe me, I know what Im talking about. If it continues like this, the worst will happen," he said.
Fears that Belarus would prepare troops to join the invasion prompted the peace talks, agreed to by Lukashenko and Zelensky.
Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko has warned that the West is "pushing Russia into World War Three" by imposing sanctions on the country.
Lukashenko also significantly extended his executive powers as a result of the referendum held while thousands of Russian troops are staged in the country.
Belarus has also been subject to sanctions, as military, government, and border officials have also had their assets frozen and been placed on a travel ban list by the EU and the US for "helping to plan and actively supporting the Russian military offensive against Ukraine."
Diplomats from Kyiv and Moscow are to meet by the Prypyat River on the Belarusian border, while Lukshenko will ensure that "all planes, helicopters, and missiles stationed on Belarusian territory remain on the ground during the Ukrainian delegation's travel, talks and return," Zelensky said.
Additionally, the UK have banned Russian airline Aeroflot from its airspace and has imposed asset freezes against all Russian financial institutions.
Lukashenko's comments and the referendum come after President Vladimir Putin put his nuclear forces on high alert and warned that intervention by the West would lead to "the greatest consequences in history."
A joint statement by the EU, UK, US, and Canada earlier this week pushed for new sanctions against Russia. A select number of Russian baks have been removed from the SWIFT international payments system, while Putin's foreign-held assets have been frozen.
"Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will not be hidden in any American or some other bunker. Thats why the war should be ended today.
Lukashenko, a dictator who is a key Putin ally, said: "Now there is a lot of talk against the banking sector, gas, oil, SWIFT. It's worse than war. This is pushing Russia into a Third World War.
"We need to be restrained here so as not to get into trouble. Because nuclear war is the end of everything," he continued.
The Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko warned that sanctions against Russia would force the country into nuclear war - just hours before the country voted to scrap its non-nuclear pledge
And Belarus has formally renounced its non-nuclear and neutral status, allowing Russia to place nuclear weapons on its territory, as a result of a referendum held today.
