Boris Johnson warns Putin of significant consequences if Russia invades Ukraine
20211213
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/boris-johnson-warns-putin-significant-25688828
There are fears that a Russian invasion of Ukraine is imminent with 175,000 of Moscows combat troops preparing for a deeper conflict, which Boris Johhnson told Vladimir Putin would be a 'strategic mistake that would have significant consequences'
Ukraines Foreign Minister recently warned: There will be many dead Russian soldiers, if Putin orders an invasion.
On Sunday, G7 foreign ministers warned Moscow against breaking international law with an incursion further into Ukraine territory.
The Mirror understands western, including UK special forces, may be positioned in airfields throughout Ukraine as advisers, should war break out.
Worryingly Moscows commanders are also thought to have drafted in field hospitals closer to the border.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson delivered a stark warning to President Vladimir Putin yesterday of significant consequences if his troops invade Ukraine.
A No 10 spokesman said: He expressed the United Kingdoms deep concern over the build-up of Russian forces on Ukraines border, and reiterated the importance of working through diplomatic channels to de-escalate....
It is believed President Putins commanders have ordered up fresh artillery units and tanks to the frontline, with 50 tactical battle groups and more than 100 combat battalions.
Around 14,000 people have been killed along the Ukraine-Russia border in fierce fighting since Moscow invaded the Ukraine territory of Crimea in 2014.
Hundreds of British Paras last year jumped into Ukraine with local airborne forces, as if practising for a Russian invasion.
They included the SAS - style, elite Pathfinders, who are tasked to ghost behind enemy lines by parachute and call in more elite Paras for the main battle.
The Russian President was told further destabilising action by Moscow would be a "strategic mistake," with claims an invasion could be imminent.
He told Putin of his deep concern over the build-up of Russian forces on Ukraines border, amid fears 175,000 of Moscows combat troops are preparing for a deeper conflict.
The Prime Minister emphasised the UKs commitment to Ukraines territorial integrity and sovereignty, and warned that any destabilising action would be a strategic mistake that would have significant consequences.
Western intelligence believe pro-Moscow separatists are also preparing for conflict, spurred on by Moscows GRU military intelligence spooks.
The United States has also beefed up Ukraines defences with multi-million pound packages of fresh ammunition and artillery supplies.
Thousands of Ukrainian troops are on high-alert for a Russian invasion with as many as 175,000 of Moscows forces close to the border.
