Brave woman who stormed Russian TV show now extremely concerned for safety
20220316
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-protester-marina-ovsyannikova-ukraine-26481791
"You know, I really want to feel that this sacrifice was not in vain, and that people will open their eyes."
Mrs Ovsyannikova claimed she wasn't allowed to make any phone calls or see a lawyer and added that she is "not surprised" she just got a fine.
Mrs Ovsyannikova explained she wanted not only to protest against the war but also to sent a message to Russians directly, adding: "Don't be such zombies don't listen to this propaganda learn how to analyse information learn how to find other sources of information - not just Russian state television."
She told Reuters: "I believe in what I did but I now understand the scale of the problems that I'll have to deal with, and, of course, I'm extremely concerned for my safety.
"I wasn't given any legal assistance therefore I was in a quite difficult situation so let's leave all comments until tomorrow because today I really need to rest."
Marina Ovsyannikova has spoken out in her first television interview just a day after she appeared in court for storming a state TV news show and urged Russians to "open their eyes"
In her first televised interview since her actions and after the Kremlin denounced her act of "hooliganism" she revealed had no plans to flee the country.
Marina Ovsyannikova revealed she has been concerned for her safety after her on-air protest on the country's Channel One.
Speaking outside of court last night she detailed how she was left exhausted after an "extensive 14-hour interrogation, without legal help".
She appeared in court earlier on Tuesday, wearing Ukrainian colours, where she was fined 30,000 rubles, which equals 214.
"I had very difficult days in my life because I spent two days without sleep, more than 14 hours was the interrogation, I wasn't allowed to get in touch with my relatives and close ones.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin   here
A brave Russian woman who stormed state TV with an anti-war message has urged others to "open their eyes" to propaganda about the war in Ukraine.
Mrs Ovsyannikova, who is an editor for the state-controlled news outlet, interrupted newsreader Ekaterina Andreeva on Monday as she was delivering her evening bulletin, displaying a placard which warned Russians about the media's propaganda.
