Brave Ukrainian woman joins husband in treacherous patrol to protect village from invasion
20220228
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/brave-ukrainian-woman-joins-husband-26347367
Walking with torches, they approach cars coming in and out of the town and inspect them to see who is inside - usually just citizens of Khomutyntsi.
A national effort is now in place to tear down road signs so Russian soldiers find it harder to make their way through the country.
The New York Times reports Serhiy signed up to protect his home town, in the central Vinnytsya region of Ukraine, before his wife followed his lead shortly afterwards.
The pair aren't alone in taking on new roles to defend their towns. The newspaper reports rural communities all around Ukraine are coming together to make their towns impenetrable to Russian forces.
Oksana Mudryk, the mayor of  Khomutyntsi, has been marshalling her volunteers and says she's "proud" of their efforts to keep people safe.
A courageous husband and wife have teamed up to defend their small village in Ukraine from Russian invasion.
Serhiy told the newspaper: "My wife, probably thinking of controlling me, signed up as well.
Meanwhile, the affects of international sanctions on Russia are beginning to show - with the rouble dropping 30 when markets opened this morning, before recovering to a lesser drop of 20.
As fighting enters its fifth day, families across Ukraine are being torn apart while parents seek safety for their children while some stay behind to fight for their country.
Reports have emerged from around the nation of people making their own Molotov cocktails as weapons against Russian troops
These makeshift defences are almost all being put up by people who are unarmed, and just trying to do what they can to help.
For more of the news you care about straight to your inbox, sign up for one of our daily newsletters   here
While reports circulate that Vladimir Putin has ordered a brutal paramilitary group to murder Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, peace talks are beginning between the nations on the Ukraine-Belarus border.
Serhiy Osavoliuk and his wife are putting their lives on the line, patrolling their town of Khomutyntsi while unarmed to ward off Russian troops.
A man living in the rural Ukrainian town of Khomutyntsi has signed up to take on night-time patrols of his village to keep Russian forces out - and his wife has now teamed up with him
She said: "Our village is so tiny that I was thinking, Do we even have anybody to patrol the streets? I thought maybe three guys at most would come to patrol with me. But in one day after the war started in Kyiv, I have signed up more than 30 people."
Since the conflict began last Thursday and the lives of Ukrainian civilians were turned upside down, Serhiy and his wife have been conducting night patrols.
