British exsoldier killed fighting Russian troops on frontline in Ukraine family say
20220612
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-british-ex-soldier-killed-27211726
Dean Gatley wrote on Facebook: "Yesterday 100622 we received the devastating news that our son, Jordan, has been shot and killed in the city of Severodonetsk, Ukraine.
"Talks are continuing about further exchanges, to return home all the bodies. Absolutely all bodies must be returned and this is something we will work on," Zhorin added in a video posted on his Telegram channel.
Maksym Zhorin said that under the terms of a recent exchange, around 220 bodies of those killed in Azovstal had already been sent to Kyiv but "just as many bodies still remain in Mariupol".
The public post says Jordan was shot and killed in the city of Severodonetsk, Ukraine, with family receiving the devastating news on Friday.
It comes as the former commander of Ukraine's Azov National Guard regiment said on Sunday that the bodies of scores of Ukrainian fighters killed during the siege of the Azovstal steelworks in the southern city of Mariupol are still awaiting retrieval.
He said a third of the dead were of the Azov battalion, while the others belonged to border patrol and naval officers as well as the police.
The post added: "Jordan and his team were so proud of the work they were doing and he often told me that the missions they were going on were dangerous, but necessary.
Jordan was well loved by his team and his family and made a big difference to the lives of many, the poignant tribute reads.
A former British soldier has been killed fighting on the front line in Ukraine, his family says.
"Jordan left the British Army in March this year to continue his career as a soldier in other areas. The war against Europe had begun so, after carful consideration, he went to the Ukraine to help." sic
He said they had received several messages from Jordan's team about the wealth of his knowledge, his skills as a soldier and how much he loved his job.
Jordan Gatley has been described as "truly a hero" by family in an emotional online tribute.
Jordan Gatley has been described as "truly a hero" by family in an emotional online tribute which said he had been shot and killed in the city of Severodonetsk, Ukraine
"He loved his job and we are so proud of him. He truly was a hero and will forever be in our hearts."
