Brothers hope for captured British soldier Aiden Aslin as Russian forces demand swap
20220423
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/brothers-hope-captured-british-soldier-26782034
I had to say that, with the greatest of respect, I didnt have the Prime Minister on speed dial.
Nathan Wood said he has hope after a video this week showed Aiden Aslin and fellow Brit Shaun Pinner, 48, asking to be exchanged with a pro-Russian politician held in Ukraine
The brother of war prisoner Aiden Aslin is optimistic Russia will free him after he appeared in a video asking to be part of a prisoner swap.
Aiden was heard saying: Diane, my wife, I want you to know, I love you. I hope the British Government is able to push this prisoner exchange through so I can return to you and we can build our life in Britain.
She said they pressed Aiden, 28, to tell her to personally pressure the Prime Minister for him to be freed in exchange for pro-Kremlin politician Viktor Medvedchuk.
This could all takes, days, weeks, months but the Ukrainian and Russian governments appear to be talking and now we need Britain to offer some support.
Social care worker Nathan added: We have to be patient but we feel more confident now that Aiden will be released.
She added: He said that he had now had some sleep, had eaten, and had been given a vape.
Nathan Wood said the fact the Brit looked unhurt showed Moscow was keen to exchange him for pro-Russian politician Viktor Medvedchuk, held by Ukraine.
It was pushed back and back, leading her to believe it had been a cruel hoax before it came through at lunchtime.
She had earlier revealed that she was called by the Russian captors telling her to be available for a video call over Facebook messenger on Thursday morning.
I could hear his Russian captors talking in the background. There were pauses where Aiden was being told what to say, that he had to do this, had to do that.
Nathan confirmed that the couple are not yet wed but had hoped to marry this summer. His future sister-in-law fled Ukraine and is now safe in another country, thought to be Hungary.
And Aidan will likely settle in the UK as it would be doubtful he would be able to return to Ukraine, he said.
His mum Ang Wood is in regular contact with Shauns family and the Foreign Office, he said.
The Mirror's newsletter brings you the latest news, exciting showbiz and TV stories, sport updates and essential political information.
We are in contact with her but we are trying to keep her out of the spotlight for her safety, Nathan said. She is trying to come to England but we have no idea when that will be.
Ang said the Russians seemed to want her to know that Aiden was now being treated well.
Nathan, 25, said: The Prime Minister is aware Aiden has been taken prisoner of war. It gives us a bit of hope but it is now a waiting game.
Both Britons had been living in Ukraine before it was invaded and were serving in the Ukrainian marines when they were captured in Mariupol. They have since appeared in separate videos pleading to be swapped for pro-Kremlin politician Viktor Medvedchuk.
An earlier clip showing a bruised and handcuffed Aiden being interviewed has been removed from YouTube following claims he was being interviewed under duress for propaganda.
She said said: What they wanted was for me to to press Boris Johnson for this swap deal involving Viktor Medvedchuk.
There needs to be a positive outcome and now the Russians are talking about him potentially being freed in a prisoner swap, he is hopefully being with humanity.
Ang also said it appeared her son was being treated well as he was being fed, watered and had even been given a e-cigarette to vape.
They have made their demands clear. Hopefully they are treating him like a prince, they dont want to show him with scratches and bruises because it could harm their chances.
