Brutal Russian religious leader who forged unholy alliance with tyrant Vladimir Putin
20220618
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/brutal-russian-religious-leader-who-27252298
Shortly after Russia s invasion of Ukraine unfolded, in February of this year, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow had a Zoom meeting with Pope Francis.
The 75-year-old backed a branch of Orthodox Christianity which had a mutual benefit for the church and Putin and gave him spiritual cover while it receives 'resources' in return from the Kremlin which allows him influence in the Orthodox world.
But the church tried to airbrush it out of existence, and Kirill denied wearing it.
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and Pope Francis had worked together previously in an attempt to bridge the chasm between the Christian churches in the East and the West
Critics claim the arrangement makes Kirill far more than an oligarch or sympathiser of Putin, but an essential part of the Kremlin's direction.
The pair had worked together previously, in a bid to bridge the chasm between the Christian churches in the East and the West.
He called on people to wake up to the historical fate "our people may depend in sermon in April.
Kirill distances himself from from much of the globe despite having a faithful audience of 100 million.
Kirills critics say his experience of religion during the Soviet era had led him to Putin turning the Russian Orthodox Church under his leadership into a corrupted religious branch of Russian state.
A picture from 2009 shows Kirill wearing a Breguet Rveil du Tsar watch to mark his membership of the Russian elite.
The Russian president's time in power has been described a a miracle of God" by Kirill.
The Rev. Cyril Hovorun, a personal assistant to Kirill said the tarnishing of Kirill's reputation was seen as a message from the Kremlin not to cross the Russian state
Enzo Bianchi, a Catholic lay monk is concerned imposing sanctions on a faith leader could set a dangerous precedent for political interference in the church.
The leader of Russia's Russian Orthodox Church has forged a mutually beneficial alliance with President Vladimir Putin - distancing himself from his religious peers in doing so.
We have been raised throughout our history to love our fatherland, and we will be ready to protect it, as only Russians can defend their country, he said to soldiers in another.
And he has justified war as a defence against liberal conspiracies which he claims "infiltrate" Ukraine with gay parades.
Widespread sanctions imposed on Russia, meanwhile, are seen as more evidence of hostility from the Godless West
However, as Kirill spent the meeting echoing Putins arguments that the war was necessary to purge Nazis and oppose NATO expansion, it became apparent that there was a difference in opinion between the two religious leaders.
Pope Francis was baffled by Kirills outspoken opinions on the matter, the New York Times reports, and proceeded to tell him that they were not clerics of the state.
