Captured Ukrainians forced to say Glory to Russia in chilling footage
20220303
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/captured-ukrainians-forced-say-glory-26375598
The group of around 15 are stood at the side of the road as they are recorded by an unseen man.
Clearly in distress, the first meekly agrees before being angrily told to speak up and say it again.
Ukrainian soldiers and civilians have also filmed Russian prisoners of war but no footage has emerged of them being coerced or intimidated.
These claims have not yet been independently verified but a human rights monitoring team from the United Nations has confirmed more than 500 civilian casualties in Ukraine.
The next repeats the interrogator's words saying Glory to Russia, which is echoed by those further along the line.
It comes after Ukraine claimed it had killed 9,000 Russian troops during the first six full days of the invasion. The Kremlin claims it is a much lower figure of around 498.
On March 1, Ukraine claimed to have killed 5,710 Russian soldiers since the start of the invasion.
The prisoners of  war  were interviewed on camera by Ukrainian forces and said they had been used as cannon fodder in the war.
As he moves down the line he stops in front of some, forcing them to praise the enemy state which invaded their home country a week ago, bringing carnage and death.
One of those taken prisoner is seen wearing a red cross on a white background, signally he is a medic.
Bachelet, addressing the opening session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, previously said: "Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes. The real figures are, I fear, considerably higher."
One captive was filmed speaking to his mother over the phone, telling her: They sent us to death, everyone killed everyone.
Ukrainian soldiers captured by enemy troops forced to say "Glory to Russia " in chilling video.
It comes as Ukraine's President accused Russia of 'state terrorism' on Tuesday after the indiscriminate bombing of Kharkiv.
At least 136 people have been killed, including 13 children, a UN report showed on Tuesday.
In another clip, a different Russian prisoner said: We came for training. We were lied to and thats why I am here.
The men were filmed at an unknown location in Ukraine and, clearly in distress, forced to concede "Glory to Russia" as the interrogator moved to each man
Article 13 of the third Geneva convention says prisoners of war must be humanely treated and "protected, particularly against acts of violence or intimidation and against insults and public curiosity".
The order is to remain in place throughout the time martial law is instigated in the under siege nation.
It comes as all men aged between 18 and 60 have been banned from fleeing Ukraine as the government attempts to fight back against the thousands of invading Russians.
His comrade added: At the beginning we were told that we were going for training. Eventually after we were sent to the frontline everyone was demoralised.
With Putin's troops shelling cities across Ukraine and the nation's army vowing to fight to the death to defend their land, observers fear the death toll will be enormous.
On Sunday, February 27, Ukraine's health minister reported that at least 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, and more than 1,000 wounded.
We were thrown as gunmeat, although people in our unit at least dont want this war, they just want to go home and want peace.
Earlier this week a video emerged from Ukraine showing Captured Russian soldiers  breaking down in tears  as they told their families they had been 'sent to their deaths' in  Ukraine .
The unprovoked invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Russian forces on the command of President Vladimir Putin has sparked bloodshed and chaos.
Nobody wanted to fight but we were told that we would be enemies of the state and because it's wartime we might even get shot.
