Captain of Russian flagship Moskvas killed in Ukraine missile attack which sunk vessel
20220415
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/captain-russian-flagship-moskvas-killed-26720452
As such, after an order, it had to go out to sea in minimum time to perform combat missions.
Perhaps for many this is new information, but it is true - the warship is a carrier of nuclear weapons.
They would be in a protected place - so most likely they were not damaged by the explosion.
Each of them can be equipped with a nuclear warhead with a capacity of 350 kt or a conventional 500-kg high-explosive cumulative.
Ukrainian online newspaper Defence Express also warned of the nuclear warhead threat from the sunken Moskva.
Despite Russian claims the storm sank the ship, locals disputed the story saying there was no major storms yesterday.
The loss of the battleship  seen in a last picture as it left Sevastopol on 10 April -- means the number of cruise missiles the Russian Black Sea fleet can fire simultaneously has decreased from 72 to 56.
"During the towing of the Moskva cruiser to the designation port, the ship lost stability due to hull damage, sustained during the detonation of ammunition because of a fire. Amid a heavy storm, the ship sank, claimed the Russian Defence Ministry.
One eyewitness named Anatoly said at the time: It has not yet been taken into the base. Maybe they are afraid of something.
First Rank Captain Anton Kuprin, 44, was killed after the ship was fatally holed by Ukrainian Neptune missiles, according to Kyiv sources.
Russia has claimed that the crew was evacuated but there are increasing fears for lost lives on the battleship.
Citing eyewitnesses, news outlet Fontanka reported that the Moskva, under tow, had almost reached its destination point in Sevastopol.
It comes following fears that the Moskva ship may have had nuclear cruise missiles on board when it sank.
The report went on: Defense Express interviewed experts, including designers and naval officers, who unanimously and independently gave the following answer - there is a real possibility that the affected flagship of the Russian Black Sea Fleet could have had nuclear munitions on board.
If correct, this suggests that if the naval crew are all safely rescued by other Black Sea vessels, they have not been able yet to collect their vehicles.
He died during an explosion and fire on board the former flagship of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation, said Anton Gerashenko, advisor to the Kyiv interior ministry.
In a word, it was not calm, of course, but there was no serious sea disturbance in the area of the sunken cruiser Moskva.
The fact that the missile carrier, damaged by fire, arrived close to Sevastopol, the locals began to report on the afternoon of April 14.
There was no immediate confirmation from Moscow on Kuprin, but Russia has failed to announce many prominent military deaths in the 51-day war.
The report said the proportions of munitions between conventional and nuclear munitions on Russian missile cruisers remains classified.
"The Moskva missile cruiser, which overturned and began to sink after being hit by R-360 Neptune missiles, is a carrier of nuclear weapons, said a report.
In particular, these are anti-ship missiles P-1000 "Vulkan", of which the ship has 16 units.
Mykhailo Samus, deputy director of the Lviv-based Centre for Army Studies, Conversion and Disarmament, warned: On board the Moskva could be nuclear warheads - two units.
Ukraine claimed today that the captain of the Moskva missile cruiser died in the catastrophe it faced in the Black Sea.
Moscow was towing the warship back to port - after claiming the missile attack was simply ammunition exploding on board instead but it sank under tow in a storm not far from port.
This information is not a secret at all, because this cruiser is designed to destroy aircraft carrier strike groups.
There are also reports that Vice Admiral Igor Osipov, commander of the Black Sea Fleet, has been detained over the loss of the flagship.
"Friends and experts say that there are two nuclear warheads for cruise missiles on board the Moskva, he said.
That is, are nuclear munitions always on board, or are they loaded only by special order?
Moscow claimed the crew evacuated but the safety of the more than 500 sailors on the vessel has not been independently confirmed.
BlackSeaNews editor-in-chief Andriy Klymenko called for an urgent international probe into whether the Moskva was carrying nuclear weapons.
First Rank Captain Anton Kuprin, 44, was killed after the ship was fatally holed by Ukrainian Neptune missiles, according to Kyiv sources
Andrey Sokolov said: The waves were 0.5 to 1.5 metres, from 2 points "weak waves" to 4 points "moderate waves", respectively, on a 9-point scale.
However, Ukrainian sources have said that there is a real worry that there were several nuclear missiles onboard the vessel which sank off Sevastopol.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin  here
The fact is that the missile cruiser Moskva was part of the Black Sea Fleets forces of constant readiness.
In addition to the P-1000 "Vulkan" missiles, the nuclear missile cruiser Moskva could contain other nuclear weapons.
This is an anti-aircraft missile for the Fort complex, a naval version of the S-300, with a so-called special combat unit.
Sevastopol residents claim that they saw it had almost reached the destination, said the Fontanka report.
Exiled Russian politician Ilya Ponomarev, 46, who eight years ago was the only MP to vote against Vladimir Putin s annexation of Crimea, said today he believes only 58 out of a usual crew number of 510 survived the Moskva disaster.
Local Anna Ogorodnikova bashed Russias official storm, and said there was no storm at the time.
He urged Black Sea coastal states - Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, and Georgia - to insist on an explanation.
This is the latest in a wave of arrests linked to Russias failing war campaign.
At the same time, the replacement of P-5001000 missiles is far from a trivial task and requires significant time.
This is with the competence of the UN Security Council, and the IAEA International Atomic Energy Agency.
A former sailor, Anton, 25, was quoted by Msk1 that the fire safety system on board the Moskva was well out of date and had not been modernised.
There are oxygen cylinders everywhere. This is military equipment. There are many things that can catch fire and detonate, he said.
A farewell ceremony to the cruiser is due to be held in Sevastopol today at a monument in honour of the 300th anniversary of the Russian fleet.
This has raised the possibility that the warship may have been deliberately scuttled instead of letting it return to port.
A video highlighted by online newspaper Msk1 claimed to show the parked cars of the Moskva crew last night outside the checkpoint at the base where the stricken vessel had been expected to be returned.
