Captured Russian soldiers cry as they tell relatives I was sent to my death
20220302
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/captured-russian-soldiers-cry-tell-26367528
The Russian prisoners of war broke down in tears as they told their families back home that they had been 'sent to their deaths' in the invasion, with Ukraine claiming to have killed 6,000 Russians
Another soldier, who had suffered horrific injuries across his face and body, also featured in an interview with his captors.
Captured Russian soldiers broke down in tears as they told their families they had been 'sent to their deaths' in Ukraine.
Get all the latest news sent to your inbox. Sign up for the free Mirror newsletter
"Mum, I'm in Ukraine. This is a real war. I'm scared, we're firing at everyone, even civilians."
In one conversation a soldier appears to be in tears and saying its slow, its slow.
Now footage is being shared online showing some of the captured invaders complaining about the war.
ShadowBreak founder Samuel Cardillo said that he had received recordings from amateurs listening into the conversations.
It comes as recordings of mobile and radio messages, intercepted by British intelligence company ShadowBreak Intl, showed low morale among Russian troops.
He also read out that the soldier said: "The only thing I want right now is to kill myself.
"It's basically the Russians transmitting on analogue. So when they request air support, or any kind of support, you will hear the helicopter or the fighter planes."
Valentina Melnikova, a veteran Russian human rights activist, also said soldiers' mothers groups were receiving calls from young men in fear of being called up for the invasion.
Article 13 of the Geneva convention says prisoners of war must be humanely treated and "protected, particularly against acts of violence or intimidation and against insults and public curiosity".
One captive was filmed speaking to his mother over the phone, telling her: They sent us to death, everyone killed everyone.
It comes after Ukraine claimed it had killed 6,000 Russian troops durning the first six days of the invasion.
The prisoners of war were interviewed on camera by Ukrainian forces and said they had been used as cannon fodder in the war.
In another clip, a different Russian prisoner said: We came for training. We were lied to and thats why I am here.
Nobody wanted to fight but we were told that we would be enemies of the state and because its wartime we might even get shot.
His comrade added: At the beginning we were told that we were going for training. Eventually after we were sent to the frontline everyone was demoralised.
He said: This is not our war. Oh mothers and wives, collect your husbands There is no need to be here.
Mr Cardillo continued: "There were periods where we heard them Russian soldiers crying in combat, a period where they were insulting each other  obviously not a sign of great morale. There was an instance where they shot at each other, there was an instance where they had to transport dead bodies back to their forward operating bases. Many times you can hear them not at their highest level of happiness."
We were thrown as gunmeat, although people in our unit at least dont want this war, they just want to go home and want peace.
"We were told we would be greeted with open arms, but they call us fascists," a Russian soldier reportedly texted his mum in a message that Serhiy Kyslytsia, Ukraine's envoy, read out loud at the UN.
