Captured Russian commander begs for forgiveness and says soldiers embarrassed by war
20220206
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/captured-russian-commander-begs-forgiveness-26412341
Lieutenant Colonel Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said he and his comrades were lied to and understood if his homeland was hated for the brutal invasion.
He tells his mum to use social media so "as many people as possible" know what the Kremlin attacks look like.
In the footage, the soldier is seen rocking back and forth in his chair during the video call.
These claims have not yet been independently verified but a human rights monitoring team from the United Nations has confirmed more than 500 civilian casualties in Ukraine.
On March 1, Ukraine claimed to have killed 5,710 Russian soldiers since the start of the invasion.
He added that he was prepared to go to jail for his part in the war on their peaceful neighbours.
"They Ukrainians said 'we didn't call you hereI feel shame that we came to this country.
"I'll give it to you straight. If someone came to my territory I would do the same as these people did.
I feel sorry for people left in Russia they are not guilty. Their guilt is that they are misinformed.
The POW was seen crying as he described how Vladimir Putin's forces had bombed kindergartens and  hospitals .
Bachelet, addressing the opening session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, previously said: "Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes. The real figures are, I fear, considerably higher."
"Some do not even have internet. They have no chance to use something alternative. They are constantly brain-washed.
He told reporters the order had taken him by surprise and that he and his men had been lied to about the situation in Ukraine.
At least 136 people have been killed, including 13 children, a UN report showed on Tuesday.
It comes as Ukraine's President accused Russia of 'state terrorism' on Tuesday after the indiscriminate bombing of Kharkiv.
The prisoner of war added: "For those who would watch this video: you might think about me whatever you want, that I was forced, intimidated or the text was prepared in advance, whatever.
Lieutenant Colonel Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich told a press conference he was "embarrassed" by his country's invasion of Ukraine and said the Russian people had been lied to
He told his mum to spread the word of what is really going on back home - where government propaganda is rife.
Speaking during a conference alongside two other captured Russians, he said: I cannot find the words to say sorry to the Ukrainian people.
I just sincerely hope for your mercy towards those people who come to you with their hands up, or those who are wounded. We should not sow death. It's better to sow life."
With Putin's troops shelling cities across Ukraine and the nation's army vowing to fight to the death to defend their land, observers fear the death toll will be enormous.
Earlier in the war another captured  Russian  soldier begged his mum to tell people the truth about the  Ukraine  invasion in a heartbreaking phone call.
A captured Russian commander has spoken of his shame for his involvement in the war in Ukraine, as he begged for forgiveness.
On Sunday, February 27, Ukraine's health minister reported that at least 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, and more than 1,000 wounded.
The unprovoked invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Russian forces on the command of President Vladimir Putin has sparked bloodshed and chaos.
The Lt Col is believed to be the most senior Russian officer to so far speak out against the atrocities levelled at Ukraine since Putin ordered the invasion last month.
I don't know why we were doing it. We knew very little. We brought sorrow to this land."
