Captured Russian soldiers fear firing squad as funerals already arranged back home
20220209
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/captured-russian-soldiers-fear-firing-26446897
In a video released by Ukrainian officials, the remorseful soldier explained how state media painted Ukraine as a country in need of rescuing from the grip of nationalists and "Nazis".
A soldier from the 2nd Motor Rifle Division said during a press conference in Kyiv: "In Russia, we are already considered dead.
WARNING, DISTRESSING IMAGES: A Kremlin soldier, who gave himself up to Ukrainian forces, said his funeral has already been 'arranged for him' in Russia as he reports of demoralised troops continue to come out
Soldiers said the war in Ukraine could last "months", despite Vladimir Putin saying it would be over in two weeks.
Russians have been filmed by their Ukrainian captors sobbing and saying they had no idea where they were being sent.
Ukrainian politician Anton Herashchenko, advisor at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, shared translations of the phone calls online.
Part of Ukraine's strategy has been to use captured soldiers to undermine the Russian military and lower their morale.
"They said 'we didn't call you here'. I feel shame that we came to this country."
Captured Russian troops fear they face the firing squad when they return home, one has claimed.
Now one captured soldier says he fears being shot by his ruthless commanders when he comes home, the Daily Telegraph reports.
Last week, a captured Russian soldier admitted he was "100 per cent wrong" about Putin's invasion after seeing his favourite boxers take up arms against him.
"When we entered this territory I watched the address of your boxers Olexander Usyk and Vasily Lomachenko. Back home I always loved watching them.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
Another infantryman said his battalion did not have any food left, with troops raiding a nearby supermarket for supplies.
The Ukrainians claim to have killed more than 12,000 Russians since Putin ordered his troops into their country, but that figure has not been independently verified.
I was given the opportunity to call my parents and they told me that a funeral for me had already been arranged.
He said: "Literally I'm 100 wrong now. Don't judge too harshly. We were told Ukraine is dominated by fascists... Nazis had seized power. We did not know the situation for sure.
In the intercepted calls, demoralised Russian troops expressed their shock at the sight of "so many corpses" and begged to go home in intercepted calls from the frontline.
A Kremlin soldier, who gave himself up to Ukrainian forces, said his funeral has already been "arranged for him" in Russia.
The prisoner of war said he started questioning the Kremlin's orders when he saw World Heavyweight Champion Oleksandr Usyk and former champ Vasyl Lomachenko enlist to defend Ukraine from invading Russian troops.
BBC correspondent Quentin Sommerville walked among a dozen corpses at a petrol station forecourt on the frontline near Kharkiv.
Earlier today, a shocking TV news report showed frozen Russian bodies scattered across a battlefield after Ukrainian forces "left them for the dogs".
Russian leader Vladimir Putin's invasion has been taking longer than expected and has seen morale among his military men plummet as they continue to battle Ukrainian resistance.
