Cheering Ukrainian troops shoot down Russian drone with British missile
20220411
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-troops-shoot-down-russian-26687900
Outspoken hardliner Kadyrov, 45, claims to be personally involved in the war especially with Chechen forces around decimated Mariupol.
Vladimir Putin should threaten to use nuclear weapons if the West puts mercenary fighters into Ukraine, one of his closest henchmen has demanded.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov today said military operations will not be paused during peace talks.
She said: "On arrival in Kyiv, the PM and President Zelensky met for an hour - this was a meeting just with the two of them. They then went on a 30-minute walk together to Independence Square.
Troops are shown watching the device fall from the sky, with one of them shouting: "There's contact, we destroyed that s."
It comes as the UK announced it was sending 100million worth of weapons to Ukraine, with anti-tank systems and air defence equipment set to be delivered.
Putin's forces have been accused of a litany of atrocities including murder, torture, rape and targeting civilians.
Russian officials say discussions with Ukraine are not progressing as rapidly as they would like, and have accused the West of trying to derail negotiations by raising war crimes allegations against Russian troops.
It is believed to have happened on Saturday, with Ukrainian military bosses saying the drone was downed by the 95th Air Assault Brigade.
Lavrov said: "After we became convinced that the Ukrainians were not planning to reciprocate, a decision was made that during the next rounds of talks, there would be no pause in military action so long as a final agreement is not reached."
Today footage was posted by soldier Yuriy Kochevenko thanking Britain for supplying the missile system that wiped out Russia's drone.
I would declare: If any mercenary comes to Ukraine we would go up to a strike with nuclear tactical weapons at certain points
Today a Number 10 spokeswoman said the Prime Minister had spent around five hours in the Ukrainian capital after a carefully-planned operation to bring him in secretly.
Warlord Ramzan Kadyrov - leader of Chechnya and a lieutenant-general in the Russian national guard - also called on Putin not to abandon his aim of seizing Kyiv despite the current pullback.
In a new video, the Chechen head, so powerful he criticises some of Putins most trusted inner circle, said: What would I do?
So they do not mock us. NATO, the West, are at war with us. This isn't a joke.
Footage was posted by Ukrainian soldier Yuriy Kochevenko thanking Britain for supplying the missile system that wiped out Russia's drone. The UK is sending 100million of weapons to the country
"You'll have seen some of the footage - he met with Ukrainians and passed the memorials that have been put up to victims of the war."
"Alongside our allies, this military support will bolster Ukraines efforts to ensure Russia s barbaric invasion fails."
Boris Johnson, who held face-to-face talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv at the weekend, said: "Putin has steeled our resolve, sharpened our focus and forced Europe to begin to rearm to guarantee our shared security.
