Children dress up as fighter jets and tanks in chilling Russian Victory Day parade
20220509
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/children-dress-up-fighter-jets-26909620
Many costumes include the letter Z - which in recent weeks has come to represent the illegal campaign in Ukraine that lying Russian leaders have branded a "special military operation".
Russian children have been decked out in pretend military hard-wear adorned with the country's Z symbol, which the Kremlin is pushing as a rallying point amid the war effort.
"Defending the Motherland when its fate is being decided has always been sacred," he said.
It is estimated that more than 25,000 Russian troops, including conscripts, have perished as a result of the war.
Children have dressed up as fighter jets and tanks as Russia holds a huge military celebration in Moscow.
During his long awaited speech in Moscow today, Vlad imir Putin evoked the memory of Soviet heroism in that war to urge his army towards victory in Ukraine.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has said it is Russia that is staging a "bloody re-enactment of Nazism" in Ukraine.
Russian children got into the swing of things for Victory Day on Monday, donning military themed costumes and parading as thousands of adult troops gathered in Moscow's Red Square
Addressing massed ranks of servicemen on Red Square on the 77th anniversary of victory over Nazi Germany, Putin condemned what he called external threats to weaken and split Russia, and repeated familiar arguments he had used to justify its invasion - that NATO was creating threats right next to its borders.
"Today you are fighting for our people in Donbas, for the security of Russia, our homeland."
Thanks to relentless propaganda on state media, the majority of Russians are unaware of the devastating toll the invasion is having, or the catalogue of war crime allegations against their troops.
It is unclear whether those in Russia see a similarity between the Z symbol and the Nazi's swastika, which adorned buildings, uniforms and fighting machines during WWII.
He directly addressed soldiers fighting in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine which Russia has pledged to "liberate" from Kyiv.
The kids were dressed up in their weapon-glorifying finery to mark Victory Day, the anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945.
He has repeatedly likened the war - which he casts as a battle against dangerous "Nazi"-inspired nationalists in Ukraine - to the challenge the Soviet Union faced when Adolf Hitler invaded in 1941.
The annual event, which sees thousands of troops and tanks paraded through Red Square, has taken on heightened significance following Putin's invasion.
Putin's 11-minute speech on day 75 of the invasion offered no assessment of progress in the war and gave no indication of how long it might continue.
