China begins to turn on Putin as it calls for Russia to negotiate with Ukraine
20220225
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/china-begins-turn-putin-calls-26334387
The Far East superpower is said to be keeping close watch on the Kremlins brutal and deadly invasion of its southern neighbour.
In a  Facebook  post she said the Russians were moving at speed" to the centre of Kiev, adding: They will surely be destroyed.
President Xi Jinping is said to have told Vladimir Putin in a phone call that China supports under siege Ukraine and wants Russia to resolve 'the issue' through negotiations
These claims have not yet been independently verified but a human rights monitoring team from the United Nations has confirmed more than 500 civilian casualties in Ukraine.
He told MPs: We will continue on a remorseless mission to squeeze  Russia  from the global economy piece by piece, day by day, week by week.
Civilians have been urged to target invaders using petrol bombs, with Ukrainian men aged between 18 and 60 barred from leaving the country and told to take up arms.
On March 1, Ukraine claimed to have killed 5,710 Russian soldiers since the start of the invasion.
China s president has seemingly denounced Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine, telling his Russian counterpart he supports the crisis being resolved through talks.
This evening the nation abstained voting in the United Nations Security Council draft resolution that condemned Russia for invading Ukraine.
Putins troops are marching on Kyiv with brave Ukrainian troops positioned on the streets to block Russian invaders.
According to the Chinese media readout, Putin replied saying: The United States and NATO have long ignored Russias reasonable security concerns, repeatedly reneged on their commitments, and continued to advance military deployment eastward, challenging Russias strategic bottom line.
According to state broadcaster CCTV, XI said: The situation in eastern Ukraine has undergone rapid changes  and China supports Russia and Ukraine to resolve the issue through negotiation."
Bachelet, addressing the opening session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, previously said: "Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes. The real figures are, I fear, considerably higher."
China has refused to call its allys actions an invasion or criticise Putins actions which have dragged the world to the brink of war.
It comes as Ukraine's President accused Russia of 'state terrorism' on Tuesday after the indiscriminate bombing of Kharkiv.
At least 136 people have been killed, including 13 children, a UN report showed on Tuesday.
Other world leaders have heavily criticised Russia's invasion, amid warnings of heavy sanctions on the Kremlin.
He added Putin should abandon the Cold War mentality, attach importance to and respect the reasonable security concerns of all countries, and form a balanced, effective and sustainable European security mechanism through negotiations.
Far from the frontlines, Putin took a call from Chinas President Xi Jinping, Aljazeera reports.
Ukraine confirmed earlier today that 137 civilians and military personnel had been killed in the country during the first day of the assault, with more than 300 wounded in the fighting.
This morning Ukrainian deputy defence minister Anna Maliar said enemy troops had driven two Ukrainian army trucks into Kyiv, followed by a convoy of military trucks.
With Putin's troops shelling cities across Ukraine and the nation's army vowing to fight to the death to defend their land, observers fear the death toll will be enormous.
On Sunday, February 27, Ukraine's health minister reported that at least 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, and more than 1,000 wounded.
The unprovoked invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Russian forces on the command of President Vladimir Putin has sparked bloodshed and chaos.
Boris Johnson earlier condemned Russia for unleashing a tidal wave of violence on  Ukraine , warning  Putin  would achieve pariah status.
