Defiant Ukraine insists we will never surrender after dismissing Russian deadline
20220321
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/defiant-ukraine-insists-we-never-26523631
The source added Moscows forces are shelling Ukraines cities in a near desperate attempt to gain leverage in talks.
In a foul-mouthed blast, mayor adviser Petro Andryushchenko rapped a plan to move the city hall to Russia.
Captured Russian gunner Valery Vasilyev, 18, told Ukraines SBU security agency how he was ordered to shoot civilians in Kharkiv.
Residents of a nearby building, whose windows were blown out, said they had spotted a mobile rocket launcher near the mall several days earlier.
In Kyiv, debris was scattered for hundreds of yards and windows were left smashed several blocks away from the blasts overnight on Sunday.
Russia has reportedly passed details of more than 500 captured Ukrainians to the Red Cross and is to be prepared to swap them for detained Russians.
Last week, Ukraine said it had lost 1,700 troops and that tally is thought to have risen in recent days.
Footage showed a huge blast, followed by smaller explosions that left much of the complex in the rubble.
Ukraines Ministry of Foreign Affairs has claimed the Kremlin illegally deported 2,389 children to Russia from the disputed region of Donbas.
President Volodymyr Zelensky added Ukraine would never bow to Vladimir Putin s ultimatums and key cities would not accept occupation.
Ukraine said a shell hit a chemical plant outside the eastern city of Sumy just after 3am yesterday, causing a leak in a 50-ton ammonia tank that took hours to contain.
More than a quarter of Russian warplanes 97 have been shot out of the sky and around half of their helicopters 121 have been downed.
On Facebook, he wrote: They gave us until the morning. Why wait  the answer is ready  f you  you wont get Mariupol.
Missiles sparked a mushroom cloud and fires on several storeys of the mall in the Podilsky district.
Ukraine s deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk hit out at the 5am deadline given to Mariupol, which has been 90 destroyed by barrages.
The Ukraine military added: The enemy continues to insidiously destroy the infrastructure of captured cities, launch missiles and bomb strikes on peaceful neighbourhoods of Ukrainian cities and villages, rob, kidnap and take hostages civilians.
There have been repeated incidents caught on camera of Russian troops executing and targeting civilians.
Retroville retail centre in the north- west of the capital was hit by missiles while a gym and cars were destroyed.
And there were reports of state-sponsored Russian looting as five ships with tens of thousands of tons of grain were taken in Berdyansk port.
Figures released on day 26 of the invasion show Ukraine is battering Russian forces who have lost more than 10 of their troops  15,000.
Ukraine dismissed a 5am deadline to surrender to Russia and insisted it would never give in as an explosion destroyed a shopping mall in Kyiv and besieged Mariupol is 90 destroyed
An unnamed US defence official said Ukraine is showing no signs of ending its resistance and is repeatedly counter-attacking.
It came after at least eight people died in a giant explosion that destroyed a shopping mall in Kyiv.
The governor of Ukraines Zaporizhzhia region said buses evacuating civilians from frontline areas were hit by shelling yesterday and four children were wounded in separate incidents.
Defiant Ukraine insisted it will never surrender after it dismissed a deadline to lay down arms in the besieged city of Mariupol.
Sources said Russia has lost more than half its armoured personnel carriers and infantry fighting vehicles.
Some of Ukraines orphans have reached a hospital in Kyiv where doctors hope to be able to provide care and perform life-saving surgeries.
Soon after yesterdays deadline, smoke rose from several places in the southeast port amid multiple strikes.
An apartment block in Kyiv was also hit on Sunday, leaving five people injured. But Ukraine  has beaten the bulk of Russian troops back 15 miles out of the city.
Last night, emergency crews tried to find survivors and establish if more people were killed in Russias latest barbaric attack.
But its strong defence has led to fears Russia is increasingly turning on civilians to force Kyiv into capitulating.
Russia said it had struck the shopping centre because it was being used as a rocket store.
According to Ukraine, Moscows troops have shelled 135 hospitals, nine of which have been destroyed.
