Desperate Kremlin makes FAKE BBC vid in shameless lie to blame Ukraine for Russia attack
20220413
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/desperate-kremlin-makes-fake-bbc-26702824
Russia's propaganda machine has repeatedly claimed they have not been responsible for horrific attacks on civilian infrastructure including hospitals and schools.
Last Friday, a missile blast at a train station in Ukraine targeted thousands of civilians who were trying to evacuate to safety as Russia focuses its troops on eastern Ukraine.
In response, the Russian Defence Ministry said its Army did not have any targets assigned in Kramatorsk at the time of the attack.
A spokesperson from the BBC told The Mirror: "We are aware of a fake video with BBC News branding suggesting Ukraine was responsible for last weeks missile attack on Kramatorsk train station.
This video cannot be seen on the official BBC website or its social media channels.
"The BBC is taking action to have the video removed. We urge people not to share it and to check stories on the BBC News website."
The text continues: "When the missile factory numbers hit social media, the Ukrainian media stopped covering this topic.
There is no voiceover for the video, see above , which is one minute and 27 seconds and is a collection of images and footage from the scene.
In another part of the video, the text refers to the Ukrainian president "Zelenskyy" when the BBC website spells his surname as "Zelensky".
Zelensky accused the invading troops of "cynically destroying the civilian population" and called it "an evil without limits".
A propaganda video with BBC-style credits has been spread online claiming to say that Ukraine was behind the missile strike at a train station in Kramatorsk that killed 50 people
In a desperate attempt to paint Ukraine as the aggressors, a propaganda video with BBC-style credits has been spread on social media showing images from the attack in Kramatorsk saying the missile serial number was similar to those fired by the Ukrainian army.
The Kremlin has created a fake BBC news video to try and blame the Ukrainian military for a Russian missile strike at a train station that killed 50 people.
It goes on to show missiles and claims the serial numbers are similar to the ones fired by the Ukrainian military.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
The clip starts with a graphic image of bodies scattered on the ground - something that the BBC is unlikely to air and which the Mirror has chosen not to show.
"Military experts stress that Ukraine has often started using fake news to promote its position."
