Distraught dad of slain Ukraine family learned of their horrific deaths on Twitter
20220310
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/distraught-dad-slain-ukraine-family-26431252
Among those to see it was Serhiy Perebyinis, 43, who was in eastern Ukraine with his mother when his family was murdered.
He first realised something was amiss when his wifes phone showed it was in a hospital and she stopped picking up his calls.
He said to the New York Times: I told her, 'Forgive me that I couldnt defend you. I tried to care for one person, and it meant I cannot protect you'.
A husband discovered his wife and two children had been killed escaping Kyiv from a post on Twitter, he has tragically revealed.
A photograph of them strewn across a pavement, with family friend Anatoly Berezhnyi, 26, who was helping them to safety, was shared widely on social media.
A first attempt to flee was prevented by a Russian tank rolling by before she and her family drove away in a minivan.
Within minutes, a series of mortars fell increasingly closer and closer to our position until one landed about 30 feet from where I was standing and it killed a mother and her two children.
They had to stop as a bridge out of the town had been destroyed so got out and ran, when they were killed by shrapnel from a nearby explosion.
I think it's really important that people around the world see these images, it's a difficult image, but it is a historically important image."
Tatiana Perebeinis, 43, and her children Mykyta, 18, and Alisa, 9, were killed in Russian mortar bombing as they attempted to cross a damaged bridge out of Irpin, near the capital.
IT worker Tatiana had stayed in Irpin to care for her mother who has Alzheimers but decided to leave when their building was shelled as they hid in the basement.
Tatiana Perebeinis, 43, and her children Mykyta, 18, and Alisa, nine, were killed in a hail of shrapnel from a nearby Russian mortar explosion as they attempted to escape Irpin in Ukraine
The shocking photographs of the dead family was taken by New York Times photographer Lynsey Addario, who was nearly hit by the bombing.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin   here
She said of the pictures: I went forward and found a place sort of behind a wall and started photographing.
