Elon Musk challenges Vladimir Putin to a fight for Ukraine in single combat
20220314
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/elon-musk-challenges-vladimir-putin-26462039
Musk made known his support for Ukraine late last month by activating Space X's Starlink satellites.
Mykhailo Fedorov tweeted the SpaceX founder, saying: "Elon Musk, while you try to colonise Mars - Russia tries to occupy Ukraine! While your rockets successfully land from space - Russian rockets attack Ukrainian civil people! We ask you to provide Ukraine with Starlink stations and to address sane Russians to stand."
His younger brother Kimbal shared the "now active" post with the caption: "Go team Ukraine! Putin has to be stopped. It's either now or later. I say now. Are you with me?"
SpaceX has been developing the space-based system, which uses around 2,000 satellites to bring internet access to underserved areas of the world, with the company referring to its dishes as terminals.
The owner of Tesla issued the challenge in a tweet this morning, which said: "I hereby challenge   to single combat"
He also gave a "special thanks" to Ukraine's ambassador to the US, Oksana Markarova, "for swift decisions related to authorisation and certification that allowed us to activate Starlink in Ukraine".
The eccentric business magnate replied hours later to say the Starlink service was online in Ukraine and more of its dishes are "en route".
Follow our live blog for all the latest updates on the war in Ukraine here
The owner of Tesla issued the challenge in a tweet this morning, which said: "I hereby challenge   to single combat."
Ukraines internet service has been disrupted during Russia's invasion. According to UK-based NetBlocks, connectivity to Ukraine's main provider GigaTrans dropped to below 20 per cent of normal levels in the early hours of Friday.
Following a request for help from the country's deputy prime minister, Mr Musk said his satellite-internet service Starlink was "now active" in Ukraine.
He followed this on with another tweet reading "    ?" - translating to "do you agree to this fight?"
