EU leaders fail to agree total ban on Russian oil imports in latenight talks
20220531
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/eu-leaders-fail-agree-total-27108005
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who dialled into the summit, told EU countries to stop internal squabbling which only helped Moscow.
The remaining 10 will be temporarily exempt from the embargo so Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic can stay connected.
EU leaders have failed to agree a total ban on Russian oil imports by the end of this year after Hungary thwarted plans for a complete block.
"This is an important step forward. On the remaining 10, on these we will soon return to the issue of these remaining 10 of pipeline oil."
European Council President Charles Michel tweeted: "Agreement to ban export of Russian oil to the EU.
She admitted yesterday: "Council should now be able to finalise a ban on almost 90 of all Russian oil imports by the end of the year.
European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen claimed on May 3 the EU would impose a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined by the end of the year.
"All quarrels in Europe must end, internal disputes that only encourage Russia to put more and more pressure on you," Mr Zelensky said.
While the bloc will cut off 90 of flows, landlocked countries which receive oil via pipeline will be allowed to continue importing.
Two thirds of Russian oil imported by the EU comes via tanker and one third by the Druzhba pipeline.
The embargo rises to 90 once Poland and Germany, which are also connected to the pipeline, stop buying it by the end of the year.
Hungary thwarted plans for a complete embargo on oil from Russia flowing to the European Union, with leaders instead agreeing to a comprise to cut off 90 of flows
The embargo agreed at a Brussels summit which ended late on Monday night covers seaborne oil imports - two-thirds of all oil imported from Russia.
"This immediately covers more than 23 of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine. Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war.
