ExUkraine president says Russia will end up like big North Korea unless Putin goes
20220420
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/ex-ukraine-president-says-russia-26759161
Petro Poroshenko, who was in office between 2014 and 2019, said he had extensive dealings with the Russian president - but said the Russian leader never delivered on promises.
Petro Poroshenko, who was in office between 2014 and 2019, called on world leaders to 'de-Putinize' Russia, and called on the Russian public to 'do their best to save Russia'
He claimed no nation in the world is capable of stopping the newly-tested weapon, which experts believe is capable of firing more than 10 nuclear warheads at a time.
Russia's ministry of defence says the weapon was launched at the Plesetsk cosmodrome in the northwest of the country, and successfully hit targets in the far east.
The missile was seen emerging amid huge rocket flames and smoke from an underground silo in a video released by Moscow.
He said: "Nothing he promised was really implemented. Don't be afraid of Putin. Putin goes as far as we allow him to go."
Earlier today Vladimir Putin issued a chilling warning claiming Russia has successfully launched a huge intercontinental ballistic missile known as 'Satan-2'.
Putin, who is being investigated for war crimes committed by his forces in Ukraine, reportedly claimed the missile would "strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces".
"Learn the lessons, stop the aggression, give back Ukrainian soil, and then do their best to save Russia."
Comparing Russia to Kim Jong-un's regime in North Korea, he said that citizens have "no freedom, a dictatorship, full control of mass media, unhappy and poor people".
A former Ukrainian president says Russia is on course to be a "very, very big North Korea" unless it ditches Vladimir Putin.
Mr Poroshenko said that the would either end in Ukrainian victory, which would be "the victory of the whole world", or with "capitulation of the whole world to Putin".
Mr Poroshenko said ordinary Russians would soon come to feel the effect of devastating sanctions, adding that he is "absolutely confident that Russia has the fate of a very, very big North Korea".
The Russian president bragged that the new Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile would provide "food for thought" for anyone thinking of threatening Moscow.
He said sanctions would be "disastrous" for the wider public in Russia, who have been "poisoned" by propaganda on TV.
