Former Strictly pro Kristina Rihanoffs business revealed to be nearly 500k in debt
20220301
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/former-strictly-pro-kristina-rihanoffs-26355548
Last week, Kristina was blasted as "insensitive" in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine after she shared a series of tweets.
Kristina's statement continued: "My best friend is also from Ukraine. I grew up with knowledge that we were one nation and one country. Im not into politics and hate politicians because THEY ALL LIE.
"The awful thing is that there is casualties on both sides and on both sides mums  dads will cry for their lost relatives."
It is understood that the studio - named Soo Yogo - that offers Hot Yoga, Anti-Gravity Yoga, Reformer Pilates and Fitness  Dance Classes having to close for periods amid the pandemic led to debts stacking up.
"Are you for real SkyNews ? WTF! And where are we at with bringing BorisJohnson accountable for ruining thousands of small business while parting during lockdowns?????? This tweet EVERYTHING WHATS WRONG WITH THE UK MEDIA  USELESS GOVUK Eurovision" sic
After her messages Kristina decided to react to the backlash by clarifying her thoughts on the war in Ukraine and how she is firmly against the actions of her homeland.
The 44-year-old's business - located in Northampton - reportedly owes 426,431 and has cash reserves of just 2,648 The Sun report.
She later shared a headline by Sky News which announced that Russia had been kicked out of the Eurovision Song Contest, which is due to take place later this year.
Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter
US president Biden was drawn pointing, with the words "Russian man bad" written in a speech bubble.
Kristina Rihanoff - who recently had to clarify her comments which were slammed after she appeared to support Putin over the war in Ukraine - owns a yoga business in Northampton
Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us atwebcelebstrinitymirror.comor call us direct 0207 29 33033.
In a statement which she posted on social media, Kristina wrote: "I made fun of Eurovision tweet by Sky. I did think there was far more important information on that day that Eurovision.
The outlet also adds her other business, Bespoke Ballroom Ltd dance firm - which offers dance and drama classes to kids from the age of 18months up to 16 years old - is doing better with 100,000 cash in accounts.
"The country leaders should have found the way a long time ago to sort this peacefully but they didnt bcs war is a profitable business and someone unfortunately making profit on this.
"This is in any form says I was supporting whats happening at the moment between Russia  Ukraine.
"Seeing the news is breaking my heart as I have Russian friends who live in UKRAINE and vice versa.
Former Strictly Come Dancing professional Kristina Rihanoff's yoga studio - that she opened in 2015 when she left the dancing show - is nearly 500,000 in debt.
The Russian dancer retweeted a cartoon depicting caricatures of Boris Johnson, Joe Biden and Justin Trudeau, in which the leaders were shown with blood on their hands.
"Its absolutely devastating for someone like me whos grandad from Ukraine and I gave Ukrainian name to my daughter - Milena."
