Furious protesters in London call for Boris Johnson to wake up and stop Putin now
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/angry-protesters-london-call-boris-26323279
Kenneth Nowakowski, the Ukrainian Catholic Church's bishop for the UK, called on Britons to "stand in solidarity" with those in the country.
They say they are "heartbroken" and "terrified" as they called on Boris Johnson to adopt a stronger stance following Russia's major assault on their nation.
Olesya Khromeychuk, 38, director of the Ukrainian Institute in London, whose brother died fighting on the frontline in the Donbas region in Ukraine in 2017, said she feels "awful".
Dmytro, 32, another Ukrainian national who did not want to give his last name, said: "When someone just invades your home, it is devastating.
The invasion began after a pre-dawn TV address, in which Putin demanded Ukraine's military lay down its arms.
"My first action was to pray for our brothers and sister in Ukraine and pray for those working towards peace."
The crowd, supported by others who made their voices heard in Rome and Paris, sang the Ukrainian national anthem and chanted: "Stop Putin. Stop the war" and " Ukraine is not Russia".
"If I didn't have a child, I would probably be on the front line fighting for my country."
"I feel numb, terrified and shaken inside. I have never experienced or felt anything similar.
Natalia Ravlyuk, a volunteer who helped organise the protest, said: "We feel very angry, we feel very anxious and we feel betrayed by democratic states because we have been talking about this war for eight years.
Eugenia Klochko, 37, who has been in the UK for 10 years, also grew emotional as she spoke about her family who are still in Ukraine.
Earlier on Thursday dozens of protesters also gathered outside the Russian embassy in Kensington waving flags and holding placards, including ones reading: "Stop Putin - stop war" and "Ukraine will never surrender".
"I'm devastated. I'm heartbroken. I'm not sure if I'm going to see them alive again.
Ukrainian protesters hit the streets of London today as they pleaded with the UK to do more to stop Vladimir Putin taking over their country.
Today, the Investigative Committee - a government body that investigates major crimes - warned Russians of legal repercussions for joining unsanctioned protests.
Olga Gevorkyan, 30, who has been in the UK for around a year, told the PA news agency that her entire family and all her friends are still at home in the northern Ukraine near to the Belarusian border.
She said: "I have had a couple of weeks of sleepless nights, monitoring the news, checking up on my family.
The Russian interior ministry said it will take "all necessary measures to ensure public order".
He also said the current sanctions were "not enough" and that they will hit the lives of ordinary Russians but "have little effect" on those with money and power.
"Today we woke up to a day that we prayed we would never see," he said.
People also held up placards with images of Mr Putin saying "terrorist", "killer", and "Putin! Get out of Ukraine".
"I'm afraid to lose contact with them because it could happen any day. I have everyone - my family, my close friends, my heart and soul is there."
"We need Britain to lead, leading Nato, leading the world. The people of Ukraine deserve that. The peace of our world needs that."
"One should be aware of the negative legal consequences of these actions in the form of prosecution up to criminal liability," it said.
In London the pressure was cranked up on the PM, who was urged to do more.
Ukrainian voices were heard in London demanding Boris Johnson does more to help their nation, while Russian authorities warned of 'consequences' for anyone joining anti-war protests in Moscow
Hours after, hundreds of demonstrators gathered outside Downing Street to call for more drastic action from Britain and its Prime Minister, with a "total isolation of Russia ".
Meanwhile, Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey, who stopped by the protest, told the crowds: "I hope that we can get our Prime Minister today to be as strong as we need him to be.
Demos against a potential war have been, until now, muted following years of Kremlin crackdown on dissent.
"The international community has to stand with Ukraine," she added, before calling on Britons to "stay informed from reliable sources", "take to the streets", "write to your MP", and "stand in solidarity".
