George Bush blasts Vladimir Putins brutal IRAQ invasion in excruciating gaffe
20220519
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/george-bush-blasts-vladimir-putins-27004857
While referring to one man launching a wholly unjustified and brutal invasion he then said Iraq before pulling up sharply, and while shaking his head and smiling, he corrected himself with: Ukraine.
In 2003, when Bush was president, the United States led an invasion of Iraq over weapons of mass destruction that were never found. The prolonged conflict killed hundreds of thousands of people and displaced many more.
The former US president was giving a speech on the importance of democracy and condemned the invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin s forces.
He honed in on the lack of democracy in Russia which he said gave Putin the green light to start the attack on its neighbour last February.
He jokingly blamed the mistake on his age as the audience burst into laughter, saying: "75."
Bush's remarks quickly went viral on social media, gathering over three million views on Twitter alone after the clip was tweeted by a Dallas News reporter.
He continued: "The way countries conduct elections is indicative of how their leaders treat their own people, and how nations behave toward other nations.
There was then murmuring in the audience and Bush appeared to say: "Iraq too, but anyway."
Former US President George Bush was speaking about the importance of democracy when he said the "unjustified and brutal" invasion of Iraq when he meant to say Ukraine
Like with Tony Blairs time as UK prime minister, the Iraq war will always be associated with Bushs presidency and it appeared to be playing on his mind as he spoke on Wednesday night.
Bush said that Zelensky, whom he spoke to via video call this month, had "legitimacy" after winning elections.
The former US President also compared Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky to wartime leader Winston Churchill, for the way that he has rallied his nation in the face of the threat from Russia.
"The result is an absence of checks and balances in Russia and the decision of one man to launch a wholly unjustified and brutal invasion of Iraq. I mean of Ukraine."
George Bush made an embarrassing slip of the tongue when he slammed the unjustified and brutal invasion of Iraq - when he meant to say Ukraine.
He said "In contrast, Russian elections are rigged. Political opponents are imprisoned or otherwise eliminated from participating in the electoral process.
