Greatgrandma 79 gets training with AK47 in Ukraine as Russian forces mount
20220214
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/great-grandma-79-gets-training-26225712
Voluntary subscription to the TDF has increased since tensions increased on the border with Russia.
She told local media: "I am ready to shoot if something happens. I will defend my home, my city, my children.
Its members would take part in Ukraine's civil resistance in the event of an invasion if its 255,000-strong regular army became overwhelmed.
Speaking at the training, she told an NBCNews reporter: "Your mother would do it too."
Valentyna Konstantynovska, 79, attended a military training camp in Ukraine and explained why she is 'ready to shoot' as tensions continue to rise ahead a Russian invasion
Mrs Bilozerska, from Kyiv, is part of the Ukrainian Marine Corps and is said to have at least 10 confirmed "kills" in the Donbas trenches.
Downing Street has warned: The information suggests Russia could be planning an invasion at any moment."
Ms Konstantynovska was hailed a hero by her fellow Ukrainians for taking part in the drills.
Elena Mirko, of Ukraine, wrote on social media: "I know her, she was our neighbour.
The drills have seen senior citizens and children as young as four put through their paces as the country prepares for invasion from Russia.
A great-grandmother has been praised after taking part in civilian combat training in Ukraine where she was pictured holding an AK-47.
The market researcher told The Times how she bought a hunting gun  a Zbroyar Z-15  after listening to soldiers discussing the best rifle to get.
She is something of a celebrity in Ukraine and has openly admitted how she has no concerns for the men she has killed.
But she still went through with the training with neighbours praising her as "the example of a Ukrainian" after she was pictured handling and aiming the gun.
The great grandma told how she "probably won't be a very valid soldier" because her body does not serve that much anymore and "the weapon is too heavy for me."
Thousands of people in Ukraine have recently signed up to the country's Territorial Defence Forces TDF.
Valentyna Konstantynovska, 79, was shown how to use the assault rifle by the national guard in Mariupol, eastern Ukraine on Sunday.
Ukrainian sniper Olena Bilozerska, 42, said she would return to front lines within hours to face Russian troops.
Mrs Bilozerska has also written a best-selling book titled Diary of an Illegal Soldier which talks about volunteers such as herself who were not officially allowed to fight on the front lines until a change of law in 2016.
But Ms Zhaglo said it is not unusual for Russia to change the number of its troops near the border.
She also explained how many Ukrainians have learned to live with the threat of possible invasion since 2014 when Russia annexed Crimea.
The group held training exercises for civilians on Sunday as part of Ukraine's efforts to build a rag-tag army in case Russia invades.
"I will do this because I think Im ready for it. I don't want to lose my country, my city."
"If there is a need for the shooting to start, then I'll start shooting,' the mother continued, as she showed off her newly-bought Zbroyar Z-15 rifle in her flat in the Ukrainian capital.
"In real life, anyone who thinks along those lines in battle is already as good as dead," she told Mail Online.
"She lived in the next house, she is a beautiful woman, the example of Ukrainian.'
Ukrainian mum Mariana Zhaglo, 52, explained why she also hopes to protect her country and said she does not want her children to inherit the nation's problems and threats.
Ms Konstantynovska was taught how to use the AK-47 by the Special Forces Unit Azov, previously accused by Western journalists of being a neo-Nazi group.
"If it comes to it then we will fight for Kiev. We will fight to protect our city," she said.
