Grieving dad warns Russians he is out for revenge after son killed in Ukraine
20220315
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/grieving-dad-warns-russians-out-26472762
The man's son is one of at least 1,300 Ukrainian fighters who have lost their lives in battle, according to President Volodymyr Zelensky's latest update given on Sunday.
A grieving Ukrainian man has taken his son's place in the armed forces after he died fighting the Russians.
To keep up to date with all the latest Ukrainian war updates, follow our live blog.
"My son told me 'dad, it's bad, it is very bad. But we are holding on, it's okay."
Kharkiv, in the north east of the country, is Ukraine's second city and one of the areas worst impacted by Russian attacks.
"They are attacking just like in front, they don't do any manoeuvres. They have a lot of people, tanks and vehicles but we are fighting for our land and we are protecting our families.
On Monday the mayor Kharkiv said the city had been under constant attack by Russian forces, who had fired at central districts causing an unspecified number of casualties.
The man, who has not been identified, was filmed on the border with Poland returning to Ukraine.
The cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol are all surrounded by Russian forces, and subject to some of the most brutal shelling and missile strikes.
BBC correspondent Quentin Sommerville walked among a dozen corpses at a petrol station forecourt on the frontline near Kharkiv.
Someone off camera explains that the man "wants to take his place", referring to the gap in the Ukrainian forces left by his son's death.
Ukrainian troops said they were 'fighting like lions' as showed Mr Sommerville some of the dead soldiers lying dead in the snow.
A man said his son is one of at least 1,300 Ukrainian fighters who have lost their lives in battle, according to President Volodymyr Zelensky's latest update given on Sunday
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
Looking emotionally drained, he tells ViceWorldNews reporter Valerie Kipnis that his 23-year-old boy was killed fighting in Kharkiv.
The grieving dad turns his attention towards the Russian soldiers and their families and implores them: "Don't come here. You will die. You killed my son. I will kill your son."
