Have Ukraine and Russia made a neutrality plan  as signs of progress emerge
20220317
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-become-neutral-peace-talks-26491297
As a result of Vladimir Putin's orders, the war in Ukraine has caused devastation in major cities like Kyiv, Mariupol and Kharkiv. Millions have already fled their homes, heading west towards uncertainty and seeking refuge in surrounding countries such as Poland and Romania.
Head of the Russian delegation Vladimir Medinsky proposed an idea that Ukraine would be allowed an army, but would not be a member of NATO, like Sweden and Austria.
Neutrality would mean, according to reports, that foreign military bases or weapons would not be allowed into the country.
Before the invasion, Ukraine was a partner of NATO, meaning that it may have become a member state one day.
So will peace talks bring about any successful changes and is Ukraine any closer to an agreement that will bring an end to the devastating shelling?
The current understanding is that Ukraine is unlikely to become neutral, even as talks continue, as the country will see the recent invasion as obvious evidence that it should be able to protect itself from invading troops.
It is also reported that the territories annexed by Russia in 2014 could be a major difficulty in talks between the two
Mykhailo Podolyak, senior adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, rejected the idea of Ukrainian neutrality on March 16, 2022.
The Financial Times is reporting that an end to the fighting could involve a ceasefire, the withdrawal of Russian troops, Ukraine agreeing to accept neutrality and a restricted armed force. This means that Ukraine would not join NATO.
Peace talks between Ukraine and Russia are ongoing as the two countries look to an end to the suffering caused by war.
He said: "Ukraine has never been a militaristic state that attacks or plans to attack its neighbours...That is why today Ukraine wants to have a really strong pool of allies with clearly defined security guarantees."
Peace talks between Russia and Ukraine are continuing, with hopes that a deal may be reached soon.
Russia, though admitting that the invasion was not conducted as quickly as they would have liked, continue to insist that it is going to plan.
Russia was opposed to another NATO state being on its border and was also against Ukraine joining the European Union EU.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has had major consequences for millions of people and, while peace is vital for people in Ukraine, talks of Ukrainian neutrality have become a difficult point.
According to the Financial Times, a 15-point plan to end the fighting has been drawn up but there are some sticking points.
While the idea of not joining NATO may still tempt Ukraine in a bid for peace, the idea of neutrality in the wake of destroyed Ukrainian cities may not seem a good idea.
There may well be positive developments in talks between Russia and Ukraine soon in the hope of bringing an end to the suffering caused by Vladimir Putin's invasion
As long as Putin remains in power, the idea followed by him and members of the Kremlin that Ukraine should be part of Russia will not change. This, used partly as Putin's pretext for the invasion, means that Ukraine may always view the threat of another Russian invasion as a possibility.
