Heartstopping moment Ukrainian man carries bomb away while puffing cigarette
20220228
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/heart-stopping-moment-ukrainian-man-26344748
Dressed only in a black coat and blue jeans, he cradles the mine in his hands as he walks across the road.
This comes as the Russian invasion of Ukraine continues but the cities of Kyiv and Kharkiv have survived another night of fighting.
On top of that, the eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk is now reportedly back under Ukrainian control.
Donetsk is situated in the easternmost region of the country, and has been deep in Russian-backed separatist territories since 2014.
According to British and Ukrainian defence sources, Russian President Vladimir Putin had hoped to conquer Ukraine, its capital and major cities in just 48 hours.
It is unknown if the reported device was live at the time and the man has not been identified.
Social media has been inundated with countless videos from the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine.
One ordinary Ukrainian moved what appeared to be an explosive device away fbrom the road, carrying it casually in his bare hands as he smoked a cigarette.
The invasion, which began nearly 100 hours ago, is still being fiercely resisted by Ukrainian soldiers who have been engaged in fighting around the two largest cities.
The terrifying video shows a Ukrainian man picking up what is reportedly an explosive device and carrying it across the road as he smokes a cigarette before he walks it deep into the forest, out of harms way
He enters into the trees on the other side and keeps walking, holding the device as far away from him as possible.
On top of that, there are reports the country may send troops into Ukraine to help the struggling invasion, the Kyiv Independent reported.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, once the voice of Paddington Bear, said on Sunday that he needed to use every opportunity to secure peace, as Ukraine was due to meet with Russia for peace talks.
In the town of Berdyansk, south-east Ukraine, where Russian troops reportedly took control overnight, one man seems unperturbed by the fact hes carrying a deadly explosive device in his two hands.
However, even as talks about peace are ongoing, Belarus is set to hold a referendum about whether the country should hold nuclear weapons or not.
The country has remained a key ally of Russia throughout the invasion, and a prong of the Russian attack came through the country, across its border.
He walks deep into woods to try and put the reported mine far from anyone else.
He said: "I do not really believe in the outcome of this meeting, but let them try so that later not a single citizen of Ukraine has any doubt that I, as President, tried to stop the war, when there was even a small, but still a chance."
