How many nuclear weapons Russia has compared to UK US Europe and the rest of the world
20220227
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/how-many-nuclear-weapons-russia-26343526
Russia's nuclear weapons include intercontinental Ballistic Missiles, or ICBMs, have the ability to travel thousands of miles.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has been in place since 1970. It has been signed by the UK and US as well as the Soviet Union now Russia, and in total 191 countries have now joined the treaty.
Data produced by the  Arms Control Association  claims that both Russia and the US have thousands of nuclear weapons, with the UK, France and China all also numbering in the hundreds.
After the end of the Cold War in 1991 and the breakup of the Soviet Union - of which Ukraine was part - large numbers of nukes were left behind in Ukraine by Moscow.
It has sparked fears that Russia could use nuclear weapons against its enemies and former Putin advisor Sergei Markov told the BBC: "In Russia there's partial mobilisation and for your British listeners, Vladimir Putin told you that he would be ready to use nuclear weapons against Western countries... including against Great Britain."
Due to economic sanctions and the UK and its NATO allies supplying Ukraine with weapons in its fight against Putin's force, Russia considers the UK as an aggressor in the war.
However, Ukraine made the decision to get rid of the weapons, opting instead to fully denuclearise.
Despite this, the possibility of the incredible deadly weapons looks ever closer after Putin's threat.
The Kremlin leader said: "If the territorial integrity of our country is threatened, to defend Russia and our people, we will use all means we have. This is not a bluff."
"Those who try to blackmail us with nuclear weapons should know that the prevailing winds can turn in their direction."
He added: "The territorial integrity of our motherland, our independence and freedom will be secured, I repeat, with all the means we have.
The alarming statement comes as Ukraine continues its counteroffensive on Russian-occupied territory within its borders. Putin annexed Crimea in 2014 and has announced referendums in Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson.
Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a chilling warning to Western nations after saying it is "not a bluff" that he may turn to nuclear weapons.
The system has been in place since 1969, and can only be activated by the Prime Minister - currently Liz Truss - even if it is deployed as part of a NATO action.
The referendums are likely to be a little short of a sham but could lead to what Russia deems a 'justified' response in attacks on annexed territory.
The Russian President has escalated fears of nuclear weapons being used and insists "it is not a bluff". His troops are on the defensive in Ukraine and those close to the Kremlin leader have accused the UK of being and "aggressor"
Britain's nuclear deterrent is based in the Royal Navy, maintaining at least one nuclear-armed ballistic missile submarine in the ocean and undetected at all times.
Nuclear options represent the most drastic weapon in the armoury of superpowers and the decision to use them carries the gravest consequences possible.
