Hundreds of Russianmade items are removed from Asda Sainsburys Aldi and more
20220311
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/hundreds-russian-made-items-removed-26440593
Many major supermarkets have stopped selling Russian products, with some taking more significant action than others, reported the Liverpool Echo.
The supermarket giant has also recently renamed its Chicken Kiev to Kyiv - the Ukrainian capital - to stand with Ukraine.
Tesco said it will not be removing any products from its shelves, but it will not place any further orders with Russian suppliers.
Supermarket chains including Asda, Sainsbury's and Aldi have removed Russian-made items from their shelves following the invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin's forces
Sanctions have been imposed on a government level while companies have also individually decided to stop their trade with Russian firms.
They said in a statement: "We stand together with Aldi colleagues across the world and will be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal."
Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter
A spokesperson for Tesco reportedly stated that it would no longer be buying products from businesses that are wholly Russian-owned.
At the start of the month, Aldi announced that they would be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal.
"We have reviewed our product range and have decided to remove from sale all products that are 100 sourced from Russia."
A spokesperson for the Co-op said the decision to remove the sale of Russian-made vodka was "a sign of solidarity with the people of Ukraine".
Major supermarket chains in the UK have removed hundreds of Russian made products from their shelves in protest at the invasion of Ukraine.
It is thought that the boycott of Russian goods along with other economic sanctions could force Vladimir Putin into ending the invasion.
Asda has confirmed it is removing all products that originate from Russia from its stores and online - around 100 items in total.
A spokesman for Morrisons, meanwhile, said: We have taken action on our vodka lines today including delisting Russian Standard.
On March 4, Asda and its charity, the Asda Foundation, announced a 1m package to support displaced Ukrainian families in Europe and the UK.
A statement from the supermarket read: We are supporting humanitarian relief efforts through our partnerships with the Red Cross, food banks and other relief organisations to help those affected in Ukraine and neighbouring countries.
After initially not confirming the donation amount, the supermarket confirmed they would be donating a further 5 million euros to established aid organisations to "ensure help reaches those that need it most."
Asdas co-owner Mohsin Issa said: We stand with our customers and colleagues who are shocked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine  and our thoughts are with those people whose lives are affected by this crisis.
Asda, Sainsbury's, Aldi and Waitrose are among the stores that have taken a stand against Russia, with its actions in Ukraine having been widely condemned around the world.
Waitrose and John Lewis said earlier this month they would no longer sell products made in Russia, starting with Russian vodka and one line of pizza oven pellets.
