Inside terrifying evacuation of Kyiv as homes hit with missiles and Russia inches closer
20220225
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/inside-terrifying-evacuation-kyiv-homes-26333352
She spoke no English but opened her window and signalled to ask me if Id like her to make me one as well.
But to see them standing there - with their commanders sitting on the top ready for action - so close to a motorway service station was particularly chilling.
Before we left at 8am I had already been evacuated for fear of a missile attack into a deep underground car park - twice!
The rest fled wondering if they would ever be able to return to their homes.
On the other side of the carriageway as we headed west several convoys of Ukrainian troops were racing back down into Kyiv ready for the fight ahead.
On one of the countrys busiest motorways we passed a squadron of Ukrainian tanks hiding in the verges.
One woman was making a cheese and tomato sandwich on her lap for her young son.
These claims have not yet been independently verified but a human rights monitoring team from the United Nations has confirmed more than 500 civilian casualties in Ukraine.
The Polish border may be over 500 miles away from Kyiv but they wanted to make a start.
On March 1, Ukraine claimed to have killed 5,710 Russian soldiers since the start of the invasion.
For security reasons we had been ordered to leave Kyiv immediately as Russian tanks rolled in perilously close to our hotel.
But everyone knew the enormity of the situation and I only heard one angry toot of a horn during the gruelling 13 hours trek.
Many cars had children and grannies and several had pet cats and dogs. One woman had her brown pomeranian sitting in her lap in the front seat - constantly stroking it to give the dog reassurance.
Mirror reporter Andy Lines was among those who had to leave Kyiv because Russian tanks were getting close to his hotel.
We passed the same cars on the three-lane carriageway so often that we ended up on nodding terms.
They were huge and some drivers were forced to resort to pushing their vehicles to the pumps to make use of every last bit of fuel.
The journey to Lviv took 14 hours but it was a route for safety for so many.
Bachelet, addressing the opening session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, previously said: "Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes. The real figures are, I fear, considerably higher."
He was driving his light blue battered old Lada with just one working rear brake light.
And there chaotic scenes at the main railway station as people clamoured to get on the last trains out.
As cars edged past us they were all packed many with four or five people squeezed into the back seat.
It comes as Ukraine's President accused Russia of 'state terrorism' on Tuesday after the indiscriminate bombing of Kharkiv.
At least 136 people have been killed, including 13 children, a UN report showed on Tuesday.
Along the side of the road armed camouflaged soldiers hid under netting, surrounded by green sandbags, waiting for any Russian troops heading in.
When we were still in Kiev, before we reached the countryside, there was a massive military presence.
EXCLUSIVE: Mirror reporter Andy Lines was among thousands of people who had to flee Kyiv today as Russian tanks got close to the Ukrainian capital. People left the city by car, train, bus, bike and even on foot
Carrying huge rucksacks, supermarket shopping bags and wheeling suitcases they walked along the hard shoulder.
There was one three hour period when our driver never once got into second gear.
What was more incredible we passed thousands and thousands of people actually WALKING to safety.
Several people gave me a thumbs up and reassuring wave when they realised we were journalists.
With Putin's troops shelling cities across Ukraine and the nation's army vowing to fight to the death to defend their land, observers fear the death toll will be enormous.
Ten miles out from Kyiv a group, including several women, stood at the roadside trying to hitch a lift.
On Sunday, February 27, Ukraine's health minister reported that at least 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, and more than 1,000 wounded.
I came to pick up my son who lives in Kyiv. I came yesterday when I heard that Kyiv was shelled.
The unprovoked invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Russian forces on the command of President Vladimir Putin has sparked bloodshed and chaos.
We had inched along mile after mile after mile on the E40 before reaching the MO6.
