Inside the Mariupol siege Constant shelling overwhelmed hospitals and starving people
20220305
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/inside-mariupol-siege-constant-shelling-26394955
So-called humanitarian corridors or other measures aimed at providing respite to those affected by conflict must be well planned and implemented with the agreement of the parties to the conflict.
The nightmare was promised to be nearly at an end today as the Kremlin and Ukraine agreed some of its half a million population could leave through a humanitarian corridor.
Instead the attacks never abated leaving the citys mayor Vadym Boychenko no choice but to cancel the evacuation, fearing it would leave more dead.
The evacuation of thousands of people from the war-torn city in the south east of Ukraine was due to start this morning, with Moscow promising to stop attacks to allow them to leave.
"We tried to get free water today but the queue was huge. We also wanted to get social bread but it is not clear the schedule and the places of distribution.
The Red Cross added: We remain in dialogue with the parties about the safe passage of civilians from different cities affected by the conflict.
"According to people, multiple grocery stores were destroyed by missiles and the remaining things were taken by people in desperate need.
Several grocery stores have been destroyed by missiles. Those left standing have been emptied of food and medicine by desperate people trying to survive.
"Our apartment building is full of people now because everyone is fleeing the shelling into the city centre.
The mayor earlier said they have no way of knowing how many people have died in the city and he has no idea if his family have so far survived.
The coastal city of Mariupol, once the safe home of 500,000 Ukrainians, has no power or water and starving people have emptied shops for food and medicine in desperation
These claims have not yet been independently verified but a human rights monitoring team from the United Nations has confirmed more than 500 civilian casualties in Ukraine.
Virtually cut off from the rest of the world, people have to rely on rainwater from gutters to quench their thirst whilst there is little that can be done for their hunger.
He said thousands of people had gathered for safe passage out of the city and buses were departing when shelling began.
On March 1, Ukraine claimed to have killed 5,710 Russian soldiers since the start of the invasion.
It comes as the United Nations estimates 12 million people in Ukraine and four million fleeing to neighbouring countries in the coming months will soon need humanitarian aid.
Its people have suffered near constant shelling for days on end, leaving them without power, heating, power or lights in near freezing conditions.
"Some people have come from the left bank district and they said it was a total disaster there and there were bodies in the streets.
Regardless of whether humanitarian corridors are implemented in the coming days, parties must continue to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure under international humanitarian law both for those who choose to leave and those who remain.
Bachelet, addressing the opening session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, previously said: "Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes. The real figures are, I fear, considerably higher."
"This night the shelling was harder and closer. We collected snow and rain water yesterday to have some utility water.
It comes as Ukraine's President accused Russia of 'state terrorism' on Tuesday after the indiscriminate bombing of Kharkiv.
At least 136 people have been killed, including 13 children, a UN report showed on Tuesday.
Earlier Mariupol resident Maxim, 27, told the BBC how he had videos of smoke from explosions near the city centre.
He added: "We value the life of every inhabitant of Mariupol and we cannot risk it, so we stopped the evacuation.
Mdecins Sans Frontires called for a safe route out of the city and said that several members of its staff had been trapped in Mariupol.
Aid agencies have tried to deliver food such as bread but dare not stay still for fear they would be killed by Russian shells.
The scenes in Mariupol and in other cities today are heart-breaking. Any initiative from the parties that gives civilians a respite from the violence and allows them to voluntarily leave for safer areas is welcome.
With Putin's troops shelling cities across Ukraine and the nation's army vowing to fight to the death to defend their land, observers fear the death toll will be enormous.
On Sunday, February 27, Ukraine's health minister reported that at least 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, and more than 1,000 wounded.
The unprovoked invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Russian forces on the command of President Vladimir Putin has sparked bloodshed and chaos.
Besieged people of Mariupol, promised a ceasefire so they could escape the horrors of war, had to dodge constant Russian shelling as innocent residents are killed in the streets.
As a neutral and impartial humanitarian intermediary, we stand ready to help facilitate the safe passage of civilians once the parties have reached an agreement and that its terms are strictly humanitarian for the ICRC to be involved.
