Is Vladimir Putin the richest man alive Elon Musk says president significantly richer
20220504
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-richest-man-alive-26870511
The earliest reports of Putins enormous wealth go back to 2018, wen speculation began that he was the worlds richest man.
He retook the throne of richest person in late 2021, when he passed Amazons Jeff Bezos in the rankings.
Over the last few years, it has been accepted that the Tesla, SpaceX and Boring Company CEO has achieved the enviable feet of becoming the worlds richest man.
Yet, Bill Browder, a hedge fund manager and critic of Putin claimed his net worth was closer to $200 billion 159.83 billion in ill-gotten games, which he testified to the US Senate in 2017, according to The Atlantic.
During the interview with Axel Springer, he said: "I think the American government has done more than people may realise. But it is just not been very public.
But it is important to do something serious. We cannot let Putin take over Ukraine. This is crazy."
On top of this, the Russian president has been linked to a $1.4 billion 1.12 billion palace on the Black Sea and a $4 million 3.2 million Monaco apartment.
However, in a recent interview with Axel Springer, Musk revealed: I do think that Putin is significantly richer than me.
It's hard to determine the net worth of the president, but taking all his assets into account, Musk may be right.
Elon Musk is the richest person in the world, but the man himself disagrees. The Tesla CEO recently revealed he think Vladimir Putin is richer, potentially taking the mega-achievement away from himself
The billionaires club is getting a little crowded at top nowadays, but only one person can truly be on top.
However, in a recent interview, the electric car manufacturer revealed he thinks Russian president Vladimir Putin is actually richer.
This is a cumulative total combined from all his companies including SpaceX, Tesla, The Boring Company and Neuralink.
Here are all the details on who really is the worlds richest person as of 2022.
However, this doesnt match Putins lifestyle, as former Russian government adviser Stanislav Belkovsky estimated his fortune is worth $70 billion 55 billion, according to Insider.
Ultimately, unless Putin discloses the his net worth, it wont be known just who really is the worlds richest man.
