Joe Biden warns clear sign Putin may use chemical weapons with back against the wall
20220322
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/joe-biden-warns-clear-sign-26525521
The US President issued the strongest warning yet that Russia s leader is considering using both types of weapon in the increasingly bloody war in Ukraine.
He added: Now he's talking about new false flags he's setting up including, asserting that we in America have biological as well as chemical weapons in Europe, simply not true.
Asked if that is what he expects next, the Prime Minister replied: I just note that that is what theyre already doing - its a cynical, barbaric government Im afraid.
President Bidens warning came after days of increasingly nervous briefings that Putin could use chemical weapons from both sides of the Atlantic.
In a grim twist in the Ukraine-Russia war, the US President said Vladimir Putin's back was 'against the wall' and there are 'clear' signs he is considering using both chemical and biological weapons
He told Sky News new show Beth Rigby Interviews: Ill make you one other prediction by the way, which is the stuff youre hearing about chemical weapons is straight out of their playbook.
Nearly 6.5 million people have been uprooted from homes, the United Nations says. Just over 8,000 people were evacuated on Monday.
And so when they themselves deploy chemical weapons, as I fear they may, they have a sort of fake story ready to go.
Biden also told businesses to be alert for cyber attacks by Russia. "It's part of Russia's playbook," he said in a statement.
The Russian embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the latest comments by the US President.
A UK government minister today warned any use of chemical or biological weapons by Russian forces in Ukraine would "undoubtedly" be a war crime.
There is a clear sign Vladimir Putin could use chemical and biological weapons in Ukraine because his back is against the wall, Joe Biden said last night.
Russia summoned the US Ambassador to Moscow yesterday to complain about Biden saying of Putin: I think he is a war criminal.
They start saying that there are chemical weapons that have been stored by their opponents or the Americans.
Russian artillery continues to blast the eastern cities of Kharkhiv, Sumy and Chernihiv - while in the capital Kyiv, shells hit a shopping centre on Sunday evening, killing at least eight people.
The Prime Minister was the most senior figure yet to sound the alarm after concerns about chemical weapons were voiced over the last 24 hours by Western officials, the US, and Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
Russian troops have failed to capture any major Ukrainian city more than four weeks into their invasion.
They are increasingly are resorting to massive destruction of residential areas with air strikes, long-range missiles and artillery.
Russian forces were expected to continue to attack critical infrastructure with "high-precision weapons and indiscriminate munitions'', Ukraine's armed forces said in a statement.
Speaking to Sky News, business minister Paul Scully added: "This is Vladimir Putin's war, the Kremlin's war against Ukraine. It is not the Russian people's. We have to make sure that we can appeal to the Russian people to bring an end to this."
They are also suggesting that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons in Ukraine. That's a clear sign he's considering using both of those."
It comes as some bury neighbours in roadside graves in the besieged port city of Mariupol.
Boris Johnson declared on March 10 that he fears Russia may use chemical weapons in Ukraine.
