Kate Middleton and Prince William pet goats on a Welsh farm as they mark St Davids Day
20220301
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/kate-middleton-prince-william-pet-26355567
They also met with crowds that had gathered to catch a glimpse of them at the market.
Like many South Wales valley towns, Blaenavon has had to overcome economic hardship in the last 30 years  and the Hwb aims to help the next generation reach its potential by providing a space for learning and supporting vulnerable young people.
There they petted the goats, with one even biting William's hand and another chewing Kate's coat.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge petted goats as they visited a farm on a day trip to Wales today.
Afterwards, they rolled up their sleeves and joined young people at the Blaenavon Hwb, a community-focused youth centre, to make the teatime treat of Welsh cakes.
Prince William and Kate Middleton are visiting Wales on St David's Day, where they are celebrating the nation's people and culture - and also paid a visit to a goat farm
"Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraine's people as they bravely fight for that future."
Love the royals? Sign up for the Mirror's daily newsletter to get all the latest news on the Queen, Charles, Kate, Wills, Meghan, Harry and the rest of The Firm. Click here to sign up.
The couple later visited Abergavenny Market to learn first-hand about the significance of local suppliers, where Kate swapped her flat boots and casual jacket for heels and a smart coat.
The duke and duchess also took the opportunity to celebrate an important historical moment as they planted "a tree for the Jubilee in Blaenavon as part of the Queens Green Canopy, an initiative created to celebrate the Queens 70-year reign.
William and Kate visited Wales on St Davids Day to celebrate the nations people and culture - and looked dressed down and casual on their first stop of the day.
On Saturday, the couple issued a rare, personal message saying they stood with the people of Ukraine as the Russian invasion of the country continues.
William and Kate's trip to Wales came just hours after they were thanked by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky for their support amid the Russian invasion.
And this morning, President Zelensky took to Twitter to say he and his wife Olena Zelenska were grateful for their support.
The couple toured Pant Farm near Abergavenny where Gary and Jess Yeomans produce milk, from dairy goats, used by a local cheese makers.
He wrote: "Olena and I are grateful to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge that, at this crucial time, when Ukraine is courageously opposing Russia s invasion, they stand by our country and support our brave citizens. Good will triumph.
They wrote: "In October 2020 we had the privilege to meet President Zelenskyy and the First Lady to learn of their hope and optimism for Ukraine's future.
Representatives of the wider farming sector, both in Wales and the UK, also met with William and Kate to discuss the importance of agriculture to the local economy.
