Kremlin plunged into panic and Putin may resort to Plan B Russia journalist says
20220315
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/kremlin-plunged-panic-putin-resort-26469720
The missile is seen as one of the deadliest on the modern-day battlefield, so much so that its use is strictly regulated.
Oleksiy Arestovich, an adviser to the Ukrainian president's chief of staff, said: "We are at a fork in the road now. there will either be a peace deal struck very quickly, within a week or two, with troop withdrawal and everything, or there will be an attempt to scrape together some, say, Syrians for a round two and, when we grind them too, an agreement by mid-April or late April."
Invading Russian forces have hardly moved in recent days and the Russian attack is now largely focused on intense shelling and airstrikes as opposed to more tactical takeovers
It comes as Putin has been forced to admit the deaths of several high-ranking officers in what Russia continues to call a 'special military operation'.
It follows Putin's confirmation of the death of Major-General Andrey Sukhovetsky, a top paratrooper in Vladimir Putin's invading forces, who is alleged to have been killed by a sniper during a 'special operation' in Ukraine.
The Putin regime today acknowledged the deaths of Major Alexei Vorsyuchenko and Sergeant Pavel Bogatyrev from the VDV's 76th Air Assault Division.
Invading forces have hardly moved in recent days and the Russian attack is now largely focused on intense shelling and airstrikes as opposed to more tactical manoeuvres.
The Kremlin is said to have been plunged into panic as the Russian invasion of Ukrainian falters - which could prompt Putin to execute 'plan B', according to a Russian expert.
Now, as Russia fails to make the inroads into key cities, there are growing fears Putin could decide to strike at the civilian population with non-conventional weapons - such as thermobaric bombs.
They are fired by the TOS-1A, an armoured rocket launcher, which can be used to destroy infrastructure and due the heat it produces it can cause massive damage to internal organs and cause flash burns.
Christo Grozev, lead Russian investigator at Bellingcat, said: "The situation in the Kremlin... indicates that the war will continue in a week or two. There will be a shift, the question is what.
The cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol are all surrounded by Russian forces, and subject to some of the most brutal shelling and missile strikes.
Follow our live blog for all the latest updates on the war in Ukraine here
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
"There will be no quick exit, so it is important to understand what is happening inside the Kremlins elite, the special services, which have now accepted and understood that it has been proven that plan A has failed. There is a standby mode."
A senior UK defence source is reported to have said that "Ukraine has Russia on the run" and the attacker was running out of both manpower and energy.
He says the second option is more likely as, entering into the third week of the invasion, Russia continues attacks on Ukraine's cities.
A "completely crazy" scenario could also involve Russia sending fresh conscripts after a month of training to storm Ukrainian cities, he said.
