Kyiv TV tower explodes after Russia warns of missile strikes in Ukraine capital
20220301
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-kyiv-tv-tower-explodes-26359501
In a statement issued this afternoon, the Russian defence ministry said it was planning to hit targets in Kyiv.
Kyiv's TV tower exploded in the areas of Borshchahivka and Dorohozhychi in Ukraine moments after a Russian warning and the reverberations of the blast were said to be heard for miles around
It is understood Putin had intended to move in and quickly take Kyiv within 48 hours, an alleged plan which if true has spectacularly failed.
The Russian leader has always stressed that Moscow had "no plans of occupying Ukrainian territories".
Russian troops are yet to take a major city or solidify any hold on those areas they have taken amid bloody combat.
It saw reverberations spreading far and wide, with Ukraine's adviser to the interior ministry squarely pointing the finger at Moscow.
Devastating air assaults and ground attacks have ensued on opposing military forces and civilians, including children, as the war rumbles into its sixth day.
Five people have been killed after Kyiv's TV tower was targeted in the latest attack by Russia, according to Ukrainian officials.
It comes as Vladimir Putin's devastating invasion showed no signs of slowing, with his government pre-warning those living near the hulking intelligence structure to evacuate.
Ukraine's official advisor to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Anton Herashchenko, confirmed the tower's signal had potentially been disrupted.
The devastating blast took place just minutes after the Kremlin warned all Ukrainians to flee the region.
The statement read: "We urge Ukrainian citizens who are being used by nationalists to carry out provocations against Russia, as well as Kyiv residents residing near relay stations to leave their home."
Almost immediately after his TV address in the early hours of last Thursday, air raids began across Ukraine with the invading forces moving in on the capital over the weekend.
Russian officials said their forces were preparing strikes on the "technological centres of the Ukrainian Security Service and the 72nd main PsyOps centre in Kyiv".
He had said some Moscow troops - which numbered nearly 200,000 lying in wait on the Ukrainian border - would move across the border and act as peacemakers.
The attack happened a few hours after diplomats staged a mass walkout as the United Nation's Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov delivered a speech.
According to Russian state-owned TV, the Ministry of Defence is planning further strikes on Ukrainian intel and Military Relay Facilities in Kyiv.
Putin launched a special military operation in his former fellow Soviet nation last week after supposedly responding to a request by the heads of so-called People's Republics in the Donbass border regions.
Footage circulating on social media shows thick plumes of black smoke spilling from the site in the district of Dorogozhychi - while air raid sirens reminded residents to race to bomb shelters.
Though this has been contested by western powers who are aiming to heavily sanction Russia and cripple its economy.
