Legendary Ukraine medic who helped both sides killed by Russian shelling
20220306
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/legendary-ukraine-medic-who-helped-26397741
This weekend her body was buried at a cemetery in Kyiv, draped in the Ukraine flag.
A previous ceasefire of Saturday was not upheld. "Hopefully, today we will manage to make the evacuation based on the agreement reached bilaterally between officials both on Ukrainian and Russian sides."
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Olha Stefanishyna has said the situation in her country was getting "more and more severe".
Ms Stefanishyna hit out at Western leaders who refused to impose a no-fly zone over her country.
Ms Stefanishyna said the situation reported in the city of Mariupol was replicated across other cities, but the port city would again be the site of a temporary ceasefire on Sunday to try and allow citizens to leave.
"My President was as precise as it is possible and we absolutely support from the bottom of his, of our, hearts in everything he says because this is what we feel," she said.
She said: "This is how the reality looks but it seems like ... it does not look like it is on the agenda for the new wave of sanctions to be introduced by the democratic world."
"It is very upsetting when the group of 30 leaders or ministers or even ambassadors are ... gathering itself in a fancy cabinet, with the fancy furniture, and talking about the fancy thing, knowing that Ukraine was over this table for all of these years sitting in this fancy offices.
Reports around Ms Pushich's death have not been independently verified but Ukraine media says she was killed by Russian shelling in the Ukraine capital.
Her medical work in the war so far had quickly seen her described as 'legendary' among the Ukrainian resistance.
Valentina Pushich - known as Romashka - was a medic in the Ukraine army's 72nd brigade.
Ms Stefanishyna said despite agreements over ceasefires, Ukrainians would "never trust" what the Russians say.
Valentina Pushich, a brave battlefield medic in the 72nd brigade, is reported to have been killed in action - she has been buried at a Kyiv cemetery with her coffin draped in the Ukraine flag
A 'legendary' battlefield medic who worked to save lives on both sides of the war has been killed in action.
"But now knowing that we can't be there because we are operating under the bombarding of the Russian Federation and knowing that their intelligence also confirms that further severe attacks on the civil population - including carpet bombarding of the cities, which are basically happening these days already in some cities - will be taking place."
Ms Stefanishyna told the BBC's Sunday Morning programme that Russian forces were shelling hospitals, nurseries and schools, and civilian homes.
