Liz Truss warns Russian victory in Ukraine would mean West never feels safe again
20220426
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/liz-truss-warns-russian-victory-26805789
She will call on Western nations to learn lessons of Ukraine and adopt new approach to global security.
Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said "Liz Truss's speech appears to be an admission of failure after more than a decade of decline".
The commitment by alliance members to pump at least 2 into their militaries should be a floor, not a ceiling, she will stress.
Opening the possibility of Britain sending warplanes to help the fight against the Kremlin, she will tell guests in the City: We cannot be complacent, the fate of Ukraine remains in the balance - and lets be clear, if Putin succeeds there will be untold further misery across Europe and terrible consequences across the globe.
He added: "The Conservatives wrongly de-emphasised European security in the Integrated Review, made deep cuts to the British army over many years, gave up soft power through cutting development, and hurt alliances with Europe and the United States including by risking peace in Northern Ireland."
We would never feel safe again so we must be prepared for the long haul and double down on our support for Ukraine heavy weapons, tanks, aeroplanes  digging deep into our inventories, ramping up production.
A Russian victory in Ukraine would mean the West would never feel safe again, Liz Truss warns today.
Ms Truss will say the war should be a catalyst for rebooting, remodelling and recasting a global security architecture that has failed Ukraine.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss issued a grim warning over the 'terrible consequences' for the world of Vladimir Putin triumphing in Ukraine
The Foreign Secretary - tipped to run for the Tory leadership if Boris Johnson is ousted - will warn the fate of Ukraine remains in the balance and urge allies to double down in ensuring Russia loses.
The Foreign Secretary will use the annual Mansion House speech to highlight the threat of Vladimir Putin triumphing in the war.
