London should be hit with nuclear missile strike Vladimir Putin ally threatens
20220809
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-state-tv-commentator-threatens-27693173
Aleksey Mukhin, head of the Centre for Political Information, said: "This would trigger the mutual destruction protocol, so I would honestly refrain from making such statements."
Switching off the energy, lack of gas, marauders on the streets, hassles with the police and desperate people's attempts to survive. There will be no food, no electricity, and no gas. And the main thing is there will be no hope."
Petro Kotin, the head of Ukraine's nuclear power company Enerhoatom, told the BBC : "They Russian forces use it the power plant like a shield against the Ukrainian forces, because nobody from Ukraine is going to do something.
Another pundit clamped down on Kot's comments, warning that such a tactic would be disastrous.
Kot went further and said: "If Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant is damaged and a disaster occurs, two missiles will immediately strike your decision-making centres. One in Washington, the other in London.
Yury Kot, leader of the pro-Russian Ukrainian 'Parus' movement, said the West was creating a "fictional reality" regarding the situation involving the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
Officials vented their frustration as Zaporizhzhia became caught in the crosshairs of the Russia-Ukraine war, with both sides blaming each other for shelling the plant.
"The Ukrainian Armed Forces know that these are Ukrainian personnel and this is a Ukrainian plant and there are Ukrainian people there so we aren't going to kill our people, our staff and damage our infrastructure."
Rafael Grossi, Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, added: "I'm extremely concerned by the shelling at Europes largest nuclear power plant, which underlines the very real risk of a nuclear disaster that could threaten public health and the environment in Ukraine and beyond."
A pro-Russian Ukrainian has brazenly called for nuclear strikes on London and Washington DC if the West damages Russian-held Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant
Damage to a high-voltage power line caused engineers to shut down the reactor over the weekend, though no radioactive leak occurred and Russia insists the plant they control is operating normally.
The attacks on the plant earned the fury of United Nations Secretary General Antion Guterres, who said damage to Zaporizhzhia was "suicidal".
Russian state TV has given airtime to a Pro-Vladimir Putin Ukrainian calling for nuclear strikes on London and Washington DC.
Rossiya 1 channel Putin propagandist Igor Korotchenko said the world is "doomed" and there is a "nuclear winter" coming.
The reserve colonel said: "Millions of Europeansare terrified by winter coming. It will be like a nuclear winter. An apocalypse before our eyes.
"We need to tell Ukraine and it's supporting countries - Britain and America foremost... and make it clear."
Putin has been surrounded by grandstanding since the start of the war, with supporters stating outlandish claims of their hopes for the West struggling in the coming months.
Vladimir Putin is accused of engineering a scenario involving an 'attack' on the plant in the future in which Russia could argue they are justified in responding with a serious escalation of the war.
