Martin Lewis explains what the RussiaUkraine crisis could mean for UK energy bills
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/martin-lewis-explains-what-russia-26324621
It will affect default tariff customers who havent switched to a fixed deal and those who remain with their new supplier after their previous supplier exited the market.
Martin Lewis has explained whether the conflict between Ukraine and Russia means households in the UK should now fix into an energy deal.
Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter
The viewer, known only as Mike, said: I watch the show every week and am aware of the advice on energy supplies to do nothing BUT because of the situation in Ukraine today, the price of gas has gone up by 40. Would a fix now be advisable?
The conflict between Russia and Ukraine will also have a knock-on economic impact across the world, with Martin Lewis explaining what it could mean for UK energy bills
In response, Martin said it would be a gamble to fix as no one can be sure of how energy prices will fluctuate this year.
Ultimately, until April were on a cheap rate, from April were on a cheaper rate than any fixes - so its a gamble. I dont know and I cant give you the right answer.
On his ITV Money Show Live show this evening, Martin was asked by one concerned viewer what the Russia-Ukraine conflict could mean for his energy bill.
He added: This is a horrible situation first of all for people in Ukraine and energy is secondary.
This is because the price of these fuels is linked to Brent crude, which increased to more than $100 74.29 a barrel as Russia moved into Ukraine.
The move will affect some 22 million households and follows a 12 rise in October.
Ive said before, if you can find a fix within 60 of the current price cap, its probably worth it. Back of the envelope, its probably now 80 if you want peace of mind.
For those who want "peace of mind" Martin suggests you should still only consider fixing if you can find a fixed deal within 60 of the current price cap - pushing up to 80 for those who are really worried.
The price cap sets a limit on the rates a supplier can charge for each unit of gas and electricity you use and is reviewed twice a year.
But the crisis will also have a knock-on economic impact across the world - especially in the UK, where it is feared fuel and energy costs will rise as a result.
UK households are braced for a huge jump in energy bills from April, when the price cap will rise by 693 from 1,277 to 1,971.
Russia today launched a full-scale invasion on Ukraine, with thousands of its troops being sent toward and around the borders of the Eastern European country and its capital Kyiv.
This is the first time Brent crude has cost more than $100 74.29 a barrel since 2014. Europe also gets around 40 of its natural gas from Russia.
However, if wholesale gas prices were to stay at the level reached today, then the MoneySavingExpert founder says we could see another 50 rise in the price cap, bringing the typical bill to 3,000 a year in October.
Prepayment customers will be worse hit, with an increase of 708 from 1,309 to 2,017.
