Moment devastating Ukraine drone strikes obliterate two Russian convoys
20220228
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/moment-devastating-ukraine-drone-strikes-26344988
Kyiv claimed that half of the military vehicles that entered Kharkiv had been destroyed, with photos and videos from the scene showing gutted, burned out tanks and transporters littering the streets.
A Russian convoy of more than a dozen vehicles has been obliterated by the Ukrainian Air Force using drones.
The chief of Ukraine s Air Force, Lt. Gen. Mykola Oleshchuk said they used Turkish -made Bayraktar TB2 drones for the strikes.
Footage released by the Ukrainian embassy showed the vehicles being destroyed near Malyn, a city around 60 miles from capital Kyiv.
The UK Ministry of Defence has said that Kharkiv remains under Ukrainian control this morning.
One showed the convoy seconds before the missile strike and another was shot from a moving vehicle of a number of destroyed vehicles.
The Russian representative said ahead of the crunch meeting any agreement should be in the best interests of both sides.
Another strike was carried out near Chornobaivka, in the south of the country, which has experienced heavy fighting since the start of the invasion last week.
The Belarus Foreign Ministry released a photo of the negotiating table, complete with Russian and Ukrainian flags.
A room has been prepared in a location close to the Ukrainian-Belorussian border for talks between Russia and Ukraine.
The invading forces had entered the country's second city, which is in the north east, only to be firmly rebuffed by Ukrainian soldiers.
Kharkiv airport came under heavy shelling overnight, according to reports on social media, while gunfire could be heard ringing out in the darkness.
An air raid alert sounded in the city at about 4.30am local time with residents urged to head to the nearest shelter.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky added: As always: I do not really believe in the outcome of this meeting, but let them try."
the Belorussian foreign ministry said on social media: The venue for talks between Russia and Ukraine in Belarus has been prepared, the arrival of delegations is expected.
Later today the world will hold its collective breath when negotiators from the war-torn country and the aggressors meet for talks on the border with Belarus.
The Ukrainian Air Force has taken out Russian convoys in two drone strikes using Turkish made weapons, with videos showing the missile strike and the ruined remains of the vehicles
Overnight there was fierce fighting in Ukraines second largest city, Kharkiv, after Russia failed to take it by force on Sunday.
