More than 40000 of Vladimir Putins troops have been wounded in Ukraine officials believe
20220601
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/more-40000-vladimir-putins-troops-27125064
Russia's nuclear forces are holding drills in the Ivanovo province, northeast of Moscow, the Interfax news agency cited the Russian defence ministry as saying.
Were looking at a conflict thats got the potential to run at least to the end of this year and possibly longer, they added.
"I think the number wounded in action is probably north of 40,000." This does not include the number captured by Ukrainian forces.
A Western official said Russia is "starting to learn from its mistakes and make advances in the Donbas". But over the last month Putin's forces have advanced just 500 metres to one kilometre per day, the official said.
A Western official said the rockets will be a "real complication for Russian forces" but are "not going to turn the tide" on their own.
That weapons system will enable counter-battery fire to go after Russian artillery in a deeper, more effective way.
Russia criticised the decision to supply advanced rocket systems and munitions to Ukraine, warning of an increased risk of direct confrontation with Washington.
The "long" conflict will last at least until the end of 2022 as Russia still wants to take at least the large part of Ukraine, the senior official predicted.
"The fact they've narrowed the nature of their advance has meant they're still taking casualties, but they're taking them in smaller numbers than they were previously.
More than 40,000 Russian troops have been wounded in action and 15,000 killed during the Ukraine war, Western officials believe.
The official said it is "difficult at the moment to see any path to a negotiated settlement any time soon.
Meanwhile the United States said it would supply advanced rockets to Kyiv to help force Moscow to negotiate an end to the war.
European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian crude oil imports that will take full effect by the end of the year.
It comes after the US announced it is sending the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System HIMARS to Ukrainian forces.
But President Zelensky's estimate that 60 to 100 Ukrainian troops a day are being killed is "pretty credible", they admitted today.
The Western official said: "My estimate would be that the number killed in action for Russia is more than 15,000 now, but I think not necessarily significantly more.
And there are "a lot more challenge to come" before Russian troops can reach the city of Kramatorsk, including rivers that would be difficult to cross while under fire.
Ukraine's 2022 wheat harvest is likely to drop to 19.2 million tonnes from a record 33 million tonnes in 2021, Ukrainian grain traders' union UGA said.
It came as the US prepared to send advance HIMARS rockets to Ukrainian forces - and Western officials warn the war will last at least until the end of this year
"Its a weapons system which is highly mobile, and is particularly effective in terms of being able to engage targets and move, or engage multiple targets in very quick succession.
It came as Russian forces pressed closer to the centre of the industrial city of Sievierodonetsk in a drive to grab a swathe of eastern Ukraine.
