Nursery school children dragged into Russian prowar Z propaganda campaign
20220317
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nursery-school-children-dragged-russian-26492452
A Russian source with close military connections said the public would be "horrified" when they discovered the true war toll.
Nursery school children have been dragged into Russia's pro-war 'Z' propaganda campaign with Vladimir Putin even demanding shows of loyalty from youngsters.
Russia has not updated its official death toll for weeks, but it is believed to stretch well into the thousands now.
The songs lyrics include: "There is fire and strength in the word Russia, and victory flame. We raise the flag of Russia."
Teachers at Kindergarten No. 11 in Vyborgsky district posed in Z-formation, as they did at Kindergarten No.116.
It didn't stop there, in the Novosibirsk region of Siberia, more children, this time aged around three, were posed with a large letter Z.
At the time, these figures were believe to be less than the true number and there are now suspicions the authorities fear a public backlash if the real toll becomes known when Russian forces have so far failed to fulfil the aims of the invasion.
More major shows of patriotism and pro-war propaganda using the Z-insignia are expected on Friday as Russia marks its eighth anniversary of the annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.
At nurseries in St Petersburg, children were instructed to make cardboard tanks and military-themed drawings.
The letter 'Z', not from Russia's Cyrillic alphabet, was attached onto a number of Russian ranks and personnel vehicles that were invading Ukraine.
As of March 2, the country had declared 498 troops had died and 1,597 were wounded in the initial days of fighting.
Some have reported that the Z-propaganda wave was created by head of RT Margarita Simonyan, one of Putin's leading cheerleaders, who has not denied the claim.
As apart of Russia's every growing pro-war 'Z' propaganda campaign even nursery school children aged three and four, across Russia have been dragged in with shows of loyalty to the invasion of Ukraine
Russia's smallest children were apart of this PR stunt as in eastern city Ussuriysk, almost 6,000 miles from Kyiv, children around the age of four were lined up in a Z-shape.
In what appears to be an orchestrated propaganda campaign educational and public bodies all outwardly showed support for the country's invasion of Ukraine.
They were given Russian flags to wave as a patriotic song 'Go, Russia ' blared from the loudspeakers.
Kindergartens across Russia's 11 time zones have been strong armed into showing their "patriotism" by posing with the infamous 'Z' pro-war symbol.
Why else have they not tried to offer a new death toll figure? asked a Western diplomat familiar with Moscows ways.
Meanwhile, Moscow continue to claim they are acting defensively and the invasion is going to plan, even as it stretches into its fourth week.
