Oksana Shvets dead Ukrainian actress killed in Russian rocket attack
20220318
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/oksana-shvets-dead-ukrainian-actress-26497616
On Thursday the pair revealed that they have now reached their target of raising $30 million. The feat took just two weeks, with more than 65,000 people donating to their GoFundMe page.
Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us atwebcelebsmirror.co.ukor call us direct 0207 29 33033.
Celebrities and members of the public across the globe have been coming together to try to raise much-needed funds to help Ukrainian refugees.
"We will do everything we can to ensure that the outpouring of love that came as a part of this campaign finds maximum impact with those in need."
Expressing their "unrepairable grief" at her death, her troupe said in a statement: "During the rocket shelling of a residential building in Kyiv, a well-deserved artist of Ukraine Oksana Shvets was killed."
She is one of a number of high-profile figures who have died during the the Russian invasion. Also losing their life in the atrocities includes several athletes who were defending against the attackers and journalists who were covering the war.
The actress performed at the Ternopil Music and Drama Theater and the Kyiv Theater of Satire as well as her work at Young Theater, according to Deadline.
The invasion in Ukraine, which was ordered by Russian president Vladimir Putin, has drawn wide condemnation across the globe, with increasingly severe economic sanctions being imposed against Russia.
Oksana Shvets has been killed in a Russian rocket attack the actress' troupe, the Young Theater, has said in a sad statement
Ukrainian actress Oksana Shvets has reportedly died after a Russian rocket hit a residential building in Kyiv, according to her troupe, the Young Theater.
In a video on social media, Ashton said: "While this is far from a solution for the problem, our collective effort will provide a softer landing for so many people as they forge ahead into their future of uncertainty. Our work is not done which is why we are raising the goal to $40 million.
The translated post continued: "Bright memory to the talented actress! There is no forgiveness for the enemy that has come to our land!"
Oksana was a veteran of stage and screen for decades in Ukraine and had won a number of top accolades in the country.
She is said to have graduated from an actors' studio at the Ivan Franko Theater and the Kyiv State Institute of Theater Arts.
