Piers Morgan accuses inappropriate Joe Biden of laughing during Ukraine conference
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/piers-morgan-accuses-joe-biden-26326443
Another added: "The end of the press conference was chaos, people just shouting questions at him. He was laughing occasionally at not being able to answer one person at a time. Everything else was precise and damning. Brilliantly selective again from you."
Having none of it, bolshy Piers hit back: "I want a lack of smirking which shouldnt be too much to ask when a US President is talking about war. And you lot would be the first to hammer Trump if hed done it, so stop being so hypocritical."
In a separate post shared, Piers uploaded an image showing the US President laughing while standing on a podium.
He added: "The smirking President of the United States, hours after Russia starts war in Ukraine. Unbelievable.
Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webcelebstrinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
The social media user replied to Piers: "Thats really out-of-context, but you knew that already. Maybe he should come out in tears instead, or lit off his a on decongestant? What exactly do you want here?."
After the tweets, one of his followers hit back asking Piers if he expected Biden to "come out in tears."
Other social media followers thought Piers was being unfair and pointed out that Biden smiling was when the media asked questions following his announcement.
Russia is believed to have an arsenal of nearly 6,000 nuclear weapons at its disposal - the most of any country in the world.
One typed back: "Hes smirking at a question from the media, not during his remarks."
"Biden just laughed several times during his Ukraine press conference. What the fck is he finding so funny? Does he not realise the gravity of this situation? Does he not care that so many innocent people are being murdered? What a horribly inappropriate and shameful moment," the former Good Morning Britain host typed.
The former newspaper editor, 55, blasted the 79-year-old Leader of the Free World after being infuriated by the televised White House address.
Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror   here   .
Taking to Twitter to lash out, Piers claimed to have seen Biden laugh during the press conference.
Piers Morgan was less than impressed after tuning in to watch American President Joe Biden 's announcement about the current Russia-Ukraine conflict yesterday.
Several anti-war protests were held across Russia yesterday as its people showed they do not stand with their leader.
Yesterday evening, Prime Minister Boris Johnson told ministers it is "a dark day in the history of our continent" following the invasion of Ukraine.
Thousands of people have already fled the Kyiv out of fear of the approaching enemy.
A second responded: "He smirked every time about 100 people all asked questions at once, nothing more to it."
