Putin wanted for war crimes over Ukraine as 1million reward put up for his arrest
20220304
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-wanted-war-crimes-over-26391632
But the figure is undoubtedly much higher as it has been impossible to access some of the worst-hit places.
The PM revealed Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky phoned him to declare an attack on a nuclear power plant or an explosion at a nuclear power plant are clearly a matter of our common European health and safety. He added: We remember what happened with Chernobyl, the radioactive clouds spread over the whole continent.
Ukraine came close to a horrific nuclear disaster after Vladimir Putin s forces attacked Europes biggest atomic power plant.
It comes after Putins forces almost sparked a nuclear disaster with an attack on an atomic plant. Boris Johnson branded the assault reckless.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg warned Moscow will likely bring in heavier weaponry as the brutal conflict intensifies.
Local officials claim Russian troops are also stopping food getting in the wreckage of charred, bombed-out buildings.
Footage emerged of the charred wreckage of a block of flats in Chernihiv, showing bloodied bodies strewn on the ground.
Calls were growing tonight for Vladimir Putin to be put on trial over his invasion of Ukraine.
It came as Moscow continued its merciless bombardment of innocent families, amid reports soldiers were raping local women as they maraud through the country.
Ukraine and Moscow are expected to hold a third round of talks this weekend to try to stop the bloodshed.
Ukraine came close to a nuclear disaster after Vladimir Putins forces attacked Europes biggest atomic power plant. The strike on the Zaporizhzhia plant sparked fears of a radioactive catastrophe
Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba accused Russian troops of raping Ukrainian women. He said: We have numerous cases.
Russian businessman Alex Konanykhin, 55, offered a $1million reward for Putins arrest as occupied apartment blocks, schools and administrative buildings were again targeted by shells today.
He put up a mock Wanted: Dead or Alive poster online. Mr Konanykhin, in exile in the US, insisted he was not asking for people to kill Putin but wanted him brought to justice.
Mr Stoltenberg said: We have seen the use of cluster bombs and we have seen reports of use of other types of weapons which would be in violation of international law.
The attack on Zaporizhzhia in the south late on Thursday killed three guards. Emergency crews were blocked from putting out the inferno for four hours. The assault, which comes 36 years after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in Soviet Ukraine, was branded a war crime by the US.
Former PM Gordon Brown said a new tribunal should be set up to deal with the Russian leaders actions.
Boris Johnson branded the attack reckless and said it had threatened the security of the whole of Europe.
And Deputy PM Dominic Raab warned the attacks will get ever more barbaric as Moscow increases its stranglehold on Ukraine.
Russian forces last night surrounded the site, although the Ukrainian workers who maintain the control room have been able to carry on. Fortunately, there was no radioactive leak after the attack and fire, International Atomic Energy Agency director general Rafael Grossi revealed.
And Mr Raab warned there is unlikely to be any let-up in Russian attacks, after commanders became frustrated that the invasion was not at the rapid pace they had hoped for.
If Russia can take Mariupol, then large parts of Ukraines army dug into trenches in the Donbas region are in danger of being cut off.
British police are helping a war crimes probe into Putin. And a $1million reward has been put up for his arrest.
The southern city of Mykolaiv today came under heavy fire. Russian forces also moved within striking distance of the centre.
He said: Ive said that we can expect that, after the stuttering start to this campaign, that Putin would resort to ever more barbaric measures as he gets frustrated. And that is the next phase that we all need to be alert to.
I am concerned about how we stop a disaster, there are other Ukrainian plants and there are other Ukrainian radioactive nuclear waste sites.
The strike on the Zaporizhzhia plant sparked fears of a radioactive catastrophe as a blaze raged for hours in part of the vast site.
With Russia becoming increasingly isolated, Mr Konanykhin revealed he would pay out the $1million 756,000 from his own fortune for the arrest of Vladimir Putin as a war criminal under international laws.
Officials said 9,200 Russian soldiers have lost their lives and hundreds of tanks, almost a thousand armoured vehicles and dozens of helicopters and jets have been destroyed.
He claimed economic sanctions on Russia are starting to bite, but admitted Britain and allies need to bed in and have the strategic stamina for the long haul.
The siege of Mariupol, in the south, stayed in place, despite claims humanitarian corridors would be set up to allow civilians out. The city has been without power, water, or heating for three days.
Shells, rockets and artillery also continued to rain down on Kyiv, Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol,
