Putin axes top general over invasion disaster as Russia loses 50k men Ukraine claims
20220618
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-purged-hero-paratrooper-commander-27271735
Vladimir Putin allegedly purged the chief of his airborne forces amid heavy losses in the war with Ukraine.
He is a "Hero of Russia " - the countrys highest honour - and is seen as one of the countrys ablest military minds.
It contrasts with other figures which suggest Putin has lost in excess of 30,000 troops.
Russia has announced very few of the myriad changes Putin has made among commanders during the war which started on 24 February.
But several sources claim that Putin is personally micromanaging war decisions and wielding the axe on commanders he sees as under performing.
It has been claimed Colonel-General Andrey Serdyukov, 60, paid the price of devastating mass casualties among paratroopers amid speculation that Russia's overall losses in Ukraine are close to 50,000 - significantly higher than most other estimates
The channel said that these figures had been reported directly to Putin, but provided no evidence of this.
Colonel-General Andrey Serdyukov, 60, has paid the price of devastating mass casualties among paratroopers, it was alleged.
If his axing is true this would indicate that Serdyukov is being held responsible for the poor performance of, and high casualties, among Russian airborne units, particularly in early operations around Kyiv.
Izvestia said he commanded the operation to annex Crimea from Ukraine in the spring of 2014.
The speculation comes as one Russian source suggested the countrys overall losses in Ukraine are close to 50,000 - significantly higher than most other estimates.
Unconfirmed Ukrainian sources cited by Odessa military-civilian spokesman Serhiy Bratchuk say that Putin has axed Serdyukov and replaced him with Colonel-General Mikhail Teplinsky, 53, current chief of staff of the Central Military District who was born in Donetsk region.
Telegram channel General SVR alleged that the overall Russian army toll in the Ukraine conflict is now 37,592.
Continued dismissals and possible internal purges of senior Russian officers will likely further degrade poor Russian command and control capabilities and the confidence of Russian officers.
Additionally, the Russian national guard - which reports directly to Putin - has suffered 1,788 losses, it claimed.
Serdyukov was sanctioned by Britain as having Ukrainian blood on his hands in the wake of the Bucha horrors.
Add to this were the alleged losses of 9,457 fighters from private military companies backing the Russian war effort, said the channel.
