Putin running out of missiles jets and tanks because theyre made in Ukraine
20220404
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-running-out-missiles-jets-26627647
Some estimates suggest defending troops have taken or destroyed at least 2,000 tanks and armoured vehicles.
This includes 4,000 anti-tank weapons NLAWs and Javelin anti-tank systems, as well as anti-aircraft missiles.
The T-72 tank and Kh-22 cruise missile are among Russia's key military weapons that are said to be manufactured in Ukraine and which are dwindling as troops withdraw
Senior defence sources told the Telegraph the Kremlin's military stocks are "pretty bad" as the invasion effort continues to drag on beyond initial estimations.
Similarly, the Kh-55 cruise missile is said to be reliant on an engine manufactured in Kharkiv.
Soldiers are said to be running low on weapons, while the withdrawal from Kyiv has meant dozens of tanks being abandoned.
It is feared that local women and children have been raped and civilians shot mercilessly and left in the street to die.
Sanctions put on Russia in an effort to force Putin into abandoning his war mean he can't buy arms from the likes of France, a major supplier since the Kremlin's Crimea invasion in 2014.
Moscow has said it will reduce military activity near primary targets Kyiv and Chernihiv amid peace talks - though such claims have been met with skepticism.
Vladimir Putin's war effort is ironically reliant on the manufacturing power of the nation he's invaded, with his warships, tanks, missiles and fighter jets needing components from the opposition, sources say.
It comes as there is a desperate hunt for the Butchers of Bucha after women and children were raped and shot by Russians, according to Ukrainian sources.
On the flip side, Ukraine is continuing to receive more modern weaponry from NATO countries.
Putin could also look to use the southern port city of Mariupol, which has been decimated by Russian bombs, to more easily ship fresh supplies for a second wave attack.
Russian forces are running out of key military equipment and weapons as their parts are made in Ukrainian factories, it has been claimed.
Meanwhile, the likes of the T-72 tank, a key component in Moscow's arsenal, needs parts said to be made in the eastern Ukrainian city of Izyum, which invading troops have failed to capture.
Deeply disturbing reports began emerging from the town over the weekend which the invading forces left in front of a trail of destruction.
Reports also say the British designed Starstreak missile was used by Ukrainian forces to take out a Russian helicopter.
Ukraine and the West fear the Kremlin is simply looking to regroup before moving its focus on the Donbas region, rather than to try and promote trust.
