Putins ghost buses carry bodies of hundreds of Russian soldiers killed in Ukraine
20220322
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/putins-ghost-buses-carry-bodies-26531981
However, other sources dispute that these buses with blotted windows and displaying the V-insignia are makeshift ambulances.
These sources believe them to be macabre hearses packed with coffins en-route to devastated bereaved families in Russia.
Vladimir Putin 's troops could run out of ammunition, food and fuel in a matter of days because of an inability to form a fuel pipeline, claimed the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
They are all last autumn's conscripts, and they get delivered here without eyes, ears, with their intestines twisted."
Most of these young men are incredibly hungry, saying they havent eaten properly for a week.
Referring to young soldiers deployed by Vladimir Putin the video commentator says: "The wounded are children, young men born in 2003.
I can see them bringing in a stretcher I guess there are both wounded, and Cargo-200 the Russia war-speak for those killed in battle, said the author.
It comes as Kyiv generals claimed Russian soldiers only have enough supplies for "three more days" of fighting in Ukraine as attacks on Mariupol fail and offensives are stalled elsewhere.
British Intelligence has said Russian attempts to capture Mariupol, viewed as a key target by Putin, "continue to be repulsed" as heavy fighting goes on.
The ghostly footage is from Gomel Homel in Belarus, close to the border with Ukraine where war is raging.
Some buses in Gomel have brought the wounded and maimed - rather than the dead from Putins war.
It is assumed that the human cargo inside those buses is from battles with the Ukrainian army in the Chernihiv region.
A voice can be heard on the footage saying: It is not very clearly visible - but eight sanitary buses are moving
A haunting column of buses in Belarus is believed to be carrying the bodies of hundreds of Russian soldiers killed in Ukraine.
The chilling parade of buses are assumed to be carrying bodies from battles with the Ukrainian army in the Chernihiv region
