Putin could still win Ukraine war as troops battle in the Donbas
20220421
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/putin-could-still-win-ukraine-26767349
Allies are braced to support Ukraine, including by sending weapons, equipment and cash, for a prolonged period of conflict, through perhaps much of the rest of this year - at least we have to plan for that eventuality, warned the official.
Forces are fighting in the long-awaited Battle of the Donbas after Kremlin troops began their assault on the breakaway region in eastern Ukraine.
They added: The Russians have concentrated sufficient force such that if they were to use it intelligently they might be able to surround and destroy a very significant portion of Ukraines armed forces - some of its best forces - and make territorial gains which would then be very difficult to dislodge.
They admitted Vladimir Putin might be able to claim victory, having reset his aims for the conflict - and could even launch a fresh bid to storm the capital.
In a really worst case scenario they may be able to look again at whether they could revisit some of their pre-war objectives, potentially renew an attack on Kyiv or to attempt to take Odesa and deprive the rest of Ukraine from access to the sea.
However, Kremlin forces have failed to learn lessons over positioning vehicles in long lines - making them targets for ambushes by Ukrainian fighters.
A Western official said tonight: Putin has clearly failed in meeting his initial, pre-war objectives but he is still in a position to win.
They are thought to be better prepared for the attack than for their initial invasion on February 24 - prompting Ukraines allies to send fresh waves of arms and equipment to bolster Ukrainian resistance.
Western officials believe the Russian President may be able to claim victory as Kremlin troops fight Ukrainian soldiers in the east of the country
Western officials believe Russia could still win its war in Ukraine - despite seven weeks of military reversals.
They have not solved all of their problems - they continue to operate in relatively long convoys on single roads and make themselves vulnerable and in parallel, the Ukrainians continue to fight in a very smart way, said an official.
