Putin spouts lies about Ukraine resistance as HIS Russian troops destroy cities
20220303
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-putin-claims-ukraine-using-26380536
Meanwhile, French President Emmanuel Macron said, following a conversation with Putin, he feared the invasion would get worse on major cities amid more indiscriminate bombing.
The Russian President said on Thursday that Moscow military operations in Ukraine were going according to plan and praised its soldiers as heroes.
Russian President Vladimir Putin made the brazen comments without providing evidence during a televised address as his military continues to fiercely attack Ukraine
The city of Kherson has been taken by Russian troops but elsewhere the invaders have met with fierce Ukraine resistance.
"You will reimburse us for everything you did against our state, against every Ukrainian in full."
It comes as a Ukrainian negotiator said today that a second round of ceasefire talks with Russia had not yielded the results Kyiv hoped for, but the sides had discussed humanitarian corridors and agreed to speak again.
Vladimir Putin has brazenly lied by claiming Ukrainian forces are using civilians as human shields.
The warning came during a day of continued attacks on cities including Kyiv and Kharkiv, which have suffered intense damage.
Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov claimed that Western powers were preparing for a wider war, just the day after he issued a chilling threat that WW3 would be 'nuclear and destructive'.
Negotiations began between the Russian and Ukrainian sides at about 3pm GMT - shortly before news broke of an airstrike on Chernihiv which killed 22 civilians.
"We will restore every house, every street, every city and we say to Russia: learn the word of reparations and contributions.
His confidence comes despite reports suggesting intel showed he planned to take Kyiv within 48 hours, but a week later his troops still continue to held back from the capital.
In televised comments, Putin made a series of allegations against the defending forces for which he did not provide evidence, including that they were holding foreign citizens hostage and using human shields.
"To our great regret, we did not get the results we were counting on," Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said.
Attempts to seize both cities have failed so Kremlin forces have instead resorted to heavy bombing, causing thousands of civilian casualties.
