Queens secret nuclear escape plan Operation Candid in event of a bomb revealed
20220225
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/queens-secret-nuclear-escape-plan-26331225
This was so, in the case of any MP deaths, the Queen would be able to appoint a new Prime Minister in accordance with her duties as monarch.
The Queen has a plan for a possible nuclear escape which would ensure the Royal Family are safe and secure.
His threat sparked nuclear concerns - but it seems the Palace are on top of things.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson yesterday moved to cripple Russian banks access to the UK's financial institutions and curtail oligarchs' luxury lifestyles in London.
The Daily Star reports that plans are already in place should the very worst happen.
The royal yacht was decommissioned in 1997, meaning another vessel - potentially a submarine - would need to be used.
Buckingham Palace are braced for the worst case scenario, and 'Operation Candid' would be rolled out in the event of bomb ever hitting the UK.
And although the precise Royal arrangements for nuclear salvation are not known in their entirety, a declassified document sheds some light on the logistics of the situation.
However, the top-secret hideaway was demolished during the devastating 1992 fire, which ravaged a large portion of the historical building.
While the Queen was lying low, members of parliament would be sent to a bunker with the code name Turnstile, under Box Hill near Bath.
Where there was sufficient time, the royal family would be evacuated to sea, with the Royal Yacht Britannia earmarked to keep them safe.
Meanwhile, the head of MI6 has claimed Russia's attack on Ukraine was a "long planned, unprovoked" strategy carried out with "cruel aggression".
The MI6 boss tweeted that "US and UK intelligence communities uncovered Putin's plans for Ukraine ".
He said: "We exposed his attempts to engineer 'false flag', fake attacks to justify his invasion. We revealed his plans to assassinate Ukrainian leaders and senior officials.
The document, known as Operation Candid, revealed Her Majesty and her loved ones would disperse to country houses away from London. Known residences, such as Balmoral Castle and Sandringham House, would not be used.
It is understood that Russia holds around 6,255 nuclear weapons, with the US not far behind with 5,550.
Mr Johnson told MPs this hideous and barbarous venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure as he revealed the UK will now target all major Russian banks.
For years, Windsor Castle housed a Cold War-era bunker that would have been used to shelter the Royals in the case of a nuclear attack.
A declassified document reveals the Queen and her close family members would either take refuge on a super yacht or be placed in a secret bunker.
The plan stated the royals would hide in lochs in Scotland - much like the fabled Loch Ness monster.
Fears are growing after Putin gave a chilling warning to the West that an attempt to stop or interfere with his invasion of Ukraine would lead to "consequences never encountered in your history".
If there was little time, the royal family would flee to the nearest seat of regional government, which included military bases and bunkers dotted across the country.
Moore, known in Whitehall as C, says there is no disguising the intent - and says Putin carefully orchestrated the attacks, which got underway on Thursday morning.
It is understood that Russia stores around 6,255 nuclear weapons and as Vladimir Putin gave a chilling warning to the West, the Queen and Royal Family have a plan in place just in case
The Home Secretary and Duke of Edinburgh would remain with the Queen so they could hold a Privy Council to make the appointment.
Underneath the staterooms of the castle, a coal cellar was converted into a nuclear bunker when the Cold War fears first started to spread, following the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962.
Tensions between Britain and Russia have escalated since Vladimir Putin's government launched their assault on Ukraine on Thursday.
A bomb pressure indicator was even fixed to the castle's lawn, which would allow scientists to monitor the blast wave and see how far the devastation had spread.
And the Duke of Edinburgh died in 2021, meaning another member of the royal would likely be designated to remain with the Queen throughout her period of hiding.
It is not clear the current status of the plan in the sixty years since it was first devised.
