Russian soldiers sending flirty Tinder messages to Ukrainian women ahead of invasion
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-soldiers-sending-flirty-tinder-26314943
In a chat Andrei said that he was 80 kilometres from Kharkiv and would love to visit but Russian men havent been welcome since 2014.
There were many similar chats on the dating app as Dasha was flooded with messages.
There have been reports of dozens of Russians including an Andrei, Alexander, Gregory and Michail all revealing their profiles as they look to attract local women, according to The Sun.
Shocked Ukrainian women have told how Russian soldiers have stated to flood them with messages on dating app Tinder as the United States warns that an invasion is imminent
Many soldiers also reportedly gave away their strategic positions with pics that they sent out looking for love.
I didnt find any of them attractive and would never consider sleeping with the enemy. I automatically swiped left to reject them, but there were so many I got curious and got into a message exchange.
Dasha said: These guys are just the same as anyone else on Tinder  they want love or companionship. So its kind of hard to imagine that they could be coming here to attack us. I hope it wont happen.
The images showed field deployment, military convoys, artillery and armoured personnel carriers with support equipment and troops.
The 33-year-old told The Sun that she lived in Kyiv but said that when she moved her location to the city in eastern Ukraine there were plenty of pics of soldiers looking tough and cool.
Dasha Synelnikova has told how she has started to get plenty of interest on Tinder from enemy troops when she changed her location to Kharkiv.
He told her how he would love to visit Europe but it was difficult to get a visa while giving an oops sign when Dasha asked if he was a soldier.
Shocked women in Kharkiv, the Ukrainian city that appears to be the first target for a Russian assault on the country lying just 50 miles from Vladimir Putins army, claim they have been inundated with messages.
Russian soldiers have been flicking through Tinder looking for romance with Ukrainian women - as the US says an invasion is imminent, it has been reported.
She told how she allegedly exchanged messages with a Russian called Andrei, 31, who was posing with his Kalashnikov gun.
Satellite imagery taken on Wednesday showed new deployments in western Russia, many of them within 10 miles of the border with Ukraine and less than 50 miles from the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, a US company Maxar said.
She said: One muscular guy posed up trying to look sexy in bed posing with his pistol. Another was in full Russian combat gear and others just showed off in tight stripy vests.
