Russia launches hypersonic and cruise missile barrage at Ukrainian targets
20220320
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-russia-strikes-ukraine-cruise-26511154
Russia's defence military earlier said it used hypersonic weapons for the first time in combat during a strike on a base in the Ivano-Frankivsk region.
While Russia has not previously launched large scale attacks from the sea, its navy has blockaded routes into Ukraine via the Black Sea.
Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said that hypersonic Kinzhal Dagger missiles were also fired from airspace of Crimea, the peninsula Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014.
Efforts to get civilians out of Mariupol have been frustrated over the past fortnight due to Russian shell attacks during periods of agreed ceasefire.
Ukraine's ports on its southern coast have become key strategic targets for the Russian forces, who could use them to target the capital Kyiv from two directions.
The missile's speed and ability to fly low makes them "invisible" to most anti-missile defence systems, and they are capable of carrying nuclear warheads, experts have said.
After a theatre with the words 'children' written outside in large letters was bombed earlier this week, Russian forces struck a school where 400 women and children were sheltering.
The cruise missile attack today is the latest sign that Russia is employing increasingly extreme tactics.
At least 100 ships are reportedly stranded in the Black Sea and Sea of Azov, prompting calls for Russia to open a blue corridor to allow them out.
Residents of the city have claimed that they are being taken against their will to Russia.
He claimed Russian forces in the city would "go down in history" as being responsible for "war crimes".
So far Mariupol and Odessa remain in Ukrainian hands, despite intense efforts by the Russians to break the resistance forces' will.
The missile attack this morning comes as Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said seven humanitarian corridors would open on Sunday to enable civilians to leave frontline areas.
Ukraine has evacuated a total of 190,000 people from such areas since the Russian invasion began on February 24, Vereshchuk said on Saturday, though Ukraine and Russia blame each other for hobbling the process.
One official, Pyotr Andryuschenko, told the New York Times that between 4,000 and 4,500 people in Marupol had been moved to Tangarog, a city in the Rostov region which borders Ukraines south-east corner.
One Ukrainian man also told the newspaper he had been in contact with three families who had been forcibly relocated without their passports.
The situation in the port city is getting increasingly desperate now, with widespread food and medicine shortages combing with large numbers of casualties.
Russia's navy has launched cruise missiles at Ukraine from ships on the Black and Caspian Sea, damaging a large fuel storage facility in the Nikolaev region in southern Ukraine
Russia also hit a Ukrainian military preparation centre where foreign fighters joining Kyiv's forces were based.
Ukrainian grain exports via that route have stalled completely, raising the threat of global food shortages.
To do this to a peaceful city, what the occupiers did, is a terror that will be remembered for centuries to come, he said.
Russian ships in the Black Sea and Caspian Sea have launched cruise missile strikes on Ukraine and fired hypersonic missiles from Crimean airspace.
One of the strikes destroyed a large fuel storage facility in the Nikolaev region in southern Ukraine, while another damaged a workshop used to repair damaged armoured vehicles.
