Russian soldier castrates Ukrainian prisoner of war as MP warns Russia must pay
20220729
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-soldier-castrates-ukrainian-prisoner-27606874
WARNING: DISTRESSING CONTENT As he lies on the floor a Russian uniformed soldier with a Z patch the pro-war symbol of President Putin's invasion of Ukraine, uses a box cutter to cut off his clothes and then appears to castrate him while hurling derogatory insults at the victim
As he lies on the floor a Russian uniformed soldier with a Z patch - the pro-war symbol of President Putin's invasion of Ukraine - uses a box cutter to cut off his clothes and then appears to castrate him while hurling derogatory insults at the victim.
Ukrainian MP Inna Sovsun tweeted the footage, saying: "Russia has to pay for it. Give Ukraine the weapons we need to stop this nightmare once and for all. The world can't pretend like this isn't happening."
But legal counsel Natalia Krapiva says that while the crime needs to be investigated and those responsible held fully accountable, "the risk is that by identifying the wrong person we prevent justice from being served."
Ten people have faced war crimes trials so far in Ukraine, including Shishimarin, a 21-year-old Russian soldier who pleaded guilty to killing a civilian. The other cases involve indiscriminate shelling, willful killing, sexual violence, robbery, ill-treatment of civilians and attacks on civilian objects.
A gruesome video posted on a pro-Russian Telegram page on Thursday appears to show a Ukrainian prisoner of war being castrated by a Russian soldier.
Some Russian near-military communities have been saying the video came just on time for Ukraine to ask for more weapons in the West.
Some have said the man wearing a distinct black fringed hat also appeared in a June broadcast by the Russian state-backed media outlet RT.
The video is another piece of grave evidence of war crimes being committed by Russian forces in Ukraine.
Others have said they are sure the video is genuine as and there is no evidence that the video has been manipulated.
To which Ukrainian journalist Illia Ponomarenko said: "That is just your own insane bloodlust and barbarity digging your own grave, one shovel at a time."
According to Russian state media featuring him, he is from the "Akhmat" unit, named after Chechen warlord Kadyrov's father
The victim in the video is writhing on the floor of a forest wearing Ukrainian -style camouflage and is shown gagged, with his hands tied behind his back.
Prosecutors are doing all they can to hold Russia legally accountable for atrocities and Ukrainian prosecutors have registered over 20,100 potential war crimes.
Vadim Shishimarin, a 21-year-old captured Russian soldier who pleaded guilty to killing a civilian and was sentenced in May by a Ukrainian court to life in prison, is one of 10 people to face war crimes trials so far in Ukraine
While it is unclear when the video was filmed, some have geo-located the video Severodonetsk. The video may be a few weeks old as fighting in that city has not been so heavy in recent weeks.
