Russian amphibious armoured vehicle explodes in flames after being hit by missile
20220609
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-amphibious-armoured-vehicle-explodes-27189600
It is currently unclear exactly where the footage was filmed, but the video was obtained from the 30th Mechanized Brigade of the Ukrainian Ground Forces on Wednesday.
A military vehicle is pictured on a road in a forested area before it is hit, with explosions causing it to catch fire.
Over 1,000 Ukrainian troops captured in Mariupol have been transferred to Russia, according to Russian media.
'BMP' refers to an amphibious suited for both land and water infantry fighting vehicle, first developed by the Soviet Union and currently used primarily by the Russian Armed Forces.
A matter that is very effective and fruitful is the destruction of the enemy. The enemy BMP burns."
Some 438 MEPs voted in favour of the resolution, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday in the first assault on the Ukrainian capital in weeks.
Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, Vassily Nebenzia, walked out of a Security Council meeting after his country was blamed by European Council president Charles Michel for triggering a global food crisis.
The 30th Mechanised Brigade said: "Our tankers are aware of how important it is to save the country and people's lives, so without thinking, they just do their job.
It added that storming operations were underway around Slovyansk and that Russia had also intensified its aircraft use around Bakhmut.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said that Russian attacks on the cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk have turned them into "dead cities".
Satellite imagery has shown significant damage in the key eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk, where heavy fighting is ongoing.
The Ukrainian military said that Ukrainian positions had come under "intense fire" around Avdiivka, Novopavlivska and Zaporizhzhia.
It is unclear exactly where the footage was filmed, but the video was obtained from the 30th Mechanised Brigade of the Ukrainian Ground Forces on Wednesday
Its publication comes as the war in Ukraine continues to rage in the eastern part of the country.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine has reported that between 24th February and 8th June, Russia had lost 31,500 personnel, 1,393 tanks, 3,429 armoured fighting vehicles, 703 artillery pieces, 213 multiple launch rocket systems, 96 anti-aircraft systems, 212 warplanes, 178 helicopters, 559 tactical unmanned aerial vehicles, 125 cruise missiles, 13 warships, 2,406 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, and 53 units of special equipment.
The European Parliament has adopted a resolution, recommending that the European Union grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for EU membership.
The Ukrainian Centre for Strategic Communications StratCom said on 6th June that Russian Major General Roman Kutuzov was killed in a battle near Popasna in the Luhansk region. This has now been confirmed by Russian state media.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on 24th February, in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation".
Footage has emerged purporting to show the moment Ukrainian forces take out a Russian amphibious armoured vehicle.
The United Kingdom and the United States are sending long-range missile systems to Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned of more attacks in Ukraine if the West sends long-range weapons.
