Russian helicopter blown up in Ukrainian drone strike on Snake Island
20220508
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-helicopter-blown-up-ukrainian-26907915
"We address the world community, to the believers of all churches requesting to take all possible measures to influence the Russian Federation for the return of our citizens.
The black and white footage, shared on social media, shows the Mi-8 helicopter unloading troops on Snake Island before an explosion rocks the camera.
Yesterday  Ukraine  released another video claiming to show a military drone hit on a Russian landing ship supplying a TOR anti-aircraft missile system to Snake Island.
As one Russian troop dives into the car, another runs up from the direction of the destroyed building and leaps in too.
The short video is undated and it is unclear how many casualties were caused by the devastating attack.
The harrowing footage was filmed from the drones perspective as the Russian soldiers crowd around the car.
Ukrainian official Anton Gerashchenko said: Enemy units remaining on Snake Island remain without air cover and will be destroyed and burned out like cockroaches or locusts.
Shocking footage taken by a drone shows the moment a Russian helicopter is blown out of the sky by a Ukrainian missile.
Grainy footage shared on social media showed a Russian helicopter being destroyed in a Ukrainian drone strike on Snake Island in the Black Sea, with no word on any survivors
Meanwhile further footage showed the chilling moment a bomb from a Ukrainian drone was dropped through the sunroof of a  Russian  vehicle, before exploding, sending smoke billowing out the car.
At the beginning of the invasion in February the tiny Black Sea Snake Island hit the headlines when 13 Ukrainians told a Russian warship to go f yourself.
The bombs dropped from the drone as the third Russian runs around the back of the car and it reverse slightly, perfectly positioning itself so the bomb falls through the sunroof.
Rumours suggested at the time the troops were killed in the air and sea bombardment before the Ukrainian Navy confirmed they were alive.
Not far from the car are the destroyed remains of a building and the rural road around them is strewn with debris.
In a  Facebook  post the Navy wrote: Regarding the Marines and border guards on the island of Snakewe are very happy to learn that our brothers are alive and well.
They were illegally captured by the Russians. Illegal capture of a civilian ship - a non-combatant without performing any military mission, is a violation of the rules and customs of war, international humanitarian law.
The Serna class - Russian designation Project 11770 - is a type of air cavity designed landing craft constructed for the Russian Navy.
We demand from  Russia  the immediate release of illegally occupied citizens of  Ukraine .
Other reports said the landing craft had been hit by a hit by a Ukrainian Bayraktar TB2 military drone.
The footage appears to show the destruction of a large Serna-type landing craft in an air strike.
