Russia threatens to launch strike on UK soil over weapons supplies to Ukraine
20220427
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russias-chilling-threat-launch-strike-26809824
"These weapons will be a legitimate target for Russia's military acting within the context of the special operation," Lavrov said.
It comes after Russia also warned NATO weapons were a "legitimate" target in Ukraine - and that British diplomats in Kyiv could be targeted.
Russia's two-month-old invasion of Ukraine, the biggest attack on a European state since 1945, has left thousands dead or injured, reduced towns and cities to rubble and forced over 5 million people to flee abroad.
The threat was because the British had got "totally boorish," the popular host - known as 'Putin's voice' - said, seemingly referring to the UK's ongoing support for Ukraine.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said "nuclear" action was a "real" danger, adding the risk of World War 3 was now "considerable".
It comes after 'Putin's voice' on Russian state TV threatened to 'wipe Britain off the map' with President Vladimir Putins new 'big beast' hypersonic 208-ton 15,880mph 'Satan-2' intercontinental ballistic missile.
She said: "Do we understand correctly that for the sake of disrupting the logistics of military supplies, Russia can strike military targets on the territory of those Nato countries that supply arms to the Kyiv regime?"
The Putin loyalist had been asked about the importance of avoiding World War Three and whether the current situation was comparable to the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, a low point in U.S-Soviet relations.
"After all, this directly leads to deaths and bloodshed on Ukrainian territory. As far as I understand, Britain is one of those countries.
"As it turned out, one Sarmat means minus one Great Britain," said pro-Putin TV anchor Vladimir Solovyov, threatening the UK in a crude remark to viewers.
He went on: "We have all the weapons we need for this. No one else can brag about these weapons, and we won't brag about them. But we will use them."
Vladimir Putin's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said strikes could be authorised against  NATO member countries' military targets.
Russia has issued a chilling new threat to the UK over continued weapon supplies to Ukraine.
"Storage facilities in western Ukraine have been targeted more than once by Russian forces. How can it be otherwise?" he added. "Nato, in essence, is engaged in a war with Russia through a proxy and is arming that proxy. War means war."
Lavrov said, was doing a lot to uphold the principle of striving to prevent nuclear war at all costs.
In a wide-ranging interview broadcast on state television, Lavrov also said that the core of any agreement to end the conflict in Ukraine would depend largely on the military situation on the ground.
Everyone is reciting incantations that in no case can we allow World War Three, said the" the hardline foreign minister added on Bolshaya Igra Big Game programme on state-run Channel 1 television.
But he said Western supplies of sophisticated weapons, including Javelin anti-tank missiles, armoured vehicles and advanced drones were provocative measures calculated to prolong the conflict rather than bring it to an end.
"The United States has practically ceased all contacts simply because we were obliged to defend Russians in Ukraine," Lavrov said, repeating the rationale for Moscow's invasion of its southern neighbour.
Moscow calls its actions a "special operation" to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists - a claim that has been widely and consistently refuted by the Ukraine and its allies.
On Wednesday Putin also seemed to hint at a possible nuclear attack, telling assembled Russian lawmakers: "If someone intends to interfere in what is going on from the outside they must know that constitutes an unacceptable strategic threat to Russia.
The first regiment to deploy the new 'unstoppable' missile will be in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia and they are to go into use this year.
Putin's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said the hits could be authorised against Nato member countries' military targets as supplies to Ukraine forces continue
"This is our key position on which we base everything. The risks now are considerable," Lavrov said.
