Russian tank blown to pieces with single strike by Ukrainian missile in dramatic video
20220410
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-tank-blown-pieces-single-26677965
Dramatic footage shows the moment Ukrainian soldiers from the fearsome Azov Regiment blow up a Russian armoured vehicle to pieces in a field.
The footage was shared by the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Friday with the message: "Azov in Mariupol continues to destroy the enemy."
Donbas is where Russia is believed to be stepping up its offensive as it withdraws from the north of Ukraine.
According to Ukrainian reports, the Azov Regiment destroyed two other Russian tanks on April 7.
The day before, Azov troops destroyed equipment of several Russian units and ammunition depots in the defence of Mariupol.
It is an all-volunteer infantry military unit and has an estimated 900 members. It has far-right origins and a minority of its members are still said to have far-right tendencies.
The so-called Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics were recognised as independent states by Russia just days before the invasion was launched.
In latest news, at least 39 people have been killed and dozens injured after rockets hit a train station in the city of Kramatorsk, in the Donbas region, eastern Ukraine, according to the country's authorities.
In the video, Ukrainian troops are seen tracking an enemy armoured vehicle as it rolls across a field on the outskirts of the south-eastern coastal city of Mariupol.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is calling a "special military operation". Today marks the 46th day of the invasion.
The Ukrainian military also estimates that Russia has lost 700 tanks, 1,891 armoured combat vehicles, 333 artillery systems, 108 MLR systems, 55 anti-aircraft systems, 150 aircraft, 135 helicopters, 1,361 vehicles, seven vessels, 76 fuel tankers, 112 operational-tactical level UAVs, 25 units of special equipment and four mobile SRBM systems.
With a single strike, the vehicle appears to blow up and a large plume of dark smoke fills the air.
From February 24 to April 8, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at an estimated 19,000 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
In the dramatic video, Ukrainian soldiers are seen tracking an enemy armoured vehicle as it rolls across a field on the outskirts of Mariupol before it is blown to smithereens
The Azov Regiment, formerly known as the Azov Battalion and formally called as the Azov Special Operations Detachment, is a unit of the National Guard of Ukraine - the country's national gendarmerie - and is based in Mariupol.
