Russian hero who won tank war game killed in Ukraine as real war proves different
20220507
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-hero-who-won-tank-26899572
Bato Basanov was in a record-breaking tank biathlon team that performed last year in war games in front of defence minister Sergei Shoigu and chief of the army general staff Valery Gerasimov.
"Cheerful, smiling and sincere, Bato has always been the pride of our family, a kind, honest, much-loved son."
Russian commanders Shoigu and Gerasimov saw regular tank biathlon competitions as key military prestige events, yet the huge death toll of Russian forces shows they were not ready for real war.
The body of the hero took seven weeks to be retrieved and returned to his family for a funeral on Friday.
The 25-year-old is the latest of dozens of men from the impoverished region of Buryatia some 3,500 miles east of Moscow to be killed in Putins war.
A 'hero' Russian world champion in an international tank warfare competition was killed when he was sent by Vladimir Putin into a real battle in Ukraine.
As two bereft mothers in grief-stricken Buryatia spoke about collecting the bodies of their sons, one reportedly said to the other: "Youre lucky because your sons body arrived intact. Mine came back as a head and two hands."
Yet as a report from Volya Media said: "The death of Bato Basanov is grim confirmation that tank biathlon and real war are completely different things."
His friends and family said in a joint statement: "Bato was an open, responsive, very sociable man, a faithful comrade and friend, who was always ready to come to the rescue.
Bato Basanov, 25, performed well in front of Russian officials during an international tank warfare competition last year, but his luck ran out when he got to a real battlefield
Basanov  whose Russian T-72B3 team beat soldiers from 19 countries in combat games including China  was shown being presented to Gerasimov, now in charge of Putin's crumbling war effort.
Basanov, a corporal, had been hailed last year for "glorifying Russia by becoming a world champion in tank biathlon as part of his team".
But his luck ran out on the battlefield when his tank was hit in Ukraine, killing him.
He shot without missing a single target at speeds of up to 50mph at the Alabino training ground in Moscow region.
Yet an anonymous Russian military expert has blamed Putins government for botched modernisation of tanks, leaving them worse in optics and targeting technology than Ukraines older tanks which were upgraded with Western equipment.
Basanov was a gunner of the first company of the tank battalion of the 37th separate guards motorised rifle brigade of the Russian Air Defence Forces.
