Russia steals unstable nuclear samples from Chernoybl after looting 5m lab
20220324
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-steals-unstable-nuclear-samples-26550244
Three weeks after the invading force drove Ukrainian soldiers out of the nuclear power plant in a explosive battle which shocked and alarmed the world, they destroyed and plundered a laboratory.
On Wednesday Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned that Russian troops were preparing new attacks around the Chernobyl exclusion zone.
They had been unable to leave the facility since the invasion began on February 24, but they have now been relieved by other staff.
National nuclear energy company Ukrenergo said the plant was in total blackout with no power supply.
Mr Zelensky has said Russias seizing of the Chernobyl nuclear plant was a declaration of war against the whole of Europe.
Nuclear samples have been "looted" by Russian forces which have taken over Chernobyl, according to the Ukrainian state agency covering the Chernobyl exclusion zone.
The lack of power at  Chernobyl  risks sending radioactive substances into the air.
The Central Analytical Laboratory at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant had been looted by Russian troops, according to the Ukrainian state agency responsible for the Chernobyl exclusion zone
According to the Ukrainian state agency responsible for the Chernobyl exclusion zone, the Central Analytical Laboratory had been looted by Russian troops.
It contained highly active samples and samples of radionuclides that are now in the hands of the enemy, the state agency said.
In capturing the plant, which was decommissioned following the 1986 disaster, Russia has shaken the post-Cold War global security consensus, imperilled the world supply of key crops, and raised worries it could set off a nuclear accident.
The organisation claimed the 6 million lab also contained valuable equipment not found anywhere else in Europe.
This week wildfires broke out near the decommissioned nuclear power plant, which needs to be carefully monitored to avoid another catastrophe 36 years after it was taken offline.
This week, dozens of trapped workers at the infamous nuclear plant were allowed home for the first time in almost a month.
The situation at Chernobyl is one of the many concerning elements of the war in Ukraine, beyond the terrible loss of human life.
Radionuclides are unstable atoms of chemical elements that release radiation, causing organ damage and radiation poisoning.
