Russia plans to launch deepfake of Volodymr Zelensky bashing Ukrainian cities
20220416
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-plans-launch-deepfake-volodymr-26729017
But the footage of Zelensky - which showed him making an address from behind a podium - was so crude that it was swiftly debunked and mocked for its amateurness.
The Ukrainian Center for Strategic Communications warned that Russia could use manipulated videos to distract and misinform the public, and the military.
"In a fictitious statement, the president will allegedly express 'his negative attitude towards Ukrainian cities, in particular to Mariupol ', according to the Center for Information Security. StopPutin ".
The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine account tweeted: "WARNING Russia plans to launch a new deepfake with President ZelenskyyUa.
Deepfakes or deep faking is the term used to describe videos or audio recordings that are put into artificial intelligence systems and altered from their original state.
Deepfakes have already been used in the war between Russia and Ukraine to falsely show warmonger Vladimir Putin declaring peace and Volodymr Zelensky telling soldiers to surrender their arms
Ukrainians have been warned that Russia is preparing to launch another "deepfake" video of their heroic President.
Shortly after a deepfake of President Zelensky telling Ukrainians to surrender their weapons was posted, and removed, from Youtube and Facebook's Meta.
Though Mr Zelensky called the provocation "childish", experts have warned future attempts may be more sophisticated.
The Ukrainian Parliament's official account said the Kremlin plans to doctor a video of Volodymyr Zelensky to make it appear that he's slating some of Ukraine's cities.
The new technology has already been deployed in the war between Russia and Ukraine since Vladimir Putin ordered troops to invade at the end of February.
The clip of Zelensky was also broadcast through a live programme of Ukraine's Ukrayina 24 network. The station later claimed to have been hacked.
Putin was the first to appear in a deepfake shared on Twitter last month, which showed the war-monger declaring peace before it was swiftly taken down by the platform.
The end result is videos that are so convincing they can make people think they are the real thing.
They said the leader will seem as though he is slandering the destroyed port city of Mariupol - where at least 10,000 civilians were slaughtered by Russian troops.
