Russia launches fresh airstrikes on Kyiv during UN Secretary Generals visit
20220428
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-russia-launches-fresh-airstrikes-26826818
Today, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres was in Kyiv visiting sites that had been destroyed in the conflict.
Vladimir Putin's forces fired two missiles in Kyiv this evening as the UN Secretary-General visited the Ukrainian capital.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said the blasts had hit a central part of the city and three people were taken to hospital
Svetlana Vodolaga, press secretary of the State Emergency Service, said the other missile had hit an unnamed facility near the residential building.
Mykhaylo Podolyak, a senior aide to Zelensky, tweeted: "Missile strikes in the downtown of Kyiv during the official visit of antonioguterres.
Speaking today, Mr Guterres said it was imperative to save those from the "apocalypse" in Mariupol.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said the blasts had hit a central part of the city and three people were taken to hospital.
He said: "As we keep pushing for a full-scale ceasefire, we will also keep striving for immediate practical steps to save lives and reduce human suffering.
Mr Guterres said they discussed ways to provide humanitarian assistance and evacuation of civilians from conflict zones, specifically Mariupol.
"Today, the people of Mariupol are in desperate need for just such an approach. Mariupol is a crisis within a crisis.
One of the missiles struck the lower floors of a residential building, injuring at least three people, Ukrainian officials said.
Both Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov and Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said these were Russian missiles.
Earlier today, Mr Guterres was seen walking around Kyiv and later shared an image on Twitter with the caption: "War is evil".
Mr Guterres' visit to Kyiv comes after he sat face to face with Putin in Moscow.
Mr Guterres also spoke with Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov about finding ways to come to a ceasefire.
He later told reporters it was "clear that there are two different positions on what is happening in Ukraine".
"Thousands of civilians need life-saving assistance. Many are elderly, in need of medical care or have limited mobility.
"The day before he was sitting at a long table in the Kremlin, and today explosions are above his head."
