Russian forces fire at neutral European ship 12 miles off the coast of Ukraine
20220225
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-forces-fire-neutral-european-26329832
Click     here    to follow our live blog with the latest updates
He wrote: A boat under the flag of Moldova. The Millennium Spirit boat under the flag of Moldova 12 miles from the port of the South was hit by a Russian ship.
Moldovan Interior Minister Ana Revenco said on February 25 that 15,800 Ukrainian citizens have crossed the border in the last 24 hours.
The Commander in Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces posted about the random attack on Facebook.
A Moldovan ship was shelled by Russia not far off the coast, near the port of Odessa in the south of the country.
These claims have not yet been independently verified but a human rights monitoring team from the United Nations has confirmed more than 500 civilian casualties in Ukraine.
On March 1, Ukraine claimed to have killed 5,710 Russian soldiers since the start of the invasion.
This is another worrying development as Russia continues its invasion, now firing on commercial vessels in the area.
It is not quite sure if Russia intends to rule Ukraine as a subservient state, or impose a puppet government, but thousands of Ukrainians have fled their homes, and made for their western borders.
The bunkering vessel MILLENNIUM SPIRIT sailing under the Moldovan flag was damaged by the russian ship in 12 miles on the way to the Pivdennyi Seaport. Details are being confirmed, there is no communication with the vessel.
On one occasion, Russian soldiers tried to dress up as Ukrainian but were found out and killed.
Within the city, Russian special forces have made it into a number of districts and fighting broke out.
The Millennium Spirit, flying under a Moldovan flag was fired on and damaged and two crew members were injured by the blast .
Bachelet, addressing the opening session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, previously said: "Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes. The real figures are, I fear, considerably higher."
It comes as Ukraine's President accused Russia of 'state terrorism' on Tuesday after the indiscriminate bombing of Kharkiv.
At least 136 people have been killed, including 13 children, a UN report showed on Tuesday.
It was reported Ukraine citizens were on the streets, armed with weapons, and the countrys army has set up in the centre of Kyiv in preparation for the fight for the city.
The Moldovan commercial ship had nothing to do with the ongoing war and was fired on by a Russian vessel only 12 miles off the coast of Ukraine
This comes as the invasion continues well into its second day, with Russian forces coalescing on the capital.
Russian forces have fired at a Moldovan flagged ship only 12 miles off the coast of the country and left two crew members seriously injured.
With Putin's troops shelling cities across Ukraine and the nation's army vowing to fight to the death to defend their land, observers fear the death toll will be enormous.
On Sunday, February 27, Ukraine's health minister reported that at least 352 Ukrainian civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion began, and more than 1,000 wounded.
Earlier reports suggested that it had been a Romanian vessel, which would have meant Russia had fired on a Nato ally.
A steady stream of reports from the frontline have shown Russian forces getting closer and closer to Kyiv.
The unprovoked invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Russian forces on the command of President Vladimir Putin has sparked bloodshed and chaos.
