Russian tank erupts in flames and blown to bits after strike by a mine or missile
20220316
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/russian-tank-erupts-flames-blown-26478420
At the same time Russian shelling has caused heavy losses with the confirmed civilian toll in Ukraine at 691 people killed and 1,143 injured, the United Nations human rights office said, adding the true figures were probably "considerably higher".
Meanwhile, Zelenskiy said on Wednesday that the positions of Ukraine and Russia at peace talks were sounding more realistic, the Interfax Ukraine news agency reported.
Ukrainians have fought for every inch of ground and have been inspired by President Volodymyr Zelensky who has rallied the people with daily updates and refused to leave the capital Kyiv.
The full message from the video published by the Ministry of Defence says: 25th Separate Airborne Brigade Sicheslav Brigade 'game over', Russian invaders!
It is the latest video of attacks on invading forces with another, published by unverified accounts, having shown drones hitting a Russian armoured convoy in the city of Mariupol with a BTR-82 APC and a KamAZ-63968 'Typhoon' vehicle both hit.
About three million people have fled Ukraine, nearly half of them children, according to the UN refugee agency. About 1.8 million are now in Poland and some 300,000 in Western Europe.
And the government has continued to post positive news on the battlefield including anew video where a Russian tank is blown up.
The Ukrainian army has also posted a video of a Russian command centre being hit by a drone near Vasylivka.
A Russian tank can be seen blown up in a massive eruption of flames and smoke after appearing to be hit by a mine or missile.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
"However, more time is still needed for decisions to be in the interests of Ukraine."
Ukraine s Ministry of Defence showed the footage with the caption game over Russian invaders as the brutal battle continues and Vladimir Putin s army has found it difficult to break down the stiff resistance.
The paratroopers continue to multiply the Moksha army to zero with accurate shots! We will win! Glory to Ukraine!
WARNING DISTRESSING IMAGES: Ukraine's Ministry of Defence has published a video showing a Russian tank being blown up as Vladimir Putin's army continues to face stiff resistance
"Meetings continue. I am told that the positions at the negotiations sound more realistic," Zelenskiy said in a video address released early on Wednesday, the agency said.
The Russian army is pounding cities around Ukraine with shells leading to thousands of casualties but they have also sustained high numbers of losses and there have been questions about the morale of their forces in attacking a country seen by many as their brothers.
