RussiaUkraine war fears RECAP 3am invasion deadline passes with no attack
20220214
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-russia-war-news-live-26225775
Russia's 3am invasion deadline has passed - but there are reports that rather than a withdrawal, the military build-up continues.
"I think the risk of full-blooded invasion ... was never quite as high as was being portrayed by some Western governments, but I think that has receded."
"And make no mistake, the United States will defend very inch of NATO territory with the full force of American power.
Kuleba was responding to Moscow claiming various troops were withdrawing from the border after completing drills.
Ukrainian government officials stressed that Zelenskiy was not predicting an attack on Wednesday, but responding skeptically to the foreign media reports.
Asked if an invasion could still happen today, he added: I think it could still happen if President Putin makes the decision to invade Ukraine. I dont think hes made that decision yet"
The British Geological Survey said it had received numerous reports of occurrences consistent with those of a sonic origin in Lancashire, as well as Merseyside, Greater Manchester and Cheshire around 11am.
The Prime Minister spoke to US President Joe Biden on Monday night, when both leaders agreed there was a "crucial window for diplomacy" but the threat of Russian aggression remained serious.
It is one of several strategic weapons unveiled by Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2018.
US president Joe Biden last night called on Putin to step back from the brink of war and sent a message of peace to the Russian people.
Mr Wallace said, despite reassurances from Russian President Vladimir Putin, the West is still seeing these things go in the wrong direction with 130,000 Russian troops near the border.
"In fact weve seen continued build-up of things like field hospitals and strategic weapons systems such as Iskander missiles deployed.
Two of Ukraine's banks have been targeted in a cyber attack, according to the country's security experts.
However, the White House has been releasing any shred of battle plan it can find in an attempt to put off Moscow from going ahead with an attack amid desperate attempts at peace talks.
Jens Stoltenberg - the former Norwegian Prime Minister - added even if Moscow removes some troops it often leaves behind materials so it can easily re-group later.
The Misk agreements were signed in the Belarusian capital in September 2014 and in February 2015 to try to end the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
"But I think Russia has also come out of this with a number of important gains," he added, saying it has got Russia's security concerns back to the top of the international security agenda, the Ukrainians have been intimidated and Europeans have been reminded how dependent they are on Russian gas.
An estimated 130,000 Kremlin troops remain idly on the border between the two nations and the stand off continues.
Ukraine shares a border with Russia. And so if Ukraine was to join the western military alliance it would see the two sides facing each other eye to eye.
He vowed to continue to convey the message to Russia that we are ready to sit down and discuss with them, but at the same time we are prepared for the worst.
Websites for Oschadbank and Ukraine's Ministry of Defence were down when The Mirror tried to access them this afternoon.
Vladimir Putin joked about what time the war was starting as he continued his barrage of the West and its attempts to build a 'false narrative'.
But the fact remains, despite something of an apparent reduction in numbers of tanks and soldiers yesterday - the former KGB strongman has failed to prove he wants peace above all else.
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's Damascus has been a staunch ally of Moscow since Russia launched an air strike campaign in Syria in 2015.
Government officials in Ukraine stressed that Zelenskiy was not predicting an attack on Wednesday, but responding skeptically to the foreign media reports.
Ukraine, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Georgia are all currently partner nations who have expressed their clear intentions to join the alliance.
Sir John said: "I don't think that President Putin ever decided to invade the country and, indeed, I think it would always have been a very risky course for him to have taken.
The Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security of Ukraine, known as the Stratcom Centre, confirmed that the Privatbank app is down for some users.
Russian media have said the Kinzhal hypersonic missile can hit targets up to 2,000 km 1,243 miles away.
US intelligence predicted the exact time Kremlin troops would pass into Ukraine, but they proved fruitless in the end.
Joint drills between Moscow and Belarus have been ongoing for days and Russia has now test fired its OTR-21 Tochka-U missile system.
A key focal point of Russia's anxieties around Ukraine centres on the potential of Ukraine joining NATO.
The pair agreed there remained a 'crucial window for diplomacy and for Russia to step back from its threats towards Ukraine'.
But American intelligence agencies still believe Kremlin chiefs will order an attack at 3am local time.
Privatbank and Oschad bank have been affected by the strike, with the country's Ministry of Defence website also reportedly crashing.
Mykhailo Anopa, 15, had been suffering sleepless nights about the prospect of an invasion and decided to do something.
He joined others his age on the country's eastern front near the village of Chervone, on the Sea of Azov coast, to help dig in troops facing off against Russian-backed separatists.
"We continously hear different statements from the Russian federation, so we have a rule...we believe what we see. If we see the pullout we will believe in deescalation," the report quoted Kuleba as saying.
"If Russia attacks the United States or our allies through asymmetric means like disruptive cyber attacks against our companies or critical infrastructure we are prepared to respond."
He was speaking in response to the Kremlin's claims this morning that it had pulled back some of its forces after military drills were completed.
Japan is watching the Ukraine situation with "grave concern" despite Russia claiming a partial pullback of armed forces, Japan's top government spokesperson said.
Well take Russia at its word but well judge them on their actions.If were going to build up trust to try and de-escalate this incident, what we need to make sure is were not building up troops at the same time and that is still what we see.
Speaking at the start of two days of talks at NATO headquarters in Brussels by alliance defence ministers, its secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said it was prepared for the worst.
Websites for Oschad bank and Ukraine's Ministry of Defence were down when The Mirror tried to access them this afternoon.
Biden's address coincided with a major cyber attack on Ukraine - which many feared would precede an invasion.
The UK's defence secretary Ben Wallace will meet with fellow NATO defence ministers in Brussels on Wednesday as efforts continue to avert a war in Ukraine.
Sir John added: "I think in some ways President Putin will think he's ahead on points on this and he still has various military options which he can use in Ukraine.
It's a move that could de-escalate frictions between Moscow and the West but large-scale drills across the country continue.
Joe Biden has warned that the US will 'respond forcefully' if Russia targets Americans in Ukraine.
The crunch meeting of defence chiefs took place as members were facing critical challenges for European security, said Mr Stoltenberg.
A senior American source told the Mirror that an attack could be coming at 3 am on Wednesday.
It comes amid fears that a Russian cyber attack may precede a possible invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Kyiv would "believe in de-escalation" only after it sees Russia's pullout, the Interfax Ukraine news agency reported.
Russia's lower house of parliament had voted earlier on Tuesday to ask Russian President Vladimir Putin to recognise the self-declared Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics.
Russia sent fighter jets with Kinzhal missiles for the first time last year after expanding the runway at the base to handle such aircraft, said Rob Lee, a military analyst at the U.S.-based Foreign Policy Research Institute.
Russia's 3am invasion deadline has passed, but its 130,000 troops still sit idly on the border with Ukraine and rather than a withdrawal effort UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace there's evidence of a "continued build-up"
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has called for his country's people to fly flags and sing the national anthem in unison on Wednesday - the day some reports suggest Russia will invade.
A sonic boom is reported to have been felt at the time an RAF anti-submarine surveillance plane was spotted flying over Britain - with Europe feared to be hours from all-out war in Ukraine.
Videos allegedly showing tanks and other equipment being removed was released by the Russian Defence Ministry.
It comes as US intelligence suggests Moscow may give the green light for troops to cross the border at 3am local time on Wednesday.
Boris Johnson will chair an emergency COBR meeting today after he cut short a UK tour to deal with the Ukraine crisis.
Mykhailo - dressed in slippers and a camouflage Western-style uniform - and his pals are members of a centre run by Pentecostal pastor Gennadiy Mokhnenko.
The meeting comes after President Putin said on Tuesday that Russia did not want another war, and was open to further dialogue with the US and its NATO allies.
In the UK, armed forces minister James Heappey said he was cautiously optimistic about news some troops were withdrawing from the Ukrainian border but added he would "continue to be very vigilant" of Russia's actions.
The United States will defend NATO territory from any future Russian aggression, President Joe Biden has said.
Its largest state-owned banks PrivatBank and Oschadbank have been affected by the strike, with the country's Ministry of Defence website also reportedly crashing.
However, it is also the 30-member alliances growth in the years since its formation that troubles Russia so much, with the power wary of NATO creeping towards its borders.
The pictures were taken in the Gomel region of Belarus, which is near the Ukrainian border.
The proud teen said: "When our father, the pastor, said there might be shelling, that Putin might attack, I started having nightmares because that's what I would think about before bed.
"That would be good but we have not yet verified that. More than 150,000 troops remain along Ukraine's border. An invasion remains distinctly possible."
Speaking to Sky this morning, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: What we havent seen is evidence of withdrawal that has been claimed by the Kremlin.
Invasion alarms are so common that they joke about appointments: I will go to the doctor after the invasion.
It comes as the Kremlin pulled back some of its forces from the Ukraine border in a move that could reduce tensions.
The situation has escalated hugely in the past days, with many fearing an invasion could be imminent.
He went on to say yesterday Russian troops were "moving from assembly areas to effectively assault positions".
The UK Defence Secretary has continued to say: "130,000-plus troops, both in Belarus and indeed Ukraine, but also out at sea there's effectively a significant flotilla of Russian and amphibious landing ships, and indeed war ships and missile ships, and from a Ukrainian point of view they're fairly surrounded by a very large force of ready troops. That continues, they haven't taken the foot of the gas."
He said Kremlin claims of a Russian pullback and moves towards negotiations provided cause for cautious optimism.
Kyiv resident Alex, 31, who runs his own bar in the city, is originally from war-battered Donetsk, where most of his family still live.
More than 100,000 Russian troops are massed on the Ukrainian borders. But some units started to return to their bases on Tuesday morning, offering a glimmer of hope for a diplomatic solution.
"President Biden has said the possibility of an invasion of Russian forces into Ukraine clearly remains," Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno told a regular news conference.
And when asked if Moscow could still invade today, he added: I think it could still happen if President Putin makes the decision to invade Ukraine. I dont think hes made that decision yet."
The Labour leader demanded Boris Johnson "go now and go hard" with sanctions against Russia.
Russia has positioned more than 100,000 troops near the Ukrainian border, stoking fears of war, while Moscow denies planning to invade.
The aircraft dispatched to Russia's Hmeimim air base will take part in exercises in the eastern Mediterranean, part of a surge of Russian military activity amid a standoff with the West over Ukraine and security in Europe.
Ben Wallace said Britain has seen no evidence of the withdrawal of troops claimed by the Kremlin and, in fact, soldiers moved to effectively assault positions on Monday and Tuesday.
Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Sir John Sawers said that invasion was always "very risky" for President Vladimir Putin but Russia has still made a "number of important gains" from the crisis.
Among its other demands are medical supplies, excavation tools, explosives detectors and more mobile field hospitals.
Ben Wallace said it is clear despite its claims of withdrawal, Russia has not "taken the foot off the gas".
NATO's secretary general says there are no signs of Russian military presence reducing on the borders of Ukraine.
He also said the Prime Minister should return all "Russian-linked" donations to the Conservative party over the last 10 years.
A Russian invasion "would not stop at Ukraine" and could lead to conflicts in other countries, Liz Truss warned.
Russia has deployed MiG-31K fighter jets with hypersonic Kinzhal missiles and long-range Tupolev Tu-22M strategic bombers to its air base in Syria for naval exercises, Interfax news agency reports.
The former Norwegian Prime Minister went on: On the contrary, it appears that Russian continues the military build up.
Some Kremlin troops in military districts adjacent to their eastern European neighbours are returning to bases after completing drills, Russia's defence ministry was quoted as saying.
It comes after Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said UK sanctions if Moscow invades Ukraine would be severe in targeting "oligarchs" and "companies across Russia".
Sir Keir made the comments after the Prime Minister announced a new Economic Crime Bill would "hit companies" laundering Kremlin-linked Russian money through Britain.
Wallace will join NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin amid ongoing tensions in eastern Europe as the alliance considers its response to the 130,000 Russian troops massing at Ukraine's borders.
He also ruled out placing missiles in the country and said he did not wish to destabilise Russia.
Sir Keir Starmer has called on the Government to tackle 'dirty money' coming into the UK from Russia.
The risk of a "full-blooded" Russian invasion of Ukraine was never as high as some Western governments portrayed and has now "receded", the former head of MI6 has said.
Some are finding bomb shelters, some are joining civil defence groups but many say they are relaxed.
It said: "Data from BGS seismic networks were examined and signals consistent with a possible sonic origin were recorded at that time."
Ukraine's leaders last night sent out a desperate plea to NATO for emergency equipment as they prepared for invasion.
Russia has not taken the foot off the gas and an invasion of Ukraine could still happen as early as today, the UK Defence Secretary warned today.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has called for his country's people to fly flags and sing the national anthem in unison tomorrow - the day some reports suggest Russia will invade.
Mr Biden said his country and NATO are not a threat to Russia and promised the US did not have missiles in Ukraine.
The Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security of Ukraine, known as the Stratcom Centre, confirmed that the PrivatBank app had gone down for some users.
Russia's defence ministry published a video today that it said showed a column of tanks and military vehicles leaving annexed Crimea across a railway bridge after drills, adding that some troops would also return to their permanent bases.
He said the deployments pointed to Russia's growing military presence in the Middle East and its ability to operate in different regions and to project power.
A group of Ukrainian teenagers from disadvantaged families have banded together to dig trenches in preparation for a Russian attack.
After eight years of being told Russia will invade, many Ukraine citizens seem to be taking the threat in their stride and carrying on with life as best they can.
The European Union's top diplomat has warned Moscow against recognising two Russian-backed breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent.
The Prime Minister had earlier suggested there were "mixed signals" coming out of Russia about the prospect of an invasion of Ukraine, describing the situation as "not encouraging".
UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace reiterated today there is little evidence of a withdrawal, and instead what he'd seen was a "continued build-up of things like field hospitals and strategic weapons systems".
The President had a 40-minute conversation with Boris Johnson last night as they discussed the situation.
Speaking to Sky this morning, he has already said there's evidence of a continued military build-up from the Kremlin.
"And until we see a proper de-escalation I think we should all be cautious about the direction of travel from the Kremlin.
But he added: We have heard the signs from Moscow about readiness to continue diplomatic efforts but so far we havent seen any de-escalation on the ground.
Biden said the US has "not yet verified" Russia's claim that some of its forces have withdrawn from the border, adding an invasion of Ukraine remains a distinct possibility.
Speaking from the White House, he warned again that if Russia invades its neighbour, the US "will rally the world to oppose its aggression".
Tensions in Europe are reaching heights arguably not seen for 70 years, as Russias 130,000 strong army lines up across the border from Ukraine.
He said: "While I will not send American servicemen to fight in Ukraine, we have supplied Ukrainian military with equipment to help them defend themselves, and provided training and advice and intelligence for that purpose.
NATO has a principle of collectively defending its members, which would shore up Ukraines position amid troubling years that have seen the eastern regions of Donbas and Luhansk and the southern peninsula of Crimea contested by Russia or its loyalists in the last decade.
The President said: "The Russian defence minister reported today that some military units are leaving their positions near Ukraine.
Moscow announced on January 20 that its navy would stage an array of exercises involving all its fleets from the Pacific to the Atlantic, drawing on 10,000 servicemen, 140 warships and dozens of planes.
And then I guess it will be time to get a gun and go out and shoot some Russians."
"On the ground the physical observations that we see show the opposite of some of the recent rhetoric coming out of the Kremlin."
"The Japanese government sees that the situation remains unpredictable, and we will keep a close eye on the situation with high alert and grave concern."
The Foreign Secretary urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pull back from the brink as she issued a grim warning that military action could be "imminent".
Even though he has experienced the horrors of war he shrugs and says: I dont think they are coming but if they do I will join the civil defence groups and register.
The country's largest state-owned banks PrivatBank and Oschadbank have been affected by the strike, with the country's Ministry of Defence website also reportedly crashing.
"EU support and commitment to Ukraine's independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders remains unwavering", Mr Borrell added.
NATO, a military alliance formed in 1949 designed to maintain stability after the Second World War, is at the centre of the issue as its member states attempt to deescalate the situation with Vladimir Putin's Russia.
U.S. President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that more than 150,000 Russian troops were still amassed near Ukraine's bordersafter Moscow's announcement of a partial pullback was met with scepticism.
