Russian troops give up Chernobyl nuclear site with Ukraine back under control
20220331
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-chernobyl-back-under-ukraine-26606690
The Ukrainian state nuclear company said on Thursday most of the Russian forces that occupied the Chernobyl nuclear power station after invading Ukraine have left the defunct plant, and suggested radiation concerns had driven them away.
As a result of concerns about radiation, "almost a riot began to brew among the soldiers," it said in the statement, suggesting this was the reason for their unexpected departure.
State-owned Energoatom said these workers had flagged earlier on Thursday that Russian forces were planning to leave the territory.
Energoatom said it had also confirmed information that Russian troops had built fortifications including trenches in the so-called Red Forest - the most radioactively contaminated part of the zone around Chernobyl.
"The information is confirmed that the occupiers, who seized the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and other facilities in the exclusion zone, have set off in two columns towards the Ukrainian border with the Republic of Belarus," it said in a statement.
Asked to comment on the accounts from Chernobyl staff, Russia's defence ministry did not respond.
In a separate online post, Energoatom said the Russian side had formally agreed to hand back to Ukraine the responsibility for protecting Chernobyl.
Ukraine has repeatedly expressed safety concerns about Chernobyl and demanded the withdrawal of Russian troops, whose presence prevented the rotation of the plant's personnel for a time.
It shared the scan of a document setting out such an arrangement and signed by individuals itidentified as a senior staff member at Chernobyl, the Russian military official tasked with guarding Chernobyl, and others.
Earlier this week, workers at the site told Reuters that Russian soldiers had driven without radiation protection through the Red Forest, kicking up clouds of radioactive dust.
The Ukrainian state nuclear company said on Thursday most of the Russian forces that occupied the Chernobylnuclear power station after invading Ukraine have left the defunct plant, and suggested radiation concerns had driven them away
Chernobyl is back under Ukraine control after Russians forces formally give up the nuclear site.
It said a small number of Russian troops remained at Chernobyl, but did not specify how many. Russian forces have also retreated from the nearby town of Slavutych, where workers at Chernobyl live, it said.
There was no immediate comment from the Russian authorities, who have denied that its forces have put nuclear facilities in Ukraine at risk.
Though Russian troops seized control of Chernobyl soon after the Feb. 24 invasion, the plant's Ukrainian staff continued to oversee the safe storage of spent nuclear fuel and supervise the concrete-encased remains of the reactor that exploded in 1986, causing the world's worst nuclear accident.
