Russian prisoner of war begs mum tell the truth about Ukraine war in phone call
20220304
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-prisoner-war-begs-mum-26389833
He tells his mum to use social media so "as many people as possible" know what the Kremlin attacks look like.
In the footage, the soldier is seen rocking back and forth in his chair during the video call.
On Wednesday, Ukraine invited mums of captured Russian troops to come and take their sons home.
A woman then told her: "Natasha, God be with you. We will call you later. He is alive and healthy."
He was told "everything is okay" by one of the kind-hearted women who came to his aid, after his unit had apparently got lost due to the old maps they'd been given.
The POW was seen crying as he described how Vladimir Putin's forces had bombed kindergartens and hospitals.
They gave him a cup of tea and a pasty to eat in the clip which went viral.
The surrendered Russian soldier told his mum to tell those back home the truth about the invasion in Ukraine, to counter the propaganda spouted out by Vladimir Putin's government
In another video, an injured soldier was seen sitting in front of a Ukrainian flag as he said: "This is not our war. Mothers and wives, collect your husbands. There is no need to be here."
Also in recent days, a surrendered Russian soldier broke down in tears after Ukrainian citizens helped him video call his mum.
According to figures released by Kyiv, the invading troops have lost 5,840 soldiers after Putin spectacularly failed in his alleged plans to take the capital in 48 hours last week.
It comes just days after further footage showed sobbing Russian prisoners of war claiming they had no idea they were being sent to invade Ukraine.
They said they were being used as cannon fodder after being lied to about a special military operation by commanders.
A telephone hotline has also been opened in Ukraine for Russian parents to find out if their sons are among the dead or POWs.
A captured Russian soldier begged his mum to tell people the truth about the Ukraine invasion in a heartbreaking phone call.
He told his mum to spread the word of what is really going on back home - where government propaganda is rife.
The young man blew kisses to his mum after she answered, but he quickly burst into tears on seeing her face.
And another showed a handcuffed and tearful Russian prisoner saying: "They don't even pick up the corpses, there are no funerals."
After struggling to breach through the brave resistance, Putin has resorted to heavy airstrikes round the clock, targeting civilian and military infrastructure as he hopes to pound them into submission.
A man off camera was then heard saying: "These young men, it's not their fault. They don't know why they are here. They are using old maps, they are lost."
