Russian troops blown up by their own ammunition made in the 1950s reports claim
20220610
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-troops-blown-up-ammunition-27194848
Earlier on Thursday, it was reported that Putin could march troops into a weak Europe if he is successful in Ukraine as a new target was named.
Lautman added: If you ignore or try to negotiate, the negotiations in Russias mind are only how to seek weaknesses from their opponents, so they can use them as pressure points.
She told The Sun: Russias appetite wont stop. Weve seen it and weve seen that negotiations with them dont work. Their word is worth nothing they need to be contained because if they are not, the threat they will pose will be far greater than Ukraine.
Ukraine s ministry of defence has openly mocked Russia s forces after dated ammunition was spotted in a military convoy arriving in the occupied Kherson region.
Lautman's warning comes as a Russian politician presents a draft bill that would revoke the recognition of Lithuania's declaration of independence in 1991.
If a majority of Russian MPs vote in favour, Russia will no longer recognise that Lithuania left the Soviet Union in a legal way.
Sign up to get the Mirror's biggest and best stories delivered straight to your inbox at www.mirror.co.ukemail
The number of casualties as a result of this "friendly fire " are unclear, with Russia, so far, not acknowledging the incident, reports the Express.
Soviet anti-tank mines were spotted in a military convoy headed for Kherson, with a Canadian volunteer claiming soldiers were killed trying to place the explosives
Vladimir Putin has been left red-faced after Russian soldiers reportedly blew themselves up trying to place anti-tank mines from the 1950s.
"If Ukraine seeks to end the war, Russia will never stop and Russia will go march through Europe. Because, for them, the less pushback they have, the more emboldened they are."
A Canadian volunteer, who is currently fighting alongside Ukraine in Kherson shared the update on Twitter. He wrote: In the Kherson region, the Russians are reinforcing their positions with anti-personnel and anti-tank mines that were made in the 1950s. As a result, several cases have been reported of Russian sappers blowing themselves up trying to place said mines.
Olga Lautman, senior fellow at the Center for European Policy Analysis, said the West must act now to ensure an "emboldened" Putin does not succeed in his mission.
