Russian chemical weapon dropped on city causing respiratory problems Ukraine claims
20220411
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-chemical-weapon-dropped-city-26690454
It comes after unconfirmed reports from the besieged port city of Mariupol, whose mayor said more than 10,000 civilians have died in weeks of fighting.
The Drama Theatre of Mariupol, where hundreds including children had been sheltering, was hit by the deadly airstrike last month.
"This is red line beyond which must destroy economy of despotism.We demand full embargo on all fuels from RU heavy weapons 2UA now!"
At least 300 people taking shelter at a theatre in Mariupol were killed by a Russian airstrike as Vladimir Putin's war rages.
On Monday evening, Ivanna Klympush, a Ukrainian MP, tweeted: "Russia 1.5hr ago used unknown substance in Mariupol.
Ukrainian troops defending the city are reportedly suffering respiratory failure, dizziness and other symptoms as a result of the 'unknown substance'.
Meanwhile, the MoD yesterday predicted that deadly phosphorus bombs could be used in attempt to break resistance.
Pro-Russian separatist rebels said the Kremlin could use chemical weapons to defeat the Mariupol defenders.
Commenting on the destruction in the city, President Volodymyr Zelensky said: "Mariupol has been destroyed, there are tens of thousands of dead, but even despite this, the Russians are not stopping their offensive."
The far-right Ukrainian Azov regiment said: "Russian occupation forces used a poisonous substance of unknown origin against Ukrainian military and civilians in the city of Mariupol, which was dropped from an enemy drone.
Ukrainian MP Ivanna Klympush claims Russia has used a suspected chemical weapon on troops defending the besieged city of Mariupol, with separatist rebels previously raising the prospect of such an attack
He told Sky News: "It's just the most monstrous loss of life that is a deliberate tactic used by the Russians to besiege cities and impose cost on the civilian population that has remained."
Defence minister James Heappey praised the Ukrainian armed forces, describing their actions as "amazing heroism" and "extraordinary courage".
The 36th marine brigade of the Ukrainian armed forces said it is now relying on cooks, drivers and other non-combat troops to fight the Kremlin's soldiers.
Much of the city has been devastated by Russian bombs, including the Mariupol theatre, where hundreds of people were killed.
It comes after multiple warnings that Russia may use chemical weapons to break the stalemate in Ukraine.
Britain is now working urgently to verify reports that Russian forces may have launched a chemical attack in Ukraine, the UK Foreign Secretary has said.
"This is red line beyond which must destroy economy of despotism. We demand full embargo on all fuels from RU heavy weapons 2UA now!"
Kyiv estimates that tens of thousands of people have been killed in the Russian attack on Mariupol.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
It wrote on Facebook: "The infantry was all killed and the shooting battles are now conducted by artillerymen, anti-aircraft gunners, radio operators, drivers and cooks. Even the orchestra."
The 36th marine brigade of the Ukrainian armed forces wrote on Facebook : "Today will probably be the last battle, as the ammunition is running out.
The brigade earlier said it had been pushed back and surrounded by Russian forces, with around half of the contingent's men wounded, Mail Online reports.
On Monday evening, Ivanna Klympush, a Ukrainian MP, tweeted: " Russia 1.5hr ago used unknown substance in Mariupol.
Russia has used a suspected chemical weapon in the besieged city of Mariupol, Ukraine claims.
In what appears to have been a chilling warning, Eduard Basurin, a spokesman for the pro-Russian Donetsk Peoples Republic in eastern Ukraine, previously said the Kremlin may have to use chemical weapons to conquer Mariupol.
Liz Truss became one of the first Western senior politicians to speak out last night as Britain warned all options are on the table if chemical weapons are confirmed.
On arguments of genocide, he added: "I would just say that whatever is going on in Ukraine from the Russians is extraordinarily bleak and I think that the resolve of the Ukrainian people and President Zelensky to keep fighting and to win back their territory is amazing, the cost is enormous.
The brigade added that troops whose 'limbs are not torn off' have returned to battled after being injured.
"Putin however, will be held to account and so too will everybody who serves in his government and the chain of command who have been responsible for these atrocities."
