Russian state TV claims World War 3 has started as Britain sends arms to Ukraine
20220531
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-state-tv-claims-ww3-27107977
Many come outside, hug republican, Russian servicemen, saying that they were anticipating liberation," he said.
Rossiya-1 anchor Olga Skabeyeva is seen on video claiming that the much-vaunted Russian special military operation in Ukraine is now over.
Its just, for all this time, they were afraid to display their views, knowing that persecution and repressions will follow from the Ukrainian government and law enforcement.
But he said: "Despite that, there are tens of thousands of people in Ukraine who support the Russian world, friendship with the brotherly people of Russia.
The Wests provision of arms to Ukraine meant it was now a global conflict, she said, as Russia's enemy showcased new British Wolfhound heavy tactical support vehicles.
"Most people, of course, meet us as liberators, with tears in their eyes, seeking to thank the military in person.
To our great regret, Kyiv and the US were able to raise an entire generation, a nation even, a nation of nationalists, in such a short time.
"Hatred towards everything Russian was promoted in Ukraine: language, culture, people and Russia in general.
It's time to admit, perhaps, that Russia's special operation in Ukraine is now over, said Skabeyeva.
Separately, the head of Lugansk Peoples Republic Leonid Pasechnik has claimed that Ukrainians are greeting Russian and pro-Russian liberators with gratitude.
The Wests provision of arms to Ukraine means it is now a global conflict, a Kremlin TV propagandist has said, as Ukraine showcased new British Wolfhound heavy tactical support vehicles
Ukrainian troops are seen training with the armoured vehicles kitted with Browning M2HB .50 calibre heavy machine guns.
A Kremlin TV propagandist has claimed World War 3 has already begun and claims Russia s task is now to demilitarise NATO.
It comes as Ukraine has revealed footage showing Wolfhound heavy tactical support vehicles given to Ukraine by Britain.
