Russian forces near Ukraine have moved into attack positions US official says
20220215
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-forces-near-ukraine-have-26230854
US National security advisor Jake Sullivan reportedly said : We have seen over the course of the past 10 days a dramatic acceleration in the build-up of Russian forces and the disposition of those forces in such a way that they could launch a military action at any time.
"It wouldnt fit well with the whole rhetoric of Ukrainians as our brothers, and they should be part of a wider association.
An invasion of Ukraine and taking Kiev would just be a disaster for all that ideology that Putin has.
More than 130,000 Russian troops are now massed on Ukraine's border, although Putin insists he does not plan to invade.
Some of Russia's long-range artillery and rocket launchers have moved into firing positions threatening Ukraine, the source told CBS News.
They added that the US thinks Russia will attack Ukraine by the end of the week.
The army reservists were run through exercises on Saturday, with some wearing trainers and sportswear as they aimed using mock weapons.
As citizens took part in training drills in Ukraine, volunteer soldiers practised with wooden assault rifles in preparation for a Russian assault.
While the Territorial Defence force may stand little chance against the much bigger and better-equipped professional Russian army, reservists could be tasked with protecting civilian sites in the capital amid any conflict.
Once an attack does take place then there is little known about how this will unfold due to limited surveillance. The US will have no troops on the ground or reconnaissance planes while Russia cyber attacks are likely to cut communications, reported CBS.
He told the Express : I think the Russian population has not been prepared for an invasion of Ukraine and the consequences.
Dr Paul Flenley, who is a senior lecturer in politics at the University of Portsmouth and an expert in Russian foreign policy, has said that the consequences of any invasion would have a negative impact on the way that Putin is viewed in his own country.
It comes after Foreign Secretary Liz Truss warned that Russia could launch an invasion of Ukraine "almost immediately".
Boris Johnson urged President Vladimir Putin to step back from the "edge of a precipice" amid fears of an invasion within the next 48 hours.
Meanwhile Ukrainian civilians, including women and children, are being taught how to handle weapons as they prepare to resist any attack.
Russian units near the Ukrainian border are moving into "attack positions", according to a US official.
The Russian army has moved artillery and rocket launchers into firing positions with the US believing that there could be an invasion by the end of the week, it is reported
