Sobbing Russian soldiers slam Putin for killing children in Ukraine invasion
20220316
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/sobbing-russian-soldiers-slam-putin-26479066
One of the soldiers, Galkin Sergey Alekseevich, went on to apologise for Russia's action in Ukraine.
The soldiers can be seen tearing up as they bow their heads into their hands.
Parents have also been forced to leave premature babies in a hospital in the Ukrainian city with around 350,000 people trapped with food and water running out, say reports.
It comes after reports Russian soldiers are holding patients and doctors hostage at a Mariupol hospital, claimed a regional governor, amidst a brutal siege.
Horrific scenes of bombed out buildings and street fighting have been played out in recent days as the Russian army shells the city and the Ukrainian residents prepare to fight to the death to keep them out.
"It's impossible to get out of the hospital," Mr Kyrylenko wrote in a Telegram post. "They're shooting hard, we sit in the basement."
Ukraine accused Russia of blocking a convoy trying to take supplies to the besieged city, where the Red Cross said desperate families were being "suffocated" as food and water ran out.
He said: "I apologise for myself, for my squad to every home to every street to every citizen of Ukraine, to the elderly, to women, to children for our invasion of these lands.
Alekseevich, 34, went on to beg Russian forces to lay down their arms and urged Putin to "stop sending soldiers" to kill in Ukraine.
He also claimed that around 400 local residents and 100 staff had been rounded up as human shields and are being kept at the hospital in what he called "crimes against humanity".
He continued: "Cars can't drive to the hospital for two days already. High-rise buildings are burning around. Russians drove 400 people from neighbouring houses into our hospital. We can't get out."
The three soldiers are believed to have been shot down from Ukrainian airspace last week before being given the chance to speak to journalists at the Interfax Ukraine News Agency.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin   here
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said hundreds of civilians managed to leave Mariupol in cars for the second successive day, but the aid convoy trying to reach the port city was stuck at nearby Berdyansk as Russian shelling continued.
The three soldiers are believed to have been shot down from Ukrainian airspace last week before being given the chance to speak to journalists at the Interfax Ukraine News Agency where they urged fellow officers to lay down their arms
And with the fighting raging, people have been unable to leave hospital, said Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Ukrainian military in the Donetsk region.
Desperate attempts have been made to evacuate the city as part of a humanitarian corridor but there are still roughly 350,000 people inside Mariupol with resources dwindling.
