Soldiers from feared Ukrainian regiment share horror conditions inside Russian camp
20220520
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/soldiers-feared-ukrainian-regiment-share-27018287
As a result, around 1,000 Ukrainian fighters have surrendered at the Azovstal plant this week.
Junior sergeant Slivak Sergey Evgenievich, 30 57 National Guard, said: "Treatment is better than I expect, I have a blanket, mattress. Food is adequate, there is enough to eat.
In the footage, he is heard saying: "Today they took us to the dining room. We had soup in the morning. There was also soup and porridge at lunch.
The Azov Battalion, a unit of the National Guard of Ukraine based in Mariupol, remained at the plant to mount a resistance.
Surgeon Yuri Zayduk, lieutenant of the Medical Service, said: "I really didn't know what to expect. In general what I wanted, what turned out was better than I expected.
Ukrainian fighter Pryashchenko Stanislav gave an account of the treatment he has been receiving at the hands of his Russian captors.
"We have not had dinner yet, we are still waiting. So we have beds, mattresses.
The Kremlin also says that the Ukrainian fighters from the Azovstal plant have been taken to a former prison colony in a Russian-controlled part of Donetsk.
"Everything is fine, I have no complaints, everyone is respectful, adequate. Nobody uses insults here, nobody offends us, for sure.
Ukrainian troops surrendered at the besieged Azovstal plant earlier this week after suffering from severe shortages.
"Over the past 24 hours, 694 militants have laid down their arms and surrendered, including 29 wounded.
Ukrainian captured soldiers have revealed their treatment at the hands of the Russians after around 1,000 fighters surrendered at the Azovstal plant this week leaving them in detention camps
"Most of the seriously wounded soldiers were taken out, at least during that first time with me. It was fine, they did the dressings. I hope such treatment will continue there."
Stanislav added: "We have wounded guys here. We are waiting for the doctor now, they promised to come right now, to change the dressing."
"A total of 959 militants have surrendered since 16th May, including 80 wounded, 51 needed urgent hospital treatment and were admitted to Novoazovsk Hospital in the Donetsk People's Republic."
The Russian Ministry of Defence MoD said in a statement this week: "In Mariupol, militants of Azov nationalist unit and Ukrainian servicemen holed up in the Azovstal plant continue to surrender.
Russia's defence ministry said 771 Ukrainian fighters from the steelworks had surrendered up until 19th May, taking the total to 1,730, and 80 of the fighters were wounded.
Russian soldiers first stormed the Azovstal iron and steel works plant in the city of Mariupol on 19th April and destroyed large areas.
Captured soldiers from the feared Ukrainian Azov regiment have spoken out over their conditions in Russian detention camps.
After weeks of being besieged by Russian forces, the soldiers did not even have basic necessities such as bandages to treat their wounded troops.
Following the fall of Mariupol, the Russian authorities plan to tear down the Azovstal metallurgical plant and turn the city into a "resort", according to the Institute for the Study of War.
