Sonic boom like earthquake shakes UK homes as jets and antisubmarine plane scrambled
20220215
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-sonic-boom-felt-lancashire-26234909
Some Kremlin troops in military districts adjacent to their eastern European neighbours are returning to bases after completing drills, Russia's defence ministry was quoted as saying today.
"We operate in airspace cleared for supersonic testing but apologise for any alarm caused to local residents."
Another said: "Hi has there been a mini earth quake? My house and windows have been shaken. I live on Kenilworth."
An RAF spokesperson said: "At no point did the RAF Typhoons in the area go supersonic."
It said: "Data from BGS seismic networks were examined and signals consistent with a possible sonic origin were recorded at that time.
US intelligence predicts the Kremlin could green light an invasion of Ukraine in the early hours of tomorrow, which may involve air strikes.
Attack helicopters were brought into position over the weekend, joining artillery and tanks already waiting on the frontline.
The Poseidons comprehensive mission system features an APY-10 radar with modes for high-resolution mapping, an acoustic sensor system, including passive and multi-static sonobuoys, electro-opticalIR turret and electronic support measures ESM.
Flight trackers showed it first flew over South Devon, then circled Guernsey, then headed back north.
The MRA1 is a multi-role maritime patrol craft armed with sensors and weapons systems for anti-submarine warfare.
A spokesman for BAE Systems then clarified: "We can reassure people that the noise reported in the Southport area today was a supersonic boom from one of our Typhoon aircraft, which was undergoing flight testing in an offshore range area.
But American intelligence agencies predicted Kremlin chiefs will order an attack on Ukraine at 3am local time tomorrow.
An estimated 126,000 Russian troops were stationed on Ukraines eastern flank, 80,000 Russian and Belarus soldiers to the north and Kremlin warships to the south, packed with special forces and marines.
"Heard it too in Ainsdale, I wondered what the hell it was, sounded like someone kicking the doors in," someone else added.
Russia has more than 100,000 troops massed near the border with its eastern European neighbours.
A "sonic boom" was heard in Lancashire, as well as Merseyside, Greater Manchester and Cheshire - with some fearing there might have been an earthquake
Kremlin political leaders deny Western accusations that it is planning to invade, but say it could take unspecified "military-technical" action unless a range of demands are met, including barring Kyiv from ever joining the NATO alliance.
A sonic boom "like an earthquake" shook UK homes as a Typhoon fighter jet was scrambled into action.
At the same time, a Boeing Poseidon MRA1 P-8A flew over Guernsey and the English Channel - having taken off from Inverness in Scotland, reports PlymouthLive.
According to the Royal Air Force website, Boeing's Poseidon MRA1  P - 8A  is a multi-role maritime patrol aircraft.
It is equipped with sensors and weapons systems for anti-submarine warfare, as well as surveillance and search and rescue missions.
Moscow troops could target Kyivs military and government command and control centres with a barrage of air strikes before tanks roll over the border.
"British Aerospace confirmed they did have aircraft airborne at the time and two RAF aircraft but cannot confirm at this time if any had gone supersonic."
The Typhoon Apollo11 fighter jet was clocked on flight radar flying in a diagonal path towards Skegness, in Lincolnshire, and over the North Sea.
The British Geological Survey said it had received numerous reports of occurrences consistent with those of a sonic origin in Lancashire, as well as Merseyside, Greater Manchester and Cheshire at roughly 11am.
The flight comes amid high geopolitical tensions in Europe, centred on the UkraineRussia border with fears of an 'imminent' invasion being ordered by the Kremlin.
It came as an RAF anti-submarine surveillance plane was also launched amid growing tensions with Russia.
While 30,000 separatist troops were dug in among Moscow special forces on a 250 mile frontier of trenches in the contested Donbas region.
One person wrote on Twitter: "Workshop roof was shaking and very deep rumbling. House internal doors on the move too apparently."
"As the UK's sovereign combat air capability provider, we regularly conduct flight testing sorties as part of the Typhoon development programme and our broader role in safeguarding national security.
It was also seen over South Devon and the Torbay area before heading towards Wales.
This equipment delivers comprehensive search and tracking capability, while the aircrafts weapons system includes torpedoes for engaging sub-surface targets.
