Starving Russian commander says Vladimir Putin has thrown troops to slaughter in Ukraine
20220603
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/starving-russian-commander-says-vladimir-27142522
The video pans to some of the soldiers as a number seemingly run through injuries. Some of the soldiers are dressed in vests, wearing running shoes despite being on the frontline.
Russia failed to implement its own principles of war. With the limited combat readiness of many units, it spread its forces too thinly without enough support from artillery and combat aircraft.
However, the regions that Russia has claimed are now republics, the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic, have found themselves suffering on Russias behalf some have argued.
It continues: Since February, the guys have been at the forefront in the Kherson region in hunger and cold.
Two regiments from the DPR had reportedly recently refused to fight, and made almost identical complaints to the 113th regiment commander.
This included that they were being used as "cannon fodder" or treated like mercenaries. It comes as in recent months Russia has sought to relaunch its campaign against Ukraine.
Also, our fighters report that the command throws them to the slaughter without proper weapons.
It seems to represent fighters from the Donbas region in the east of Ukraine and has regularly posted other videos complaining about how Russia has treated the region it claimed to be liberating and fighting for.
The shocking video captures the Russian military commander of the Donetsk Republic's 113th regiment reading off a notepad of some kind as he makes the speech.
The shocking revelation comes on the 100th day of conflict during Russia s invasion of Ukraine amid ongoing reports of Russian brutality aimed at its own troops.
No one passed a medical examination, they mobilised children who have mental illness, fathers of many children, guardians.
The fighting has so far taken almost 50,000 lives according to Reuters, with the majority of dead having been suffered by Russia.
Kamil Galeev, a fellow at The Wilson Centre, highlighted online how troops from these regions were often bearing the brunt of the conflict.
After regrouping in the east of the country, Putins forces have since had more success seizing cities and territories and has been advancing gradually.
He reveals how they have been fighting on the front in the Kherson region in hunger and cold with no medicine or proper weapons.
The Telegram channel goes on to complain about how Russia has mobilised fighters and brands it illegal.
His revelations paint a grim picture about the state of some of Vladimir Putin's troops fighting in the east of Ukraine.
In the video, released by a pro-Russian telegram channel, he stands in front of his battle weary soldiers, who are armed.
A Russian commander was filmed complaining about being thrown to the slaughter fighting against Ukrainian forces with no food, equipment or medicine.
Above all, it was based on wildly optimistic assessments about the welcome Russian troops would receive in Ukraine. Russia has now adopted a strategy of attrition and is achieving slow and costly gains in the Donbas.
On the online channel where the video was shared they talk about another video of our illegally mobilised guys.
The commander says that they were sent to the slaughter without proper weapons and asks to return to Donetsk and stop the mobilisation there.
In a video shared on Telegram, a commander leading the Donetsk Republic's 113th regiment fighting for Russia complains about being sent to Ukraine without proper guns, medicine or food
Speaking of the 100 days of fighting so far, the Ministry of Defence tweeted: Russias assault into northern Ukraine ended in a costly failure.
He adds that they have no proper weapons, food or equipment and the unit suffered from "chronic illness".
Despite an initial push for the capital, Russia quickly found its forces floundering and unable to take Ukraines urban centres.
