Strictlys Motsi Mabuse heartbroken as family trapped in Ukraine cry on the phone
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictlys-motsi-mabuse-heartbroken-family-26324336
"Thinking of you and your parents. I'll never understand why the human race cannot live together in peace and harmony," one told her.
The 40-year-old said she felt totally helpless after making contact with her family, as Russia stormed Ukraine by land, sea and air.
Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebstrinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
"Apologies for this dark reflection, but Ive had the privilege of living in a peaceful context since I was born - a decade after the end of WW2  67 years in total. I dont take this for granted in any way and therefore find the notion of war to be unacceptable repugnant barbarism, she added.
Motsi wrote on Twitter : "It's heartbreaking hearing my mother in law crying this morning, afraid and there absolutely nothing we can do! Just Sad honestly."
Cardi B wrote: "Wish these world leaders would stop tripping about power and really think about who's really getting affected citizens besides the whole world is in a crisis. War, sanctions, invasions should be the last thing these leaders should worry about."
The Strictly Come Dancing star said how her mother-in-law called her in floods of tears after Russia invaded the country.
The world has been rocked by Russian President Vladimir Putin's declaration of war against Ukraine this morning.
Ukrainian police have said that Russia has carried out more than 200 attacks on the country since this morning.
Annie Lennox wrote on Instagram : "What kind of price must ordinary people pay for the nightmarish madness and brutality of invasion and warfare? Or is this just an elaborate hoax? A scare tactic? A threat?
Author Stephen King wrote: "What most of us learned as kids on the playground: You dont stand by while a big kid beats up a little kid, wrote King in a widely-shared post on Twitter. You might take a punch or two making the big kid stop, but thats the right thing to do.
Strictly Come Dancing star Motsi Mabuse spoke of her frustration and sadness over not being able to help her mother-in-law who is stuck in war-torn Ukraine.
Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror   here   .
"This is an act of war by a bully-boy thug who doesnt think the rest of the world has the guts or will to stop him... Shameful, Piers Morgan added.
A few hours later she posted another update: "Our parents have been told to go outside and switch off water and gas!
Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter
"I am heartbroken for the people of Ukraine. I am praying for their safety Motsi," read another.
Another wrote: "So sad for you and your parents and everyone in Ukraine. Much love and prayers xx"
