Strictlys Katya Jones denies rumours of tension between Russian and Ukrainian dancers
20220331
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictlys-katya-jones-denies-rumours-26605719
Get all the biggest showbiz news straight to your inbox. Sign up for the free Mirror Showbiz newsletter.
I personally find it really upsetting to see what these people are going through, its scary and its so wrong on all levels, but within our group theres nothing but love and support and we cant wait to come back together again.
Meanwhile, Anton Du Beke says he would love to stay on the Strictly panel but is match fit to hit the dancefloor if asked.
Strictly Come Dancing's Katya Jones and Luba Mushtuk come from St Petersburg while Nikita Kuzmin and Nadiya Bychkova come from Ukraine
The Mirror told yesterday how judge Shirley Ballas said she would love to see a new-look five-strong panel with both Anton and Bruno Tonioli, and Craig Revel-Horwood has also said he would like Anton to remain.
Anton thinks Strictly will be back to normal this year after Covid restrictions, with a bigger studio audience.
Anton joined the panel after pandemic restrictions made it difficult for Bruno to fly between the UK and the US, where he is a judge on Dancing With The Stars.
Weve been in touch with Nikita who has been very proactive in sharing ways about how to help Ukrainian people.
However 32-year-old Katya yesterday dismissed any thoughts of a rift as total nonsense and spoke out against her countrys invasion of Ukraine.
She told former contestant Sara Davies on the BBC s Morning Live: Youve seen first hand how supportive we all are all of each other always, and I want to make one thing very clear, I think the invasion of Ukraine is totally wrong, it shouldnt be happening, it must stop.
Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebsmirror.co.uk or call us direct at 0207 29 33033.
The BBC yesterday revealed the professional dancers returning to the show, minus Anton, but with two slots still to fill  after the departures of Oti Mabuse and Aljaz Skorjanec  he could technically be demoted from the judging line-up.
Bosses announced the return of Dianne Buswell, Graziano Di Prima, Amy Dowden, Karen Hauer, Neil Jones, Cameron Lombard, Gorka Marquez, Giovanni Pernice, Jowita Przystal, Johannes Radebe, Kai Widdrington and Nancy Xu.
Katya and Luba Mushtuk both hail from St Petersburg, while colleagues Nikita Kuzmin and Nadiya Bychkova are from Ukraine
Strictly star Katya Jones has denied rumours of tension between Russian and Ukrainian dancers on the show.
Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter
Anton, 55, said: I am loving being a judge. I heard Craig wants me to stay and that is very kind of him. I would love to stay.
