Strictly stars clash as James Jordan accuses Russian dancers of ignoring Ukraine war
20220227
https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictly-stars-clash-james-jordan-26341488
While another appeared to refer to Kristina's tweets from the last week, writing: "Ive just unfollowed one who lives vey local to me . I hope I never bump into her! disgusted with her recent tweet! she is loosing customers very quickly! Nothing is comparable to this poor country and what they are enduring."
But another suggested that James wasn't being fair as their social media accounts could be watched.
The 43-year-old, who appeared on the BBC show from 2006 until 2013, said that he was "very disappointed" that he hadn't seen many Russian dancers he'd worked with over the years speaking out against the invasion.
One of the dancer's followers expressed their dismay, writing: "Oh wow. I didnt even want to think that of them how could anyone agree with what that evil monster is doing to innocent people."
A handful of Strictly Come Dancing's current and former stars have become embroiled in a furious clash online as ex-pro James Jordan took aim at Russian dancers for failing to speak out against the war in the Ukraine.
However, Kristina replied furiously: "You obviously completely oblivious to how Russians were treated by extremists there for 8 yrs. I have family  friends there abused for simply speaking Russian! So dont go on my timeline  preach to me U dont have to follow me either in fact Ill give you a favour and block you."
Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter
The pro fumed back: "Im so disgusted with them - they stand up for s that doesnt matter and make a song and dance about it Ive worked will some of them for years and knew who they were."
James also replied to another fan who branded his remarks about Russian stars not speaking out about the Ukraine invasion "ignorant and thoughtless", fuming: "If they are too scared to speak out against wrong then stay the f off social media for a while and stop with the self promotion during this horrific time. Have some respect Or  maybe they are not speaking out because they are brainwashed too."
James tweeted: "I dont see many of the Russian dancers I know and have even shared the Strictly dance floor with them openly speaking out about the war against Ukraine But are still promoting themselves on social media - very disappointed. They know who they are - not 1 post about it."
In the post, Shirley had written: "Dancers please, just for a few days show some sensitivity towards the suffering in Ukraine.. You don't need to promote yourselves, your shows, competitions and teaching every single day... Your colleagues, students, competitors and their families are in the middle of a shocking war and need your support.. YOUR business can wait. Show some respect. We are one family."
Quote tweeting his first comment, Shirley said: "TheJamesJordan dear James. Not sure who you follow and who follows you but many dancers I know have retweeted in support of the Ukraine and have felt shame at their own government, lots of help for their fellow dancers Lots have spoken out and retweeted ,,"
James became involved in a heated exchange with head judge Shirley Ballas, who denied his remarks and suggested that many dancers she knew had tweeted their support.
On Friday, former Strictly dancer Kristina retweeted a Sky News story about Russia being kicked out of Eurovision and wrote: "F.ing breaking news Are you for real SkyNews ? WTF! And where are we at with bringing BorisJohnson accountable for ruining thousands of small business while parting during lockdowns?????? This tweet EVERYTHING WHATS WRONG WITH THE UK MEDIA  USELESS GOVUK Eurovision."
While another had responded: "Sorry Kristina, I have always liked you but I can't believe you've posted this given the horror happening in Ukraine! Completely inappropriate, you should be ashamed of yourself!"
He also appeared to refer to his former co-star Kristina Rihanoff, who was also a dancer on the show, over her remarks regarding the situation in the Ukraine.
She also responded to a tweet about the UK's support for Ukraine and tweeted: "Nobody gives a flying monkey about your sanctions. Just like bfr ALL countries will crawl back AGAIN begging to trade  start tourism. Stand up first for UK  sort out your own s  get geography  history lesson next time you go to Russia to talk politics U R embarrassing."
Shirley continued: 'its heartbreaking but in our Russian Ukraine dance community the support has been overwhelming. Sadness , tears , massive help and support. I dont know any one who has not reached out from the very top dancer to the beginners. Xxx hugs."
But James shared a screengrab of Shirley's Instagram post from yesterday, writing: "Why post this yesterday then? A similar sentiment to me."
The former fan had replied: "Disgusted! Dont bother blocking me . Ive unfollowed you . I hope I never bump into you. no need for this war in this day and age. My business has diminished but I wont compare that and parties to people loosing their lives and war!"
He went on to retweet a number of replies, with one reading: "I dont think its a unfair statement seeing as they have a platform! There is people in Russia right now gathering in support of Ukraine knowing that they could ACTUALLY be harmed, writing a statement online isnt the same!!"
Strictly Come Dancing professional James Jordan, who appeared on the BBC show from 2006 until 2013, said that he was "very disappointed" that he hadn't seen many Russian dancers he'd worked with over the years speaking out against the invasion
