The Queen testing positive for Covid is clear sign the pandemic isnt over
20220220
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/the-queen-testing-positive-covid-26284381
The Queen testing positive for Covid is the clearest sign this pandemic isnt over just as Boris Johnson dangerously sweeps away Englands isolation laws.
Once again this Prime Minister could let the bodies pile up  this time to stop a group of Conservative MPs demanding a no-confidence vote to boot him out of No10.
But negotiations to defuse a confrontation must be pursued because we all lose if there is a war.
Russian armed forces massing close to the border of Ukraine is frightening and we could be in for days, weeks, months or maybe even years of these military threats from Vladimir Putin.
The Queen falling ill coincides with Prime Minister Boris Johnson preparing to dangerously sweep away Englands isolation laws, writes the Voice of the Mirror
Mercifully the elderly monarchs symptoms are said to be mild, akin to a mild cold, but the hundreds dying every week arent so lucky.
Support for Ukraine, including penal financial sanctions against Moscow, are vital yet the Tory Partys dependence on roubles and previous unwillingness to tackle dirty money flowing into London risks emboldening Putin.
The timing of the Sovereigns illness couldnt be worse for Johnson and we urge him to think again, to think of the lives hell sacrifice.
What an end to the Winter Olympics for Team GB with the women curlers winning gold to top the mens silver.
The autocrats intentions are unclear so theres an element of doubt over whether he genuinely intends to invade.
Better safe than sorry, retaining sensible isolation laws a little longer, would be the responsible decision.
Her Majesty, 95, falling ill underlines why the rush to abandon rules on the infected to stay at home is condemned by medical experts.
The Mirror's newsletter brings you the latest news, exciting showbiz and TV stories, sport updates and essential political information.
