Top Russian general gunned down by sniper during special Ukraine operation
20220303
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/top-russian-general-gunned-down-26379437
Russia has admitted to 498 deaths in the Ukraine special military operation - but the figure is almost certainly higher.
Major-General Andrey Sukhovetsky, 47, was the deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Central Military District.
He is the most senior known casualty, and a blow to Putin in another sign his war effort is not going to plan.
The city of Kherson has been taken by Russian troops but elsewhere the invaders have met with fierce Ukraine resistance.
"You will reimburse us for everything you did against our state, against every Ukrainian in full."
One of Vladimir Putin s most senior paratroopers was gunned down by a sniper during a special operation in Ukraine, it has been claimed.
The warning came during a day of continued attacks on cities including Kyiv and Kharkiv, which have suffered intense damage.
Major-General Andrey Sukhovetsky, a top paratrooper in Vladimir Putin's invading forces, is alleged to have been killed by a sniper during a special operation in Ukraine
There has been no official announcement over his death but a military source confirmed: This is true. Sniper.
It is not confirmed where he died but suspected it during in attempt to land in Hostomel.
Negotiations began between the Russian and Ukrainian sides at about 3pm GMT - shortly before news broke of an airstrike on Chernihiv which killed 22 civilians.
It comes as French President Emmanuel Macron said he feared the invasion would get worse on major cities amid more indiscriminate bombing.
Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov claimed that Western powers were preparing for a wider war, just the day after he issued a chilling threat that WW3 would be ' nuclear and destructive'.
Sergey Chipilyov, of the All-Russian Union Airborne Forces Union of Russian Paratroopers, posted: "With great pain, we received the tragic news about the death of our friend, Major-General Andrey Aleksandrovich Sukhovetsky, in Ukraine during a special operation.
On the first day of the war, an assault by airborne forces just outside Kyiv was met with strong resistance from the Ukrainians.
"We will restore every house, every street, every city and we say to Russia: learn the word of reparations and contributions.
Attempts to seize both cities have failed so Kremlin forces have instead resorted to heavy bombing, causing thousands of civilian casualties.
Until 2021, he headed the Novorossiysk 7th Guards Airborne Assault Mountain Division, which specialised in combat in mountainous areas.
