Traffic jams in Ukraine for people heading BACK to Kyiv after Russian withdrawal
20220404
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/traffic-jams-ukraine-people-heading-26634126
Russia has denied being behind the deaths, and has claimed that Ukraine has orchestrated the scenes for the media.
Huge traffic jams have formed outside of Kyiv as thousands of Ukrainians return to the city - despite its mayor, Vitali Klitschko, warning that the risk of death remains 'pretty high'
Now Russian troops are currently said to be withdrawing from around Kyiv and Chernihiv, with the Kremlin claiming they are retreating out of "respect for ongoing peace talks." Russian forces have suffered heavy casualties.
The lines of cars stretch for kilometres at the entrance to the city, the BBC reports.
Visiting Bucha, Zelensky said it would be harder for Ukraine to negotiate with Russia after the scale of the alleged atrocities was uncovered.
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned areas may still come under attack from above, while Russian troops could leave behind mines, abandoned equipment or "even the bodies of those killed".
"We need wait until our land is de-mined, wait till we are able to assure you that there wont be new shelling."
President Zelensky said: Its still not possible to return to normal life, as it used to be, even at the territories that we are taking back after the fighting.
It follows reports of a group of Russian soldiers - branded the 'Butchers of Bucha' - allegedly raping and shooting women and children in the area.
Zelensky's words have been echoed by Kyiv's mayor Vitali Klitschko, who urged people to take their time returning to the war-torn city.
"We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue to fight and we have to get all the detail so this could be  actual have a war crimes trial.
"This guy is brutal and what's happening in Bucha is outrageous and everyone's seen it."
Footage from outside the Ukrainian capital shows long queues of traffic as residents rush to return home following the Russian invasion.
Roughly 2 million people fled Kyiv during the first few weeks of Russia's invasion - about half the city's population.
Becoming visibly emotional, he said: "These are war crimes and will be recognised by the world as genocide.
Thousands of people have been returning to Kyiv - despite the city's mayor warning that the risk of death remains "pretty high".
He added: "We know of thousands of people killed and tortured, with severed limbs, raped women and murdered children."
He told reporters: He is a war criminal. But we have to gather the information.
Today US President Joe Biden called for a war crimes trial against Russian Preisdent Vladimir Putin over the alleged atrocities.
Today a mass grave containing the bodies of 57 civilians was found in Bucha, close to Kyiv, where Russian troops have been forced out.
Klitschko said: "The risk of dying is pretty high, and thats why my advice to anyone who wants to come back is: please, take a little bit more time."
"It's very difficult to talk when you see what they've done here. The longer the Russian Federation drags out the meeting process, the worse it is for them and for this situation and for this war."
Ukrainian officials have said 410 civilians have been killed in the towns surrounding Kyiv, with 300 of them in Bucha alone.
