Tragic photos show destroyed flat of concentration camp survivor killed in Putins war
20220322
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/tragic-photos-show-destroyed-flat-26531846
Searchers painstakingly rummaged through the rubble to find the body parts for a modest funeral in a city savaged by Putins war machine.
The war veteran died when his apartment block was hit by invading Russian forces in Kharkiv.
Mr Romanchenko had campaigned tirelessly for a better world in his city Kharkiv after surviving inside the notorious death camps of Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen, Peenemnde, and Mittelbau-Dora during the Second World War.
Judging on events up until this point, Russia could get more brutal the longer the war drags on.
News of the pensioners death comes amid reports that Russian soldiers only have enough supplies for "three more days" of fighting in Ukraine as attacks on Mariupol fail and offensives are stalled elsewhere.
Yet Mr Romanchenko had survived the real Nazis in the Second World War, somehow surviving four of the most evil concentration camps.
British Intelligence has said Russian attempts to capture Mariupol, viewed as a key target by Putin, "continue to be repulsed" as heavy fighting goes on.
He was widely respected and his heroic concentration camp survival story was known across Europe and America.
Heartbreaking pictures from the flat of 96-year-old Boris Romanchenko - who had survived four of Hitlers worst concentration camps, show the human cost of Vladimir Putin s lethal missiles.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine has said Vladimir Putin 's troops could run out of ammunition, food and fuel in a matter of days because of an inability to form a fuel pipeline.
The assessment is in line with other Western allies' opinion that Russian supplies will run out this week.
They will be forced to go on the defensive as they wait for more to arrive.
This is something Ukrainian forces have already achieved in Makariv on the outskirts of Kyiv, capturing a key highway and blocking Russian soldiers from surrounding it to the northwest.
Searchers painstakingly rummaged through the rubble to find the body parts for a modest funeral in a city savaged by Vladimir Putins war machine
He had no chance against the onslaught on his Soviet-era block from the Russian invaders.
