UK concerned Putin will use chemical weapons after Ukraine hospital war crime
20220310
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/breaking-uk-concerned-putin-use-26434787
Yesterday an official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: Were seeing some of the disinformation come out of Moscow about non-conventional weapons.
Pressed on whether he thinks the attack constitutes a war crime, Defence Minister James Heappey: "Yes - if you deliberately target a piece of civilian infrastructure like a hospital, yes.
"Putin has to lose in Ukraine, that is vitally important. It's appalling the suffering we're seeing in Ukraine."
Worries are mounting among allied governments after Moscow was seen setting the scene for such an attack.
"I don't think it's helpful to get into any firm commitment right now about where that red line sits, but I think President Putin needs to be very clear that when other countries have used chemical weapons it has caused an international response, he said.
In a frank but brief interview with CNN, Ms Truss said: "We are very concerned about the use of chemical weapons. Now of course we've seen Russia use these weapons before.
Ms Truss today also condemned the attack in Mariupol adding: "We believe war crimes are being committed. we've referred the case to the international criminal court we never expected war like this to be taking place in Europe again.
The city council warned "the destruction is colossal", while President Volodymr Zelensky called it an "atrocity".
Russia-backed Syria was repeatedly accused of using chemical weapons in the country's bloody war, but Russia vetoed a 2017 UN resolution that would have looked into who was responsible.
We saw this in Syria, the Russians starting that talk when they or their proxies were about to use those weapons there.
Pregnant women were seen being carried out of the shelled facility in the southern Ukrainian coastal city.
If you use indiscriminate artillery into an urban area without due regard for the reality, you could hit a protected site like a hospital, then that too in my view is."
Western officials say Russias military advance remains very slow with minimal progress over the last 24 hours - partly due to the Ukrainians resistance and partly due to logistical and execution problems with Russian troops.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss made the harrowing remarks after Western officials had expressed 'serious concerns' that Russia is 'setting the scene' for such an attack
Mr Johnson tweeted: "There are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless.
"That would be a grave mistake on the part of Russia adding to the grave mistakes that have already been made by Putin."
The Foreign Secretary's chilling remarks comes hours after Western officials expressed "serious concerns" that Russia could use chemical weapons.
Liz Truss warned it would be a "grave mistake" on Putin's part if he were to do so, adding to the litany of errors he has made since invading Ukraine.
Boris Johnson branded Russia "depraved" after Ukraine accused Putin's forces of bombing a children's and maternity hospital in the besieged port of Mariupol - during a supposed ceasefire to let civilians escape.
Russia's artillery strike on a Mariupol hospital which left three people dead including a child was a war crime, the Government has declared.
The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found people were exposed to sarin gas in 2017 in the Khan Shaykhun area but did not identify who was responsible.
"President Putin needs to be clear that the use of chemical weapons is just the most despicable thing that anybody can imagine.
The UK is "concerned" that Vladimir Putin may use chemical weapons in Ukraine after his troops bombed a children's hospital in the besieged city of Mariupol.
Amid growing fears Moscow could order chemical weapon attacks, he warned the Kremlin that their past use has "triggered an international response".
