UK sends 350 troops to Poland as fears mount that Russia will invade Ukraine
20220207
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/breaking-uk-sends-350-troops-26162499
Macron flew to Moscow expressing hope of easing tension from talks with President Vladimir Putin.
Earlier Russia played down hopes of a swift breakthrough in the Ukraine crisis from talks with French President Emmanuel Macron.
It came as French President Emmanuel Macron held talks with Vladimir Putin as diplomatic efforts aimed at stopping a Russian invasion of Ukraine step-up.
Another 350 UK soldiers will be sent to Poland to bolster defences against Kremlin aggression, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace announced today.
He added: Today we are facing another challenge, the Russian aggressive policy towards Ukraine and as part of Nato, but also on a bilateral level, Poland and the United Kingdom are really to do all the necessary decisions in order to deter the potential aggressor.
Based on historical experience we see that only a decisive deterrence policy can stop any potential Russian aggression.
Boris Johnson moved to quell Russian fears about NATO expansion as Kremlin forces mass on the Ukrainian border.
Instead, he said, statements were "pouring in" from Western capitals about a looming Russian attack on Ukraine.
It denies planning an invasion, but Putin has said Moscow is ready to take unspecified "military-technical measures" if its concerns are not addressed.
"But we do want to work with Russia to provide diplomatic reassurance on that front. It is not about making concessions as the PM and other western leaders have said all European democracies have a right to join NATO."
Speaking at a press conference in London alongside his Polish counterpart Mariusz Blaszczak, former Scots Guard officer Mr Wallace said they would add to the troops already in the country.
There will now be 450 British troops in Poland as fears continue to mount about large numbers of Russian troops massed near the Ukrainian border
With the White House saying Putin could order an attack on Ukraine within days or weeks, the Kremlin said the situation was still tense and the West was ignoring its security demands.
Russia, which seized Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, is demanding security guarantees including a promise NATO will never admit Ukraine, "Russia has expressed concerns about potential NATO aggression, but we have been clear that those concerns are fundamentally unfounded as NATO is a defensive alliance at its heart," said Mr Johnson's spokesman.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is due to fly to Moscow for negotiations with her counterpart on Thursday.
"In recent days there has been nothing new on the topic of security guarantees for Russia. Our Western interlocutors prefer not to mention this topic," Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said.
He added: "In that spirit of solidarity and helping share each other's challenges of resiliences we will add to those 100 Royal Engineers by sending a further 350 British troops to Poland in a bilateral deployment to show that we can work together and send a strong signal that Britain and Poland stand side by side.
Britain last year sent troops to Poland to help support it with a migrant crisis at its border with Belarus.
Polish defence minister Mariusz Blaszczak welcomed the additional British deployment as the country faces threats from Alexander Lukashenkos Belarus and the Russian build-up on the border with Ukraine.
And, based on the very same history, we do see that the policy of appeasement only encourages the potential enemy to do something.
