UK sanctions Vladimir Putins daughters over close to genocide war in Ukraine
20220408
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/breaking-uk-sanctions-vladimir-putins-26665237
In 2020, Putin told Russian media how the country's coronavirus vaccine had been tested on one of his daughters - but did not reveal who.
The UK today sanctioned Vladimir Putin's daughters over the war in Ukraine, which Boris Johnson has described as not "far short of genocide".
"I'm a proud father," he said. "My daughters have never been star-struck children. They never craved the limelight."
"They are not involved in business or politics," he added, revealing that they were both fluent in three European languages.
Britain claimed it would crack down on their "lavish lifestyle", mirroring sanctions that were imposed on the two women by the US earlier this week.
"Katerina Vladimirovna Tikhonova and Maria Vladimirovna Vorontsova, the daughters of President Putin, and Yekaterina Sergeyevna Vinokurova, daughter of Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, will be subject to travel bans and asset freezes."
But he confirmed that his daughters were living in Moscow where they are "making the first steps in their careers, and doing well."
Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova are now on a list of hundreds of Russians slapped with asset freezes and travel bans by the UK - including the Russian President himself
Katerina, 35, and Maria, 36, have never been officially confirmed as Putin's children and live relatively normal lifestyles.
"Our unprecedented package of sanctions is hitting the elite and their families, while degrading the Russian economy on a scale Russia hasn't seen since the fall of the Soviet Union," Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement.
On Thursday, the Kremlin, which says its actions are a "special military operation" to disarm and "denazify" Ukraine, described the move against Putin's daughters as part of a broader Western frenzy against Russia.
Putin is said to be one of the worlds richest men but it has been long suspected that his fortune his stashed among family members and associates.
At the time, he refused to confirm or deny she was his daughter at a press conference.
They are rarely photographed and avoid public events, in favour of jobs in business and medicine.
He disclosed that he is a grandfather five years ago in an interview with Oliver Stone, the Hollywood director.
"I have never been specific about the workplaces of my daughters and their line of work, and I'm not going to do so now. For many reasons, including security considerations," he said.
A statement from the Foreign Office said: "The lavish lifestyles of the Kremlin's inner circle will be further targeted from today as the UK sanctions the adult daughters of President Vladimir Putin and his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
So secretive is Putin, that Katerina was only publicly named by a Russian media outlet as Vladimir Putin's younger daughter in 2015.
Putin announced that he had separated from his daughters' mother, Lyudmilla Putina, after almost 30 years of marriage in a staged interview with a Russian journalist in 2013.
Katerina Tikhonova, 35, and Maria Vorontsova, 36, have joined the hundreds of Russians slapped with asset freezes and travel bans, including Putin himself.
Separately Lavrov's step-daughter Polina Kovaleva - who reportedly owns a 4m pad in Kensington, London - was already sanctioned last month.
"Are you a grandfather yet?" Stone asked Putin during an interview. "Yes," replied Mr Putin.
Britain estimates that 60 of Russian foreign currency reserves have been frozen as a result of international sanctions.
Britain also said its analysis showed Russia is heading for the deepest recession since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Putin - who is notoriously private about his family life - has let slip a few details about the lives of his daughters, who he had with ex-wife Lyudmilla Putina.
His 200billion riches come from taking 50 of every rouble made in Russia by the countrys oligarchs.
