UK warns Russia of dramatic increased response if chemical weapons used in Ukraine
20220311
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/uk-warns-russia-dramatic-increased-26441480
Technology Minister Chris Philp told Sky News: "Clearly, the use of chemical weapons, especially in an invasion where there are a very large number of civilians, would be an outrage against humanity.
Kyiv and Washington have dismissed the allegation, warning it could be Russia paving the way for a false flag attack before launching its own chemical weapons.
Meanwhile, Mr Philp said he would be "in the streets" if there was an attack on his Croydon South constituency.
"It will trigger an increased response from the West, there's a dramatic increased response, there's no question about that.
It comes after Boris Johnson expressed fears Russia could kill millions - and admitted "I cant see a way out unless Russia withdraws its troops.
"I would say to anybody in Russia thinking about this - do not cross that line, do not inflict any more misery and suffering on the Ukrainian people.
Moscow triggered an United Nations Security Council emergency meeting on Friday to discuss disputed Kremlin claims of 'military biological activities of the US on the territory of Ukraine'
And to be honest, if somebody was attacking Croydon, the place I represent, if somebody was bombing Croydon University Hospital, I tell you what, I would be in the streets defending my hospital.
He promised details of a new humanitarian route for refugees fleeing the invasion to seek sanctuary in the UK in the "very near future" after the scheme was hit by delays.
The Ukrainian army and Ukrainian citizens have every right to defend their homeland, to defend their cities and their towns, to defend their hospitals against this aggression by Russia, he said.
He said the threats over chemical weapons were "straight out of their playbook" and expressed fears Russia was preparing fake news stories on chemical weapons held by their opponents to justify an action.
Asked if that is what he expects next, the Prime Minister said: I just note that that is what theyre already doing - its a cynical, barbaric government Im afraid.
Russia would face a "dramatic increased response" from the West if Vladimir Putin used chemical weapons in Ukraine, a Tory minister has warned.
New details are expected on Monday about a scheme allowing Brits to take in refugees fleeing the conflict who don't have relatives in the UK.
Want all the latest news and analysis from Ukraine? Sign up to our World News Bulletin here
Moscow triggered an United Nations Security Council emergency meeting on Friday to discuss what the Kremlin claims are "the military biological activities of the US on the territory of Ukraine".
"I'm not going to get into hypotheticals and try and look into the future, but you've seen what the Prime Minister's said and we continue to call for Russia not to use chemical weapons."
Downing Street warned of a "robust" response against Russia if the Kremlin uses chemical weapons in Ukraine.
"They've already been shooting civilians who are fleeing down humanitarian escape corridors, they've been bombing and shelling hospitals including a children'smaternity hospital - do not go any further in inflicting misery on the Ukrainian people.
A spokesman for the Prime Minister said: "The international community has always responded robustly following the use of chemical weapons.
"Id be in the streets defending my town and my neighbours as Ukrainians are quite rightly doing.
"I'm not going to speculate about the form that's going to take or pre-empt it, but that's a line that Russian governments should not cross."
