Ukraine Russia war RECAP Chilling warning that Vladimir Putin may use chemical weapons
20220310
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-ukraine-war-live-horror-26430896
Helpless and bewildered orphans cram into a basement as Vladimir Putins grotesque bombardment echoes all around them.
He added: "You also need to understand that each father or each husband who is now holding arms in his hands, he is really distracted from this war with the fact if he hears that there are some kind of technical difficulties which his family is suffering."
An RAF General has highlighted one sign that something is "going badly wrong" with Vladimir Putin s invasion of Ukraine.
"So this is a real nightmare for families and this nightmare, unfortunately, has a specific name.
Ms Braverman said: "Russia's crimes might be tried in the courtrooms of Kyiv, The Hague or even in the UK but whatever the forum, it is critical to gather the evidence now... The evidence is there, the world can see it accruing. Our job now is to collect it, preserve it and use it when the moment comes.
Initially, it was reported that the convoy was using a green corridor when they were ambushed but the service has since retracted that claim.
Inscrutable spokesman Zakharova responded to footage of pregnant women and new mums clutching their babies as they scrambled from the bomb-hit maternity hospital in Mariupol by saying: This is information terrorism.
Schroeder, Social Democrat SPD chancellor from 1998 to 2005, is on the board of Russian oil giant Rosneft and is chairman of the shareholders' committee of the company in charge of building the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which has been shelved.
The Russian invasion has intensified on its 18th day as Putin's men sit just 25km from the capital city centre.
Ukraine's intelligence service said today Russia had fired at a convoy of civilian evacuees from the village of Peremoha in the Kyiv region, causing seven deaths, including one child.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has warned that Russia might use chemical weapons following its invasion of Ukraine and that such a move would be a war crime.
Boris Johnson was warned about granting a peerage to his close friend Evgeny Lebedev two years ago by British intelligence.
And the nation is being fed a daily menu of untruths about the conflict that know no bounds.
Many Twitter users who have reported two strong explosions in the city, The UNIAN news agency adds.
Metal shutters at a British pop-up processing centre in Nothern France show how Britain is seeminly closed to Ukraine s desperate refugees.
Russia has already lost three major generals in less than three weeks of fighting, since the invasion began on February 24.
He made the chilling statement after Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia will have to "raze Kyiv to the ground" before they can take it from the clutches of his people.
And Russia is not the only country using female-heavy PR teams to spread questionable agendas, Donald Trumps administration did too, as has North Korea.
Ukraine's foreign minister said it will negotiate with Russia but it will never surrender to Vladimir Putin's regime.
Heartbreaking photos showed heavily pregnant women and new mums clutching their babies last Wednesday after the facilty was destroyed.
But despite Home Secretary Priti Patel promising to stand shoulder to shoulder with victims of Putins war, the Bureaux de la Prefecture was closed when we visited today.
Citing a person with detailed insight into Schroeder's activities, the weekly newspaper said Schroeder had also had a long talk with one of Putin's closest advisers.
More than 2.5million desperate people  including over 1million children  have already fled for their lives from Putins invasion.
Lithuania will be the next country Vladimir Putin looks to seize if he wins the war with Ukraine, it has been claimed.
Kuleba said Ukraine needs more military supplies, renewing a plea to the West for extra fighter jets to fight Russia's large armour columns.
Ukraine's intelligence service has warned civilians not to attempt to evacuate outside of agreed humanitarian corridors.
The local government building in Arras is meant to help refugees who left behind their passports under Russian bombing.
Citing sources close to the Kremlin, they are investigating reports that 69-year-old Putins increasingly erratic behaviour combined with a bloated appearance point to drug use.
Vladimir Putin has a clone army of media savvy Russian women who have been tasked with spreading his propaganda.
He added: "In principle, I would like to think that people are beginning to wonder whether what they're doing is morally right and therefore wondering whether or not they should be adhering to the orders that seem to be coming down to them."
The UK Government is set to launch a scheme where individuals and organisations can sponsor refugees to come into the country, but the Scottish and Welsh first ministers told Michael Gove, the Levelling Up Secretary, they wanted to "maximise" their contribution and act as "super sponsors".
A new satellite image shows the damage done to the maternity hospital in Mariupol which was bombed by Russia last week.
Lviv is a stronghold in western Ukraine where many refugees are passing through on their way out of the country.
Devastating photos taken from the skies above Ukraine show entire neighbourhoods razed to the ground by Russian forces.
People sponsoring refugees through the new uncapped route will be required to commit to the scheme for a minimum of six months, but are encouraged to keep up the offer for as long as they can.
Around 13,000 people were evacuated from a number of Ukrainian cities on Saturday, said Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk, almost twice the number who managed to get out the previous day.
Ms Sturgeon said she wanted Scotland to play its "full part in welcoming Ukrainians seeking sanctuary from war" and criticised the UK response as one "beset with bureaucracy and red tape".
"We have a clear message to Russian leaders and Russian soldiers on the ground in Ukraine your actions will have consequences and the UK will stand firmly behind Ukraine throughout its journey to justice.
Nicola Sturgeon and Mark Drakeford have said both Scotland and Wales were willing to become "super sponsors" for Ukrainian refugees.
He added that although the Ukrainian people were resisting the Russian invasion with courage, the coming days are likely to bring even greater hardship.
Today the Mirror launches an appeal to send vital supplies to children after just 2,500 orphans have been evacuated so far with the British charity Hope and Homes.
More measures to protect children are now being brought in after claims drivers at checkpoints offering free lifts across Europe had been subject to minimal checks.
Opposition leader Sir Keir Starmer expressed alarm over the article's allegations and said he had written to the House of Lords Appointment Commission chair Lord Brew to raise concerns over the Prime Minister's decision to grant Lord Lebedev a peerage.
Maxar confirmed fires were raging in the port city's western districts - where high-rise buildings were severely damaged by Russian bombing and shelling.
"Today, the security of not only Europe but also NATO countries located on the European continent is on our shoulders.
The centre, less than 25 km 15 miles from the Polish border, did not say whether it had been hit.
He has faced calls from some German government politicians to step down from his roles over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The source told BamS that Schroeder was currently the only person to have had direct contact with both Putin and top Ukrainian officials.
The Maxar pictures include a multispectral view of fires in an industrial area of the Primorskyi district.
She said Ukrainian reports of the airstrike which killed at least three people were fake.
Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Sunday that Russian President Vladimir Putin might use chemical weapons following their invasion of Ukraine and that such a move would be a war crime
Russian President Vladimir Putin's bloated appearance could be the side effect of him taking steroids for treatment for cancer, spies have claimed.
At least three people died in the devastating airstrike, which the Kremlin has denied as fake news.
The former head of the British armed forces has said Russian leaders will be questioning "what they have unleashed" in Ukraine.
I can see the logic of putting up a woman to defend an attack on a maternity hospital. You would be trying to take away the hard edges. But Zakharova is pretty robust in her delivery.
It comes after seven women and children were gunned down by Russian forces as they fled a village in Kyiv yesterday.
He claimed Moscow is employing tactics similar to those it unleashed during the Syrian civil war and called for its allies to assist in investigating the country's alleged war crimes.
Volodymyr Groysman was Ukraine's premier between 2016 and 2019, and has been warning about the threat from the Kremlin for many years.
He left Moscow early on Saturday morning with his wife and flew to Istanbul, the paper said, without disclosing any further details of the conversations.
Scholz, who travels to Turkey on Monday, spoke to Putin in a three-way phone call with French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday.
A UK couple who have driven over 3,300 miles to rescue their 15-year-old Ukrainian niece are stranded in Paris after falling foul of the UKs shameful visa mess.
I dont know if Putin and these other leaders are deliberately choosing women, or if its simply that they are the best people for the job, Jo Tanner, a communications consultant and former adviser to Boris Johnson told the Daily Telegraph.
He led a government task force co-ordinating investigations into the crash of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17, which was shot down by a missile launched from an area of Ukraine controlled by pro-Russia separatists in July 2014.
Writing in the Sunday Telegraph, Suella Braverman stressed the urgency of gathering evidence of Russia's war crimes now.
The former PM said the country was "very grateful for everything the United Kingdom is doing for us in these difficult times" but said he was aware of some "technical difficulties" with refugees from Ukraine getting visas.
In a statement, the Labour leader questioned the judgement of Mr Johnson for nominating to the House of Lords "someone who has promoted the worst conspiracy theories and defences of Vladimir Putin".
"Now that these false claims have been made, we must remain vigilant because it is possible that Russia itself could plan chemical weapons operations under this fabrication of lies. That would be a war crime," Stoltenberg was quoted as saying.
Vereshchuk said in an online message that no one had managed to leave the besieged city of Mariupol and blamed obstruction by Russian forces.
The latest satellite images from Mariupol show the widespread destruction in the southern port city.
Earlier, EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs Joseph Borrell expressed concern that Russian President Vladimir Putin could attack NATO.
Mourners have been filmed kneeling in the street as a hearse transported the body of a Ukrainian soldier.
Sir Keir, the former Director of Public Prosecutions, accused the Prime Minister of disregarding the security service's "serious reservations" about Lord Lebedev.
Ukraine's intelligence service initially said those who died outside Peremoha had been in a "green corridor" agreed with Russia.
It comes as the Government has faced criticism over the speed and scale of its efforts to bring fleeing Ukrainians from the Russian invasion to the UK.
The seven women and children who Ukraine says died when Russian forces attacked a convoy escaping a village in the Kyiv region on Saturday were not as previously stated in an agreed evacuation corridor, the defence ministry said.
William Heylend and his Ukraine-born wife, Natasha, left their home in Winchester, Hants, at 9am on Saturday, February 26.
"We understand this, we ask you to help us. You have no desire to fight, we are ready to fight ourselves. Give us modern weapons so that we can destroy the enemy.
People are paying their last respects to the fallen hero. Heartbreaking. 1300 UA soldiers have died in the first 2 weeks of war. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten or forgiven. Ever. StopPutin pic.twitter.comWxt4bciebB
She added she had just signed a joint statement with Ukraine's Prosecutor General, Iryna Venediktova, to reaffirm the UK Government's support in holding "Russia accountable for the crimes that it is committing on Ukrainian soil".
An air strike has been launched on a Ukrainian military base in Yavoriv in the west of the country near the Polish border, the Lviv regional military administration said on Sunday.
The Attorney General has vowed to put Russian soldiers found guilty of war crimes in Ukraine behind bars.
Inna, 53, said: The explosions became more and more frequent, and Oksana called me and said, Mum you must leave now."
Red tape holding up refugees from reaching the UK could be distracting husbands and fathers left behind to fight Russian forces as they worry about the safety of their families who have fled, a former prime minister of Ukraine has said.
They are advancing theories that he may be suffering from cancer and the medical treatment he is receiving has altered the balance of his mind.
As a "thank you", sponsors will receive payments of 350 per month. A website gathering expressions of interest is set to launch on Monday.
The bombs started falling and they evacuated, William said. We made the decision the following morning. We threw clothes into a suitcase and set off.
Sponsors can nominate a named Ukrainian individual or family to stay with them in their home, or offer a separate property for them to use rent-free.
Referring to those attempting to leave independently, it said: "This is very dangerous, because the occupying forces are ruthlessly destroying the civilian population.
"This nightmare's name is Putin and he has to be punished for that and I'm sure, I can tell you for sure, that we are never going to forget what he has done to us."
A defence ministry statement later said people had in fact tried to escape by themselves, "so they began evacuating without the 'green corridor' agreed by the parties".
Adviser to Ukraines interior ministry, Anton Heraschenko, claimed 10 soldiers had sieged Melitopols crisis centre on Thursday, March 10, before putting a bag over Mr Federov's head.
"I'm not only observing the pictures of those people, I'm also meeting those refugees on a daily basis," he said.
When a shell hit Inna Dmytrenkos 10-year-old son Kirills school and the air strikes intensified in Kharkiv, she made the heartbreaking decision to leave on March 2, with Kirill and her vulnerable niece Elena, 30.
The Homes for Ukraine scheme, to be rolled out this week, will allow individuals, charities, community groups and businesses to bring people fleeing the war to safety - even if they have no ties to the UK.
Babies, six to a cot, lie unaware of the horrors that have condemned Ukraine to a living hell. Toddlers sit compliantly, cajoled by carers doing their best to maintain some calm amid the madness.
Images taken on Saturday by private US satellite firm Maxar showed fires burning in Mariupol and dozens of apartment buildings burnt to the ground.
"We urge all citizens who are in danger to follow the official information on evacuation routes and use only safe routes."
We can reveal one report said a beauty blogger daubed in blood was paraded as a victim at a bombed Ukrainian maternity hospital.
He continued: "It will all depend on how NATO behaves. Today, NATO's behavior is a bit strange. They believe that they will be overtaken by this fate.
Sir Nick, who was chief of the defence staff until the end of November, said: "I think there are probably a lot of Russian leaders at the moment who are wondering what they have unleashed.
In a letter to Mr Gove, they also renewed their calls on Westminster to waive all visa requirements for Ukrainian nationals trying to get into the UK.
Her sinister tone in the face of the war is nothing new - its how she and her team have always been in the job. A mixture of steel and salty showbiz.
Former RAF Commander Edward Stringer said the presence of these figures so close to the frontline, and their deaths, does not bode well for Russia.
"We will always defend the Ukrainian people's right to choose their own future. They have chosen freedom and justice. And Russia's war criminals have chosen to be behind bars."
Kyiv has accused Russian forces of abducting the mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov as they move to a "new stage of terror".
Speaking during a virtual event, he told reporters he was open to diplomatic discussions with the Kremlin but said so far Moscow's demands are unacceptable.
The video was shared on Twitter by MP Inna Sovsun, who wrote: "People are paying their last respects to the fallen hero.
The brave mum of Strictly star Oksana Platero has told of her horrific ordeal fleeing her home in Ukraine.
Air raid sirens went off throughout the night in Lviv, according to local media reports.
General Sir Nick Carter told Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby on his BBC Radio 4 show The Archbishop Interviews that the people of Ukraine will be "suffering significantly" for years following the invasion.
"They have the following goal - if they win, God forbid, in our territory, the next country, which Putin will want to capture will be Lithuania itself, " Danilov said in a telethon on Saturday night.
Maria Zakharova, director of the information and press department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, leads a team of swashbuckling PR women in bright lipstick who seemingly see no depth too low to stoop to to lie to their people.
Brits offering homes to Ukrainian refugees through a new humanitarian route will receive a "thank you" payment of 350 per month, the Government has announced.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has warned Russia might use chemical weapons following its invasion of Ukraine.
The former chancellor, who is a personal friend of Putin and has links to Russian companies, had met a group of Ukrainians with links to the country's delegation for peace talks with Russia in Turkey on Monday evening, reported BamS.
National Security and Defense Council Secretary Oleksiy Danilov said, citing Ukrainian intelligence: "What we understand and what our intelligence gives: today we are talking about Lithuania.
The government's press office referred to remarks made by Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Friday when he declined to comment on the meeting beyond saying that he would take note of any results and include them in other efforts he was involved in.
According to a report in the Sunday Times, the head of MI6 held security concerns over the Russian oligarch - who has previously defended Vladimir Putin and expressed doubt over the murder of a Kremlin critic in London - as long as a decade ago.
But Mr Groysman, who said he could hear bomber jets outside during his interview with PA news agency, said he was meeting every day those having to flee Ukraine, as he called the situation "tragic" and "very frightening".
The Ukrainian President also said around 1,300 of his troops had lost their lives during the conflict during a news briefing on Saturday.
Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder met Russian President Vladimir Putin for several hours on Thursday evening in a bid to end the war in Ukraine, Germany's Bild am Sonntag BamS reported, although it was unclear what was achieved.
Ukraine officials have now shared CCTV footage which they claim shows the moment their colleague was kidnapped by Putin's men.
"In recent days, we have heard absurd claims about chemical and biological weapons laboratories," Stoltenberg was quoted by Welt am Sonntag as saying, adding that the Kremlin was inventing false pretexts to justify what could not be justified.
Charities are racing to stop predatory crooks snatching child refugees, amid reports of kids going missing after crossing Ukraine s borders.
News website Politico first reported that Schroeder was flying to Moscow for talks with Putin, and German government sources said it had not agreed to any meeting nor been involved in one.
Senior figures from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States believe there is a physiological explanation for his invasion of Ukraine, it is reported.
Now, although he remains in the country his whereabouts are kept secret as he finds himself on Russian leader Vladimir Putin's kill list as he works to defend his home.
Britons offering homes to Ukrainian refugees through a new humanitarian route will receive a "thank you" payment of 350 per month, the Government has announced.
"If there is a possibility to cut this red tape for Ukrainians and to help those people of course it will be welcome, because I think you're not going to regret the fact that you care about Ukrainians because Ukrainians are very good people, they are very bright, they need your help."
Lies fed to the Russian people by Putin-controlled state media are helping to fuel the Ukraine war, a communications expert claims.
It comes as the Government has faced criticism over the speed and scale of its efforts to bring fleeing Ukrainians to the UK.
"Heartbreaking. 1300 UA soldiers have died in the first 2 weeks of war. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten or forgiven. Ever. "
