Ukrainian interrupts live TV broadcast and vows to f Russians up
20220226
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-interrupts-live-tv-broadcast-26340048
It comes as Ukrainians across the country are fighting to stop the Russian advance, during the fourth day of the full-scale invasion.
Follow the   latest updates on Russia's invasion of Ukraine in our live blog
The Ukrainian Government said yesterday that 198 people, including three children, had been killed and more than 1,000 others had been wounded during Europes largest land war since World War II.
They shoot at kindergartens, hospitals, and households they shoot down ambulances and buses with children.
However, the citys defenders remained braced however for an onslaught, which is expected once the Russians have refuelled and re-supplied.
A Ukrainian man has been described as a legend after he interrupted a live news broadcast to tell viewers he is going to f Russians up.
Ukraines prime minister Denys Shmyhal said Russia had expected a cakewalk but instead ended up in a real hell, when he gave a speech yesterday.
During the broadcast, the man said: Dont argue guys, we need to help Ukraine. Youre just fing talking, you know. Stop talking.
A US intelligence official told Reuters the Russians have been frustrated by what they have seen is a very determined resistance.
"I signed up for the homeland defence forces. I'm going to f Russians up and you're all just talking here. Who are you anyways?
The man told the Israeli broadcasters to stop talking and said we need to help Ukraine , before he vowed to take up arms against the Russian invaders.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser claimed around 3,500 Russian soldiers had been killed or wounded, but the Russians have not released any casualty figures.
Fighting is taking place on the outskirts of the capital Kyiv and the city has been hit by airstrikes and artillery fire, but Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said his forces are successfully repelling enemy attacks.
The enemy has never achieved its goal, and, therefore, began shelling peaceful population and civilian infrastructure.
When the broadcasters tell him they are Israelis, he replies: Oh Israeli? Israel supports us.
Yair Rosenberg, who tweeted the footage, described the man as a legend, while others praised the bravery of the Ukrainians.
Ukraine is rising! Tens of thousands of volunteers, reservists and territorial defence fighters have already joined the defence of our land.
The angry Ukrainian told Israeli broadcasters to stop talking before he vowed to take up arms against the Russians who have invaded his country
The Russian leadership does not understand that it is at war not only with the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but with the whole Ukrainian nation. And this nation has already risen to the liberation war against the occupiers.
