Ukrainian woman finds bomb in milk carton given as food aid by Russian troops
20220423
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-woman-finds-bomb-milk-26778297
That would cut off Ukraine's entire coastline and mean Russian forces pushing hundreds of miles west beyond current lines, past the major Ukrainian coastal cities of Mykolaiv and Odesa.
Ukrainians have developed a deep mistrust of the invading Russian forces following their attacks on civilians and claims that they have gone as far as to booby trap corpses in northern areas of the country before they withdrew.
The woman thought that the milk carton looked as though it had been opened, said her son.
A Russian general said on Friday that Moscow wants to take full control over southern Ukraine, which the government of the invaded country says shows that Russia's previous assertions, that it had no territorial ambitions, was a lie.
Russian troops are being accused of attaching a bomb to a carton of milk which was given amongst other food aid to the devastated city of Kherson in southern Ukraine
Russian troops pulled back from northern areas of Ukraine at the start of this month in what was widely seen as a strategy to reorganise before striking again.
Russian troops have been accused of attaching a bomb to a milk carton which was being handed out as humanitarian aid in the devastated Ukrainian city of Kherson.
The retired woman in Kherson is reported to have taken the booby-trapped milk carton home despite warnings that it is dangerous.
A woman told a local news outlet how she was lucky to survive after she opened up the milk container which was connected to an explosive device that fortunately didn't detonate.
"My mother saw that the twist in the milk was not airtight, she thought that someone had already drunk it, that it could be spoiled," he told a local news outlet, reported Newsweek.
"She carefully unscrewed it and saw something like a thread, she showed it to me."
There has been evidence of torture notably in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, and claims of women being raped.
Many Ukrainians in cities under siege are reportedly scared to give themselves up to Russian troops as they fear what will happen to them.
While this woman was lucky there have also been reports of Ukrainian civilians dying of food poisoning from aid packages.
Rustam Minnekayev, deputy commander of Russia's central military district, was quoted by Russian state news agencies as saying full control over southern Ukraine would give it access to Transnistria, a breakaway Russian-occupied part of Moldova in the west.
And now the battle has begun in the east with Ukraine's general staff saying Russian forces aimed to establish full control over the Donetsk, Luhansk and Kherson regions.
