Ukrainian refugee who fled war gives birth to girl after finding sanctuary in UK
20220817
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/ukrainian-refugee-who-fled-war-27759592
Having decided to flee, Lena's husband Sergii was prevented from crossing the border, leaving Lena to travel thousands of miles with her children Kyryl, seven, and Arina, five.
After a long journey, Lena gave birth to a third child, Nicole, at Plymouth's Derriford Hospital on July 5.
The city was the scene of the Bucha massacre during the early stages of the Russian offensive, which saw over 1,000 Ukrainians butchered, including dozens of killed civilians.
Lena added: Its different having a baby in Britain  the medicine is different. Corinne helped me get to hospital and a midwife came to visit me once.
Lena, 37, said she initially wanted to remain in Ukraine with factory manager Sergii, 39, in the hope the the conflict would come to an end.
The family are currently staying with Archdeacon of Plymouth Nick Shutt and his wife Corinne at their home in Walkhampton.
A mum who fled the Ukraine while 36 weeks pregnant has given birth to a baby girl in the UK.
I didn't want to go anywhere  I stayed in Ukraine until June hoping the war would end, Lena said in quotes reported by The Sun.
Lena Kulakovska decided to leave war-torn Ukraine after the family's home in Bucha was damaged by shelling after Russia invaded and reached the UK in time to give birth to Nicole
Lena Kulakovska decided to escape her war-torn homeland when her family's home in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, was damaged by shelling during Russia's invasion.
Having made it as far as the German city of Dortmund, Lena and her children were brought to the UK by car by husband and wife Matt and Beth Collier from the Diocese of Exeter.
But I didn't want to give birth in a basement so I decided to go.
Now we dont have a house in Ukraine. The Russians were bombing for fun. My husband is working which is very nice because jobs are like a lottery  there is not too much money.
