Ukraines heroic Zelensky says Russia is using hunger as a weapon in powerful address
20220406
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/breaking-ukraines-heroic-zelensky-says-26646273
The Ukrainian leader, who has won plaudits for his communication, deliberately evoked the devastating famine in Ireland in the 1840s in his speech.
Mr Zelensky said Vladimir Putin's troops had shot at ambulances, targeted churches and shelters containing women and children in their onslaught.
He urged Ireland's political leaders to convince other EU countries to impose tougher sanctions on the Kremlin.
"We still have to convince Europe that Russian oil cannot feed Russian military machinery with new sources of funding."
Mr Zelensky blasted indecisiveness in sanctions against Russia, adding: "Today, when the whole world knows about the crimes against our people, we still have to convince even some of the European companies to abandon Russian markets.
"There will be a shortage of food and the prices will go up, and this is reality for the millions of people who are hungry, and it will be more difficult for them to feed their families."
In a powerful address to the Irish Parliament, President Zelensky said Russian forces had come to his country as a 'colonising army'
"Why are they doing this? Because for them hunger is a weapon against us, ordinary people as an instrument of domination.
Nato foreign ministers are meeting in Brussels where they will also consider how to support Ukraine's resistance to Moscow's forces.
The President received a standing ovation from Irish politicians after his impassioned plea for aid.
Addressing a joint sitting of the Houses of the Oireachtas via a translator, he said: "This night, our territory was again hit by Russian missiles.
In a powerful address to the Irish Parliament, he said Russian forces had come to his country as a "colonising army" and were attempting to starve the public as an "instrument of domination".
"They have come to Ukraine as a colonising army, their state propagandists, their politicians are not even concealing what they want in the 21st century," he said.
Russia is using hunger as a weapon of war in its brutal invasion of Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelensky has said.
The Ukrainian leader urged other countries to cut ties with Russia and to hold them to account for the atrocities committed in Ukraine,
"They also have blocked all of our sea ports, together with the vessels that had already agricultural cargoes for exports.
It comes as the UK, US and European Union are set to impose further sanctions on Russia, with economic measures targeting Vladimir Putin's allies and the industries funding the war expected.
"They're looking at the country of the colonial empire, who allegedly has the right to subdue neighbouring people and destroy the foundations of independence, destroy their identity, everything that makes us Ukrainians."
"We still have to convince Russia of foreign politicians that we need to cut any ties of global banks of Russian banks with the global financial system.
