Ukrainian troops destroy hidden Russian base in the woods with series of explosions
20220422
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-troops-destroy-hidden-russian-26771827
This is the moment Ukrainian troops destroyed a hidden Russian base in the woods with a series of explosions seen in dramatic footage.
Orthodox Easter takes place this weekend with Good Friday celebrated on April 22 and Easter Sunday taking place on April 24.
Ukrainian defenders blast the target and a series of explosions is seen in the tree line as ammo is reportedly detonated by the flames.
"Inspired by the Holy Week, I urge all parties, and all champions of peace around the world, to join my Easter appeal.
The Ukrainian Ground Forces' 30th Mechanized Brigade, named after Prince Konstanty Ostrogski, said yesterday: "On Maundy Thursday we skilfully cleaned Ukraine of the occupiers."
From February 24 to April 22, the total combat losses of Russian troops stand at 21,200 personnel, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
In the footage, a Ukrainian drone apparently locates a hidden Russian base with armoured vehicles and crates of ammo in the forest.
Earlier this week, the Ukrainian military said that the 30th Mechanized Brigade had attacked a Russian convoy of trucks delivering supplies to invading troops.
The Ukrainian military also claims that Russia has lost 838 battle tanks, 2,162 combat armoured vehicles, 397 artillery systems, 138 MLR systems, 69 anti-aircraft systems, 176 warplanes, 153 helicopters, 1,523 vehicles, 8 vessels, 76 fuel tank trucks, 172 operational-tactical level UAVs, 27 units of special equipment, and four mobile SRBM systems.
In the footage, a Ukrainian drone apparently locates a hidden Russian base with armoured vehicles and crates of ammo in the forest - Ukrainian defenders blast the target and a series of explosions is seen
After the Russian convoy was destroyed in the attack, the Ukrainian brigade said ammo detonated inside the burning vehicles.
The United States has provided a large number of Javelin anti-tank missile systems to Ukraine.
According to the Ukrainian military, the footage was shot by a drone after it had been used for reconnaissance operations in the area.
Russia has also been hit hard by international sanctions following its invasion of Ukraine, with its tank production chain said to be plagued by supply shortages.
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin called a "special military operation".
He said: "Humanitarian needs are dire. People do not have food, water, or supplies to treat the sick or wounded or simply to live day-to-day.
Meanwhile, Antonio Guterres, the secretary-general of the UN, has called for a four-day pause in fighting in Ukraine to mark Orthodox Holy Week and allow for the delivery of humanitarian aid and civilian evacuations.
