Ukrainian soldiers life saved by cigarette as he leaves bunker as Russian bombs hit
20220614
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-soldier-leaves-bunker-smoke-27231288
He said: "Russians continue to storm the city, having a significant advantage in artillery they have somewhat pushed back the Ukrainian soldiers.
News of the heros survival comes amid  reports of Russian forces  swarming into the neary city of Severodonetsk on Monday, bombing an area sheltering hundreds of civilians and mirroring the horror Mariupol assault.
Ukraine's account of civilians trapped in an industrial plant echoed the fall of Mariupol last month, where hundreds of civilians and badly wounded Ukrainian soldiers were holed up for weeks.
I took one step around the wall to get out of the wind exactly when there was an explosion, he said.
Ukraine said there was still another way out via the citys last remaining bridge although that route was severely damaged.
Pro-Moscow separatists claimed the last bridge out of Severodonetsk had been destroyed and Ukrainian defenders there must now surrender or die.
Troops are reportedly trying to cut off around 500 locals sheltering in an industrial complex - just like Mariupol.
Regional governor Sergei Gadai said:"The battles are so fierce that fighting for not just a street but for a single high-rise building can last for days.
"About 500 civilians remain on the grounds of the Azot plant in Severodonetsk, 40 of them are children. Sometimes the military manages to evacuate someone.
The soldier was dismissive of how difficult life was on the front line, saying it was just like dangerous camping.
The dad-of-one, a Russian-born welder, was concussed by the 120mm artillery shell blast in Rubizhne,  The Sun reports.
Ukraine has issued increasingly urgent calls for more Western weapons to help defend Severodonetsk, which Kyiv says is a battle for control of the eastern Donbas region.
According to Sergei, Chechen forces loyal to their leader along with Putin stooge Ramzan Kadyrov had fought his men in street-to-street battles.
The private, 46-year-old Sergei who wanted to be known only by his last name in line with military rules, had left his bunker to smoke but had a breeze out his cigarette
The private, 46-year-old Sergei who wanted to be known only by his last name in line with military rules in the region, had left his bunker to smoke but had a breeze out his cigarette.
A Ukrainian soldiers life was saved by a cigarette break when he took cover to light it mere moments before a Russian bombardment blew up the bunker he had been sheltering in.
Moscows troops now control about 70 of the key city, which sits northwest of Rubizhne.
The assault on the ruined Luhanks city - whose toppling will mark a major Russian victory - underlined a desperate race for western weapons to get to Ukraines frontline.
