Ukraine crisis Russian tanks surge to border as livefire drills held near Ireland
20220131
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-crisis-russian-tanks-surges-26093297
Artillery has been moving west along the famous Trans-Siberian railway line while around 100,000 soldiers have now gathered on the western edge of Russia.
Despite the movements, Russian security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev says it is absurd to suggest that Moscow poses a threat to Ukraine.
The Conservative minister said any invasion would be "terrible for Europe" and that British troops would not be sent in.
"We're doing all we can through deterrence and diplomacy to urge him to desist," Truss told BBC One's Sunday Morning programme.
The US describes the meeting of the 15-member body as a chance for Russia to explain itself, while the latter country suggested it could try and block then gathering.
She said the UK is sending weapons to Ukraine and strengthening sanctions on Russia in a bid to divert a conflict.
Over the weekend footage emerged from Vladimir Putins naval task force bound for controversial live-fire drills off the coast of the Republic of Ireland.
But aside from all members having the opportunity to air their views openly, there will be no action by the council - even if Russia were to invade Ukraine.
"Lately they have been saying that Russia is threatening Ukraine - this is absurd, there is no threat," said Patrushev, one of Putins closest allies.
Those who are imposing it, especially from the West, are pursuing their own selfish goals, and we need to make clear that we do not accept such a development.
Russian soldiers and tanks have been gathering in the Belarussian town of Kalinkavichy, which sits over the border from Kyiv and could be a launch point for an invasion.
A simple statement needs consensus support and Russia could veto any bid for a resolution.
The UK currently has more than 900 military personnel based in Estonia, more than 100 in Ukraine as part of a training mission, and a light cavalry squadron numbering about 150 in Poland.
Tanks and armoured vehicles are moving ever closer to the Ukrainian border while new consignments of Russian tanks have arrived in Belarus, ostensibly for military exercises.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said that Russia poses a real threat to its neighbouring country.
As the situation continues to escalate, the U.N. Security Council will meet in public on Monday, at the request of the United States.
Nine votes are needed for the meeting to proceed and Washington is "confident" it has sufficient support.
A new video also showed Russian warships from the Northern Fleet staging operations to detect enemy submarines in the Norwegian sea.
A nuclear powered submarine is believed to be accompanying the tactical group which is reported to be under close NATO scrutiny.
Russian soldiers and tanks have been gathering in the Belarussian town of Kalinkavichy, which sits over the border from Kyiv and could be a launch point for an invasion
Russian firepower continues to surge towards the Ukrainian border even as the Kremlin denied absurd claims that it wants war.
