Ukraine crisis Children trained to use rifles against Russian soldiers if they invade
20220201
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/ukraine-crisis-children-trained-use-26106426
In one study by researchers at the Kiev Institute of Sociology, half of the country said they would resist Russian troops in their villages, towns and cities.
During the event, which was open to all ages, children rushed through an obstacle course in the derelict building before learning about military strategy and emergency first aid.
The youngsters were shown how to use live weapons during a training day in the grounds of an abandoned factory in Kiev yesterday.
Putin has amassed more than 100,000 troops on the border with his eastern European neighbours and continues to shift further resources to the frontline.
It is unclear if he intends for bloodshed or whether he hopes to use the threat of war to stave off unfavourable sanctions and bully Nato into refusing to accept Ukraine as a member.
The Prime Minister is expected to urge Russian President Vladimir Putin to "step back from the brink" when the pair speak later today.
Ukraine's children are being trained in how to use assault rifles as fears of an imminent Russian invasion grow.
Mr Johnson will hold crisis talks with Ukrainian President Zelensky when he travels to the region tomorrow, accompanied by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
The youngsters were shown how to use live weapons during a training day in the grounds of an abandoned factory in Kiev on Monday
But Boris Johnson, who touches down in Ukraine today as part of efforts to resolve the crisis, relayed the feeling of defiance in the country - saying a Russian invasion would be "bitterly and bloodily resisted".
"I think that an invasion of Ukraine, any incursion into Ukraine beyond the territory that Russia has already taken in 2014 would be an absolute disaster for the world, and above all it would be a disaster for Russia."
Speaking in Tilbury, Essex, Mr Johnson said: "What I will say to President Putin, as I have said before, is that I think we really all need to step back from the brink. I think Russia needs to step back from the brink.
If Russia was to push forward with an invasion, they will face a largely hostile population.
While some were seen struggling to hold up the heavy assault rifles, others were trained with wooden replicas of the Russian AK47 - should they be forced to use them in the event of a Russian invasion.
The embattled PM will fly out to Ukraine amid turmoil at home - with Sue Gray's long-awaited partygate report due to be published today.
