Ukrainian childrens desperate pleas to see the sky as they shelter in besieged Mariupol
20220424
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-childrens-desperate-pleas-see-26784117
"We are overcoming dark times and on this day I - and most of us - are not in bright clothes, but we are fighting for a  luminous idea."
A clip released by Ukraine's Azov regiment shows one woman saying that there are more than 15 children hiding in the room, which has a rabbit warren of tunnels around it.
She added: "I want to get out to be in safety. I don't want to risk getting out only to be hit by bomb fragments, for example."
"We want it to be safe for us, so no-one is hurt, and then live in safety."
A young boy pleads: "I want to see the sun because in here it's dim, not like outside.
Ukraine has said Vladimir Putin's forces have launched an assault on the plant, where an estimated 1,000 civilians are sheltering - with the Russian leader blocking supplies to starve out those inside.
Russia has made seizing the city a key aim and civilians have endured weeks of bombardment, with a maternity hospital and a theatre sheltering civilians among the buildings destroyed in bombings.
And a girl who said she fled her home in February states: "We haven't seen the sky or the sun... We want to get out of here very much.
At least 213 children have been killed in the war so far, including a 3-month-old infant in strikes yesterday in the southern city of Odesa, local officials said.
"Today, we still believe in the new victory of Ukraine and we are all convinced that we will not be destroyed by any horde or wickedness," Mr Zelenskiy said.
But Ukraine says Russia has been unable to take control of the steelworks, which remains the last stronghold in the battle against Putin's invaders.
It is believed that many of the families inside the plant had been inside since the Russian invasion commenced.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy vowed in an Orthodox Easter message today that no "wickedness" will destroy the country and prayed that God returns happiness to children and brings solace to grieving mothers.
"When our houses are rebuilt we can live in peace. Let Ukraine win because Ukraine is our native home."
"Give every boy and every girl a happy childhood, youth, and old age, which will allow at least a bit to shed the memories of their terrible childhood during the war," the Ukrainian President said.
Harrowing footage shows a boy saying he's desperate to see the sun as around 15 children cower in an underground shelter in besieged Mariupol.
Mariupol has been the focus of Russian aggression in recent weeks, with the Azovstal steel factory now the only area not under the control of invaders
The Ukrainian city has been the focus of Russian aggression in recent weeks, with the Azovstal steel factory now the only area not under the control of invaders.
Standing inside one of the country's best known landmarks, the 1,000-year-old Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kyiv, Zelenskiy said in a video address that Ukraine will overcome the darkness that the war has brought upon it.
