UKs armoured Wolfhound vehicles used for the first time in Ukraine
20220531
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/uks-armoured-wolfhound-vehicles-used-27111034
Its just, for all this time, they were afraid to display their views, knowing that persecution and repressions will follow from the Ukrainian government and law enforcement.
He said: "Most people, of course, meet us as liberators, with tears in their eyes, seeking to thank the military in person.
Footage has captured armoured Wolfhound vehicles donated by the UK being used for the first time in Ukraine.
The video comes as a Kremlin TV propagandist claims the Wests provision of arms to Ukraine means Russia's "special military operation" is now a global conflict.
Defence Minister Jeremy Quin has previously highlighted the delivery of Wolfhounds, which help to protect troops while they carry out patrols in high-risk areas, alongside Stormer vehicles fitted with Starstreak launchers.
"Hatred towards everything Russian was promoted in Ukraine: language, culture, people and Russia in general.
But he added: "Despite that, there are tens of thousands of people in Ukraine who support the Russian world, friendship with the brotherly people of Russia.
The artillery also included in the vital shipment to Ukraine are Samaritan ambulances, Sultan armoured command vehicles and Samson armoured recovery vehicles.
Why am I talking about this? It was not only Smerch MLRS with cluster munitions that struck Donetsk. The strikes were carried out with  American M777 howitzers."
Troops were seen training with the heavy tactical support vehicles kitted with Browning M2HB .50 calibre heavy machine guns.
Britain agreed to send at least 120 armoured cars to Ukraine to assist the nation's war effort.
The Mirror's newsletter brings you the latest news, exciting showbiz and TV stories, sport updates and essential political information.
He told MPs earlier this month: "So far, we've delivered in excess of 6,500 anti-tank missiles, many of which have been used successfully to repel columns of tanks, as well as eight air defence systems - including Brimstone and Starstreak missiles, the fastest in the world at some 2,000 miles an hour."
Eighty of them are the Mastiff, Husky and Wolfhound protected mobility vehicles, while the other 40 are for combat reconnaissance.
In the sense that a real war has started, World War III. We are being forced to demilitarise, not just Ukraine but NATO as a whole.
The head of Lugansk Peoples Republic Leonid Pasechnik has claimed that Ukrainians are greeting Russian and pro-Russian liberators with gratitude.
They include the Spartan vehicle, which can carry four soldiers plus a crew of three.
"To our great regret, Kyiv and the US were able to raise an entire generation, a nation even, a nation of nationalists, in such a short time.
Rossiya-1 anchor Olga Skabeyeva said: "It's time to admit, perhaps, that Russia's special operation in Ukraine is now over.
