Urgent rescue mission to save lions tigers and bears from Russian shelling
20220412
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/urgent-rescue-mission-save-lions-26698079
Donations come from all regions of Ukraine, as well as from a number of other countries.
He said: Over the past week, almost 4,000 people have provided assistance for the evacuation, treatment and food supply of Feldman Ecopark animals.
However, he hit back at online posts alleging that some of the hundreds of animals would be left behind to die.
Desperate staff feared over a week over they would have to put down their lions, tigers and bears.
An urgent rescue mission is underway to save dozens of lions, tigers, bears and other zoo animals from Russian shelling in Ukraine.
He said: Today we managed to take five big lions out of Ecopark. We took two more small felines out, a jaguar and a lion cub, along with birds, a silver fox, and Arctic foxes.
This is almost as many as the entire number of people who have supported us in a previous period since the beginning of Russian aggression in Ukraine.
The zoo, along with volunteers, have worked tirelessly to put the animals in transport cages for the 500-mile journey through the war-raved country, the once-thriving zoo came under fire from Vladimir Putin s forces, according to the keepers.
During the attacks on Kharkiv, a number of animals were tragically killed, with some having managed to escape when their cages were damaged during the horrendous attacks.
With their evacuation plan, Feldman has helped move dozens of animals in danger to a much safer place.
Mr Feldman has praised the kind-spirited Ukrainians and foreigners who helped to make the evacuation possible through financial donations.
After constant Russian attacks, owner of Feldman Ecopark, Alexander Feldman, and his staff staged a last minute escape bid to rescue dozens of animals in order to move them somewhere safe
Their cages were holed by weeks of shelling in the hellish war zone and there was a real danger they would escape and could then attack people.
However, after the constant Russian attacks, owner of Feldman Ecopark, Alexander Feldman, and his staff managed to stage a last minute escape bid, with the plan now to move them to Odessa where they will hopefully be safer.
Without rescuing the animals, Zookeepers were about to be left with the agonising decision to put down most of the terrified animals which have been under fire since the end of February.
By the end of the day some serious shooting began, and we had to leave.
After successfully moving the animals away from danger, Mr Feldman hailed another successful day for our team.
