Vladimir Putins shewolf killed by missile as his first female colonel dies in war
20220804
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putins-she-wolf-killed-27656786
Last year Ukraine sentenced her to 12 years in prison with confiscation of property for participation in a terrorist group or terrorist organisation.
She was head of the powerlifting federation of Horlivka, and an honorary citizen of the city, which was twinned with Barnsley in England.
Kachura was a career police investigator rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel before switching to the forces of Putin-backed separatists.
Videos showed the damage which led to a postponement of the farewell ceremony, which was held later.
She was a colonel in the forces of Russian puppet state Donetsk Peoples Republic, where she commanded a rocket artillery division deployed against Ukraine.
Putin said he had awarded her for courage and heroism shown in the performance of military duty.
Putin propagandist Margarita Simonyan posted:  Legendary Korsa died in Horlivka... May she rest in peace
More Ukrainian strikes hit the Drama Theatre in Donetsk early today where the funeral was being held, part of a series of attacks that caused several fatalities, said reports.
Putin also lost two more colonels in his Russian forces, the latest proof of the devastating toll his high ranks have suffered.
The warmonger leader granted posthumous Hero of Russia honour - the Kremlins highest award - to Olga Kursa Kachura, 52.
She said: "She guards the hearth, her children, her family. Even in nature, no wolf will defend her cub as aggressively as a she-wolf."
She served in the 3rd separate motorised rifle brigade Berkut of the 1st Army Corps of the DPR, and commanded a Grad MLRS division in Horlivka.
Kachura recently featured in a documentary on the Russia Today TV channel - which has been banned in the UK for spouting Putin's propaganda - in which she alluded to herself being like a "she-wolf".
Acting Head of Komi Republic Vladimir Uyba said he died as a hero during the special war operation in Ukraine.
Simonyan - head of the sanctioned RT network - said: The Chief Putin awarded Korsa the title of Hero of Russia.
Russia's warmonger President Vladimir Putin granted Colonel Olga 'Kursa' Kachura, 52, the posthumous Hero of Russia honour, the Kremlins highest military award
Simonyan claimed that a hotel where the RT film crew were based had been hit.
It also came to light that Lt Col Denis Sorokin, a married father of two, died near Melitopol earlier in the war.
She is the 97th known colonel to have been killed in Putins war in Ukraine.
Mayor of Horlivka Ivan Prikhodko said: A brave and wise woman who was there from the start of the People's Militia of the DPR has tragically died.
Vladimir Putin has lost his first woman colonel, nicknamed his "she-wolf", in the war in Ukraine after a missile hit her car.
