Vladimir Putin claims war is going to plan and wont stop until Ukraine gives in
20220306
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-claims-war-going-26398399
Erdogan urged Putin to declare a ceasefire, open humanitarian corridors and sign a peace agreement, his office said on Sunday.
But Chief of the Defence Staff Admiral Sir Tony Radakin warned Vladimir Putin would unleash fierce and indiscriminate aggression against the Ukrainian people.
Russia has been dogged by reports of low morale as Britain's top military chief says it has "got into a mess" with Vladimir Putin's forces being "decimated"
Russia has been dogged by reports of low morale among soldiers realising they have been lied to by the Kremlin, with Britain's top military chief saying it has "got into a mess".
The Russian president has been branded a war criminal over reports of civilians being targeted, with the number fleeing Ukraine set to reach 1.5 million today.
In its latest update, Ukraine said that it is "imposing maximum losses" on Russian forces trying to advance in the South, East and North of the country.
It warned of "the futility of any attempts to drag out the negotiation process", claiming Ukrainian security forces were using delays to regroup.
"The opponent, suffering losses, is making constant attempts to avoid direct fire contact with our troops."
"It was underlined that the suspension of the special operation is only possible if Kyiv stops military operations and carries out well-known Russian demands," the Kremlin said.
"President Erdogan renewed his call of 'let's pave the way for peace together'," his office said.
The Kremlin said: "It is hoped that during the planned next round of negotiations, Ukraine's representatives will show a more constructive approach, fully taking into account the emerging realities."
Putin, whose comments were published in a Kremlin readout of the call, said his "special operation" in Ukraine was going according to plan and to schedule.
Putin is said to have told Erdogan that the onslaught was going according to plan and to schedule - and that he hoped Ukrainian negotiators would take a "more constructive" approach.
He added: "We do know that some of the lead elements of Russian forces have been decimated by the Ukrainian response.
"Armed Forces and units of the Security and Defense Forces of Ukraine are fighting fierce battles to maintain certain borders.
"Erdogan emphasised the importance of taking urgent steps to achieve a ceasefire, open humanitarian corridors and sign a peace agreement."
But Sir Tony warned Russian aggression could be ramped up. He said: I think there is a real risk because Russia is struggling with its objectives on the ground in Ukraine - and we've seen from Russia's previous actions in Syria and in Chechnya - where it will turn up the violence, it will lead to more indiscriminate killing and more indiscriminate destruction.
Vladimir Putin has claimed his illegal invasion of Ukraine is going to plan in spite of reports of forces being "decimated" - and said he would only end the bombardment if citizens stop defending themselves.
Sir Tony Radakin told the BBC's Sunday Morning: "This invasion is not going well for Russia... It's less powerful than it was 10 days ago.
"Russia cannot continue... So we have to have to have confidence that what we're doing is the right thing".
He also faces a backlash in his own country as Russians take to the street to protest the invasion.
Ukraine's defence ministry said in a statement this morning: "The eleventh day of the heroic confrontation of the Ukrainian people to the Russian military invasion began.
Ukraine's ministry of defence this morning said it is inflicting "maximum losses" on Putin's military as the brutal war goes into its eleventh day.
It comes as Britains top military chief today said Russia has "got itself into a mess" with the invasion, morale in Moscows forces is low and the Kremlin lost more troops in a week than the UK did in 20 years in Afghanistan.
Nevertheless the Russian President, whose actions have turned the country into a pariah state, remains defiant following an hour-long talk with his Turkish counterpart, Tayyip Erdogan.
He maintains that Russia would only halt its military operation if Ukraine stops fighting and meets demands, the Kremlin said in a statement.
