Vladimir Putin can bomb UK back to Stone Age in just 10 minutes Russia state TV says
20220517
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-can-bomb-uk-26984234
It also featured Moscow-born Israeli pundit Yaakov Kedmi who once described Stalin as "the last statesman to take care of his country.
Russia s new Zircon, or Tsirkon, weapons system should be deployed to wipe out 50 or 60 power stations, plunging the country into permanent darkness.
Kedmi said: "One, or one and a half launches from a multi-purpose submarine with Zircons will be enough.
In his new outburst on Rossiya 1 channel, Kedmi claimed that use of the big beast Satan-2 would be "too good" for Britain.
The UK could be devastated without an atomic attack, he said, before advocating the use of Zircon which is designed as capable of nuclear strikes.
It comes amid fury in Russia over what is seen as Britain leading the West in providing weapons to Ukraine in a proxy war against Putin.
Putin said in December after a successful test: Zircon are our newest missiles fired from the sea at sea targets, and land targets.
The UK can be bombed back to the Stone Age in just 10 minutes with an attack by Vladimir Putin s hypersonic missiles, Russian state TV has said.
"And all of Britain will be back to the Stone Age Within 10 minutes, nothing else is needed
A politician Aleksey Zhuravlyov and another TV propagandist Dmitry Kiselyov had earlier advocated striking Britain with Satan-2, known to the Russians as Sarmat.
This is a big event for our country, a significant step in improving Russias security, in increasing our defence capability.
Despite his desire to destroy Britain, Kedmi, a regular on Russian state TV political talk shows, sent his youngest son to the London Business School.
Russian submarine missiles could obliterate up to 60 power stations in the UK within 10 minutes and send it "back to the Stone Age", Yaakov Kedmi told Rossiya 1 channel
But Kedmi told viewers: Its overkill. Sarmat Satan-2 is too good, and too big, for Great Britain.
The latest Kremlin-controlled media threat to Britain was made on a propaganda show with anchor Vladimir Solovyov, also known as Putins Voice.
Close Putin ally Dmitry Rogozin, head of the Roscosmos, the Russian Space Agency, has also warned that NATO countries can be destroyed within half an hour in a nuclear attack.
Zvezda TV - a channel run by Putins defence ministry - has said Zircons speed is so high that it prevents the opponent's air defence system from detecting its impact in time.
Satan-2 - due for deployment this year - is a hypersonic 208-ton Satan-2 intercontinental ballistic missile capable of striking targets at 15,880mph.
