Vladimir Putin has no way back but to unleash nuclear weapons Kremlin reporter says
20220504
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-no-way-back-26865816
Sladkov warned: Everything is possible, and this is what the Americans teach us. And we are learning.
It comes hours after Ukraine's top military spy chief said the invasion will only come to an end with the death of Vladimir Putin.
Boldly predicting a Ukrainian victory at the same time as a warning that mass mobilisation in Russia was near, Major-General Budanov issued this veiled threat on Monday evening.
Sladkov told his 730,000 followers time may be approaching for the last resort because some 40 countries are arming Ukraine with weapons that are being used against the Russians.
If no one is going to hear us, and 40 countries keep helping the Ukrainian neo-Nazis, we will have no way back.
Alexander Sladkov, a "propagandist" for the Kremlin, advocated for an atomic bombing to cause a crater the size of several regions.
The Europeans and Americans cant quite get it that one must not harass a neighbouring country with such a giant nuclear potential.
Russan war reporter and 'propagandist' for the Kremlin Alexander Sladkov advocated for an atomic bombing to cause 'a crater the size of several regions'
He is a war criminal for the whole world. This is his end, he drove himself into a dead end. Don't worry, Ukraine will win."
We have a solution for Ukraine. There are several, yet we are getting reminded about the last resort - nuclear weapons.
A Russia war reporter has claimed Vladimir Putin will soon have "no way back" but to unleash nuclear weapons on Ukraine.
Major-General Kyrylo Budanov has said that the Russian leader has effectively signed his death warrant by ordering his troops into Ukraine.
"A crater the size of several regions will be a clear example of how serious is Russias appeal to NATO to get back to peace and harmony. But where will Ukraine go?
Leaving him a way to retreat is one of the strategies, but it is almost unrealistic, he told The New Voice of Ukraine when asked if Putin would survive the war.
Thinking about it, I remember just how easily the US used nuclear weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and how easily they nearly deployed them at Dien Bien Phu in 1954.
He posted: "There is more and more talk about nuclear weapons, and Russia has much to say about it.
Putin says his "special military operation" has been to "liberate" it from the "Neo-Nazis". Russia has tied itself in knots trying to support this argument for war.
So us, Russians, will have to demonstratively do it in Ukraine to remove the issue with further confrontation with those known 40 countries.
Exactly where it's heading right now, with the only difference that itll be fast, and cheaper for Russia.
