Vladimir Putin very sick with cancer and other illnesses army boss says
20220513
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/sick-putin-very-bad-psychological-26961239
He also told Sky News defeat in Ukraine would lead to the removal of Russia's leader.
Ukraine's head of military intelligence predicted the war with Russia would reach a turning point by the middle of August - and the conflict would be over by the end of the year
Renewed fighting around Snake Island in recent days may become a battle for control of the western Black Sea coast, according to some defence officials, as Russian forces struggle to make headway in Ukraine's north and east.
A claim said it looked as though the Russian President's head had been artificially attached to his body in manipulated footage.
Ukraine's head of military intelligence predicted the war with Russia would reach a turning point by the middle of August and would be over by the end of the year. He said he was 'optimistic'.
In comments on Friday he said: "Whoever controls the island can at any time block the movement of civilian ships in all directions to the south of Ukraine.
Earlier The Mirror reported on how commentators said Vladimir Putin appeared in a virtual meeting of his security council with a bloated head that looked like it was Photoshopped onto his body.
"It's my job, it's my work, if not me who will know this," he added.
Major General Kyrylo Budanov said: "Mr Putin is in a very bad psychological and physical condition and he is very sick."
A Ukraine army boss has claimed Russian President Vladimir Putin has cancer and is in a 'very bad condition'.
He claimed the Russian President has cancer and 'illnesses', while dismissing suggestions he was spreading propaganda.
General Budanov said they would gain back Ukrainian power in all the territories they have lost including the Donbas and Crimea.
It comes after Budanov said Ukraine will fight for the remote Zmiinyi Island Snake Island in the Black Sea "for as long as is needed".
