Vladimir Putins general hints he will invade Moldova as Russia eyes Ukraine coastline
20220425
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putins-general-hints-invade-26788935
But still Putin's forces are facing fierce resistance and according to Ukraine, Russia is said to have lost 873 tanks, 179 aircraft and 21,800 troops since the invasion began.
The 69-year-old, was also seen tightly gripping a table and gapping his feet in a video which claimed to show his fragile physical state.
Now footage of the leader looking shaky and anxious at Moscow's Christ the Saviour Cathedral has further stoked the rumours.
Gnerals were among those reportedly died, with two dead an another critically injured in shelling on Friday. This means Moscow has lost nine generals since the invasion started.
She wrote: "Putin has Parkinsons disease and here you can see him gripping the table so that his shaking hand is not visible but he cannot stop his foot from tapping."
Transnistria is a region of Moldova where pro-Russian separatists have given arms and are supported by Moscow.
The breakaway area, known as Pridnestrovia, is said to be similar to Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraines east where Russian is spoken and which broke away from Kyiv in 2014.
Minnekaev said: Control over the south of Ukraine is another way out to Transnistria, where there are cases of Russian-speaking people being oppressed.
Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine's president has warned previously that attacks on Ukraine were "only the beginning".
Military figures also say 50 Russian officers were killed in an attack in Kherson, the Daily Mail reports.
It has been claimed he has Parkinson's or terminal cancer and he was seen looking fragile while clutching a candle at a midnight mass service.
A general of Vladamir Putin has suggested he will invade Moldova taking more of Ukraine's coastline.
The concerning clip came days after he was seen "barely able to hold himself upright" as he gave orders to defence chief Sergei Shoigu on the siege of Mariupol.
Moldova denies Russia speakers are being oppressed. It is a common claim Russia uses to justify military action on post Soviet states.
Rustam Minnekaev claims the Russian president has ambitions to extend his invasion beyond the borders of the war-torn country.
Rustam Minnekaev claims Vladimir Putin has ambitions to extend his invasion beyond the borders of the war-torn country to Moldova and possibly beyond
During the brief footage of the service, Putin was seen chewing his lips and fidgeting as he spoke only once in chorus with the congregation saying "truly he is risen".
Further rumours about his health emerged after he was seen biting his lips, fidgeting and looking unsteady at a church service.
Russia s ambassador in Moldova was summoned on Friday after he claimed Moscow was trying to create a route towards a breakaway part of the country where Russian troops are based..
The Mirror told yesterday how experts have suggested a number of theories ranging from cancer and Parkinson's to steroid-use and psychosis or a personality disorder.
