Vladimir Putins exaide who quit over Ukraine war cant close eyes in new photos
20220803
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putins-ex-aide-who-27651056
Chubais, 67, the former Kremlin chief of staff and a former deputy prime minister, has suffered partial facial paralysis and cannot walk or close his eyes.
New pictures show former Vladimir Putin aide Anatoly Chubais hospitalised in Sardinia, partially paralysed and unable to close his eyes.
For example, Anatoly Chubais, the former chairman of the board of RUSNANO and special representative of the president for relations with international organisationswas included in the list.
His case is one of many where enemies of Putin have suffered poisoning or died in suspicious circumstances. There are longstanding fears in Western intelligence that Russian laboratories have sought to create toxins that mimic real diseases.
The list is large and contains 18 names of fairly well-known people, while Patrushev does not provide any evidence that would indicate that these people were directly related to the organisation of the assassination attempt, said the channel.
And then, surprisingly, on Sunday, a number of information resources reported a sharp deterioration in Anatoly Chubais health.
Guillain-Barr syndrome is a rare and serious condition which can be life-threatening and affects the nerves in the feet, hands and limbs. It causes numbness, weakness and pain.
While his condition was today formally diagnosed as a rare neurological disorder, Guillain-Barr syndrome, there are reports that Italian secret services continue to investigate the case.
It continued: "Included in it were several people to whom Putin feels personal dislike or has some doubts about sincere loyalty.
The channel claimed last month there was a mysterious assassination bid on Patrushev, a former head of the FSB secret service and also a key architect of the war in Ukraine.
He had been a top Kremlin official before Putin was promoted to his first job in the federal government.
Chubais is the most senior Russian official to quit in protest about the war in Ukraine. He resigned from his post as Putins envoy to international organisations in March and left Russia.
Knowing how the system works, we can assume that this is most likely a coincidence, since there was simply no time to prepare an assassination attempt, and Patrushev prefers to carefully prepare special operations of this kind.
There are claims that Patrushevs son, Dmitry, 44, the agriculture minister, is being groomed as Putins ultimate successor.
She earlier wrote that specialists in hazmat suits had checked the location where he was taken ill, evidently amid fears of poisoning.
His condition has stabilised, but Anatoly Chubais is still in intensive care, his legs and arms do not work well, his eyes cannot be closed, and he has partial facial paralysis, said journalist and ex-presidential election candidate Ksenia Sobchak, who first broke the story of his illness.
The list was supposedly people hostile to Nikolai Patrushev, a close crony of the president who is secretary of the Russian security council.
While his condition was today formally diagnosed as a rare neurological disorder, Guillain-Barr syndrome, there are reports that Italian secret services continue to investigate the case
A post from the anti-Putin General SVR Telegram channel claimed that Chubais had been named on the draft hit list but it gave no evidence for the allegation.
Judging by the fact that after talking with the president Patrushev was in good and high spirits, Putin supported him and agreed to settling scores with people from the list.
