Vladimir Putin is a clown and has been outplayed by Ukraine blasts former ally
20220822
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-branded-clown-who-27799298
Underdog Zelensky had firmly and confidently announced the goals of the war and just as firmly the conditions for negotiations on a truce, he said.
The Ukrainian leader had announced, launched and conducted a general mobilisation of his countrys military-age men and achieved massive deliveries of weapons from NATO.
His admiration for Zelenskys role as a commander in chief comes even though he considers him a rare scum - and my foot would not flinch to knock out a stool from under him", he said.
Unlike many Russians who are prosecuted for criticising conduct of the war, until now Girkin has been allowed to get away with attacks.
He has mocked Shoigu for holding tank biathlon games after his forces suffered heavy losses.
Igor Girkin - an intelligence and army veteran who was central to Vladimir Putin s seizure of Crimea and parts of the Donbas in 2014 - has mocked the Russian rulers performance.
A former Vladimir Putin-loyal separatist commander has branded the Kremlin leader a clown who has been outplayed in the war by Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky.
All the deadlines for delivering new weapons to the troops have failed, he said recently.
Other hardliners - notably RT propaganda chief Margarita Simonyan - have called for massive strikes on Kyiv to hit Zelenskys decision-making centres.
Unlike Putin, Zelensky didnt run away or hide in a bunker during the war, he alleged.
Igor Girkin - an intelligence and army veteran who was central to Vladimir Putins seizure of Crimea and parts of the Donbas in 2014 - has mocked the Russian rulers performance
Zelensky was often labelled a "clown" because he was a TV comedian before being elected president, he said.
In a biting critique of Putin, he said: And what do we have on our side?
Girkin is part of a hardline group exasperated at the failure of Putin and his defence minister Sergei Shoigu to crush Ukraine.
We have at the end of the sixth month of the war - not to mention the eight previous years - gilded roosters who are still playing tank biathlons and holding festivals of military bands.
But then came the war, said Girkin, also known by his nom de guerre Igor Strelkov.
Girkin was key to Putins annexation of Crimea and establishing the puppet Donetsk Peoples Republic eight years ago, but has since become an arch-critic of the current campaign in Ukraine.
He has previously alleged Putin in clueless on Russia s frontline failings and suggested that execution by shooting would be too good a punishment for Shoigu.
