Vladimir Putin appears to threaten nuclear attack against West in chilling TV address
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-vladimir-putin-appears-threaten-26318283
The United Nations refugee agency said on Thursday that the situation in Ukraine was quickly deteriorating after Russia's invasion and pleaded with neighbouring countries to keep their borders open to people seeking protection.
President Putin's chilling address was a stark reminder to the West of Russia's nuclear power.
Nuclear options represent the most drastic weapon in the armoury of superpowers, and the decision to use them carries the gravest of consequences.
Elsewhere, camera footage posted by Ukrainian authorities has shown Russian military vehicles crossing into the country from Crimea.
Officials have said an attack on a military unit in Podilsk, outside Odessa in Ukraine, killed six people and wounded seven.
While Russian nuclear weapons have the range to hit the UK, the possibility of nuclear weapons being used remains a long way off.
Meanwhile General Sir Richard Shirreff, ex-deputy supreme commander of Nato, warned the UK may be dragged into the conflict if Russia continues its march west.
He said: "There is a possibility that we as a nation will soon be at war with Russia. We in this country must recognise that our security starts not on the white cliffs of Dover - it starts in the forests of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia."
Russian forces later attempted to take Chernobyl power plant, leading to Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskyy describing Moscow's action as a "declaration of war" against the whole of Europe.
In an address to the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that "diplomatically, politically, economically  and eventually, militarily  this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure".
And in Kyiv, large queues of traffic have been filmed as residents attempt to desperately flee the capital.
That's because the devastation it could cause would outweigh any potential benefit from the mass destruction.
The road out of the city was blocked by heavy traffic, with countless families taking shelter in underground stations.
Vladimir Putin has appeared to threaten nuclear strikes if any country tried to attack Russia in retaliation in a terrifying speech.
Broadcast live on television at 5.45am Moscow time, President Putin said: "Whoever tries to impede us, let alone create threats for our country and its people, must know that the Russian response will be immediate and lead to the consequences you have never seen in history."
NATO has now announced that it will take additional steps to strengthen the alliance's deterrence and defence and officials said it would hold an emergency summit of its 30 member nations on Friday.
Russia President Vladimir Putin said the consequences of any attempt to strike back against the country would provoke a response never seen in history
"Reported this to SwedishPM. This is a declaration of war against the whole of Europe."
A missile was filmed soaring across the sky before slamming into an airport in Ukraine as Russia's air assault of the country intensifies.
A cyclist also appeared to have been hit by an explosive and knocked to the ground.
Analysts believe the threat of deploying nuclear weapons should the Russian Army be attacked by forces outside of Ukraine was implicit in President Putin's speech.
"No one should have any doubts that a direct attack on our country will lead to the destruction and horrible consequences for any potential aggressor," he said in his speech that acted as a declaration of war on Ukraine.
Britain's nuclear deterrent is based in the Royal Navy and is in place to protect both the UK and its NATO allies.
The invasion followed shortly after, leading to widespread horror and anguish as the human impact of the war began to take its toll.
Harrowing photos from Russia's invasion have been shared across the world, with Ukrainian firefighters arriving to rescue civilians after an airstrike hit an apartment complex in Chuhuiv, Kharkiv Oblast.
The president said the consequences of any attempt to strike back following the country's invasion of Ukraine would provoke a response never seen in history.
He tweeted: "Russian occupation forces are trying to seize the ChornobylNPP. Our defenders are giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 will not be repeated.
