West must stand in solidarity with Ukraine and condemn Russian barbarism
20220224
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/west-must-stand-solidarity-ukraine-26324212
Russian forces strode across the border of a democratic sovereign state and began their slaughter of opposition troops and civilians.
The UK was too willing to allow oligarchs roubles to pollute our politics and business while Germany cared more about its gas supplies from Russia.
Sanctions announced by the Government today should have been imposed before Russian forces stamped on Ukrainian soil.
His intentions were made clear when Russian troops entered Georgia in 2008 and when he annexed Crimea in 2014.
The responsibility for the bloodshed rests with Vladimir Putin, who will stop at nothing in his mission to build another Russian empire.
The failures of the past must not distract from the pressing task of the present. The West must now stand firm in its support for Ukraine.
The responsibility for the bloodshed in Ukraine rests with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who will stop at nothing in his mission to build another Russian empire
Although there is no appetite for boots on the ground, we must offer all other means to help Ukraine withstand Russian barbarism.
The malign influence of the Kremlin was obvious when it supported Assad in Syria, assassinated political opponents and poisoned the Skripals in Salisbury.
The horror of war returned to Europe today with Russia s brutal invasion of Ukraine.
Hope can be found among the brave people who took to the streets of Russian cities in protest. Only Putin wanted this war.
There is no justification for this aggression. Ukraines only provocation was to express its legitimate desire to decide its future.
If we fail in our resolve we will fail to halt further land grabs by a tyrant who has turned the Cold War into a scorching conflict.
Ex-US President Donald Trump blocked US military support to Ukraine in order to pressure its government to dish dirt on Joe Biden.
