Why Russia and Ukraine peace talks are being held in Belarus and what they aim to achieve
20220228
https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-ukraine-peace-talks-being-26347245
Russian bank VTB's assets in the UK have been frozen, as well as those of Russian oligarchs with links to Putin, and Russian airlines are banned from landing in the UK.
President Zelensky said: "I do not really believe in the outcome of this meeting, but let them try, so that later not a single citizen of Ukraine has any doubt that I, as president, tried to stop the war."
On Thursday February 24 2022, Russia launched a land, sea and air invasion of Ukraine, which has devastated the lives of millions.
The statement was made on the Telegram messaging app and explained there would be no preconditions in place for the talk.
Russia had proposed Belarusian city Gomel for the talks, which Ukrainian officials initially rejected due to Belarus' allyship with Russia.
However, on Sunday February 27 2022, Ukraine's President Zelensky agreed to the location for the peace talks.
Countries across the world have condemned Russia's decision to invade Ukraine and the ongoing attacks.
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko allowed for the country to be used as a staging ground for Russia's military ahead of the invasion.
With peace talks finally underway between Ukraine and Russia, many are wondering why the location of Belarus was chosen and what the talks aim to achieve. Here's what we know so far
As the war between Russia and Ukraine reaches day five of conflict, peace talks between the two nations have been arranged.
With the death toll climbing daily, and more than 100 civilians killed in Ukraine already, peace talks between the two nations have been arranged in Belarus.
While Russia's leader has not stated that the peace negotiation, set to be held on February 28, could end the war, there are hopes of de-escalation.
The peace negotiation talks between Russia and Ukraine are being held at an unspecified location near the Pripyat River on the Belarusian border.
The European Union has announced sanctions on Russia including blocking Russian aircraft from entering its airspace, while the UK has also implemented a series of sanctions, too.
There have since been worrying fresh threats of nuclear action after Vladimir Putin ordered the Russian nuclear deterrent forces to be on high alert in a "special regime of combat duty".
Volodymyr Zelensky's office said the goal was for the talks to lead to an immediate ceasefire and withdrawal of Russian forces from the country.
Here's what we know so far, including the reasoning behind the location and the aims of the talks.
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said: "I've signed restrictions prohibiting all scheduled Russian airlines from entering UK airspace or touching down on British soil."
