Jewish groups show support solidarity for Ukraine
20220228
https://www.clevelandjewishnews.com/news/local_news/jewish-community-shows-support-at-ukraine-rally/article_cccc4240-9844-11ec-9f4f-e34b5de59016.html
The United Ukrainian Organizations of Ohio is an umbrella organization that coordinates about 25 to 30 Ukrainian organizations and communities. It sponsored the prayer service and rally in Parma.
The history of Ukraine is obviously very complicated for Jews  many periods of very difficult persecution going back to the 16th century, and of course including during the Holocaust, he said. But the reality is that the country of Ukraine today has really undertaken to seek to make amends and to change.
The rally began with a prayer service inside St. Vladimir before the community leaders and elected officials spoke and then gathered outside the front of the cathedral while children sang the Ukrainian national anthem and people held signs and Ukrainian flags in support.
There was a sense of comfort in being together and standing together, recognizing the devastation and anguish and being able to be together, to stand together, to pray together, and to support one another, Shapiro said. Strong bonds of friendship.
Were seeing a lot of Jewish people who are here to support the Ukrainian community, Gregg Levine, chair of the Federations community relations committee, told the CJN. Its an opportunity for us to pray with the community, to stand with the community, and to show our solidarity with the Ukrainian community.
Ukraine has passed a law against antisemitic acts, elected Jewish President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, had a Jewish prime minister and Israel is one of its largest trading partners, he said.
The Jewish Federation of Cleveland and various synagogues in Northeast Ohio sent out a notice about the rally to their communities, urging them to come out in support.
Many Jewish individuals have roots in Ukraine so its personal to many folks, Jill Zimon, board president of AJC Cleveland, told the CJN Feb. 28. I think theres just a natural alliance and empathy that goes along with whats happening. So thats a big part, the fact that we already had relationships and then this empathy of understanding.
Ukraine is home to at least 200,000 Jews living across the nation so there is often overlap within the two communities, which has led to the strong relationship between AJC and the Ukrainian community.
Levine, who lives in Pepper Pike and is a member of The Temple-Tifereth Israel in Beachwood and Bnai Jeshurun and The Shul in Pepper Pike, and is also a member of the Cleveland Jewish Publication Company board of directors, said the Federation has set up an emergency fund to support Ukrainian Jews in need of temporary housing, food and communication assistance.
Jewish Federation of Cleveland: donate.jewishcleveland.orgukraine or call 216-593-2909. To donate by check, send to Jewish Federation of Cl
This was a short notice. Were delighted with the support that we are getting, Dr. George Jaskiw, vice president of the United Ukrainian Organizations of Ohio and a South Euclid resident, told the CJN. Were together united and I think people realized this is more than just about one country  this is about the world. And so, were very, very grateful to everybody who came and joined us here today.
Hundreds of members of the community flooded St. Vladimir Ukrainian Orthodox Cathedral in Parma Feb. 27 for a prayer service and rally in support of Ukraine.
Ukraines historic Jewish community is the fourth largest in Europe and goes back 1,000 years, Rabbi Stephen Weiss of Bnai Jeshurun told the CJN.
AJC Cleveland has had a longstanding relationship with the Cleveland Ukrainian community going back decades. The two communities have stayed in touch throughout the crisis and Kelleher reached out to Shapiro to ask her to make some remarks at the rally, Shapiro said.
With the pews full, people stood filling the aisles, the back of the cathedral and out the front doors to pray and hear speeches by elected officials and community leaders. Alongside members of the Polish, Lithuanian and Estonian communities, among others who showed their support for Ukraine, the Jewish community was represented by leaders from the American Jewish Committee, the Jewish Federation of Clevelands community relations committee, and numerous synagogues and individuals.
The cathedral was standing room only and every member of our community was represented there, Lee C. Shapiro, regional director of American Jewish Committees Cleveland regional office, told the Cleveland Jewish News Feb. 28. There were elected officials, there were people from all different religions and communities. I was particularly proud of our community.
Parma is home to the largest Ukrainian community in Ohio with more than 4,000 Ukrainians, many living in an area known as Ukrainian Village. More than one-third of the 43,000 Ukrainians that live in Ohio call Northeast Ohio home, according to the Census Bureaus 2019 American Community Survey.
Shapiro, who lives in Beachwood and is a member of Bnai Jeshurun Congregation in Pepper Pike, was one of the community leaders who spoke at the rally. The service and rally was sponsored by the United Ukrainian Organizations of Ohio and its president, Marta Kelleher, introduced each speaker, including Ingrida Bublys, honorary consul general of Lithuania Mayor Tim Degeeter of Parma U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D-Toledo and U.S. Sen. Rob Portman, R-Cincinnati.
I hope that members of the Jewish community will really reach into their pockets and support all the relief efforts to help both the Jewish communities in Ukraine and the broader Ukrainian population, Weiss said. And will continue to raise their voices, calling on this country to do everything they can to support the Ukrainian people. And most of all, I pray that God should watch over the Ukrainian people, watch over their president, for whom we are all worried right now, and should grant them restoration, independence and peace.
The support has been great for the last four days, Kelleher, who lives in Brecksville, told the CJN. There have been events that have been going on daily, multiple events. So I think that the turnout was very nice considering there were other events even today as well.
Here you are in an Orthodox Ukrainian Cathedral, and they were praying for the Jewish president of Ukraine, Shapiro said. It was beautiful.
The Jewish Federation of Cleveland has set up a fund where people in the Jewish community can donate to the Ukraine Emergency Relief Fund to ensure that Jewish people in Ukraine can get as much care and support as they possibly can need, Levine said.
