A Call to Prayer for Ukraine from FEBC
20220301
https://vision.org.au/articles/a-call-to-prayer-for-ukraine-from-febc/
It is the moment for the Ukrainian church to be the voice of Christ, the hands of Christ to minister to people of Ukraine. Please pray for our people to continue to be ministering to the masses of Ukrainians and Russians, at this very tough moment.
Please pray for our people. Please pray for our families and churches. Please pray for all of our pastors , all of our missions, all of our radio hosts who share good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Because in these dangerous times, this is what our people really, really need. And this is our prayer.
The post A Call to Prayer for Ukraine from FEBC appeared first on CMAA Syndication and was supplied with thanks to Global News Alliance.
All of this is going through heart and there are so many people who really need Jesus in this moment.
It would be nice if all our weekly attendees gave regularly to Church. But the statisticsshow that the average Christian is only giving around 2 of net income.
FEBC Russia Director Victor Akhterov shares in a video how we can be praying for the church of Ukraine to be a light in these dark times as the country is rocked by Russias military invasion.
We seem to be surrounded by self-help books and podcasts promising to help us make whatever change we feel would be the best. And yet so often our hopes, intentions and plans just seem to fizzle out and what we end up with is something not really that different.
Sergey, a pastor and the host of a Bible program on FEBC-Ukraine radio, explains in a video how we can be praying for the people of Ukraine following the attacks from Russia.
Brothers and sisters , greetings to you from Kiev, Ukraine. This morning I woke up because I heard explosions. So the situation is quite serious, quite dangerous and people are afraid and concerned. People in churches are afraid and concerned.
At the same time I really appreciate you for all of your support, and for all of your prayers. Please keep calm and continue to boldly and wisely pray to our Lord.
So we really need your prayers, your support, in order to be with our people and to show them hope that they could find only in our Lord Jesus Christ, because He is the one who can give real peace
Giving, according to your ability, is considered an important aspect of Christian life, with many believers seeing it as a way to honour God and contribute to the work of the church or religious organisations.
Second of all, we were asking for you to pray for the Ukrainian church, so the church will be able to minister to people, because so many of them will be suffering, so many of them are in difficult situations.
Please pray for the people of Ukraine, the people of Russia. Those are people who are dear to my heart. Ive Russian myself , my wife is Ukrainian.
