Christian Radio Provides Hope to Ukraine
20220402
https://vision.org.au/articles/christian-radio-provides-hope-to-ukraine/
Kevin says that several of their stations have been damaged due to the war, but programming is being relayed from safe areas. But to allow operations to continue, technicians and maintenance people are there to make sure that the broadcasts can go ahead.
Tragedy continues to unfold in Ukraine, as Russian forces aim to tighten their grip on the country and its people. How should we as Christians react to this situation? Should we be angry? How can we fight back against evil without building resentment?
Its the prayers from around the world that are lifting us up, says Kevin. They are buoying us and strengthening us because we know we dont stand alone. We know that where we are united, we are one in Christ.
Kevin Keegan is CEO and National Director of FEBC Australia. He joined us recently on 20Twenty to share his thoughts on how God is using the media to inspire and support the people of Ukraine. There are over 35 stations on air offering daily encouragement through prayer.
Even in the darkest times, God is with us. Far East Broadcasting Co FEBC is a Christian broadcaster that aims to spread a message of hope, and has listeners across more than 50 countries with several operations in Ukraine.
We are helping people connect over the media, says Kevin. But were also providing means by which people can safely cross borders and connect with others. These things will continue to be critical elements into the future.
There is going to be a lot of rebuilding and restoration thats needed not only for the future but right now, Kevin says. FEBC is raising support not only by broadcasting, but by providing food and counselling that is vitally important at this time.
When the war started everybody was in shock, says Kevin. Including our broadcasters. Yet now theyre ministering like never before and we see the resolve of the people to protect their own land. People have an openness like weve never seen before in a Christian sense.
One of FEBCs team members described how a soldier told her, My God is my Bullet-Proof jacket. Another showed a little tick tock of herself leaving a home when the war first started. She said, Im ready to be with Jesus, but if he lets me live, Ill do anything and everything in my power to share his good news with Ukrainians.
