Evacuation of Ukraine port city delayed
20220305
https://www.bangkokpost.com/world/2274359/evacuation-of-ukraine-port-city-delayed
The ceasefire announcement came as Moscow sought to gain control of the narrative about the invasion, even as it steps up military pressure on a number of Ukrainian cities.
More EU sanctions were coming, potentially including a ban on Russian-flagged ships in European ports and blocking imports of steel, timber, aluminium or coal, said Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney.
International Atomic Energy Agency chief Raphael Grossi said the plant was undamaged from what he believed was a Russian projectile. Only one of its six reactors was working, at around 60 of capacity.
At the moment, negotiations are under way with Russia to establish a ceasefire and ensure a safe humanitarian corridor.
President Vladimir Putins actions have drawn almost universal condemnation and many countries have imposed heavy sanctions as the West balances punishment with avoiding a widening of the conflict.
The latest move by Moscow has prompted the BBC, Bloomberg and some other foreign media to suspend reporting inside the country.
It also said it had respected the ceasefire and accused Ukrainian forces of shoring up defences during the halt in fighting.
But at a meeting on Friday, NATO allies rejected Ukraines appeal for no-fly zones, saying they were increasing support but that stepping in directly could make the situation worse.
An official at Energoatom, the Ukrainian state nuclear plant operator, told Reuters fighting had ceased and radiation levels were normal. But his organisation no longer had contact with the plants managers or control over its nuclear material, he said.
Russias defence ministry also said the plant was working normally. It blamed the fire on an attack by Ukrainian saboteurs and said its forces were in control.
An Aeroflot statement cited new "circumstances that impede the operation of flights, noting that all domestic routes would continue unchanged as well as flights to neighbouring Belarus.
Due to the fact that the Russian side does not adhere to the ceasefire and has continued shelling both of Mariupol itself and its environs and for security reasons, the evacuation of the civilian population has been postponed, city officials said in a statement on social media.
The ministry said the location of the humanitarian corridors and exit points had been determined in agreement with Ukrainian authorities, according to Russian news agencies.
Ukraine and its Western allies call that a baseless pretext for a war to conquer a country of 44 million people.
Moscow denies targeting civilians in Ukraine and says its aim is to disarm its neighbour, counter what it views as NATO aggression and capture leaders it calls neo-Nazis.
Moscow troops accused of breaking ceasefire around Mariupol information war heats up as Facebook blocked in Russia
Officials in the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, surrounded by Russian forces, on Saturday delayed an evacuation of the civilian population, accusing Moscows troops of breaking a ceasefire.
Russia on Friday blocked Facebook and some other websites and passed a law that gives authorities much stronger powers to crack down on independent journalism as it seeks to silence criticism of its invasion.
Fighting back in the information war, Russias parliament passed a law imposing a prison term of up to 15 years for spreading intentionally fake news about the military.
Putin said on Saturday that any country that sought to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine would be considered by Moscow to have entered the conflict.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said an advance had been halted on the southern port of Mykolayiv. If captured, the city of 500,000 people would be the biggest yet to fall.
The Russian defence ministry later accused Ukrainian nationalists in Mariupol and Volnovakha  a town of 20,000 people near the rebel centre of Donetsk  of blocking Ukrainians from leaving toward Russia.
The United States is weighing cuts to imports of Russian oil and ways to minimize the impact on global supplies and consumers as lawmakers fast-track a bill that would ban Russian energy imports entirely.
This law will force punishment  and very tough punishment  on those who lied and made statements which discredited our armed forces, said Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of the Duma, Russias lower house of parliament.
In further evidence of the impact of international sanctions and the isolation of Russia, the flag carrier Aeroflot said on Saturday that it was suspending all international flights beginning from Tuesday.
The wreckage of what Ukrainian military officials said is a Russian Air Force assault aircraft is seen in a field outside the town of Volnovakha in the Donetsk region of Ukraine in a picture released on Friday. Joint Forces OperationHandout via Reuters
As the battle between Russia and the West escalates on a number of fronts, the United States has warned the conflict in Ukraine is a threat to the rules-based order.
As shells hit the area, a training building caught fire  triggering a spasm of alarm around the world before the blaze was extinguished and officials said the facility was safe.
In Kyivs Borshchahivka neighbourhood, the twisted engine of a cruise missile lay in the street where it had apparently been downed overnight by Ukrainian air defences.
James Elder of the United Nations childrens agency said doctors in Lviv were preparing a system to identify children in case of mass casualties.
Russia is blocking Facebook for restricting state-backed channels, as well as the websites of the BBC, Deutsche Welle and Voice of America.
He is scheduled to participate in a Zoom call with the US Senate later on Saturday Washington time.
We have a responsibility  to prevent this war from escalating beyond Ukraine because that would be even more dangerous, more devastating and would cause even more human suffering, said NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
A humanitarian disaster is also unfolding, with more than 1.2 million people seeking refuge in western Ukraine and in neighbouring countries.
The BBC, Bloomberg News and other foreign media said they would temporarily suspend the work of their journalists in Russia while they assessed the situation.
Fighting was raging in Ukraine as Russian troops besieged and bombarded cities in the second week of an invasion that has isolated Moscow, which calls its attack is a special operation to capture individuals it regards as dangerous nationalists.
Mariupol Mayor Vadim Boychenko said on Saturday that his city was under blockade. Pro-Russian separatist forces and the Russian military said the town was surrounded.
Authorities in Mariupol, a city of about 450,000 people on the Azov Sea, were scheduled to begin the evacuations at 0900 GMT 4pm Thailand time, after Russian forces agreed on a ceasefire to set up a humanitarian corridor to allow civilians to leave the fighting.
An attack on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe, about 225km west of Mariupol, brought the conflict to a perilous moment.
"Any movement in this direction will be considered by us as participation in an armed conflict by that country," the Russian leader said during a meeting with Aeroflot employees.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky slammed the Nato response as weak and confused. It was clear that not everyone considers the battle for Europes freedom to be the number one goal, he said.
The Red Cross was to guarantee the temporary ceasefire, with as many as 200,000 people expected to leave the besieged city over the next few days.
We ask all Mariupol residents to disperse and head to places where they can shelter. More information about the evacuation will be posted soon, municipal officials wrote on Saturday afternoon.
A green dot means fine over here, a yellow dot means critical support. They are learning a black dot means the child wont make it, he said.
Kyiv, in the path of a Russian armoured column that has been stalled outside the Ukrainian capital for days, came under renewed assault, with explosions audible from the city centre. Europes biggest nuclear power plant had also been seized.
The plant and adjacent territory were now being guarded by Russian troops, Moscows envoy to the United Nations said. Story continues below
The capture of Mariupol, a port city of 450,000 people on the Azov Sea, could enable Russian troops coming from annexed Crimea to connect with the forces of separatist-controlled Donbas.
Moscows attack on Ukraine, the biggest on a European state since World War II, has created over 1.2 million refugees, led to a barrage of sanctions and fears of a global economic hit and wider conflict in the West unthought-of for decades.
Russian forces have made their biggest advances in the south, where they captured their first sizeable Ukrainian city, Kherson, this week. Bombing has worsened in recent days in the northeast cities of Kharkiv and Chernihiv.
