Biden Putin signal bigger confrontation ahead over Ukraine
20220222
https://www.castanet.net/news/World/360738/White-House-calls-Russian-moves-on-Ukraine-an-invasion
Russian troops have entered in Donbas, the name for the area where the two separatist regions are located, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in Paris. We consider Donbas part of Ukraine.
The administration initially resisted calling the troop deployment an invasion because the White House wanted to see what Russia was actually going to do. After assessing Russian troop movements, it became clear it was a new invasion, according to a U.S. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
Shortly afterward, Putin laid out three conditions to end the crisis that has threatened to plunge Europe back into war, raising the specter of massive casualties, energy shortages across the continent and global economic chaos.
Western leaders have long warned Moscow would look for cover to invade  and just such a pretext appeared to come Monday, when Putin recognized the independence of the Donetsk and Luhansk separatist regions. The Kremlin then raised the stakes further by saying that recognition extends even to the large parts of those two regions now held by Ukrainian forces, including the major Azov Sea port of Mariupol. He added, however, that the rebels should eventually negotiate with Ukraine.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the U.K. would slap sanctions on five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals. He warned a full-scale offensive would bring further powerful sanctions.
Condemnation from around the world was quick. In Washington, lawmakers from both parties in Congress vowed continued U.S. support for Ukraine, even as some pushed for swifter and even more severe sanctions on Russia. Senators had been considering a sanctions package but held off as the White House pursued its strategy.
We think this is, yes, the beginning of an invasion, Russias latest invasion into Ukraine, Jon Finer, principal deputy national security adviser, said on CNN. An invasion is an invasion, and that is what is underway.
If Putin pushes farther into Ukraine, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg insisted the West would move in lockstep. If Russia decides once again to use force against Ukraine, there will be even stronger sanctions, even a higher price to pay, he said.
He called for international recognition of Crimea as part of Russia, an end to Ukraines NATO membership bid and a halt to weapons shipments there. The West has decried Russia's annexation of Crimea as a violation of international law and has previously flatly rejected permanently barring Ukraine from the NATO alliance.
Poland's Defense Ministry and British Health Secretary Sajid Javid also said Russian forces had entered Ukraine's east, with Javid telling Sky News that the invasion of Ukraine has begun.
With tensions rising and a broader conflict looking more likely, the White House began referring to the Russian deployments in the region known as the Donbas as an invasion after initially hesitating to use the term  a red line that Biden had said would result in severe sanctions.
None of us will be fooled by Russian President Vladimir Putin's claims about Ukraine, the U.S. President said. And he said more sanctions could be on the way if Putin proceeds further.
Putin said the crisis could be resolved if Kyiv recognizes Russia's sovereignty over Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that Moscow annexed after seizing it from Ukraine in 2014, renounces its bid to join NATO and partially demilitarizes. The West has decried the annexation of Crimea as a violation of international law and has previously flatly rejected permanently barring Ukraine from NATO.
Biden joined the 27 European Union members who unanimously agreed on Tuesday to levy their own initial set of sanctions targeting Russian officials over their actions in Ukraine.
The White House has also moved to respond, issuing an executive order to prohibit U.S. investment and trade in the separatist regions, and additional measures  likely sanctions  were to be announced Tuesday. Those sanctions are independent of what Washington has prepared in the event of a Russian invasion, according to a senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.
EU foreign ministers met Tuesday to discuss the measures  but they did not appear to include the massive punishment repeatedly promised in case of a full-fledged invasion.
The White House announced limited sanctions targeting the rebel regions on Monday evening soon after Putin said he was sending in troops. A senior Biden administration official, who briefed reporters about those sanctions, noted that Russia has occupied these regions since 2014 and that Russian troops moving into Donbas would not itself be a new step.
In an address to the nation, Zelenskyy said his decree applied only to those assigned to the so-called operational reserve, which is typically activated during ongoing hostilities, and covers a special period of time, without clarifying what that means.
Russian lawmakers on Tuesday authorized President Vladimir Putin to use military force outside the country  a move that could presage a broader attack on Ukraine after the U.S. said an invasion was already underway there.
Shortly after, Putin laid out three conditions to end the crisis that has threatened to plunge Europe back into war, raising the specter of massive casualties, energy shortages across the continent and economic chaos around the globe.
For weeks, Western powers have been bracing for this as Russia massed an estimated 150,000 troops on three sides of neighboring Ukraine  and promised swift and severe sanctions if it materialized. The European Union and Britain announced Tuesday that some of those measures were coming  and more were expected from the U.S., too.
The measures, accompanied by the repositioning of additional U.S. troops to the Baltic nations on NATOs eastern flank bordering Russia, came as Russian forces rolled into rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine after Putin said he was recognizing the independence of the separatist regions in defiance of U.S. and European demands.
Today there is no need for a full mobilization. We need to quickly add additional staff to the Ukrainian army and other military formations, he said. The head of the National Security and Defense Council, Oleksii Danilov, said earlier this year that Ukraine can call up up to 2.5 million people.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia has recognized the rebel regions independence in borders that existed when they proclaimed their independence in 2014  broad territories that extend far beyond the areas now under the rebel control and that include the major Azov Sea port of Mariupol.
In response to the moves thus far, top EU officials said the bloc was prepared to impose sanctions on several Russian officials and banks financing the Russian armed forces and move to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets. They gave few details.
Speaking at the White House, Biden said the Kremlin had flagrantly violated international law in what he called the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine." He warned of more sanctions if Putin went further.
But in a distinction that could complicate a European and Western response, he added: I wouldnt say that it is a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil.
Not all in Europe saw it that way. Spanish Foreign Minister Jos Manuel Albares noted if Russia uses force against Ukraine, sanctions will be massive.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson also said the U.K. would slap sanctions on five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals.
Biden said he was moving additional U.S. troops to the Baltics, though he described the deployments as purely defensive," asserting, We have no intention of fighting Russia. The U.S. is sending about 800 infantry troops and 40 attack aircraft to NATOs eastern flank from other locations within Europe, according to a senior defense official. In addition, a contingent of F-35 strike fighters and AH-64 Apache attack helicopters will also be relocated.
We are united in our support of Ukraine, Biden said. We are united in our opposition to Russian aggression. When it comes to Russian claims of a justification or pretext for an invasion, Biden said, None of us should be fooled. None of us will be fooled. There is no justification.
The Kremlin hasn't confirmed any troop deployments to the rebel east, saying it will depend on the security situation. Vladislav Brig, a member of the separatist local council in Donetsk, told reporters that the Russian troops already had moved in, but more senior rebel leaders didn't confirm that. Late Monday, convoys of armored vehicles were seen rolling across the separatist-controlled territories. It wasnt immediately clear if they were Russian.
The U.S., meanwhile, moved to cut off Russia's government from Western finance, sanctioning two of its banks and blocking it from trading in its debt on American and European markets. The administration's actions hit civilian leaders in Russias leadership hierarchy and two Russian banks considered especially close to the Kremlin and Russias military, with more than $80 billion in assets. That includes freezing all of those banks' assets under U.S. jurisdictions.
With tensions rising and a broader conflict looking ever more likely, the White House began referring to the Russian deployments as an invasion after initially hesitating to use the term  a red line that President Joe Biden has said would result in the U.S. levying severe sanctions against Moscow. He scheduled an address for later Tuesday.
We think this is, yes, the beginning of an invasion, Russias latest invasion into Ukraine, said Jon Finer, principal deputy national security adviser, said on CNN. An invasion is an invasion, and that is what is underway.
Asked whether he has sent any Russian troops into Ukraine and how far they could go, Putin responded: I havent said that the troops will go there right now." He added that its impossible to forecast a specific pattern of action  it will depend on a concrete situation as it takes shape on the ground.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he would consider breaking diplomatic ties with Russia, and Kyiv recalled its ambassador in Moscow.
While he said that Russian tanks have already rolled into eastern Ukraine, he warned a full-scale offensive would bring further powerful sanctions.
The Russian moves also pushed Germany to suspend the certification process for Nord Stream 2 pipeline that was to bring natural gas from Russia. The pipeline was built to help Germany meet its energy needs, particularly as it switches off its last three nuclear power plants and phases out the use of coal, and it has resisted calls by the U.S. and others to halt the project.
Even as alarm spread across the globe, Zelenskyy, the Ukrainian president, sought to project calm, telling the country in an address overnight: We are not afraid of anyone or anything. We dont owe anyone anything. And we wont give anything to anyone.
The EU announced initial sanctions aimed at the 351 Russian lawmakers who voted for recognizing the two separatist regions in Ukraine, as well as 27 other Russian officials and institutions from the defense and banking sectors. They also sought to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
Both leaders signaled that an even bigger confrontation could lie ahead. Putin has yet to unleash the force of the 150,000 troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, while Biden held back on even tougher sanctions that could cause economic turmoil for Russia but said they would go ahead if there is further aggression.
Western leaders have long warned Moscow would look for cover to invade  and just such a pretext appeared to come Monday, when Putin recognized as independent two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where government troops have fought Russia-backed rebels. The Kremlin then raised the stakes further Tuesday, by saying that recognition extends even to the large parts now held by Ukrainian forces.
Western nations sought to present a united front, with more than two dozen European Union members unanimously agreeing to levy their own initial set of sanctions against Russian officials. Germany also said it was halting the process of certifying the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia  a lucrative deal long sought by Moscow but criticized by the U.S. for increasing Europes reliance on Russian energy.
Hopes for a diplomatic resolution to the threat of invasion, which U.S. officials have for weeks portrayed as all but inevitable, appeared to evaporate. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken canceled plans for a Thursday meeting in Geneva with his Russian counterpart, saying it would not be productive and that Russias actions indicated Moscow was not serious about a peaceful path to resolving the crisis.
The East-West faceoff over Ukraine escalated dramatically Tuesday, with Russian lawmakers authorizing President Vladimir Putin to use military force outside his country and U.S. President Joe Biden and European leaders responding by slapping sanctions on Russian oligarchs and banks.
Biden said he was also moving additional U.S. troops to the Baltic states on NATOs eastern flank bordering Russia.
President Joe Biden announced the U.S. was ordering heavy financial sanctions against Russian banks and oligarchs on Tuesday, declaring that Moscow had flagrantly violated international law in what he called the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Condemnation from around the world was quick. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he would consider breaking diplomatic ties with Russia and Kyiv recalled its ambassador in Moscow.
Biden, though, did hold back some of the broadest and toughest of the financial penalties contemplated by the U.S., including sanctions that would reinforce the hold that Germany put on any startup of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline an export ban that would deny Russia U.S. high tech for its industries and military and sweeping bans that could cripple Russias ability to do business with the rest of the world.
Members of Russia's upper house, the Federation Council, voted unanimously to allow Putin to use military force outside the country  effectively formalizing a Russian military deployment to the rebel regions, where an eight-year conflict has killed nearly 14,000 people.
Earlier Tuesday, members of Russia's upper house, the Federation Council, voted unanimously to allow Putin to use military force outside the country  effectively formalizing a Russian military deployment to the rebel regions, where an eight-year conflict has killed nearly 14,000 people.
His foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, will be in Washington on Tuesday to meet with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, the State Department said.
But confusion over what exactly was happening in eastern Ukraine threatened to hobble a Western response. While the U.S. clearly called it an invasion, some other allies hedged.
Putin warned Monday that the Western rejection of Moscow's demands gives Russia the right to take other steps to protect its security.
Russia has long denied it has any plans to invade Ukraine, instead blaming the U.S. and its allies for the current crisis and describing Ukraines bid to join NATO as an existential challenge to Russia. Putin reiterated those accusations in an hourlong televised speech on Monday, when he announced that Russia would recognize the rebels.
Several European leaders said Russian troops rolled into rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine after Putin recognized their independence. But it was unclear how large the deployment was, and Ukraine and its Western allies have long said Russian troops were fighting in the region, allegations that Moscow always denied.
Zelenskyy said he was calling up some of the countrys military reservists but added there was no need for a full military mobilization.
