European leaders visit Kyiv in highprofile show of support
20220616
https://www.castanet.net/edition/news-story-372080-5-.htm
Many in Ukraine hoped that the leaders visit could mark a turning point by opening the way to significant new arms supplies  particularly as the officials surveyed the wars devastation. The visit also comes as EU leaders prepare to make a decision next week on Ukraines request to become a candidate for membership in the bloc, and ahead of an important NATO summit later in the month.
While shocking images of such devastation have rallied Western support, officials in Ukraine have expressed fears that war fatigue could eventually erode that  particularly as rising prices and upcoming elections in the United States are increasingly dominating peoples concerns.
The U.S. and its European allies have given billions of dollars in weaponry to Ukraine, and Germany and the U.S. recently announced new arms shipments. Such arms have been key to the country's surprising success in preventing the Russians from taking the capital, but officials in Kyiv have said much more will be needed if they are to drive Moscows forces out.
In Ukraine, Macron responded to criticism of France's response, including his recent comment that Russia shouldnt be humiliated, which deeply angered Ukrainians. He insisted that France has been at Ukraines side since the first day.
Gov. Serhiy Haidai of Luhansk, which is also part of the Donbas, said the visit would not yield any progress if the leaders ask Ukraine to sign a peace treaty with Russia that involves giving up territory.
President Klaus Iohannis of Romania  which borders Ukraine and has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees  arrived on a separate train.
"Innocent civilians have been hit, houses have been destroyed a whole town has been destroyed in which there was no military infrastructure at all, Scholz said. "And that says a great deal about the brutality of the Russian war of aggression, which is simply out for destruction and conquest. We must bear that in mind in everything that we decide.
His office also released a list of the dates of all his conversations with Zelenskyy. They have spoken by phone on 23 occasions since the war began and Macron spoke with Putin 11 times, including three times with Scholz.
The Russian forces are pressing their offensive in the eastern Donbas region, slowly but steadily gaining ground on the badly outmanned and outgunned Ukrainian forces, who are pleading for more arms from Western allies.
Scholz had long resisted traveling to Kyiv, saying he didnt want to join the queue of people who do a quick in-out for a photo opportunity. Instead, Scholz said a trip should focus on doing concrete things.
Macron, Scholz and Draghi, representing the three largest economies in the European Union, traveled to Kyiv together on a special overnight train provided by the Ukrainian authorities. They have been criticized for not visiting Kyiv sooner. A number of other European leaders have already made the long trip overland to show solidarity with a nation under attack, even in times when the fighting raged closer to the capital than it does now.
Italian Premier Mario Draghi said during the tour of Irpin that Ukraines backers will rebuild everything with European help.
The visit, which included a meeting with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, carries heavy symbolic weight since the leaders of France, Germany and Italy have faced criticism for continuing to engage with Russian President Vladimir Putin  and failing to provide Ukraine with the scale of weaponry that it has said is necessary to fend off the Russians. Romania's president also made the journey.
We want peace very much ... and have high hopes for Macron and Scholz, she said. We want them to see and understand our pain.
Four European leaders visited Ukraine on Thursday, denouncing the brutality of the Russian invasion in a high-profile show of support amid Kyiv's fears that Western resolve to help the embattled country could wane as the war grinds on.
Ahead of the meeting with Zelenskyy, the leader German Chancellor Olaf Scholz observed that officials must keep the horrible scenes destruction in mind in all their decisions.
Tamara Malko, a resident of the Donetsk region that is part of the Donbas, said Macron and Scholz had been very cold toward Ukrainians so far, and hoped for a change.
Today it will be one territory, tomorrow another one, the day after tomorrow another," he said.
I am sure that our president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, is not going to make concessions and trade our territories. If someone wants to stop Russia by giving them territories, Germany has Bavaria, Italy has Tuscany, the French can concede Provence, for instance, he said.
After arriving in Kyiv to the sound of air raid sirens, the leaders headed to Irpin, a suburb of the capital that was the scene of intense fighting early in the war and where many civilians were killed. They decried the destruction there.
Several air raid sirens rang out while the European leaders were in their hotel preparing for the rest of their visit, and Kyiv authorities urged people to seek shelter. Such alerts are a frequent occurrence.
After viewing Irpin, he wrote on Twitter that there are no words to describe the unimaginable human tragedy and horrible destruction and called for all Russian perpetrators to be held responsible by the international criminal justice" system.
Germany on Wednesday announced that it will provide Ukraine with three multiple launch rocket systems of the kind that Kyiv has said it urgently needs.
While hopes were high for the visit, there was also skepticism. Many leaders and regular people in Ukraine and the Baltic and Central European nations that were controlled by Moscow during the Cold War believe that Putin only understands force, and have viewed the efforts by Macron and others to keep speaking to Putin following his invasion as unacceptable.
