Russian Canadians protest in streets in support of Ukraine
20220301
https://www.castanet.net/news/Canada/361436/Russian-Canadians-protest-in-streets-in-support-of-Ukraine
Russians around the world have taken to the streets daily to denounce their homeland's invasion of Ukraine and some, like Koshkareva at a rally on the weekend, have burned their documentation.
"The evolved political-military situation and dynamic of NATO military posture in Europe created a clear and immediate danger for Russia that could not have been mitigated by any other means," read the statement.
"It's the best visual message for everyone who is against the government, but still proud to be a Russian citizen," she said in a telephone interview Monday.
The Edmonton woman is originally from Irkutsk in east-central Russia and has been living in Canada since 2013.
In Ottawa, many emotions passed through Tatiana Lebedeva when the initial reports of Russia's invasion came out.
Lebedeva has created a Facebook group called "Ottawa Stands With Ukraine." She also organized a rally outside Russia's embassy last week.
"I want to send a message to the embassy that Russians don't agree with the governmental actions. Not all of them can openly say it," she said.
Shocked Russians have reacted with protests in major urban centres across that country and thousands of people have been arrested.
"We want to support our fellow Ukrainians. Ukraine is a sovereign country. Russia doesn't have to invade it."
In Canada, thousands have turned out at rallies in Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa, Winnipeg and Edmonton in support of Ukraine.
"I still love my country. I'm just ashamed to have this dictator in the government."
Koshkareva said news of the invasion was predictable but still shocking. When organizers asked her to be at the rally outside the Alberta legislature, she felt it was important to be there to stand in solidarity.
"Putin is not Russia ... we're against this war and we're standing with Ukrainian people," she said. "It's our pain together."
At first, she said, she felt sadness and dismay. Anger and fury at the Russian government followed.
"The attempts by the West to turn Ukraine into a kind of 'anti-Russia' will not succeed."
Last week, the embassy issued a defiant statement defending its government's position. It said the West is trying to turn Ukraine into the anti-Russia.
"I have never been more ashamed to be Russian as now ... that's one of the reasons I can't just sit silent," she said.
"I don't need this piece of paper, because I'm not going to visit Russia until this dictatorship and this horrible government is out."
Lebedeva said she wanted to create a way for others to show international support for Ukraine and to give a voice to Russians who can't speak up in their home country.
