Russian airstrike hits base in western Ukraine kills 35
20220313
https://www.castanet.net/news/World/362742/Russian-airstrike-hits-base-in-western-Ukraine-kills-35
Elena Yurchuk, a nurse from the northern city of Chernihiv, was in a Romanian train station Saturday with her teenage son, Nikita, unsure whether their home was still standing.
The training centre near Yavoriv appears to be the westernmost target struck during Russia's 18-day invasion. The facility, also known as the International Peacekeeping and Security Center, has long been used to train Ukrainian military personnel, often with instructors from the U.S. and other NATO countries.
Poland is also a transit route for Western military aid to Ukraine, and the strikes followed Moscow's threats to target those shipments. An attack so close to the border was heavy with symbolism in a conflict have has revived the old Cold War rivalries that gave birth to NATO and threatened to rewrite the current global security order.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address that a convoy carrying 100 tons of humanitarian aid was on its way to Mariupol, whose capture could help Russia to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Despite its superior firepower, Russia has struggled in its advance across Ukraine, in the face of stiffer than expected resistance, bolstered by Western weapons support. Instead, Russian forces have besieged several cities and pummelled them with strikes, hitting two dozen medical facilities and leading to a series of humanitarian crises.
The port city has been the site of some of the worst desperation of the war, and the council accused the Russians of "cynically and purposefully hitting residential buildings, crowded places, completely destroying childrens hospitals and completely destroying the citys infrastructure.
One of Moscow's demands for ending the hostilities in Ukraine is for the country to drop its ambitions to join NATO.
The Russian invaders appear to have struggled more than expected against determined Ukrainian fighters. Still, Russias stronger military threatens to grind down Ukrainian forces. Zelenskyy reported Saturday that 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers had died since the Russian invasion began Feb. 24.
Ukrainian and European leaders have pushed with limited success for Russia to grant safe passage to civilians trapped by fighting. Ukrainian authorities said more than 10 humanitarian corridors would open Sunday, with agreement from Russia, including from the battered and besieged port city of Mariupol, where authorities say more than 1,500 people have been killed.
Ukrainian officials have accused Russia of failing to honor previous pledges to withhold fire along temporary evacuation routes. Zelenskyy said Ukrainian authorities still have managed to evacuate nearly 125,000 people from areas where hostilities are ongoing.
Zelenskyy again deplored NATOs refusal to declare a no-fly zone over Ukraine and said Ukraine has sought ways to procure air defence assets, though he didn't elaborate. NATO has said that imposing a no-fly zone could lead to a wider war with Russia. U.S. President Joe Biden announced another $200 million in aid to Ukraine, with an additional $13 billion included in a bill that has passed the House and should pass the Senate within days.
The war has repeatedly raised the specter of nuclear accidents, as fighting occurred around nuclear power plants. On Sunday, Ukraine said it restored a broken power line to the decommissioned Chernobyl plant, scene of the world's worst nuclear disaster in 1986. The plant was knocked off the grid last week and relying on generators. That raised concerns about its ability to keep spent fuel cool, though the International Atomic Energy Agency played down those worries.
Ukrainian and European leaders have pushed with limited success for Russia to grant safe passage to civilians trapped by fighting. Ukrainian authorities said more than 10 humanitarian corridors would open Sunday, with agreement from Russia, including from the battered and besieged port city of Mariupol, where the city council said 2,187 people have been killed in fighting so far.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address that a convoy carrying 100 tons of humanitarian aid was on its way to Mariupol, and all necessary diplomatic efforts have been taken to make sure it reaches those in need. Capturing Mariupol and other ports on the Azov Sea could allow Russia to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Waves of Russian missiles pounded a military training base in western Ukraine on Sunday, killing 35 people in an attack on a facility that has served as a crucial hub for cooperation between Ukraine and the NATO countries supporting it in its defence against Moscow's grinding assault.
Russian forces have hit at least two dozen hospitals and medical facilities, according to the World Health Organization. Ukraines Prosecutor Generals office said Sunday that at least 85 children have been killed in the Russian offensive and more than 100 wounded.
Another airstrike hit a westward-bound train evacuating people from the east, killing one person and injuring another, Donetsk's chief regional administrator said.
Lviv governor Maksym Kozytskyi said most of the Russian missiles fired Sunday were shot down because the air defence system worked. The ones that got through killed at least 35 people and wounded 134, he said.
It has also hosted international NATO drills. As such, the site symbolizes a longstanding Russian complaint: that the 30-member Western military alliance has expanded in Eastern Europe too close to Russian territory. One of Moscow's stated conditions for ending the hostilities in Ukraine is for the country to drop its ambitions to join NATO.
More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the sprawling facility, which lies not far from the border with NATO member Poland and that has long been used to train Ukrainian military personnel, often with instructors from the U.S. and other countries in the western alliance.
Biden has been clear, repeatedly, that the United States will work with our allies to defend every inch of NATO territory and that means every inch, Sullivan said on CBS News Face the Nation.
In the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv, near the Black Sea, authorities reported nine people killed in bombings. Meanwhile, they said Russian airstrikes on a monastery and a childrens resort in the eastern Donetsk region hit spots where monks and others were sheltering, wounding 32 people.
After talks aimed at reaching a cease-fire again failed Saturday, the U.S. announced plans to provide another $200 million to Ukraine for weapons. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov warned other nations that sending equipment to bolster Ukraine's military was "an action that makes those convoys legitimate targets.
NATO said Sunday that it currently does not have any personnel in Ukraine. A NATO official didn't respond to questions about when the alliance last had personnel at the training base.
The city of Lviv itself so far has been spared the scale of destruction unfolding to its east and south. Its population of 721,000 has swelled during the war with residents escaping other bombarded population centres and as a waystation for the nearly 2.6 million refugees who fled the country.
Previous efforts to get supplies into besieged cities or civilians out have often fallen apart, with Ukrainian officials accusing Russia of failing to honour pledges to withhold fire along temporary evacuation routes. Zelenskyy said Ukrainian authorities still have managed to evacuate nearly 125,000 people from areas where hostilities are ongoing.
Around the capital, Kyiv, a major political and strategic target for the invasion, fighting also intensified, with overnight shelling in the northwestern suburbs and a missile strike Sunday that destroyed a warehouse to the east.
Ukrainian authorities said Russian airstrikes on a monastery and a children's resort in the eastern Donetsk region hit spots where monks and refugees were sheltering, wounding 32 people.
To the north, in the city of Chernihiv, one person was killed and another injured in a Russian airstrike that destroyed a residential block, emergency services said.
When I woke up in the morning, everything was covered in smoke, everything was dark. We dont know who is shooting and where, resident Serhy Protsenko said as he walked through his neighbourhood. Explosions sounded in the distance. We dont have any radio or information.
The United Nations has said the fighting has displaced millions of Ukrainians within the country on top of the millions who have left.
Russian fighters also fired at the airport in the western city of Ivano-Frankivsk, which is less than 150 kilometres north of Romania and 250 kilometres from Hungary, countries that also are NATO allies. The airport, which includes a military airfield as well as a runway for civilian flights, also was targeted Friday.
We have nowhere to go back to, said Yurchuk, 44, a widow who hopes to find work in Germany. Nothing left.
The attacked training base near Yavoriv is less than 25 kilometres from the closest border point with Poland, according to the governor of Ukraines western Lviv region, and appears to be the westernmost target struck during Russias 18-day invasion.
Since Russia's invasion more than two weeks ago, at least 596 civilians have been killed, according to the U.N., though it believes the true toll is much higher. Millions more have fled their homes amid the largest land conflict in Europe since World War II.
Kyiv Region police said on its official website that Russian troops opened fire on a car carrying two American journalists. The force said Brent Renaud died and Juan Arredondo was wounded.
NATO said Sunday that it currently does not have any personnel in Ukraine, though the U.S. has increased the number of American troops deployed to Poland. White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the West would respond if Russia's armaments travel outside Ukraine and hit any NATO members, even accidentally.
In some of his strongest denunciations yet of the war in Ukraine, Pope Francis on Sunday decried the barbarianism of the killing of children and other civilians and pleaded for the attacks to end before cities are reduced to cemeteries. Francis said Mariupol, the southern city which bears the name of the Virgin Mary, has become a city martyred by the heartbreaking war that is devastating Ukraine.
Waves of Russian missiles pounded a military training base near Ukraines western border with NATO member Poland, killing 35 people, Ukrainian authorities said Sunday. The strike followed Russian threats to target foreign weapon shipments that are helping Ukrainian fighters defend their country against Russia's grinding assault.
In the southern city of Mykolaiv, near the Black Sea, authorities reported nine more people killed in bombings. Russian forces advancing from Crimea were attempting to circumvent Mykolaiv on what appeared to be a westward push toward the Black Sea port of Odesa, Britain's Defense Ministry said.
Chief regional administrator Oleksiy Kuleba said Russian forces appeared to be trying to blockade and paralyze the capital with day and night shelling of the suburbs. Kuleba said Russian agents were in the capital and its suburbs, marking out possible future targets.
Zelenskyy has accused Russia of trying to break his country apart, as well as starting a new stage of terror with the alleged detention of a mayor from a city west of Mariupol. He also alleged Saturday that Russians were using blackmail and bribery in an attempt to force local officials in the southern Kherson region to form a pseudo-republic like those in the two eastern regions where pro-Russian separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in 2014.
In Irpin, a suburb about 20 kilometres northwest of central Kyiv, bodies lay out in the open Saturday on streets and in a park.
The city of Lviv itself so far has been spared the scale of destruction unfolding to its east and south. Its population of 721,000 has swelled during the war with residents escaping other bombarded population centres and as a waystation for the nearly 2.6 million people who have fled the country.
He vowed that any all-out assault would meet stiff resistance, saying: Were getting ready to defend Kyiv, and were prepared to fight for ourselves.
Many civilians have been caught in the barrage, and Ukraines Prosecutor Generals office said Sunday that at least 85 children have been killed so far. An American journalist was killed and another wounded when their car was fired upon at a Russian checkpoint Sunday, according to police. Meanwhile, U.S. President Joe Biden is sending his national security adviser to Rome to meet Monday with a Chinese official amid concerns that country is amplifying Russian disinformation, and Pope Francis called for peace.
Sullivan is headed to Rome on Monday to meet with senior Chinese foreign policy adviser Yang Jiechi. Their talks will centre on efforts to manage the competition between our two countries and discuss the impact of Russias war against Ukraine on regional and global security, said Emily Horne, speaking for the White House national security council.
The base has hosted international NATO drills and a senior NATO official, Admiral Rob Bauer, previously hailed it as embodying the spirit of military cooperation" between Ukraine and international forces. As such, the site symbolizes Russia's longstanding concerns that the 30-member Western military alliance poses a threat to Moscow by operating so close to its territory.
But continued fighting on multiple fronts heaped further misery on the country Sunday and provoked renewed international outrage.
More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the sprawling training facility that is less than 25 kilometres from the closest border point with Poland, according to the governor of Ukraines western Lviv region. Poland is a transit route for Western military aid to Ukraine, and the United States increased the number of America troops deployed there.
Ukraine will stand this test. We need time and strength to break the war machine that has come to our land, Zelenskyy said during his nightly address to the nation Saturday.
