Russias Putin announces military operation in Ukraine
20220224
https://www.castanet.net/news/World/360994/In-potential-prelude-to-war-Kremlin-says-rebels-want-help
Early Thursday, airspace over all of Ukraine was shut down to civilian air traffic, according to a notice to airmen. A commercial flight tracking website showed that an Israeli El Al Boeing 787 flying from Tel Aviv to Toronto turned abruptly out of Ukrainian airspace before detouring over Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland. The only other aircraft tracked over Ukraine was a U.S. RQ-4B Global Hawk unmanned surveillance plane, which began flying westward early Thursday after Russia put in place flight restrictions over Ukrainian territory.
The action reflected increasing concern among Ukrainian authorities after weeks of trying to project calm. The Foreign Ministry advised against travel to Russia and recommended that any Ukrainians who are there leave immediately.
Putin said Tuesday that he had not yet sent any Russian troops into the rebel regions, contrary to Western claims, and Donetsk rebel leader Denis Pushilin insisted Wednesday there were no Russian troops in the region, even though a local council member claimed the previous day they had moved in.
"Unprovoked, evil, aggression. From a permanent member of the Security Council, during a meeting of the Security Council of the United Nations."
Meanwhile, Ukraines military claims it has shot down five Russian planes and one helicopter  reports Russia denies.
"So well continue to call out what we see as false-flag operations or efforts to spread misinformation about what the actual status is on the ground, she said.
Officials have long said they expect cyberattacks to precede and accompany any Russian military incursion, and analysts said the incidents hew to a nearly two-decade-old Russian playbook of wedding cyber operations with real-world aggression.
The Russian Foreign Ministry has shrugged off the sanctions, saying that Russia has proven that, with all the costs of the sanctions, it is able to minimize the damage.
The latest images released by the Maxar satellite image company showed Russian troops and military equipment deployed within 10 miles of the Ukrainian border and less than 50 miles from Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv.
A full-blown Russian invasion could cause massive casualties and topple Ukraines democratically elected government. And the consequences of the conflict and resulting sanctions levied on Russia could reverberate throughout the world, affecting energy supplies in Europe, jolting global financial markets and threatening the post-Cold War balance on the continent.
Putin laid out three conditions that he said could end the standoff, urging Kyiv to renounce its bid to join NATO, to partially demilitarize and to recognize Russias sovereignty over Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that Moscow annexed from Ukraine in 2014. Ukraine long has rejected such demands.
Lupynis immediate family moved to B.C. in the 1950s but he has many relatives living in western Ukraine. He said the invasion "boggles the mind" and that everyone needs to fear what Putin could do next.
European Union sanctions against Russia took effect, targeting several companies along with 351 Russian lawmakers who voted for a motion urging Putin to recognize the rebel regions and 27 senior government officials, business executives and top military officers.
The United Nations Security Council quickly scheduled an emergency meeting Wednesday night at Ukraine's request. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called the separatists request a further escalation of the security situation.
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba described the assault as a full-scale invasion" and said Ukraine will "defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said on Facebook that the Russian military had launched missile strikes on Ukrainian military command facilities, air bases and military depots in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Dnipro.
Canada calls on Russia to immediately cease all hostile and provocative actions against Ukraine and withdraw all military and proxy forces from the country. Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity must be respected and the Ukrainian people must be free to determine their own future.
As Putin spoke, big explosions were heard in Kyiv, Kharkiv and other areas of Ukraine.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the Russian force of more than 150,000 troops arrayed along Ukraines borders is in an advanced state of readiness. They are ready to go right now, Kirby said.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the rebel chiefs wrote to Putin on Wednesday, pleading with him to intervene after Ukrainian shelling caused civilian deaths and crippled vital infrastructure.
Canada condemns in the strongest possible terms Russias egregious attack on Ukraine. These unprovoked actions are a clear further violation of Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity. They are also in violation of Russias obligations under international law and the Charter of the United Nations.
In other developments, Russia evacuated its embassy in Kyiv Ukraine recalled its ambassador to Russia and considered breaking all diplomatic ties with Moscow and dozens of nations further squeezed Russian oligarchs and banks out of international markets.
Russias actions will be met with severe consequences. Tomorrow morning, I will be meeting with G7 partners, and we will continue working closely and quickly with NATO and our allies to collectively respond to these reckless and dangerous acts, including by imposing significant sanctions in addition to those already announced.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the separatists' request for Russian help was an example of the sort of false-flag operation that the U.S. and its allies have expected Moscow to use as a pretense for war.
Ukraines border guard service says Russian troops have also attacked from Belarus with Belarusian support.
I condemned this unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces. I briefed him on the steps we are taking to rally international condemnation, including tonight at the UN Security Council, said Biden.
As I have made clear, we will not hesitate to take further steps if Russia continues to escalate, Biden said in a statement.
Germany said Tuesday that it was indefinitely suspending the project, after Biden charged that Putin had launched the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine by sending troops into the separatist regions. The pipeline is complete but has not yet begun operating.
A minute ago I had a conversation with President Biden. The US have already started uniting international support. Today each of you should keep calm. Stay at home if you can. We are working. The army is working. The whole sector of defense and security is working, he said.
President Zelenskyy reached out to me tonight and we just finished speaking. I condemned this unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces. I briefed him on the steps we are taking to rally international condemnation, including tonight at the UN Security Council.
Anxiety about an imminent Russian offensive against its neighbor soared after Putin recognized the separatist regions' independence on Monday, endorsed the deployment of troops to the rebel territories and received parliamentary approval to use military force outside the country. The West responded with sanctions.
Bob Rae, Canada's ambassador to the United Nations, called what is happening "a grotesque war crime."
In the capital, Kyiv Mayor Vitaly Klitschko advised residents to stay home unless they are involved in critical work and urged them to prepare go-bags with necessities and documents if they need to evacuate. An Associated Press photographer in Mariupol reported hearing explosions and seeing dozens of people with suitcases heading for their cars to leave the city.
Russias defense ministry says it has degraded Ukraines air defenses through attacks on military infrastructure.
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelenskyy has declared martial law throughout the country in response to the invasion.
The West has always underestimated what Putin could, and would, do  hes rewriting history in his own pen and trying to get the world to believe it."
Zelenskyy said he asked to arrange a call with Russian President Vladimir Putin late Wednesday, but the Kremlin did not respond.
For a long time, we refrained from declaring a state of emergency ... but today the situation has become more complicated, Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council head Oleksiy Danilov told parliament, emphasizing that Moscow's efforts to destabilize Ukraine represented the main threat.
Former Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper issued a statement on Twitter, saying he prays for the people of Ukraine, and that the invasion is a long time coming.
He said the Russian military operation aims to ensure a demilitarization of Ukraine. Putin urged Ukrainian servicemen to immediately put down arms and go home.
In the face of these attacks on Ukraine, Canada will take additional action to stop Russias unwarranted aggression. We continue to stand with Ukraine, its people, and the Ukrainian Canadian community here in Canada. Russias brazen acts will not go unpunished.
"Weve been watching this build not just for weeks but for years," he said in an interview. "When Russia invaded Crimea and eastern Ukraine back in 2014, there was always a feeling something would happen but we were praying it wouldn't."
He said the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a claim the U.S. had predicted he would falsely make to justify an invasion
A new military adventure by Kyiv might cost the whole of Ukraine very dearly, he warned ominously.
Zelenskyy said he asked to arrange a call with Putin late Wednesday, but the Kremlin did not respond.
He challenged the Russian propaganda claims, saying that you are told that this blaze will bring freedom to the people of Ukraine, but the Ukrainian people are free.
Another wave of distributed-denial-of-service attacks hit Ukraines parliament and other government and banking websites on Wednesday, and cybersecurity researchers said unidentified attackers had also infected hundreds of computers with destructive malware.
In Ukraine's east, one Ukrainian soldier was killed and six more wounded after rebel shelling, the Ukrainian military said Wednesday. Separatist officials reported several explosions on their territory overnight and three civilian deaths.
"Putin's war on Ukraine began in 2014," the statement reads. "This full scale attack, unleashing death and horror on a mass scale, merely makes explicit what he has long planned."
A short time later, the Ukrainian president rejected Moscows claims that his country poses a threat to Russia and said a Russian invasion would cost tens of thousands of lives.
No panic. We are strong. We are ready for everything. We will win over everybody because we are Ukraine.
Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Melanie Joly said she has spoken with Canada's ambassador to Ukraine, Larisa Galadza.
U.S. President Joe Biden announced via Twitter that President Zelenskyy reached out to him Wednesday night.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday announced a military operation in Ukraine and warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to consequences they have never seen.
Earlier in the day, Ukrainian lawmakers approved a decree that imposes a nationwide state of emergency for 30 days starting Thursday. The measure allows authorities to declare curfews and other restrictions on movement, block rallies and ban political parties and organizations in the interests of national security and public order.
President Joe Biden allowed sanctions to move forward against the company that built the Russia-to-Germany Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and against the companys CEO.
After weeks of rising tensions, Putin's steps this week dramatically raised the stakes. He recognized the independence of the separatist regions, a move he said extends even to the large parts of the territories now held by Ukrainian forces, and had parliament grant him authority to use military force outside the country.
Eugene Lupynis with Metro Vancouvers Ukrainian Community Society Of Ivan Franko said the news about the invasion has left him full of terror and concern.
He asked me to call on the leaders of the world to speak out clearly against President Putins flagrant aggression, and to stand with the people of Ukraine.
In an apparent reference to Putins move to authorize the deployment of the Russian military to maintain peace in eastern Ukraine, Zelensky warned that this step could mark the start of a big war on the European continent.
In a televised address, Putin accused the U.S. and its allies of ignoring Russias demand to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and offer Moscow security guarantees. He said Russia's goal was not to occupy Ukraine.
Results of Russia's overnight shelling of Kyiv's Holosiyiv district: damaged billboard, scattered debris damaged surrounding buildings within 200-300m, balconies, windows damaged, fire started
Putin announced the military operation after the Kremlin said rebels in eastern Ukraine asked Russia for military assistance to help fend off Ukrainian aggression." The announcement immediately fueled fears that Moscow was offering up a pretext for war, just as the West had warned.
U.S. President Joe Biden denounced the unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine and said the world will hold Russia accountable.
After the initial explosions in Kyiv, people could be heard shouting in the streets. Then a sense of normality returned, with cars circulating and people walking in the streets as a pre-dawn commute appeared to start in relative calm.
"Putin is the cause of all this. We cannot let him win," Rae said on Twitter. "Cmon people, stop pretending. War has started."
Tomorrow, I will be meeting with the Leaders of the G7, and the United States and our Allies and partners will be imposing severe sanctions on Russia.
Facing a barrage of criticism at the 193-member United Nations General Assembly, Russias U.N. ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, warned Ukraine that Russia will monitor a cease-fire in the east and emphasized that no one intends to go softly, softly with any violators.
Already, the threat of war has shredded Ukraine's economy and raised the specter of massive casualties, energy shortages across Europe and global economic chaos.
"The team is safe and the embassy will offer consular services to Canadians from Lviv as long as possible," Joly said on Twitter. "If you need consular help in Ukraine, please reach us at emailprotected"
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an emotional overnight address, speaking in Russian in a direct appeal to Russian citizens. But if we come under attack, if we face an attempt to take away our country, our freedom, our lives and lives of our children, we will defend ourselves. When you attack us, you will see our faces, not our backs.
The Kremlin said rebels in eastern Ukraine asked Russia for military assistance Wednesday to help fend off Ukrainian aggression, an announcement that immediately fueled fears that Moscow was offering up a pretext for war, just as the West had warned.
