Ukraine seeks to join EU as round of talks with Russia ends
20220228
https://www.castanet.net/edition/news-story-361345-5-.htm
A tense calm reigned in Kyiv, where people lined up to buy food, water and pet food after two nights trapped inside by a strict curfew, but social media video from Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, showed residential areas being shelled, with apartment buildings shaken by repeated, powerful blasts. Authorities in Kharkiv said at least seven people had been killed and dozens injured. They warned that casualties could be far higher.
I sit and pray for these negotiations to end successfully, so that they reach an agreement to end the slaughter, and so there is no more war, said Alexandra Mikhailova, weeping as she clutched her cat in a makeshift shelter in the strategic southeastern port city of Mariupol. Around her, parents sought to console children and keep them warm.
Russian and Ukrainian officials met for talks Monday amid high hopes but low expectations for any diplomatic breakthrough, after Moscow ran into unexpectedly stiff resistance when it unleashed the biggest land war in Europe since World War II.
They wanted to have a blitzkrieg, but it failed, so they act this way, said 83-year-old Valentin Petrovich, who described watching the shelling from his downtown apartment. He spoke on condition that his full name not be used, fearing for his security.
The Russian military has denied targeting residential areas despite abundant evidence of shelling of homes, schools and hospitals.
Meanwhile, Ukraines president has signed an application for his country to join the European Union, in a bid to solidify his countrys bond with the West.
Outgunned Ukrainian forces managed to slow the Russian advance, and Western sanctions began to squeeze the Russian economy, but the Kremlin again raised the specter of nuclear war, reporting that its land, air and sea nuclear forces were on high alert following President Vladimir Putins weekend order.
A top adviser to Ukraines president says the first round of talks with Russia about ending the fighting in Ukraine has concluded, and more talks could happen soon.
The U.N. human rights chief said at least 102 civilians have been killed and hundreds wounded in more than four days of fighting  warning that figure is probably a vast undercount  and Ukraines president said at least 16 children were among the dead.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy has posted photos of himself signing the application, and his office says the paperwork is on its way to Brussels, where the 27-nation EU is headquartered.
Stepping up his rhetoric, Putin denounced the U.S. and its allies as an empire of lies.
