AFU liberate Verkhnia Rohanka Ruska Lozova Slobodske and Prylisne in Kharkiv region invader concentrating forces near Izium border  AFU General Staff
20220502
https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/828812.html
Russian occupation troops continue to commit illegal actions in the seized territories of Kharkiv region. According to available information, the enemy is forcibly removing the population to the territory of the Russian Federation. The occupiers spread misinformation about the seizures of Kharkiv, Kyiv, and Zaporizhia.
"As a result of an offensive by Ukrainian Defense Forces units in Kharkiv region, control was restored over the settlements of Verkhnia Rohanka, Ruska Lozova, Slobodske and Prylisne," an evening summary posted on the General Staff's Facebook page on Saturday reads.
Russian occupation troops continue to carry out air and artillery strikes against the city of Kharkiv in Slobozhanske direction.
In Izium direction, the occupiers, using individual units from the 1st Tank Army and the 20th General Army of the Western Military District, the 35th General Army and the 68th Army Corps of the Eastern Military District, and airborne troops attempt an offensive in the directions of Izium - Barvenkove and Izium - Slovyansk.
The Ukrainian army liberated Verkhnia Rohanka, Ruska Lozova, Slobodske and Prylisne in Kharkiv region. The Russian occupiers continue shelling Kharkiv, storming towns in Luhansk region, and laying siege to the Azovstal plant in Mariupol. Additional units of the Russian Army are concentrated near the Ukrainian border and their redeployment near Izium continues, according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
In Donetsk direction, the enemy conducts active combat operations almost along the entire line of contact. Air strikes and artillery fire on the positions of the Ukrainian defenders do not stop.
The enemy is building up its anti-aircraft defense system and conducting aerial reconnaissance of AFU positions using UAVs in the areas of Velyka Kamyshevakha, Ivanivka, Chervone, Kurulko, Dovhenke, Nova Dmytrivka and Barvenkove.
It is also noted that the enemy continues to concentrate forces and means both in the temporarily occupied territories of Kharkiv region and in Belgorod region, in the immediate vicinity of the state border of Ukraine. For example, the occupiers moved units of the 55th Independent Motorized Rifle Brigade of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Central Military District to Volokhov Yar settlement and units of the 5th Independent Tank Brigade of the 36th Combined Arms Army of the Eastern Military District to the town of Izium.
