Residential areas shelled in Kharkiv all rules of warfare violated  Denysenko
20220228
https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/803944.html
He said the reason for the attacks on Kharkiv is the attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to get at least some kind of victory for the internal information picture.
"This is happening for one simple reason: the Ukrainian army has started to hit the enemy, and sanctions are starting to hit the Russian economy. Vladimir Putin, apparently, is betting that he needs at least some kind of victory in order to disseminate the information picture from himself in Russia for pseudo-victories on the territory of Ukraine. The Russian president is hiding in a bunker for the fifth day, he does not go out to his people for the fifth day, and for the fifth day he is afraid to appear in public," Denysenko said.
"Unfortunately, we are forced to state that the Russian army is shelling massively residential areas of the city of Kharkiv. Now, at these moments, there is a crazy shelling of Kharkiv from rocket weapons. There are already wounded, there are killed. These are exclusively civilians and this is shelling of an exclusively peaceful city," he said in a video statement on Monday.
At the moment, Russian troops continue massive shelling of residential areas of Kharkiv, adviser to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Vadym Denisenko has said.
"But Putin is paranoid, and he is obviously afraid of his elite. That is why he is hiding in a bunker for the fifth day, that is why he does not go out to people for the fifth day, and that is why he is fighting against the state of Ukraine for the fifth day. And what he does today in Kharkiv, the fact that civilians are being killed, the fact that at this moment any rules of warfare are being violated - this, of course, will be proven in court later, and he will certainly appear before The Hague. And we will defend Kharkiv, as it is our Ukrainian Patriotic war, and we will win our Patriotic war," he said.
