Russian invaders continue offensive operation against Ukraine enemy tries to reach borders of Luhansk Donetsk regions  AFU General Staff
20220317
https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/814863.html
"In the Tauride direction, the enemy continued to build up the system of logistics for the group of troops. A collection point for damaged equipment has been deployed at Dzhankoy airfield," the General Staff said.
It is noted that the occupiers did not carry out active offensive operations in Zaporizhia direction, and the enemy carried out reconnaissance in Pivdennobuzske direction, carried out engineering equipment of the positions occupied. The enemy tried to carry out offensive actions in Kryvy Rih direction, took control of the Mala Shesternia settlement, however, did not have a general success, having fixed in its positions.
"In order to constrain the actions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the enemy is trying to block the settlements to the north of the capital. At the same time, the enemy does not refuse to launch rocket and bomb strikes on civilian infrastructure in Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Dnipropetrovsk and other regions where there is no active hostilities underway," the statement said.
The Russian occupiers are trying to continue the strategic offensive operation against Ukraine and do not abandon their attempts to reach the administrative borders of Luhansk and Donetsk regions. There is no success, the press service of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reports on Thursday.
It says that in Volyn direction, intensive use of the territory and infrastructure of the Republic of Belarus by a group of troops of the Russian Federation for delivering strikes on the territory of Ukraine and logistical support for the group of occupying forces operating in the Polissia direction is recorded.
In Slobozhansky direction, the invaders tried to carry out offensive operations from the area of the city of Izium, but were unsuccessful. Attempts are being made to gain a foothold on the occupied lines and improve the system of logistics.
"The Russian invaders reinforce the grouping with additional units of the 1st Tank Army and coastal units of the Baltic Fleet," the General Staff notes.
"The eenemy had partial success in the area of Rubizhne fixed on the western and northwestern outskirts of the city, moving towards the southern part of the city. On Popasna and Volnovakha directions, the enemy conducted unsuccessful assault operations in the areas of the settlements of Verkhniotoretsk and Maryiynka. The enemy suffered losses,conducts a regrouping of troops, carries out replenishment of supplies. The assault on the city continues in the Mariupol direction," the General Staff said.
They note that in Polissia direction, the enemy made attempts to seize the previously occupied lines, lost as a result of the successful actions of units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. They does not have success in this direction, suffering losses. They are trying to regroup troops and establish logistics.
"There is still a possibility of participation of certain units of the Belarusian armed forces in hostilities on the side of the Russian Federation," the General Staff says.
The enemy did not conduct active offensive operations in Siversky direction, and continues to prepare for resumption of the offensive with the aim of further blocking Kyiv from the northeast direction. The enemy performs chaotic attacks on the positions of units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, tries to conduct reconnaissance.
