The Embassy of Ukraine calls on Israeli authorities to cancel quota policy on reception of Ukrainian refugees
20220317
https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/815167.html
The Embassy added: We hope that the government, whos nation experienced the refugee life throughout its existence, will embrace those, who are saving their own lives and lives of their children - looking for a temporary shelter from horrors of war. Ukrainians who is seeking temporary shelter in Israel do not make a random destination choice. All of those, who are coming have family or friends in Israel which are ready to host them.
In addition, the Embassy asks the competent authorities shall also elaborate alternative mechanism that will enable entry of Ukrainians who have friends in Israel upon presenting written legally biding obligation of the hosting side.
The Embassy of Ukraine also points to the need to allow Ukrainians to come to Israel until the war ends - family members of an Israeli citizen or a citizen of Ukraine who has legal status in Israel, including those who are in Israel with a valid visa.
This category shall not fall under any quotas and should be able to enter Israel upon presentation of evidence of family relationship, - the diplomatic mission said.
As for the Ukrainian citizens currently residing in Israel, it should be temporarily stipulated that the declared non-enforcement policy will also apply to their temporary employment in Israel, in order to allow them to support themselves until the crisis passes, - the statement said.
The State of Israel should abolish the principle of quotas on the reception of citizens of Ukraine, against which Russia has been waging an open war for more than three weeks. This is stated in the of the Embassy of Ukraine regarding the Israeli policy on Ukrainian refugees, published on the official Facebook page of the diplomatic mission.
The recently updated immigration policy of Israeli Government towards Ukrainians is not covering the main challenges for non-Jewish refugees from Ukraine. Russia is committing genocide of Ukrainians, killing thousands of civilians, while the Israeli Government inspects each and every refugee from Ukraine with a fine-toothed comb. We urge those who takes decision to cancel policy of quotas and other artificial obstacles towards women and children fleeing war-torn Ukraine, - the statement said.
