Ukraines FM asks partners take urgent steps to compel Russiato withdraw armed units from ZNPP create security zone
20220304
https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/806960.html
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has already instructed Ukrainian diplomatic institutions to start urgent contacts with partners, in particular through the IAEA, to prepare an international response to Russia's aggression against nuclear facilities.
ZNPP managers have said power units at the plant are operating normally and that radiation levels are within the normal range.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has demanded partners to take urgent steps to force Russia to withdraw its armed units from Zaporizhia nuclear power plant ZNPP and create a security zone.
"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine strongly condemns the shelling and seizure by the occupying armed forces of the Russian Federation of the site of Zaporizhia nuclear power plant in the city of Enerhodar. As a result of the shelling, a fire broke out on the territory of the nuclear power plant, people were killed and injured," the ministry said.
"In terms of consequences, such a catastrophe may exceed all previous accidents at nuclear power plants, including the accident at Chornobyl nuclear power plant and the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. With its armed attack on a nuclear facility, Russia violated all international agreements within the framework of the IAEA, primarily the IAEA Charter, the Joint Safety Convention management of spent fuel and on the safety of radioactive waste management, the Convention on the Notification of a Nuclear Accident and the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations and Nuclear Material," the ministry said.
Ukraine's Foreign Ministry drew attention to the fact that, in addition to six power units, there is a storage facility for spent nuclear fuel at ZNPP site that could be damaged.
"We express disappointment with the reaction of the IAEA, which in its statement did not dare to name the one who shelled the station. We demand clear and decisive actions from the IAEA International Atomic Energy Agency. The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry calls on the international community to strongly condemn the actions of the Russian occupiers, which could cause an unprecedented nuclear catastrophe for mankind. We appeal to our partners take urgent steps to force Russia to withdraw its armed units from the nuclear power plant and create a security zone," the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Friday.
