Ukraine Calls for Faster Weapons Deliveries
20220524
https://www.saltlakecitysun.com/news/272562765/ukraine-calls-for-faster-weapons-deliveries
pentagon - Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba Tuesday urged other governments to send more weapons more quickly to aid Ukraine's fight against Russian forces.
Britain's defense ministry said Tuesday that Russian forces have increased the intensity of their operations in the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine as they try to encircle multiple cities, including Severodonetsk.
Citing the widespread effects of the conflict, including on the global food supply, Biden pledged ongoing U.S. support, saying, "as long as Russia continues the war, the United States will work with our partners to help be the global response, because it's going to affect all parts of the world."
"Everyone here understands the stakes of this war, and they stretch far beyond Europe," Austin said.
"Too early to conclude that Ukraine already has all the arms it needs," Kuleba tweeted Tuesday. "Russian offensive in the Donbas is a ruthless battle, the largest one on European soil since WWII. I urge partners to speed up deliveries of weapons and ammunition, especially MLRS, long-range artillery, APCs."
Monday's meeting included 47 nations that participated virtually, according to Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Mark Milley, the top U.S. military officer. Austria, Colombia and Ireland were among the new participants.
'He wanted less NATO on his borders and launched a war. Now he's getting more NATO on his borders and more members," Stoltenberg said.
"Many countries are donating critically needed artillery ammunition, coastal defense systems, tanks and other armored vehicles. Others came forward with new commitments for training Ukraine's forces and sustaining its military systems," Austin told reporters at the Pentagon after concluding the second meeting of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group.
Kuleba's call for more military help came a day after U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said about 20 countries are sending new security assistance packages for Ukraine.
The NATO leader highlighted demands made by Russian President Vladimir Putin before the invasion, including a guarantee that NATO would not expand.
Turkey has expressed opposition to the bids, accusing Sweden and Finland of harboring people linked to the Kurdistan Workers Party PKK militant group and followers of U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey says orchestrated a 2016 coup attempt.
U.S. President Joe Biden had a similar message Tuesday as he met with the leaders of Japan, India and Australia, telling the group that the conflict in Ukraine "is more than just a European issue, it's a global issue."
FILE - Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba sits at EU headquarters in Brussels on May 16, 2022. On Tuesday he urged other governments to send weapons to aid Ukraine's fight against Russian forces.
Denmark said it would provide Ukrainian forces with a Harpoon launcher and missiles, while the Czech Republic donated attack helicopters, tanks and rocket systems.
Any new NATO members must be approved by all of the alliance's current member states.
'We understand that Turkey has some of their own security concerns vis-a-vis terrorism ... We think that these issues can be settled," Haavisto said at the World Economic Forum in Davos. "There might be also some issues that are not linked directly to Finland and Sweden but more to other NATO members."
"Russia's capture of the Severodonetsk pocket would see the whole of Luhansk Oblast placed under Russian occupation. While currently Russia's main effort, this operation is only one part of Russia's campaign to seize the Donbas."
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, also speaking Tuesday in Davos, said he is confident the concerns of all allies will be addressed and that Finland and Sweden will be welcomed into the alliance.
Finland's foreign minister, Pekka Haavisto, said Finland and Sweden are sending delegations to Ankara for talks with Turkish officials Wednesday about their applications to join the NATO military alliance.
'Finland and Sweden's decision to apply for NATO membership is historic," Stoltenberg said. "It demonstrates that European security will not be dictated by violence and intimidation. All allies agree that NATO enlargement has been a great success, spreading freedom and democracy across Europe.'
