Civilians evacuated to safety from Mariupol steelworks
20220501
https://edmontonsun.com/news/world/civilians-evacuated-to-safety-from-mariupol-steelworks/wcm/f5ae6eb1-8698-4ecd-b508-581ae86a5e53
On Saturday, Ukraine said Russian missiles had knocked out a newly constructed runway at Odesas main airport.
The White House said Biden had spoken with Pelosi on Sunday about her trip without giving details.
Negotiations to evacuate the civilians had repeatedly broken down in recent weeks, with Russia and Ukraine blaming each other.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
For the first time, we had two days of a ceasefire on this territory, and we managed to take out more than 100 civilians  women, children, Zelenskyy said in a nightly video address.
Our delegation traveled to Kyiv to send an unmistakable and resounding message to the entire world: America stands firmly with Ukraine, Pelosi, the highest ranking U.S. official to visit Ukraine since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, said in a statement.
Moscow calls its actions a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of anti-Russian nationalism fomented by the West. Ukraine and the West say Russia launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
Russias defense ministry said on Sunday it had carried out a missile strike on a military airfield near the port city of Odesa, destroying a runway and a hangar containing weapons and ammunition supplied to Ukraine by the United States and European countries.
U.S. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in New York he would add provisions to a $33 billion Ukraine aid package to allow the United States to seize Russian oligarchs assets and send money from their sale directly to Ukraine.
Zelenskyy praised as substantive four hours of talks with Pelosi focused on U.S. weapons deliveries.
Ukraines military said Russian forces were fighting to push north from Kherson to the cities of Mykolayiv and Kryvyi Rih, and Zelenskyy said Russian troops continued to launch strikes on residential areas and had destroyed grain storage depots.
He said no further details could be released so as not to jeopardize the safety of evacuees and the convoy.
But on Sunday, more than 50 civilians arrived at a temporary accommodation centre after escaping from Mariupol, a Reuters photographer said.
Denys Shleha, commander of Ukraines 12th National guard brigade, speaking to television on Sunday from the Azovstal plant, said several hundred civilians remained in bunkers there, including about 20 children, and that one or two additional evacuation efforts of similar scale would be needed.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
In Mariupol, Moscow declared victory on April 21 even as hundreds of holdout Ukrainian troops and civilians took shelter in the Azovstal steelworks, a vast Soviet-era complex with a network of bunkers and tunnels, where they have been trapped with little food, water or medicine.
The first evacuees would arrive in the Ukrainian-controlled city of Zaporizhzhia on Monday morning, he said, adding that he hoped conditions would continue that allowed for more people to be evacuated.
Russias military has turned its focus to Ukraines south and east after failing to capture Kyiv in the early weeks of a war that has flattened cities, killed thousands of civilians and forced more than 5 million to flee the country.
The civilians arrived on buses at the Russian-held village of Bezimenne, around 30 km 18 miles east of Mariupol, where a row of light blue tents had been set up, in a convoy with U.N. and Russian military vehicles.
KYIVBEZIMENNE  Around 100 Ukrainian civilians were evacuated from the ruined Azovstal steelworks in the city of Mariupol on Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said, after the United Nations confirmed a safe passage operation was in progress there.
The strategic port city on the Azov Sea has endured the most destructive siege of the war with Russia  now in its third month  with Pope Francis, in an implicit criticism of Moscow, telling thousands of people in St Peters Square on Sunday it had been barbarously bombarded.
Western nations have imposed broad economic sanctions on Russia and have been shipping increasing quantities of weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.
On Sunday, Kharkiv region governor Oleh Synehubov warned residents in the north and east of the city of Kharkiv to remain in their shelters due to heavy Russian shelling. Reuters could not immediately verify reports of shelling in the area.
In the east, Moscow is pushing for complete control of the Donbas region, where Russian-backed separatists already controlled parts of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces before the invasion.
Footage posted by Zelenskyy on Twitter on Sunday showed him, flanked by an armed escort and dressed in military fatigues, greeting a U.S. Congressional delegation led by Pelosi outside his presidential office the previous day.
This will only build up the toxic attitude to the Russian state and increase the numbers of those working to isolate Russia, Zelenskyy said.
It was unclear if they were referring to the same incident and Reuters could not immediately verify the reports.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
President Joe Biden asked Congress to approve the aid package on Thursday in what would mark a dramatic escalation of U.S. funding for Ukraine.
With fighting stretching along a broad front in southern and eastern Ukraine, U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi pledged continued U.S. support for Ukraine when she met Zelenskyy in an unannounced visit to Kyiv.
A spokesperson for the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said a safe passage operation had started on Saturday and was being coordinated with the International Committee of the Red Cross, Russia and Ukraine.
Serhiy Gaidai, governor of the Luhansk region, in a social media post, urged people to evacuate while it was still possible.
A plan to evacuate civilians from areas of the devastated city outside the steelworks had been postponed to Monday morning, Mariupols city council said.
We are grateful to all our partners who send Russia important and powerful signals of support for Ukraine by visiting our capital at such a difficult time, he said.
