Holocaust survivor killed by Russian rocket attack in Ukraine
20220321
https://edmontonsun.com/news/world/holocaust-survivor-killed-by-russian-rocket-attack-in-ukraine/wcm/3e189e29-2a68-4ee6-a431-13729686bfde
We mourn the loss of a close friend. We wish his son and granddaughter, who brought us the sad news, a lot of strength in these difficult times.
A Holocaust survivor who spent time in four Nazi concentration camps during the Second World War has been killed by a Russian rocket attack in Ukraine, according to the Daily Mail.
Although he was not Jewish, he was taken by German soldiers when he was 16 years old and deported to the German city of Dortmund in 1942 to work as a forced labourer, as part of Nazi intimidation tactics against the Ukrainian population at the time.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
A failed escape attempt in 1943 saw him arrested and sent to Buchenwald concentration camp. He also spent time in the subcamp of Mittelbau-Dora, as well as Bergen Belsen and Peenemnde where prisoners were forced to build V2 rockets for the Nazi war effort, according to the Daily Mail.
The news was reported by the Buchenwald and Mittelbau-Dora Memorials Foundation and confirmed by Romantschenkos son and granddaughter, the Daily Mail said.
The foundation, which operates the Buchenwald and Mittelbau-Dora camp memorials and supports education around the Holocaust and Nazi Germany said: We are deeply saddened by the death of Romantschenko.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Boris Romantschenko, a 96-year-old who survived Buchenwald, Mittelbau-Dora, Bergen-Belsen and Peenemnde concentration camps, was killed on Friday when a Russian rocket slammed into his apartment block in Kharkiv.
