KINSELLA Vladimir Putin cant evade the march of time
20220329
https://edmontonsun.com/opinion/columnists/kinsella-vladimir-putin-cant-evade-the-march-of-time/wcm/4c8c9805-414a-4174-a8d6-b58851066a6e
Oh, and steroidal Putins puffiness and reddish hue, as observed by French President Emmanuel Macrons staffers, following Macrons meeting with Putin last month  facing off at opposing ends of a 20-foot-long table in Moscow. Putin didnt look or sound right, they said. Paranoid, they said.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Because Putin grows old, grows old, per T.S. Eliot. And that, more than anything, is what will ultimately defeat him. Just as you cant take it with you, you also cant invade any more countries when youre dead. Can you?
But he has dramatically miscalculated. All the things he most wanted to avoid  a unification of NATO, a stronger European Union, a militarized Germany, a teetering Russian economy, and a defiant Ukrainian people  have now happened.
The New York Times Roger Cohen published a magnum opus about Putins own legacy hunt on the weekend. Cohens piece is as long as a book, but its meticulously-researched and well worth reading. Itll tell you more about Vladimir Putin, and Vladimir Putins plans, than anything else out there to date.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Any of us who have hit the milestone birthdays  for punk-rocking me it was 20, seriously  know what all those birthday parties signify. They start to add up. They mean youre getting a lot closer to the end than the start.
Over the weekend, U.S. President Joe Biden declared that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power. His aides later denied that Biden is seeking regime change in Russia, but the presidents meaning could not have been more clear: He wants Putin gone. Dead or alive. But gone.
And, predictably, the Russian dictator has frantically attempted to forestall the end. Theres been those vaguely homoerotic airbrushed photos of him shirtless, on horseback. Theres been the staged judo competitions. Theres been the nipping and tucking, evidenced by the fact that his head closely resembles a balloon  a balloon found at one of those aforementioned birthday parties.
And that last observation may be so, for now. While returning Ukraine to Mother Russia has taken more time than anyone thought, Putin has not yet abandoned his obscene, genocidal war. He hasnt won, but he hasnt lost, either.
He will be. If not via an assassins bullet, or a Kremlin coup, or a popular uprising, Putin will be gone.
Because he knows the end may be nigh, Putin is in search of a legacy.
He may be the richest man in the world. He may have super-yachts, and Swiss bank accounts containing ill-gotten billions. He may have been victorious in armed conflicts in Crimea, Syria, Belarus, Africa and Kazakhstan.
Because he knows the end may be nigh, Putin is in search of a legacy. All leaders do that. Justin Trudeau, for example, actually formed a coalition government with the NDP last week to give himself enough time to craft a legacy. Because his only legacy, so far, is serial scandal and serial blackface.
