NATO to boost military strength with 300000 rapid reaction troops
20220627
https://edmontonsun.com/news/nato-to-boost-military-strength-with-300000-rapid-reaction-troops/wcm/93abfd35-4536-44d6-b285-554dea9514ac
Turkey is demanding that Sweden and Finland grant extradition requests for individuals who are wanted by Turkish authorities. Ankara claims the countries are harboring PKK members as well people it says are linked to a failed 2016 coup.
Stoltenberg said that Turkish president Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and the Swedish prime minister Magdalena Andersson have agreed to meet on the sidelines of the summit.
We have worked hard since Finland and Sweden applied for membership to ensure that they can join the alliance as soon as possible, Stoltenberg said. I will not make any promises, but I can assure you that we are working actively to ensure progress because the application of Finland and Sweden to join NATO, they are historic.
The NATO reaction force currently numbers around 40,000 soldiers which can deploy quickly when needed.
Turkey also wants assurances that arms restrictions imposed by the two countries over Turkeys 2019 military incursion into northern Syria will be removed.
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Stoltenberg made the remarks at a press conference ahead of a NATO summit later this week in Madrid when the 30 allies are expected to also agree on further support to Ukraine in its war against Russia.
Over the long term, Stoltenberg said allies aim to help Ukraine transition from Soviet-era armaments to modern NATO equipment. The worlds seven leading economic powers underscored Monday their commitment to Ukraine for as long as it takes.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Another central theme at the NATO summit will be the possibility for Finland and Sweden to join the alliance.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Coupled with other measures including the deployment of forces to defend specific allies, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the move is part of the biggest overhaul of collective defence and deterrence since the Cold War.
In NATOs new strategic concept, the alliance is also expected to address for the first time the security challenges posed by China, Stoltenberg said. In Madrid, allies will discuss how to respond to the growing influence of Russia and China in their southern neighborhood, he added.
NATO member Turkey has so far blocked the applications, citing what it considers to be the two countries soft approach to organizations Turkey considers to be terrorist, such as the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK.
Stoltenberg said he expects allies to make clear they consider Russia as the most significant and direct threat to our security.
Stoltenberg said allies will agree to deliver further military support to Ukraine when they convene in Spain, with NATO members set to adopt a strengthened comprehensive assistance package, including deliveries of secure communication and anti-drone systems.
NATO will increase the strength of its rapid reaction force nearly eight-fold to 300,000 troops as part of its response to an era of strategic competition, the military alliances secretary-general said Monday.
