Russia Slams Sanctions Seeks to Shift Blame for Food Crisis
20220526
https://www.9and10news.com/2022/05/26/russia-slams-sanctions-seeks-to-shift-blame-for-food-crisis/
On the battlefield, the General Staff of the Ukrainian military said Thursday that the Russian forces continued attempts to press their offensive in several sections of the frontline Ukraines eastern Donbas region. That industrial heartland of coal mines and factories is now the focus of fighting after Russia suffered a series of setbacks and war forced to pursue more limited goals.
Talks to end the fighting stalled long ago, but each side has continued to try to stake out a negotiating position.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov tried to put the blame for the crisis squarely on Western sanctions.
Russia has previously demanded that Ukraine recognize the Russian sovereignty over the Crimean Peninsula and acknowledge the independence of Russia-backed separatist regions in the Donbas.
Russia itself is also a significant exporter of grain, and Peskov said the West must cancel the unlawful decisions that hamper chartering ships and exporting grain.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Thursday that Russian President Vladimir Putin was trying to hold the world to ransom by demanding that some sanctions be lifted before allowing Ukrainian grain shipments to resume.
Mikhail Mizintsev, who heads Russias National Defense Control Center, said 70 foreign vessels from 16 countries are now in six ports on the Black Sea, including Odesa, Kherson and Mykolaiv. He did not specify how many might be ready to carry food.
We accuse Western countries of taking a series of unlawful actions that has led to the blockade, he said in a conference call with reporters.
Military officials said Russian forces continued their efforts to gain a foothold in the area of Sievierodonetsk, which is the only part of the Luhansk region in the Donbas under Ukrainian government control. They also said Russia also launched missile and airstrikes at infrastructure facilities across the country.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Russian bombardments killed three people in and around the eastern city of Lysychansk, which is a key focus of fighting.
Western officials have dismissed those claims. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinkennoted last week that food, fertilizer and seeds are exemptfrom sanctions imposed by the U.S. and many others  and that Washington is working to ensure countries know the flow of those goods should not be affected.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but the war, including a Russian blockade of its ports, has prevented much of that production from leaving the country,endangering the world food supply. Many of those ports are also now heavily mined.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Moscow pressed the West on Thursday to lift sanctions against Russia overthe war in Ukraine, seeking to shift the blame for a growing food crisis worsened by Kyivs inability to ship millions of tons of grain and other agricultural products because of the conflict.
She added: What we cannot have is any lifting of sanctions, any appeasement, which will simply make Putin stronger in the longer term.
The issue, he said, was how to make sure that at night or early in the morning, Russia will not violate the agreement on the safe passage and its military vessels will not sneak into the harbor and attack Odesa.
She said about 25 million tons of Ukrainian grain is presently in storage and another 25 million tons could be harvested next month.
Speaking in Davos, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the country was ready to agree on safe corridors in principle  but that it was not sure if it could trust Russia to abide by any agreement.
This food crisis is real, and we must find solutions, World Trade Organization Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said at the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, on Wednesday.
Hes essentially weaponized hunger and lack of food among the poorest people around the world, Truss said during a visit to Sarajevo.
The World Food Program has pushed to get wheat out of Ukrainian ports while also making room for the harvest of grain that has recently been planted.
His comments appeared to be an effort to deliberately muddy the waters, by lumping the blocking of Ukrainian exports in with what Russia says are its difficulties in exporting its own products.
With the war grinding into its fourth month, world leaders ramped up calls for solutions this week.
Britain immediately accused Moscow of trying to hold the world to ransom and insisted there would be no sanctions relief.
European countries have tried to ease the crisis bybringing grain out of the country by rail  but trains can carry just a small fraction of what Ukraine produces, and ships are needed to do the bulk of the exports.
Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, said Thursday it expects Ukraine will recognize the existing situation. That appeared to signal the Kremlins hopes that Ukraine should recognize the Russian control of southern Ukrainian cities like Kherson and Melitopol and other areas north of Crimea, which it seized in 2014, in addition to areas of the Donbas it has grabbed.
It needs to be a continuous flow, it cannot be a few ships full, said WFP spokesman John Dumont. They are planting now. Where are they going to put that wheat when it is harvest time at the end of June and July? There is no place for it to go.
At the same time, the Russian Defense Ministry proposed Wednesday to open a corridor to allow foreign ships to leave Black Sea ports and another to allow vessels to leave Mariupol on the Azov Sea.
