Good News Thursday Ukrainian and Russian refugee dancers find help in Berlin teenage pilot to fly around the world
20220324
https://universe.byu.edu/2022/03/24/good-news-thursday-ukrainian-and-russian-refugee-dancers-find-help-in-berlin-teenage-pilot-to-fly-around-the-world/
However, other surveys have suggested that for many people, alcohol consumption and illicit drug use increased in the first year of the pandemic.
However, because of Russias war in Ukraine, Rutherfords flight was rerouted to preserve his safety and so he wont have to fly over Russian territory.
Although CDC officials explained the decline crediting public health campaigns and policies, outside experts said tobacco company price hikes, pandemic lifestyle changes and parents having their kids at home full-time likely played roles.
Dancers who fled Ukraine and Russia due to the war found a new temporary home in Berlins top ballet company, which helps them with practice space, housing and shoes.
You have to imagine, these are people who have left everything behind, they have very little with them. That starts with the pointed shoes, said the companys acting artistic director Christine Theobald.
In addition, Theobald has also been contacting other company directors across Europe to check whether she can find the new dancers a job.
Sixteen-year-old Mack Rutherford departed Sofia, Bulgaria in his small plane on March 23 and began his journey flying solo across the world to become the youngest person to do so in a small plane.
The Belgian-British teenage pilot hopes to join his sister Zara Rutherford in the Guinness World Records book, as she set the world record for the youngest woman to fly solo around the world on Jan. 20.
During the first year of the pandemic, U.S. cigarette smoking dropped to 1 in 8 adults saying they were current smokers, according to data released on March 17 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
People who were mainly social smokers just didnt have that going on anymore, said Ohio State University researcher Megan Roberts, whose research is focused on tobacco product use among young adults and adolescents.
Rutherfords first stop will be in Italy from where he will fly to Africa, India, China, South Korea and Japan.
What we need now, of course, are positions in ensembles, and those who are coming are mainly classically, highly classically trained dancers, Theobald said.
