ISIS celebrate Ukraine war as divine punishment and says it hopes it will destroy all enemies of Islam
20220309
https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/17894832/isis-ukraine-war-divine-punishment-destroy-enemies-islam/
CIA Director William Burns told US lawmakers the long-standing Russian leader has been "stewing in a combustible combination of grievance and ambition for many years".
Traffic can be seen queuing around the bridge, suggesting Russia's military may be continuing to press on towards Kyiv after two weeks of slow progress.
Speaking at a House Intelligence Committee hearing on Tuesday, the heads of the CIA, Defense Intelligence Agency and National Security Agency gave their grave assessment of Putin's intentions.
Icy conditions are also set to make life even harder forPutin's invaders, who have been stuck around 20 miles from Kyiv for days amid mechanical problems, fuel supply issues, and solid Ukrainian resistance.
The Ukraine Crisis Appeal will support people in areas currently affected and those potentially affected in the future by the crisis.
Many of you want to help the five million caught in the chaos  and now you can, by donating to The Sun's Ukraine Fund.
Give as little as 3 or as much as you can afford and every penny will be donated to the Red Cross on the ground helping women, children, the old, the infirm and the wounded.
But they have now revealed their position by hoping for total devastation on both sides as they called the war as "amusing punishment... upon them for their disbelief in God Almighty".
The terror group have predicted that there will be "major consequences" of Vladimir Putin's invasion "whatever the result" as they told Muslims not to take sides.
PICTURES of women and children fleeing the horror of Ukraines devastated towns and cities have moved Sun readers to tears.
ISIS have hailed Russia's invasion of Ukraine as "divine punishment" and says it hopes the war will destroy all "enemies of Islam".
In the unlikely event that the British Red Cross raise more money than can be reasonably and efficiently spent, any surplus funds will be used to help them prepare for and respond to other humanitarian disasters anywhere in the world.
"Whether long or short, this Russian-Ukrainian war is but the beginning of the next wars between the Crusader countries, and the images of destruction and death we see are but a small scene of the situation in which the great wars begin."
The Jihadists said the attack was "not surprising", calling it "the state of the escalating competition between America and Russia to control the Eastern Europe, especially after the policy of support and containment that America pursued.
Meanwhile,Russia's stranded troops are facing freezing to deathin their tanks as Putin's military becomes bogged down in the mud and an unwinnable war in Ukraine, sources claim.
Texts cost your chosen donation amount e.g. 5 1 standard message we receive 100. For full TCs visitredcross.org.ukmobile
A 40-mile long convoy of tanks and armoured vehicles remains trapped outside Kyiv, more than a week after launching theirassaulton theUkrainiancapital.
In a full-page article in the weekly al-Naba newsletter, ISIS labelled the war "crusaders against crusaders" as they blamed the invasion on the US.
It comes as US intelligence chiefs have warnedPutin could unleash mini-nukesin a warning to Nato if his "clusterfk" invasion continues.
The chiefs branded Putin an "angry" isolated leader craving global clout - and said he's frustrated about how his Ukraine invasion hasn't gone to plan.
As a sudden cold snap sends temperatures in Eastern Europe plunging to -10C overnight - or -20C including windchill -Russiantroops are trapped in what one ex-soldier called "40-ton iron freezers".
Just south of Antonov, in the besieged city of Irpin, a badly-damaged bridge can be seen, further slowing down the Russian advance.
The Islamic extremists have been weighing up which side to take as the war rages on following Putin's alliance with Bashar al-Assad against ISIS in the Syrian civil war, while Volodymyr Zelenskyy is Jewish and Ukraine is a part of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS.
The piece reads: "What is happening today, the direct bloody war between the Orthodox crusaders  Russia and Ukraine  is but one example of God's punishment for them, as described in the Qu'ran.
"The crusader versus crusader is still in its infancy, so, O God, perpetuate their wars and break their hearts," the article added.
Aerial satellite images taken on Wednesday morning show the traffic jam of Russian military vehicle close to Antonov Airport, just a few miles northwest of the outskirts of Kyiv.
