Russia threatens UK saying it will make passage for British warships difficult through disputed Black Sea
20210827
https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/15981253/russia-threat-uk-warships-black-sea-hms-defender/
The Royal Navy warship had been sailing from Odessa in southern Ukraine to Georgia and passed south of the Crimea peninsula, an area which Russia took over in 2014.
Moscow claims the waters are part of Russian territory but the UK says the ship was in a commonly used and internationally recognised transit route.
UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "As is routine, Russian vessels shadowed the ship's passage and she was made aware of training exercises in her wider vicinity."
RUSSIA has issued a threat to the UK saying it will make it difficult for British warships to pass through the disputed Black Sea.
The BBC journalist onboard the ship during the incident reported hearing hostile warnings over the radio as the warship's crew prepared for a possible confrontation.
However, Kelin has now claimed the destroyer was not on an innocent passage but a demonstrative one, according to a Russian news outlet.
Andrei Kelin, 64, the Russian ambassador to the UK, has spoken out following the incident with Britains HMS Defender as it sailed near Crimea in June this year.
A source reportedly told the BBC that the ship was there to make a point and to assert its right to freedom of navigation in international waters.
Russias defence ministry claimed the ships entry into its waters amounted to a gross violation and called the action dangerous.
The Ministry of Defence has disputed claims made by Russia that warning shots were fired in the path of the warship.
The reporters also said he saw more than 20 aircraft overhead and a pair of Russian coastguard boats that were just 100m away at times.
Defence officials said no warning shots were fired and HMS Defender was simply carrying out an innocent passage through Ukranian territorial waters in accordance with international law.
A tweet from the Russian embassy in the UK said: "HMS Defender turns HMS Provocateur and violates Russian border. Not exactly a 'routine' transit, is it?"
Kelin said: "We did not say that we would open fire, as some parliamentarians may have said, but next time it will be much more difficult for them, because this is not the first time a British warship has done this."
