Vladimir Putin news Sickly Russian despot has just TWO years to live as he suffers from multiple GRAVE illnesses
20220604
https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/18657996/ukraine-news-russia-war-vladimir-putin/
It comes after General Budanov claimed last month thatPutinwas "very sick" with cancer and other illnesses.
Putin launched a deadly attack on a shopping centre in Kremenchuk, leading world leaders to criticise his actions.
Aslan Karatsev is excluded from Wimbledon as part of the Russian ban as well as Karen Khachanov.
Sanctions are short-sighted and harm Japan itself, especially the business community, ambassador Mikhail Galuzin said in a statement posted on the Russian embassys Facebook page.
Japan has joined the West in hitting Russia with an unprecedented package of sanctions in the four months since Russia launched its war against Ukraine.
In total 70 entities and 29 individuals have been blacklisted, which freezes any US-held assets and prohibits them from doing business with or conducting financial transactions with US institutions.
"This is a historic summit in many ways, but we've already got two new members coming in, Finland and Sweden, a huge step forward for our alliance.
"Ukrainian forces continue to disrupt Russian command and control with successful strikes deep behind Russian lines.
Boris Johnson has said Russian President Vladimir Putin would not have started the "crazy, macho" war in Ukraine if he were a woman.
"Let me be clear, the British Army is not mobilizing to provoke war. It is mobilising to prevent war," he explained ofVladimir Putin's brutal invasion ofUkraine..
Russia has today denied hitting the shopping mall with missiles, saying that it had struck a nearby depot of US and European arms, triggering an explosion which ignited the fire in the mall.
If confirmed, his death was one of the first from the new 43-mile-range weapons sent to Ukraine byPresident Joe Biden.
"That is why I think discussions are so important for the middle-of-decade funding. In the here and now we are rightly set. The question is what happens in the middle of the decade.
Though a resident of Boca Raton, Florida, former Australian Open champion Victoria Azarenka has been banned due to her Belarussian nationality.
The G7 came together this week to discuss the world's response to Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine.
Russia promised on Monday to hit Japan with countermeasures in response to Tokyos imposition of sanctions against Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine.
The elected mayor of the city of Kherson has been captured by pro-Russian forces Russian media reports.
Arriving at a summit of Nato leaders in Madrid, where he will commit extra UK forces to the alliance's effort to protect its eastern flank, the Prime Minister said Russian President Mr Putin is getting "more Nato", not less, as a result of his actions in Ukraine.
The mayor of Ukraine's second city has claimed that Kharkiv is being hit with Russian missiles constantly.
A Government spokesman said: "As long as Putin continues his abhorrent assault on Ukraine, we will use sanctions to weaken the Russian war machine.
This is the war that we are mobilising to prevent by preparing to win... And in doing so, its my hope that we never have to fight it."
It comes after a top oligarch reportedlyclaimed Putin is "very ill with blood cancer"in the audio recording obtained byNew Lines Magazine.
Mr Johnson also said the G7 meeting had been "incredible" as leaders "got closer and closer".
Moscow said Wednesday that the NATO summit in Madrid served as proof that the alliance was seeking to contain Russia and that it saw Finland and Sweden's NATO bids as a "destabilising" factor.
"The detonation of stored ammunition for Western weapons caused a fire in a non-functioning shopping centre located next to the depot," it added.
Refined oil includes petrol, diesel and heating oil, which have all seen prices spike following the conflict.
"Today's sanctions show that nothing and no-one is off the table, including Putin's inner circle."
Putin's health has been subject to huge scrutiny in the wake of the war in Ukraine, and rumours continued to mount in the wake of last month's military parade when thetyrant was seen with a blanket over his legs.
NATO leaders meeting in Madrid Wednesday are set to label Russia a menace to their security as they overhaul the alliance's defences in response to the war on Ukraine, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said.
The UK sharply reduced oil imports from Russia in the immediate aftermath of the invasion of Ukraine, according to official figures.
Mr Johnson said: "The first lesson really from today is that if Vladimir Putin was hoping he would be getting less Nato on his western front as a result of his unprovoked, illegal invasion of Ukraine, he's been proved completely wrong - he's getting more Nato.
They added: There is a reality check on things that were offered in a different age which is the only reasonable thing that we can expect.
Officials said this will ensure the UK can provide rapid reinforcements if needed, and deploy artillery, air defence and helicopters.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the attack had shown the cruelty and barbarism of Russias president.
Britain is imposing sanctions on Russia's second richest man and a cousin of President Vladimir Putin in the latest round of measures targeting allies of the Russian leader, the Government has said.
"We'll state clearly that Russia poses a direct threat to our security," Stoltenberg said ahead of the unveiling of NATO's strategic blueprint.
The UK's Ministry of Defence has said: "Ukrainian forces continue to consolidate their positions on higher ground in the city of Lyschansak, after falling back from Sieverodonetsk.
General Sir Patrick Sanders, the chief of the general staff, has said: Let me be clear: the British Army is not mobilising to provoke war, it is mobilising to prevent war.
The government has responded to criticism of this move, by reminding Brits of the high cost of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Speaking after the G7 summit in Bavaria, Mr Johnson told German broadcaster ZDF: "If Putin was a woman, which he obviously isn't, but if he were, I really don't think he would've embarked on a crazy, macho war of invasion and violence in the way that he has.
The UK already has a significant military presence in Estonia and the Prime Minister will use the summit to expand its headquarters in the Baltic nation.
"I will do everything in my power to ensure that the British Army plays its part in averting war," he said.
Vladimir Putin has "small man syndrome" and a "macho" view of the world, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said.
Russias ambassador to Japan slammed the move and blamed Tokyo for destroying relations between the two countries.
The US Treasury Department has confirmed that they have imposed new sanctions on over 100 targets and banned the import of new Russian gold.
He is then seen diving down into the water to avoid getting injured by the flying debris.
In his winning 2019 Conservative manifesto, Mr Johnson vowed to continue to exceed the NATO target of spending 2 per cent of GDP on defence and increase the budget by at least 0.5 per cent above inflation every year of the new Parliament.
VLADIMIR Putin has just two years to live as he suffers from "grave illnesses", according to Ukrainian intelligence insiders.
However, he did not provide evidence to support the claims, made in an interview with USA Today.
Russia's defence ministry said in a daily statement on the war: "In Kremenchuk, Russian forces struck a weapons depot storing arms received from the United States and Europe with high-precision air-based weapons".
The two Nordic countries are on track to end their historic neutrality and join the defence alliance after Turkey withdrew its objections.
"The logic is yes of course people all want the war to end, they want the war to end desperately, but there's no deal available.
The new head of the British Army says we must be prepared to act rapidly to prevent the spread of war in Europe.
The Treasury Department says on its website that the US will target Russia's state-owned defense conglomerate Rostec and multiple banks, including the Bank of Moscow.
"Over 24-26 June, Russia launched unusually intense waves of strikes across Ukraine using long-range missiles.
General Sir Patrick Sanders has warnedRussiawill likely be an "even greater threat" toEuropeafter theinvasion in Ukraineand the UK must act "rapidly" to make sure it is not drawn into war.
"Putin isn't making an offer of a deal, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky can't make an offer of a deal".
"There is a morning bombardment, there is a day bombardment, and there is a night bombardment of the city of Kharkiv. All this comes from the territory of the Russian Federation -- from the Belgorod region," Ihor Terekhov said.
Ms Tsivileva's husband, Sergey Tsivilev, is governor of the coal-rich Kemerovo region and the couple are said to have "significantly benefited" from their relationship with the Russian leader.
The British Army's newly appointed chief has warned of the dangers of heading to war with Vladimir Putin in his first official speech.
A government source said: The manifesto was written before 400 billion had to be spent locking people up for their own safety because of the global pandemic.
Mr Wallace told LBC Radio: "Well I certainly think President Putin's view of himself and the world is a small man syndrome, macho view."
The general said he has not seen "such a clear threat to the principles of sovereignty and democracy and the freedom to live without fear of violence" in all his years in the army.
Were living through a period of history as profound as the one our forebears did 80 years ago. And now, as then, our choices will have a disproportionate effect on the future. This is our 1937 moment."
Among those sanctioned are Vladimir Potanin - Russia's second richest man and owner of the Interross conglomerate - and Mr Putin's cousin, Anna Tsivileva, who is president of the JSC Kolmar Group coal mining company.
Vladimir Putin's hopes of a diminished Nato have been proved "completely wrong" by Sweden and Finland joining the alliance, Boris Johnson said.
"If you want a perfect example of toxic masculinity, it's what he's doing in Ukraine".
Upon impact, the camera trembles as couples and families who were in the parknear the Amstor mall in Kremenchugleave their belongings and run away.
The woman is captured running away as litter rains around her, and dark clouds form in the skies above.
"The summit in Madrid confirms and consolidates this bloc's policy of aggressive containment of Russia," Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said, Russian news agencies reported.
Mr Wallace, who is attending the Nato summit in Madrid, said that while he had enough funding for the "here and now", extra investment was needed in the next Government spending round from the middle of the decade.
Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Russian-backed Kherson administration, told state news agency RIA Novosti that "ex-mayor Kolykhayev has been detained".
The ONS said this represented a slump from around 410 million of refined oil imported from Russia in February, when Russia had been the UK's biggest supplier.
According to Reuters Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, has said the more weapons Western countries supply to Ukraine, the longer the conflict will last.
Putin has lost his 56th colonel and 40 soldiers after they were hit by missiles supplied by the US.
A second strike then hits, turning the screen orange. The couple then crouch down, as the alarmed man flings himself into the pond.
Last night, reports emerged that Russia had attacked a shopping mall, killing at least 16 civilians in the process.
Married with a daughter, he had been awarded the Russian Order of Courage on other honours.
"And what we're going to be doing now is talking about what more we can do as an alliance to support the Ukrainians but what we also need to do to make sure that we think about the lessons of the last few months and the need for Nato to revise its posture on its eastern flank."
His comments came after Boris Johnson said the Russian leader's invasion of Ukraine was an example of "toxic masculinity" and a female president would not have made the same mistake.
He told Sky News the Kremlin leader was in "very bad psychological and physical condition".
"We consider the expansion of the North Atlantic alliance to be a purely destabilising factor in international affairs."
"That is the moment, in the middle of the decade, to say we should commit to increased funding."
CCTV footage from a park close to the blitzed mall shows the initialblast blowing debrisinto the pond as panicked mums with their kids watched on.
Russia is using "unusual" tactics in their invasion of Ukraine which will be "unsustainable" in the long run.
"We were prepared to take certain vulnerabilities on board in the middle of the decade as we got rid of some equipment and re-equipped anew. I think the invasion of Russia into Ukraine has changed that," he told Sky News.
"Indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians constitute a war crime. Russian President Putin and those responsible will be held to account."
He was commander of the 137th Guards Airborne Regiment of the 106th Guards Airborne Division, based in Ryazan.
THIS is the shocking moment terrified families cowered in fear and fled asVladimirPutin blasted a Ukrainian shopping centre nearby.
He reportedly said that its forces were targeting weapons near the centre, which was not in use.
Also sanctioned was United Aircraft Corporation, the maker of Russia's MiG and Sukhoi fighter jets.
The Prime Minister also said that while G7 leaders "desperately" want the war in Ukraine to end, there is "no deal available".
The US Treasury says this aims to "weaken Russia's ability to continue its aerial assault on Ukraine."
The US ambassador to the UN has said the United Nations Security Council will meet later to discuss Russian attacks against civilians.
Two months later, Russia was the UK's sixth biggest supplier as the UK increased its supply from other countries including the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Belgium.
Speaking on a trip to Turkmenistan, Sergei Lavrov, reportedly echoed earlier claims by Russia's defence ministry regarding Monday's fatal attack on a shopping centre.
In a joint statement, the leaders of the world said: "We, the leaders of the G7, solemnly condemn the abominable attack on a shopping mall in Kremenchuk.
Vasilyev was reportedly in an advanced command post of the Russian armys airborne assault troops, but the location was not specified.
And reports said that a newly-supplied US medium range HIMARS missile was responsible for taking out more Kremlin targets as thewarrages on.
The alliance plans to have 300,000 troops at high readiness - up from the current 40,000 - and the UK will commit capabilities in land, air and sea to the "new force model".
Of course, such an increase in a hostile policy towards Russia will be taken into account by us in our future approach towards Japan and will not go unanswered, he added.
However, new data from the Office for National Statistics showed the UK still imported about 140 million of Russian refined oil in April, two months after the war in Ukraine began.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has reiterated his call for increased defence spending to counter the threat from Russia.
The Government said it is also sanctioning a group of Russian individuals and companies for their involvement in repressing civilians and supporting Bashar Assad's regime in Syria.
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida announced Tokyos latest moves earlier on Monday, including a ban on Russian gold imports, new asset freezes and export bans on a host of Russian individuals and companies.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said: The world is horrified by Russias missile strike today, which hit a crowded Ukrainian shopping mall.
In his first public engagement, delivering a speech to the Royal United Services Institute think tank, Sanders says: If we fail to deter, there are no good choices given the cost of a potential counterattack and the associated nuclear threat. We must therefore meet strength with strength from the outset and be unequivocally prepared to fight for Nato territory."
"But I think the real challenge here is the Russian system's view that somehow some states are lesser than others, their rights don't count. If they want to paint themselves into a new history, they seem to think the way to do that is through violence and invasion.
Paratrooper commander Col. Andrei Vasilyev, 49, was allegedly killed in the attack on Friday night.
"My settlement was done before Russia invaded Ukraine. Russia is very, very dangerous on the world stage. The world is less secure than it was two, three years ago and is not looking likely to change for the rest of the decade.
"Potanin continues to amass wealth as he supports Putins regime, acquiring Rosbank, and shares in Tinkoff Bank in the period since Russias invasion of Ukraine," the government press notice accompanying the announcement said.
He added "you rarely hear the phrase small woman syndrome, you always hear small man syndrome".
World number six Aryna Sabalenka, a national of Belarus, is the highest ranked WTA player to be banned from Wimbledon.
"These weapons highly likely included the Soviet-era AS-4 KITCHEN and more modern AS-23a KODIAK missiles, fired from both Belarusian and Russian airspace."
Major General Kyrylo O. Budanov claimed that the Russian president "doesn't have a long life ahead of him" amid multiple reports of ill health as Russian forces invade Ukraine.
He added that the US will continue to support Ukraine and hold Russia to account.
A Government statement said Mr Potanin has continued to amass wealth while backing President Putin's regime, acquiring Rosbank and shares in Tinkoff Bankonith in the period following the invasion of Ukraine.
