When do petrol stations open and what time do they close
20220703
https://www.thesun.co.uk/motors/16252092/when-do-petrol-stations-open-close/
But when do major petrol stations open and what can you expect at the pump? Here's everything you need to know.
BP petrol stations generally open at 5am and close at 10pm, but many are open 247.
Fuel prices have soared in past months after hitting record highs of of 2.18 per litre in some locations during March.
And the fuel frenzy saw drivers recently flock to a Tesco selling petrol 20p cheaper than the national average.
The majority of these are open 24 hours, seven days a week, including weekends and bank holidays.
Like their competitors, you can find your nearest store and its opening hours using Sainsbury's own find a store tool.
The RAC warn this could get higher as the consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine is felt.
Most of Europe relies onRussia'soil andgasreserves for its own supply, however leaders have pledged to ban oil imports to punish Moscow which has seen prices skyrocket due to anincreased global demand.
Some Sainsbury's petrol stations are open 24 hours, but on the whole forecourts open between 5am and 7am.
While most close at 10pm or 11pm, there are some that stay open until midnight or have 247 pay at pump facilities.
BP operates the petrol stations at Roadchef services, and these are open 24 hours a day.
THE price of petrol has soared in recent months with filling up costing nearly 2 per litre in some parts of the UK.
There are 35 petrol stations at UK Welcome Break motorway services which are usually open 24 hours.
Asda say that they in the last five years they have "consistently ranked as one of the cheapest providers of fuel".
To find out more about your nearest Morrisons petrol station and its opening hours, visit the chain's store finder.
You can find your nearest forecourt using Tesco's online store locator, which also details the opening hours of each specific outlet.
With more than 1,000 stations across the UK, there are plenty of Esso garages for drivers to choose from.
Most don't stop serving until 10.30pm or even midnight although some do close the shutters at 8pm.
