Biden Putin hold video call on bilateral ties Ukrainian crisis Iran nuclear deal
20211208
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=901925
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
"The two presidents tasked their teams to follow up, and the US will do so in close coordination with allies and partners," it said.
The leaders mainly focused on the internal crisis in Ukraine during their second talks in six months, the Kremlin said in a statement.
Putin stressed that it is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO that is making dangerous attempts to "conquer Ukrainian territory" and is building up its military potential near the Russian borders.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Biden "reiterated his support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and called for de-escalation and a return to diplomacy," Xinhua news agency quoted the readout as saying.
Putin, using specific examples, explained to Biden "the destructive policy" of the Ukrainian authorities and expressed his "serious concern about Kiev's provocative actions against Donbass."
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Biden "voiced the deep concerns" of the US and its European allies about "Russia's escalation of forces surrounding Ukraine and made clear that the US and our Allies would respond with strong economic and other measures in the event of military escalation," the White House said in a readout after the meeting.
To create conditions for mending bilateral ties, Putin offered Biden to lift all the accumulated restrictions on the functioning of Russian and US diplomatic missions.
Putin asked Biden for the guarantee that NATO will not expand in the eastern direction and not deploy offensive weapons near Russia.
Biden and Putin held their first face-to-face meetings in a summit in Geneva in June and spoke via phone in July.
Washington, Dec 8 IANS: US President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin held a video call on a range of bilateral issues as well as the Ukrainian crisis and the Iran nuclear deal.
The presidents also discussed the US-Russia dialogue on Strategic Stability, a separate dialogue on ransomware, as well as joint work on regional issues such as Iran, said the readout.
