NATO has never been more united than it is today Biden
20220325
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=940624
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
The President said that his country will welcome 100,000 Ukrainians and also invest an additional $320 million to "bolster democratic resilience and defend human rights in Ukraine and neighbouring countries".
Biden also announced new sanctions on over 400 individuals and entities, including members of the Duma Russian Parliament, Oligarchs, and Russian defence companies.
"We will adopt an updated Strategic Concept to ensure NATO is ready to meet any challenge in the new and more dangerous security environment," the American President added.
The summit was held as the Russian invasion of Ukraine completed a month on Thursday after it was launched by Putin on February 24.
"Between now and the NATO summit in June, we will develop plans for additional forces and capabilities to strengthen NATO's defenses.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Brussels, Mar 25 IANS: US President Joe Biden said that the NATO has "never been more united than it is today" in the face of Russia's ongoing war against Ukraine.
Biden said the US "has committed to provide over $2 billion in military equipment to Ukraine since I became President  anti-air systems, anti-armor systems, ammunition. And our weapons are flowing into Ukraine as I speak".
Addressing the media after a NATO summit here on Thursday, Biden said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is "getting exactly the opposite of what he intended to have as a consequence of going into Ukraine".
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
"In addition to the 100,000 US forces now stationed in Europe to defend NATO territory, NATO established, as you already know, four new battle groups in Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Slovakia to reinforce the eastern front.
"And today, I'm announcing the US have prepared to commit more than $1 billion in humanitarian assistance to help get relief to millions of Ukrainians affected by the war in Ukraine."
