Russian troops stole kettles coffee makers from Chernobyl nuclear plant Ukraine
20220401
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=943417
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
At first glance, all indicators were normal and no significant damage to the Chernobyl infrastructure is yet visible. Later, more highly trained specialists will be able to check the technical condition of all facilities, the report said.
Kiev, Apr 1 IANS: Russian troops have looted the Chernobyl nuclear power plant before withdrawing, Ukraine has claimed.
After some of the Russian equipment had left, a Russian commander named Yakushev -- with the call sign 90th -- offered to draw up a deed. He threatened that if this did not happen, Russian troops would take Ukrainian power plant workers to Belarus. The deed was signed under this threat. After the deed was signed, the Russian soldiers began looting and then left the power plant, Ukrayinska Pravda reported.
Yevhen Kramarenko, Head of the State Agency of Ukraine on Exclusion Zone Management said Russian military equipment stationed in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant territory began to withdraw.
Employees were at their workplaces at the time and were barred from leaving control rooms and offices. Later, when they realised that it was very quiet, they decided to go around and inspect the power plant.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
They saw that the Russian soldiers had stolen computers, kettles, coffee makers, and containers with personal property that were at the station. They also looted a hotel near the nuclear power plant, taking kitchen utensils, forks, spoons, and sets of dishes.
