Russia closes airspace on borders with Ukraine Belarus
20220224
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=930020
Meanwhile, a Notice to Airmen NOTAM posted on the website of the US Federal Aviation Administration Civil said that aviation flights in the Ukrainian airspace are limited in view of potential threats.
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
I seriously feel the US should be totally isolated. They are the culprits. Putin is not wrong in being insecure about Ukraine joining NATO. Being a NATO member will allow tye US to have access to Ukrainian military bases which will definitely threaten Russia. This is what Russia doesnt want. Direct access to US to peep into Russia. Putin doesnt have enough ideas except to invade Ukraine so they desist from becoming a NATO member.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Moscow, Feb 24 IANS: In view of the latest situation, Russia has closed its airspace to civilian aircraft starting from Thursday on its western borders with Ukraine and Belarus, the Russian aviation authorities announced.
Flights to Kiev, Dnepr, Lvov and Odessa airports "are restricted due to potential hazard for civil aviation". the notice says.
The announcement came shortly after President Vladimir Putin authorised a "special military operation" in the conflict-hit Donbas region in eastern Ukraine, reports Xinhua news agency.
