Russia says putting peace terms up for vote in Ukraine will harm negotiations
20220220
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=939761
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
"We're convinced that putting the terms before the public at this moment can only undermine the negotiations that are already going a lot slower and are less substantial than we want them to be," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday, RT reported.
Moscow, Mar 22 IAS: Russia has said that Kievs idea to put peace deal terms up for a referendum will only hurt the ongoing talks.
Moscow further said it wants the "demilitarisation" and "denazification" of Ukraine, as well as for Kiev to recognise Crimea as a part of Russia, and the republics in Donetsk and Lugansk as independent states.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
"The people will have to respond to certain compromises," he told reporters on Monday, adding that the details were still dependent on talks with Moscow.
Russia and Ukraine held several rounds of talks in Belarus, later switching to discussions via video link.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Zelensky reiterated that Kiev is seeking security guarantees from Russia and the West. Moscow, meanwhile, said that it wants Ukraine to officially become a neutral country, renouncing its bid to join NATO, a US-led military bloc that Russia views as a threat.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky had suggested earlier that peace terms of "historical" importance may be the subject of a referendum.
