SL launches tourism promotion initiatives with Russia Ukraine
20210907
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=870844
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Of the 250 persons, 150 have returned to their home countries after recovery, and 100 are currently receiving treatment in the island nation, the Ministry added.
Sri Lanka's tourism sector, which is one of the leading foreign exchange earners in the country, has been one of the worst affected by the raging pandemic, and the government is now looking at ways to revive it.
Addressing reporters on Monday, Tourism Minister Prasanna Ranatunga said that Russia and Ukraine were among the top 10 countries with the highest number of tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka in recent years, reports Xinhua news agency.
An estimated 4 million people are directly and indirectly employed in the tourism sector in Sri Lanka.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Authorities have said that direct flights between Sri Lanka and Russia will commence from November 4.
The Tourism Ministry said that steps will be taken to hold such discussions with leading airlines around the world in the future with the aim of promoting Sri Lanka as an attractive tourist destination.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
According to the Tourism Ministry, 24,320 tourists arrived in the country recently and of those, 250 tested positive for Covid-19.
Colombo, Sep 7 IANS: Sri Lanka has launched tourism promotion initiatives with Russia and Ukraine aimed at reviving the sector which has been severely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, a Minister said here.
