Ukraine Prez speaks to Modi seeking political support at UNSC
20220226
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=931046
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
In UNSC, Ukraine voted against India, they said UN interference needed in Kashmir issue, they provide war tanks to Pakistan and now need help from India.
The present Indian govt has made Indias position so weak nationally and internationally that it can not stand on its two feet strongly and take a firm humanitarian and democratic stand. While our govt itself is involved in polarizing and dividing its own people and committing crimes on its own people on religious and ethnic back ground then how can it differ to do the same to other nations?.
Faking unlimited. Ukraine providing tanks to Pakistan, you must be joking. Ukraine is asking for tanks now from other nations. How many of your moral police and goon army fight like Ukrainians for the country if China attacks india?. Nobody for sure. Again congress alone has to fight like in1947 and Muskan Khan. You can fight only with weak girls.k
We are not able to save our own land from China, Pakistan and Nepal how can we support others... modiji is very busy in election campaigns...
India had abstained from voting on the UNSC resolution that deplores in the strongest terms Russia's aggression against Ukraine, saying dialogue is the only answer to settling differences and disputes.
It further stated, "In the spirit of the special and privileged strategic partnership Russia is committed to maintain close dialogue with India on the situation around Ukraine."
Ukrainian President has my respect. He has shown courage and bravery and did not run away from the Russian aggression. On the contrary our..........?.. runs away from sight of few protestors and then complains how under SPG cover he saved his own life.
The UNSC voted on the draft resolution presented by the US and Albania, and co-sponsored by several other nations, including Australia, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom.
Zelensky said that he spoke with Modi and informed of the course of Ukraine repulsing Russian aggression.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
While Russia, which chaired the meeting of the UNSC since it holds the presidency for the month of February, vetoed the resolution, China and the UAE abstained along with India.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
The Russian Embassy in India on Saturday said in a tweet, "Highly appreciate India's independent and balanced position at the voting in the UNSC on February 25, 2022."
He revealed speaking to Modi soon after Russia praised India's decision to abstain from a vote at the United Nations to condemn its invasion.
He tweeted: "More than 100,000 invaders are on our land. They insidiously fire on residential buildings."
New Delhi, Feb 26 IANS: Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Saturday that he has spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Russia's aggression and sought "political support" at the United Nations Security Council.
