Ukraine Prez warned EU leaders This might be the last time you see me alive
20220225
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=930723
It came as Ukraine's President admitted that he is 'target number one' for Russian assassins in his capital, while his family is 'the number two goal' for Putin's hitmen.
New Delhi, Feb 25 IANS: Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky had an ominous warning for his European counterparts in a video conference call on Thursday night, Sky News reported.
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
A squad of Chechen special forces 'hunters' has been unleashed in Ukraine to detain or kill a set of specific Ukrainian officials, Daily Mail reported.
According to a journalist at Israel's Walla News, he told other leaders: "This might be the last time you see me alive."
The Chechen squad is thought to be in a Ukrainian forest and was allegedly given an 'order to kill' if those on the wanted list could not be detained, the report said.
The Ukrainian presidential advisor earlier warned that Russia wants to kill Zelensky if it takes Ukraine's capital.
The list is of officials and security officers suspected of 'crimes' by the Russian Investigative Committee, the report added.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Each soldier was reportedly given a special 'deck of cards' with Ukrainian officials' photos and descriptions on them, a Moscow Telegram channel with links to the security establishment reported, Daily Mail reported.
It's believed Russia is planning to install a puppet government in Ukraine should it successfully capture Kiev, the report said.
