Ukraine risks repeating Chernobyl disaster
20220806
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=986961
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Moscow, Aug 6 IANS: Russia has asked the UN and the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA to make Ukraine stop the "shelling" of Europes largest nuclear power plant.
According to the Russian Defence Ministry, "parts of the equipment" at the plant are out of power due to the shelling, and a fire broke out at the facility and was quickly put out. The ministry claimed that "by sheer luck", the Ukrainian shells did not cause a bigger fire and "a possible nuclear disaster".
The ministry called on the international community to condemn Ukraine for "the acts of nuclear terrorism".
The plant was seized by Russian forces in late February, when Moscow launched its military campaign in the neighboring country. The facility continues to operate with Ukrainian staff under Russian control.
Igor Vishnevetsky, a senior non-proliferation and arms control official at the Russian Foreign Ministry, warned that the shelling of the plant risks triggering an event similar to the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster, RT reported.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky claimed that the shelling of the plant came from Russian troops.
Moscow accused Ukrainian troops of firing artillery shells at the Zaporozhskaya Nuclear Power Plant in the country's southern Zaporozhye Region on Friday, RT reported.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
The ministry said that Ukrainian troops also shelled the adjacent city of Energodar, causing power outages and disruptions of water supply.
"It is not only yet another reason why Russia should be recognized as a state sponsor of terrorism, but also a reason to impose tough sanctions on all of Russia's nuclear power industry," Zelensky said on Friday.
