Ukraine warns Russian forces attacking Chernobyl could set off radiation cloud across Europe
20220225
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=930345
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Elsewhere, Kiev ordered civilians to bomb shelters amid fears Russia is about to strike the Ukrainian capital as Kiev's troops lost control of a key airfield around 15 miles away, Daily Mail reported.
New Delhi, Feb 25 IANS: Ukrainian troops are fighting Russian forces for the control of the Chernobyl exclusion zone, 60 miles north of capital Kiev, amid fears that the battle could damage the storage facilities holding nuclear waste, sparking a fallout that could blanket Europe, Daily Mail reported.
"If storage facilities are destroyed, the radioactive cloud could cover Ukraine, Belarus and the EU," Gerashchenko said, the report added.
Anton Gerashchenko, an advisor to the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior Affairs, said that Russian forces entered the zone and were 'vigorously' fighting with the border guards units.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
"They are going to bomb Kiev now. Authorities told us to hide in shelters," a source in the city told MailOnline as city authorities said a hospital had been hit, killing four people.
The Ukrainian army was this afternoon fighting in almost every region of the country, battling the Russians for control of military bases, airports, cities and ports from Kharkiv to Kiev, and Donetsk to Odessa.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Meanwhile, Turkey reported that one of its ships had been hit by a 'bomb' off the coast of Odessa, where fighting is going on. Turkey is a member of NATO, underlining fears that the war in Ukraine could quickly suck in other nations and spark an all-out conflict in Europe.
Russian forces had attacked it with around two-dozen attack helicopters earlier in the day, four of which are thought to have been shot down.
