US arms Ukraine with stinger missiles to shoot down Russian fighter jets
20220303
https://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay?newsID=932882
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
US is cruelly prolonging a war which Ukraine will lose sooner of later.  US doesn't give a damn about the lives of Ukrainian civilians.
I hope Ukraine will be able to  use all these weapons and destroy all the Russian tanks, armored vehicles and aircraft that have entered their country.
In addition, Germany has also announced that it will send around 500 stinger missiles. Pitching in to support Ukraine, the Netherlands also said that it will provide 200 stinger missiles.
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
New Delhi, Mar 3 IANS: The United States delivers anti-aircraft gun -- stinger missiles -- as military aid to Ukraine to take down Russian aircraft and helicopters what it did in Afghanistan 42 years ago to end USSR's presence over there.
Way back in 1979 when USSR entered neighbouring Afghanistan, the US had armed mujahideen fighters with stinger missiles to take down USSR's aircraft and helicopters. Interestingly, when USSR left in February 1989 from Afghanistan, the US' Central Intelligence Agency CIA started buying back stinger missiles from mujahideen fighters to prevent them from falling in hands of Iran.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
So far Russians have not involved its Air Force into the war. The war between Russia and Ukraine has entered into the eight day after Russian President Vladimir Putin called for a military operation.
The stinger surface to air missiles will be a boost for Ukraine's air defence if Russian fighter aircraft bombs the cities.
Stinger shipments to Ukraine are part of the aid package that the US had announced on Friday. Apart from Stinger missiles, Javelin anti-tank missiles are also being sent to Ukraine.
It can be fired from various positions including ground vehicles, helicopters, and airborne troops. It uses an infrared seeker to lock on to the heat in the engine's exhaust, and will hit nearly anything flying below 11,000 feet.
Stinger Missile is a portable missile that can be shoulder-fired by a single person. It also called man-portable air defence system.
The stringers were also used in other conflicts, including the Chechen war, Sri Lankan civil war, and the Syrian civil war.
