13 Ukrainian Soldiers Make Last Stand before Being Killed by Invading Russian Forces
20220225
https://neonnettle.com/news/18402-13-ukrainian-soldiers-make-last-stand-before-being-killed-by-invading-russian-forces
"Without a viable shipping lane to global markets, the Ukrainian economy would rapidly plunge into crisis."
Amid the full-scale invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putins Russian forces, 13 Ukrainian border guards lost their lives after being shelled by a Russian warship as they attempted to defend the island in the Black Sea.
Despite the heavy losses, the Ukrainians have touted that they successfully pushed back against the invasion by Russia, claiming over 1,000 Russian soldiers killed.
I am a Russian warship. I offer to lay down our arms and surrender to avoid bloodshed and unjustified casualties, the Russian warship reportedly said twice in the audio.
This Black Sea access is crucial to Ukraines grain and metals exports, as well as consumer goods imports from China,the think tank wrote in August of last year.
President Volodymyr Zelensky confirmed all 13 border guards died defending the island after the Russian warship fired upon them.
Ukrainian and other international outlets have spread unverified audio, first published by Ukrainian newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda and allegedly verified by Interior Ministry advisor Anton Gerashchenko, that appears to capture the last moments of the Snake Island troops.
He went on to proclaim that Ukraine would defend the island with weapons in hand!
The soldiers who lost their lives on Snake Island came amid 137 deaths on the Ukrainian side of the fighting, with another 316 wounded or injured on Thursday, according to Zelensky.
President Zelensky said that the enemy was stopped in most directions on the first day of fighting.
But did not give up. All of them will be awarded the title of Hero of Ukraine posthumously,he added.
Russia has not made specific casualty claims in return, but a spokesman discussing the battle to claim Antonov airport asserted There is no loss in the Russian Armed Forces on Friday.
The State Border Guard Service of Ukraine reported on Facebook that the Russians have seized control of the territory despite their efforts.
Having control of the island allows Ukraine to claim territorial waters 12 nautical miles from all directions of the island, according to the Atlantic Council.
ThirteenUkrainiansoldierswill receive the nations highest honor after making a defiant stand on Thursday and losing their lives defending Snake Island from a Russian warship.
