Biden Tells Ukraine to Prepare for Impact as Russian Invasion Looms
20220129
https://neonnettle.com/news/18146-biden-tells-ukraine-to-prepare-for-impact-as-russian-invasion-looms
A Russian invasion is now virtually certain once the ground freezes, Biden said to Zelensky, a senior Ukrainian official told mchancecnn. Kyiv could be sacked," Russian forces may attempt to occupy it, prepare for impact, Biden said, according to this official.
Dmitri Peskov, a spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin, said there was not much cause for optimism that NATO and the U.S. would agree to Putins demands to essentially back off Eastern Europe.
The White House published areadoutof the call and said Biden underscored the commitment of the United States to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Democrat Joe Biden reportedly told Ukraine to "prepare for impact" during a call withPresident Volodymyr Zelensky as a Russian invasion of the country now seems imminent.
Russia indicated on Thursday that it would not short-circuit diplomacy, according toThe New York Times.
A Russian invasion of Ukraine would be met with sanctions, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said
"You should not forget that the European Union is the biggest trading partner to Russia, she added.
"President Biden reaffirmed the readiness of the United States along with its allies and partners to respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine, the White House said.
"He has said this publicly and we have been warning about this for months, Horne added.
The Biden administration has 8,500 troops ready to be sent to NATO allies in Europe, the Post reported.
"Seventy-five percent of the foreign direct investment is coming from the European Union, and so these figures tell you that we have a strong leverage, and it would be very painful for Russia in the case that they increase this aggression against Ukraine.
Biden told Zelensky there is a distinct possibility that Russia could soon invade Ukraine, White House National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne said, according toThe Washington Post.
Marquardt tweeted that Biden toldZelensky that a major invasion by Russia is now all but certain.
"We continue to see, including in the last 24 hours, more accumulation of credible combat forces arrayed by the Russians in, again, the western part of their country and in Belarus, said Pentagon press secretary John Kirby, according toCNN.
The U.S. Defense Department said Thursday that even more Russian forces have amassed around the border with Ukraine.
"Kyiv could be sacked, Russian forces may attempt to occupy it, prepare for impact, Biden said, according to this official, Marquardt tweeted.
"I want to be very clear  nothing is off of the table, von der Leyen said, according to CNN.
A senior Ukrainian government official reportedly toldCNN national security correspondent Alexander Marquardt that the phone call between the two leaders did not go well.
