Elon Musk Hints at Launching New Free Speech Social Media Platform to Rival Twitter
20220327
https://neonnettle.com/news/18663-elon-musk-hints-at-launching-new-free-speech-social-media-platform-to-rival-twitter
"If youre a leftist making death threats against conservatives or organizing riots, Twitter respects your freedom of speech," he added.
Im worried about de facto bias in the Twitter algorithm having a major effect on public discourse, Musk continued.
Musk conducted another informal poll on Twitter on Thursday in which he asked if Twitters algorithm should be open source.
Musk followed up on the poll on Saturday, writing: Given that Twitter serves as the de facto public town square, failing to adhere to free speech principles fundamentally undermines democracy.
Musk said last week that SpaceXs Starlink satellite broadband service was now available in Ukraine with more terminals en route to the country following arequestfrom Mykhailo Fedorov, the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, who tweeted: elonmusk, while you try to colonize Mars  Russia try to occupy Ukraine! While your rockets successfully land from space  Russian rockets attack Ukrainian civil people!
Starlink has been told by some governments not Ukraine to block Russian news sources, Musk tweeted.
"Twitter also respects the freedom of speech for media hoaxes like when every major outlet framed an innocent Covington high school kid.
"We ask you to provide Ukraine with Starlink stations and to address sane Russians to stand.
He argues that Twitter fundamentally undermines democracy because it does not protect freedom of speech.
Musk recently came out andobjectedto the censoring of Russian media outlets in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Musk conducted an informal poll on Twitter on Friday, which stated: Free speech is essential to a functioning democracy.
Over 2 million people responded to the poll with 70.4 percent of respondents saying that Twitter did not adhere to the principle.
Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk has hinted that he's planning to launch a new free speech-focused social media platform to rival Twitter.
After several posts blasting Big Tech's censorship practices, Musk suggested on Saturday that he may launch a new social media platform that protects users' First Amendment rights.
