Heroic Ukrainian Fighter Pilot Gives Hope after Taking Out 6 Russian Warplanes
20220226
https://neonnettle.com/news/18408-heroic-ukrainian-fighter-pilot-gives-hope-after-taking-out-6-russian-warplanes
The Ghost of Kyiv, we pray for your successAce Combat stuff aside, that's a damn good pilot, especially given the circumstances
But despite the mystery surrounding the story, the Ghost is bolstering Ukraines morale in the face of Russian warmongering.
But there is no way to confirm the new folk hero, nor is there any way to determine how many Russian and Ukrainian aircraft have been destroyed in a conflict.
A Ukrainian jet fighter pilot nicknamed the Ghost of Kyiv, has become Ukraines newest folk hero after downing six Russian warplanes.
Im begging major media to report on whether The Ghost of Kyiv really existsas if its true that today a heroic Ukrainian fighter pilot single-handedly downed 6 Russian jets, this flying ace immediately becomes a stirring symbol of Ukraines resistance to Putins war crimes. pic.twitter.comNmlu68Fknj
There is reportedly a Ukrainian fighter pilot who has taken out 6 Russian jets in air to air combat. He is being called the "Ghost of Kyiv"pic.twitter.comzCdK2URsHM
But there is no way to confirm that the Ghost is actually a single Ukrainian fighter jet fighting against Russia.
An official ace fighter pilot must have five confirmed cases of downing an enemy plane.
But others claimed the video was fake and at least one social media user said it was made using a digital combat simulator.
The story may be the first major urban legend coming out of Russias unprovoked attack.
A Twitter account, which claimed to represent Ukraines armed forces, shared a video that purported to show a Ukrainian MiG-29 downing a Russian jet in a dogfight.
The commander-in-chief of Ukraines armed forces, Valerii Zaluzhnyi, said in a Thursday Facebook post that his forces have counted six Russian planes and two helicopters destroyed to date, according to Newsweek.
If the stories are true, the Ghost has become the first European ace since World War II.
Reports are coming that a Ukrainian pilot has shot down 6 Russian Aircraft today and might have possibly become the first 21st century fighter ace. The pilot, known as the Ghost of Kyiv and his MiG-29 were seen in numerous videos from today. pic.twitter.com2T7IXIGQAb
Social media users began sharing clips of a MiG 29 jet flying over the countrys capital city.
But still, millions of people dearly hope that the Ghost of Kyiv really does exist.
