Russia Launches Worlds Most Powerful Nuclear Missile  Satan2
20220414
https://neonnettle.com/news/18892-russia-launches-world-s-most-powerful-nuclear-missile-satan-2-
As of now nearly 700,000 stamps have been sold and the sale of stamps in our branches is done, Igor Smelyansky, director of Ukraines postal service, said in a Facebook post, the Times reported.
The estimated range of the missile is 11,000 miles and weighs more than 200 tons, according to the U.K. Daily Mail, which reported the test.
Russian state-run media sought to inject fear into Russias enemies by adding that the Sarmat has the longest range of destruction of targets in the world, which will significantly increase the combat power of our countrys strategic nuclear forces."
Ukraines postal service last week debuted a new stamp featuring a Ukrainian soldier raising a middle finger at a Russian warship, a reference to an incident early in the war when Ukrainian fighters refused to surrender a Black Sea island to Russia.
According to the Times, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said officials at the Pentagon had determined the launch was not a threat to the U.S.
Its the latest version of a Soviet-era missile that debuted in the 1960s and carried more power than anything in the U.S. arsenal."
The missile, technically known as the RS-28 Sarmat, has been dubbed Satan-2, according to Military.com.
Russia has tested a nuclear missile that would scare anyone who "dares threaten the nation,"as President Vladimir Putin warned.
It represents our faith in the future, the faith in a better life for my children.
The ministry said in a statement that the test was the missiles first, and that it could be used only after the completion of the testing program.
Russias death toll from its invasion has now hit 20,900, according to Ukrainian estimates, the Daily Mail reported.
However, Russias own Defense Ministry made it clear that the new weapon is not ready for use, The New York Times reported.
If Russia has superior hardware, Ukrainians recently offered new evidence of their spirit of resistance, the Times reported.
Described as the worlds most powerful nuclear missile by Military.com, the missile can carry at least 10 warheads, each with enough payload to wipe out an area the size of Texas or France.
The new complex has the highest tactical and technical characteristics and is capable of overcoming all modern means of anti-missile defense. It has no analogues in the world and wont have for a long time to come, he said.
The Times quoted a man whose name was given as Illya, 73, who said he waited three hours to buy the stamps for his kids.
This truly unique weapon will strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces, reliably ensure Russias security from external threats and provide food for thought for those who, in the heat of frenzied, aggressive rhetoric, try to threaten our country.
The test comes as Russia has been humiliated after failing to sweep through Ukraine and, according to the Daily Mail, a growing number of senior Kremlin insiders are said to be fearing the Russian strongman could resort to using nuclear weapons as Moscows position worsens.
