Tech Sent by Elon Musk Giving Ukraine Edge on Winning against Russia Report Says
20220320
https://neonnettle.com/news/18599-tech-sent-by-elon-musk-giving-ukraine-edge-on-winning-against-russia-report-says
The terminals have now reportedly given Ukraine an advantage in winning the drone war against the invading Russian military.
Musk said earlier this month that SpaceXs Starlink satellite broadband service was now available in Ukraine with more terminals en route to the country, a remark that came in response to a request on Twitter from Mykhailo Fedorov, the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, who tweeted:
Musk later issued a warning that those using SpaceXs Starlink terminals in Ukraine were at a high risk of being targeted by the Russians because those are some of the only remaining systems on the ground that work.
"We ask you to provide Ukraine with Starlink stations and to address sane Russians to stand.
"Starlink provides high-speed, low-latency broadband internet across the globe. Within each coverage area, orders are fulfilled on a first-come, first-served basis, the company says.
"Starlink is ideally suited for areas where connectivity has been unreliable or completely unavailable, the company added.
"With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack.
The Ukrainian military has an "edge on winning" against the Russian invasion thanks to the technology that entrepreneur Elon Musk sent to the country, according to a new report.
"Important warning: Starlink is the only non-Russian communications system still working in some parts of Ukraine, so probability of being targeted is high, Musk tweeted.
"People across the globe are using Starlink to gain access to education, health services, and even communications support during natural disasters.
"Using advanced satellites in a low orbit, Starlink enables video calls, online gaming, streaming, and other high data rate activities that historically have not been possible with satellite internet.
Musk sent Starlink terminals and rerouted his SpaceX satellite network to keep Ukraine's Internet up after Russian attacks on infrastructure took it offline.
"Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine.
When later asked about how users should use the system with caution, Musk responded, Turn on Starlink only when needed and place antenna away as far away from people as possible.
"Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladimir Putins army of tanks and track down their positions in the conflict, which has been ongoing since February 24,The Daily Mail isreporting.
