Biden War criminal Putin should face trial for Bucha killings
20220404
https://www.fox29.com/news/biden-war-criminal-putin-should-face-trial-for-bucha-killings
Russia and the other four permanent members of the U.N. Security Council  Britain, China, France and the United States  all currently have seats on the 47-member-state rights council, which is based in Geneva. The United States rejoined the council this year.
"We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue the fight. And we have to gather all the detail so this can be an actual -- have a war crimes trial," Biden said.
Bidens comments to reporters came after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Bucha, one of the towns surrounding Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found. Zelenskyy called the Russian actions "genocide" and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general, Iryna Venediktova, said. Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of the capital.
"You saw what happened in Bucha," Biden said. He added that Putin "is a war criminal"
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, tweeted Monday that the European Union will send investigators to Ukraine to help the local prosecutor general "document war crimes.
"This guy is brutal and whats happening to Bucha is outrageous, and everyones seen it," Biden said.
Biden noted that he faced push back last month when he described Putin as a war criminal for the unfolding onslaught in Ukraine after hospitals and maternity wards were bombed. In his remarks on Monday, Biden made clear that label still applied.
A photo shows massive destruction in the area of conflict at the Bucha town after it was liberated from Russian army in Ukraine on April 4, 2022. Photo by Metin AktasAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
Video by RFERL at Hostomel airport outside Kyiv shows the wreck of the worlds biggest plane, the Antonov 225, and destroyed Russian military vehicles on April 2, 2022. Credit: Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty via Storyful
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
The U.S. and more than 40 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, after the passage of a resolution by the United Nations Human Rights Council to establish a commission of inquiry. There is another probe by the International Criminal Court, an independent body based in the Netherlands.
Meanwhile, Biden's chief envoy to the United Nations, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, announced Monday that the U.S. plans to seek a suspension of Russia from its seat on the U.N.s top human rights body in the wake of more indications Russian forces may have committed war crimes in Ukraine. That would require a decision by the U.N. General Assembly.
WASHINGTON - President Joe Biden on Monday called for a war crimes trial against Russia President Vladimir Putin and said hed seek more sanctions after reported atrocities in Ukraine.
Ukainian President Volodymyr Zelensky C speaks to the press in the town of Bucha, northwest of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, on April 4, 2022. Photo by RONALDO SCHEMIDTAFP via Getty Images
A man gestures at a mass grave in the town of Bucha, northwest of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on April 3, 2022. Photo by SERGEI SUPINSKYAFP via Getty Images
