Biden announces new sanctions on Russia says Putin chose this war
20220224
https://www.fox29.com/news/biden-announces-new-sanctions-on-russia-says-putin-chose-this-war
President Joe Biden spoke for the first time since the Russia invasion of Ukraine. Biden highlighted sanctions against Russia and said direct sanctions of Russian President Vladimir Putin are "still on the table."
Putin ignored global condemnation and cascading new sanctions as he unleashed the largest ground war in Europe in decades, and chillingly referred to his countrys nuclear arsenal. He threatened any foreign country trying to interfere with "consequences you have never seen."
Biden added that strict export controls aiming to starve Russias industries and military would be imposed, cutting the Kremlin off from U.S. semiconductors and other high-tech products.
Ukraines government has reported mounting casualties as Russian forces attack from the east, north and south.
WASHINGTON - Following Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Thursday, President Joe Biden announced a new round of sanctions targeting Moscow.
"It wasnt Ukraine that chose the path of war, but Ukraine is offering to go back to the path of peace," he said.
The sanctions are aimed at Russian banks, oligarchs and high-tech sectors in hopes of crippling Russias financial system and Putins inner circle.
Biden decried the Kremlins military aggression during an address from the White House, saying Russian President Vladimir Putin "chose this war" and that his country will bear the consequences of his actions.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
Russian soldiers have now invaded Ukraine and explosions have been heard in multiple cities across the country. LiveNOW spoke with former intelligence officer Michael Pregent, who says the combat could become "very bloody, very quickly," depending on how Ukraine defends itself.
Ukrainian officials said their forces were battling Russians on multiple fronts and had lost control of the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the scene of the world's worst nuclear disaster.
"Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and wont give up its freedom," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy tweeted.
