RussiaUkraine war Russian forces keep up attacks amid continued talks
20220316
https://www.fox29.com/news/russia-ukraine-war-russian-forces-keep-up-attacks-as-negotiators-hold-talks
A Russian airstrike destroyed multiple residential apartments in the town of Markhalivka southwest of the capital, authorities said.
In an unprecedented move, the Council of Europe expelled Russia from the continents foremost human rights body. Staff even went outside its headquarters in Strasbourg, France, and took down the Russian flag.
In Mariupol, workers afraid for their own lives brave relentless shelling to dump the bodies of children in a mass grave. Local officials struggle to account for the dead. Although they've tallied 2,500 deaths in the siege, many bodies crushed in the rubble can't be counted because of the assault.
The Russian defense ministry denied bombing the theater or anywhere else in Mariupol on Wednesday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke with the U.S. Congress from Kyiv where his country continues to wage war with Russian forces in what officials call an unprovoked attack by President Vladimir Putin. Zelenskyy implored members of Congress to help institute a no-fly zone and continue to enforce additional sanctions until the Russian military stops its assault. After playing a video showing some of the damage in Ukraine, Zelenskyy spoke in English to reiterate how important his request was.
Relentless strikes pounded the northeastern city of Kharkiv close to the Russian border, but Ukrainian forces continued to thwart Russia's incursion into the heart of the city, city officials said.
Bodies lie out in the street. Workers tell families to leave their dead outside because its too dangerous to hold funerals.
Satellite images from the Maxar space technology company showed Russian self-propelled artillery and multiple-rocket launchers deployed on the outskirts of Chernihiv, their barrels and tubes aimed at the city.
"Bombing takes place from morning into night," hospital director Dr. Pavel Nartov said. "It could hit at any time."
Tiny Kox, the president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, said the expulsion "was necessary, and I am glad we dared to do so."
Missiles and artillery slammed into high-rise apartment towers in Kyiv, setting buildings ablaze and sending smoke over the capital and its suburbs.
KYIV, UKRAINE - MARCH 15: Firefighter holds a dog as fire erupted after an apartment building hit by Russian attacks in Kyiv, Ukraine on March 15, 2022. Photo by Alejandro MartinezAnadolu Agency via Getty Images
Putin said Wednesday that the operation in Ukraine is unfolding "successfully, in strict accordance with pre-approved plans."
Japan announced it will revoke its "most favored nation" trade status for Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
Satellite photos by Planet Labs PBC analyzed by The Associated Press show helicopters and vehicles on fire at the air base after what Ukraine said was its strike on Tuesday.
In Kharkiv, doctors are struggling to treat COVID-19 patients as the bombs fall outside. Several times a day, air raid sirens wail at the Kharkiv Regional Clinical Infectious Diseases Hospital, sending feeble virus patients  some connected to ventilators and struggling to breathe  running for bomb shelters.
"We need you right now," Zelenskyy said in remarks livestreamed to the U.S. Capitol, which were punctuated with a graphic video contrasting Ukraine before the invasion with the grisly aftermath.
The mission said the meeting was requested by six Security Council members and posted their flags -- the U.K., United States, France, Ireland, Norway and Albania. It has not yet been officially scheduled.
Powerful explosions also thundered in the region around Kherson, a strategic port near the Black Sea. Ukrainian military forces have dealt a punishing blow to Russian air assets stationed at the airport in Kherson, which Russian troops seized early in the war, the Ukraine military's General Staff said late Wednesday.
There were also explosions near a train station in the southeastern city of Zaporizhzhia, home to several power stations.
Biden also plans to travel to Europe next week for talks with European leaders about the Russian invasion, and will attend an extraordinary NATO summit in Brussels. NATO has been bolstering its eastern flank with troops and equipment to deter Russia from invading any of its members.
President Biden delivered his own address following Zelenskyys speech to Congress, in which he announced an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine.
The leaders of three European countries, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, returned on Wednesday from a risky trip to the besieged Ukrainian capital to show their support and meet with Zelenskyy.
In the encircled city of Mariupol, a Russian airstrike destroyed a theater where hundreds of people were sheltering. Many people were buried in the rubble, Ukraines foreign ministry said in a statement, though the number of casualties wasn't clear.
KYIV, Ukraine - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy invoked 911 during an urgent appeal Wednesday to the U.S. Congress for more weapons to stem the Russian assault. U.S. President Joe Biden announced an additional $800 million for Ukraine's military and said Russian President Vladimir Putin is a "war criminal."
Zelenskyy acknowledged in his speech to the U.S. Congress that the no-fly zone he has sought to "close the sky" over his country may not happen. Still, he said the U.S. must sanction Russian lawmakers and block imports, in addition to providing military assistance.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter that the attack on the theater in Mariupol is a "horrendous war crime." Maxar's satellite imagery from Monday showed the word "children" written in large white letters in Russian in front of and behind the building.
Russia now occupies the city of Ivankiv, 80 kilometers 50 miles north of Kyiv, and controls the surrounding region on the border with Belarus, local officials said.
Ten people were killed while standing in line for bread in the northern city of Chernihiv, the Ukrainian General Prosecutors Office said.
Residents are evacuated by firefighters from a burning 16-story residential building in Kyiv on March 15, 2022, after strikes on residential areas killed at least two people, Ukraine emergency services said as Russian troops intensified their attacks
In central Kyiv, shrapnel from an artillery shell smashed into a 12-story apartment building early Wednesday, wiping out the building's top floor and starting a fire. Emergency services reported two victims from the blaze, without specifying if they were killed or injured.
Biden announced that the U.S. is sending an additional $800 million in military assistance  including anti-aircraft and anti-armor weapons and drones  to Ukraine, making a total of $2 billion in such aid sent to Kyiv since Biden took office more than a year ago.
Ukrainian officials say a Russian strike has hit a childrens hospital and maternity facility in the besieged southeastern port city of Mariupol. Credit: Mariupol City Council via Storyful
Pierre Zakrzewski, described as a veteran Fox News cameraman, has died after being injured alongside Fox News journalist Benjamin Hall on Monday. Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott said in a statement, "It is with great sadness and a heavy heart that we share the news this morning regarding our beloved cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski. Pierre was killed in Horenka, outside of Kyiv, Ukraine."
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
But with the Ukrainian resistance frustrating Kremlin hopes for a lightning victory, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that a "business-like spirit" has emerged in talks with Ukrainian officials, which he described as focused on a "neutral status" for Ukraines military.
Six Western nations have called for a U.N. Security Council meeting on Ukraine on Thursday. The United Kingdoms U.N. Mission tweeted Wednesday that the six countries asked for the meeting, saying: "Russia is committing war crimes and targeting civilians. Russias illegal war on Ukraine is a threat to us all."
