Munich Security Conference opens focusing on unlearning helplessness
20220218
http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/europe/20220219/b5b9afab59834094b36a8c94774865d2/c.html
There is a mounting feeling of "helplessness" in many societies across the world in the face of a growing number of crises and conflicts, according to a security report published ahead of the conference.
"I am deeply concerned about heightened tensions and increased speculation about the military conflict in Europe. I still think it will not happen. But if it did, it would be catastrophic," Guterres said.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen makes a speech during the Munich Security Conference MSC held in Munich, Germany, Feb. 19, 2022. The 58th edition of the MSC opened here on Friday afternoon with a theme focusing on "unlearning helplessness" against the backdrop of tensions in the Ukraine crisis. XinhuaLu Yang
MUNICH, Germany, Feb. 18 Xinhua -- The 58th edition of the Munich Security Conference MSC opened here on Friday afternoon with a theme focusing on "unlearning helplessness" against the backdrop of tensions in the Ukraine crisis.
"There is no alternative to diplomacy, and all issues, including the most intractable, must be addressed through diplomatic frameworks, and it is high time to seriously de-escalate," he added.
Except for official Russian representatives, more than 30 heads of state and government, 100 ministerial officials and leaders of important international organizations gathered at the three-day conference to discuss current crises and future security challenges. 
Man-made problems can be solved by man, Ischinger said, calling on everyone to collectively unlearn and overcome helplessness.
Participants in the high-profile conference are also scheduled to discuss the ongoing tension around Ukraine. While Russia says it is withdrawing some of its troops from the Ukrainian border, U.S. President Joe Biden says his government has "not yet verified that."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky makes a speech during the Munich Security Conference MSC held in Munich, Germany, Feb. 19, 2022. The 58th edition of the MSC opened here on Friday afternoon with a theme focusing on "unlearning helplessness" against the backdrop of tensions in the Ukraine crisis. XinhuaLu Yang
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson makes a speech during the Munich Security Conference MSC held in Munich, Germany, Feb. 19, 2022. The 58th edition of the MSC opened here on Friday afternoon with a theme focusing on "unlearning helplessness" against the backdrop of tensions in the Ukraine crisis. Andrew ParsonsNo 10 Downing StreetHandout via Xinhua
"The feeling of helplessness is becoming a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy, which leads to give up, even though we have all the tools and resources to address such challenges as the pandemic, climate change or great power confrontations," said Wolfgang Ischinger, chairman of the MSC, in his opening speech.
Jens Stoltenberg, secretary general of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO makes a speech during the Munich Security Conference MSC held in Munich, Germany, Feb. 19, 2022. The 58th edition of the MSC opened here on Friday afternoon with a theme focusing on "unlearning helplessness" against the backdrop of tensions in the Ukraine crisis. XinhuaLu Yang
United Nations UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said in his opening remarks at the MSC that he was "deeply concerned" over the situation in Ukraine and appealed for de-escalation.
