Deceased Hungarian Soldiers Wife He sacrificed his life for peace for his children
20220228
https://hungarytoday.hu/ukrainian-war-hungarian-deaths-soldiers-army-military-ukraine-conflict-hungary/
Charitable non-governmental or aid organizations mobilized to help the people who have left their homes, hopefully only temporarily. We have summarized for you where and how you can help those in need.Continue reading
According to the newspaper, the Hungarian soldier had two sons. The soldiers wife told Blikk that she cannot believe that her husband will never come home.
Featured image: Ukrainian soldiers patrol near Kyiv on February 27, 2022. Photo by Alisa YakubovichMTIEPA
The widow also spoke about the death of the young soldier and said that her husband had considered military service as his vocation. They were able to talk to him a few minutes before the rocket attack. After the explosion, shecould not reach her husband. She immediately turned to the army. However, her husbands name was missing from the list of the dead, so she was taken to the hospital for the wounded. She finally found him in the morgue, where there were 12 dead, including women.
The 29-year-old Hungarian from Transcarpathia was on the last Ukrainian boat that did not surrender to the Russians during the fighting around the town of Ochakov in the south of the country. The boat was fired at by the attackers with a missile. 22 people were killed. Sndor Kis was a soldier in the Ukrainian Navy and the first Hungarian to die in the Russian-Ukrainian war. His shaken family told the tabloid newspaperBlikk about him.
He was born in Transcarpathia, but had been living with his family in Odessa for several years, said the uncle of the deceased soldier, and further told Blikk that He joined the Ukrainian Navy as a volunteer in 2012 at the age of 19 and served on a minesweeper during the Russian invasion of the Crimean Peninsula in 2014. At the time, when the Russians ordered him to surrender, he sang Ukraines national anthem with his comrades. He was a true hero, and I am proud that he was my nephew. This time, too, they tried to resist the Russians, but they shot down his ship with a missile. He and 21 other people were killed.
Another soldier of Hungarian origin who died in the war was Vasil Bilak from the town of Munkcs in the Carpathian foothills. He was only 22 years old.
