House Speaker Allowing Govt to Make Swift Decisions on Ukraine War in Hungarys National Interest
20220504
https://hungarytoday.hu/house-speaker-allowing-govt-to-make-swift-decisions-on-ukraine-war-in-hungarys-national-interest/
He said that because of the war in Ukraine, Hungarian-Polish relations were not as strong as before, adding, however, that the problem could be overcome if the two countries got back to the starting point.
As regards his re-election as speaker with 170 votes in favour, Kvr said that not all opposition MPs had exited the House chamber after taking their oaths. He said this could signify the beginning of a new chapter in cooperation between the government and the opposition. If the opposition is open to this, the ruling parties are too, he said.
If we stay out of the war chorus, weve already done a lot to ensure that this war ends as soon as possible with as few casualties as possible, Kvr said.
Amending the Constitution to authorize the government to make fast decisions concerning the war in Ukraine is in Hungarys national interest, Speaker of Parliament Lszl Kvr said on Tuesday.
With Poland and the Czech Republic canceling, this would have left only two members to have a V4 meeting, Slovakia and Hungary.Continue reading
Kvr said the world was becoming increasingly unpredictable, and it was crucial to protect Hungarys achievements of the last 12 years.
The constitutional amendment proposal expands the government's mandate to declare a state of emergency to cases of war or humanitarian catastrophes in neighboring countries.Continue reading
Kvr, who was re-elected speaker on Monday, told commercial Inforadio that with one of the worlds biggest nuclear powers at war in Hungarys neighboring country, it was in Hungarys national interest to allow the government to act quickly without having to go through the parliamentary procedure. The model is the same as what was applied during the pandemic, he said.
The speaker said many believed  which he said he tends to agree with  that the conflict in Ukraine was not a war between Russia and Ukraine, but rather Russia and the United States and a prelude to a geostrategic conflict between the US and China.
Concerning the Visegrad Group, Kvr said the changes in government in the Czech Republic and Slovakia had not helped the grouping, arguing that the foreign ministers of both countries were from parties that were not committed to the V4 and did not see this cooperation as a priority.
A possible goal of this conflict is to detach Europe from Russia and Asia economically and politically, with a view to preventing the formation of a united political-economic area stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, Kvr said. The US could not compete with the potential of such an economic area, he added.
