Ukraine Crisis  Foreign Minister Evacuation from Ukraine Impossible
20220225
https://hungarytoday.hu/ukraine-crisis-szijjarto-evacuation-ukraine-kyiv-impossible/
He wrote on Facebook that he had spoken by phone to the foreign ministers of India and Iran concerning their request that Hungary open a humanitarian corridor to the nearest airport for their citizens who reach the Ukrainian-Hungarian border.
The minister told his counterparts that leaving Kyiv by road was extremely difficult, adding, however, that they could count on Hungarys help.
As all men up to the age of 60 might be drafted to the Ukrainian army soon, many people have already packed their bags and are heading for Hungary.Continue reading
Concerning lorry drivers in transit, the minister said the government was doing everything to ensure that they continue their journey or find safe haven.
Pter Szijjrt said in a video posted on Facebook that Ukraines entire airspace was closed with a ban on civil aviation, while evacuation by road was also impossible.
Four Hungarian Wizz Air aircraft with their crews are stuck in Ukraine, Szijjrt said, adding there were no Hungarians among the crew.
The Hungarian embassy received 60 calls when telecommunications services were functioning and staff members were not in the basement, the minister said, adding that the embassy would shelter Hungarians seeking security.
Related articlePeople From Ukraine Already Fleeing to HungaryAs all men up to the age of 60 might be drafted to the Ukrainian army soon, many people have already packed their bags and are heading for Hungary.Continue reading
Szijjrt also revealed late on Thursday that India and Iran had turned to Hungary for help in rescuing their citizens stranded in Ukraine.
All staff of Hungarys embassy in Kyiv are working to ensure that everyone seeking assistance is provided it, the foreign minister said on Thursday, but evacuating people from the country is basically impossible.
The government is watching developments closely and will take every measure to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people from this war, he said.
Hungary stands by Ukraine and by Ukraines territorial integrity and sovereignty, and condemns Russias military action, he said. The government will do everything to prevent Hungary possibly getting mixed up in the conflict of war, he added.
He asked Hungarians to call the consular services 24-hour hotline, which is operating with extra staff. On Thursday, the consular service received 80 calls, he said. So far, 191 Hungarians in Ukraine and 154 in Russia have applied for consular protection, he said, adding that the staff were in contact with them.
