War in Ukraine 90 Percent of Hungarians Support NonIntervention
20220304
https://hungarytoday.hu/hungarians-ukraine-foreign-aid/
"Brussels is all talk, and nation states are all action," Orbn said, adding that "waiting for Brussels would create serious problems at the border."Continue reading
Generally, respondents with university diplomas were the most divergent in their responses compared to the other three categories. The most noticeable element of their responses overall is that they voice greater support for Ukraine over Russia, and are generally critical of non-intervention.
"By launching a war against Ukraine, Putin has attacked the entire European community - and Ukraine is defending not only its own country, but also Europe," the opposition said.Continue reading
Related articlePMO Head: Ukrainian Situation Different from Hungary in 1956Gergely Gulys answered numerous questions regarding the government's approach to sanctions, its knowledge regarding the conflict itself, the historical relevance of the war, and Hungary's relationship with Russia looking forward.Continue reading
Related articleOpposition Slams Orbn Gov't Arms Delivery Veto to Ukraine"By launching a war against Ukraine, Putin has attacked the entire European community - and Ukraine is defending not only its own country, but also Europe," the opposition said.Continue reading
Related articlePress Roundup: Different Takes on Hungarys Dependency on Russian GasA pro-government columnist lambasts the opposition for demanding more independence from Russian energy imports. A liberal pundit accuses the government of compromising moral values by doing business with authoritarian regimes.Continue reading
Opinio conducted a rapid poll on behalf of Euronews on the same subject, but with different questions. The poll found that Hungarians are divided on multiple issues, with the only question relative consensus was found in 60 percent agreement being the view that Hungary has gotten too close to Russia over the past few years.
Gergely Gulys answered numerous questions regarding the government's approach to sanctions, its knowledge regarding the conflict itself, the historical relevance of the war, and Hungary's relationship with Russia looking forward.Continue reading
Hungarians have shared their views on key questions about the war between Ukraine and Russia in two large-scale surveys. The findings of pro-government Szzadvg indicate that Hungarian viewpoints are most divided on who is responsible for the war, while nearly everyone agrees that Hungary should stay out of the conflict militarily, and prioritize national security. A rapid poll by Opinio found that Hungary is virtually cut in half regarding their interpretation of the conflict. While 51 percent view it as the disagreement of two nations, 49 percent see it as outright Russian aggression. A quarter of Opinios respondents say Ukraine should be given more support.
For example, the majority of university-educated respondents say Ukraine should be given more support and that weapon shipments to Ukraine should not be obstructed. On the other hand, majorities in all three other categories support a policy of non-intervention and the disallowing of weapon shipments through Hungarian territory.
Related articleOrbn: NATO Will Only Protect Hungary "if We Are Ready to Protect Ourselves""Brussels is all talk, and nation states are all action," Orbn said, adding that "waiting for Brussels would create serious problems at the border."Continue reading
Finally, 91 percent of respondents agree with the statement that Russias threats are not helpful, tensions should be deescalated, 6 percent disagree, and 3 percent are uncertain or did not respond.
The opinion poll was conducted between March 1 and 2 through the organizations smartphone application, with the involvement of 900 people, representative according to sex, age, occupation, and location.
A pro-government columnist lambasts the opposition for demanding more independence from Russian energy imports. A liberal pundit accuses the government of compromising moral values by doing business with authoritarian regimes.Continue reading
Taking both opinion polls into consideration, a broad conclusion can be drawn that the majority of Hungarians generally support a policy of non-intervention, but have a divergence on opinions regarding Hungarys relationship with Russia and the question of who is responsible for the war. Other than Szzadvgs policy of non-intervention question, there were significant amounts of responses opposing the majority on every subject.
Opinio also broke its responses down according to education. Aside from the total responses, the responses from people who finished elementary school, those who finished trade school, those who finished high school, and those who finished university are also included.
Szzadvgs survey was intended to map out who the Hungarian public views as responsible for the conflict, what it thinks about Hungarys relationship with Russia, and what it thinks about Hungarys course of action in the conflict.
