Poor Elijahs Almanack Munich
20220224
https://www.eagletimes.com/opinion/perspective/poor-elijahs-almanack-munich/article_9d7999ec-8b39-50da-aa95-4c428aa521a7.html
This years meeting focused on Russias threatened invasion of Ukraine, which regained its independence in 1991 after being ruled by Russias tsars and then by the communist Soviet Union. Vladimir Putin, Russias current president-autocrat, having massed nearly 200,000 soldiers on Ukraines borders, continues to simultaneously dangle peace and make impossible political demands. The United States, in concert with its allies and partners, has vowed to meet any Russian invasion of Ukraine with crushing economic sanctions.
That particular ignorance regarding Munich and appeasement is the product of carelessness, apathy and the passing of time. We didnt set out to render our children uninformed and defenseless against the tyrants of their century.
Before there were plastic bags, my grandmother lined her kitchen trashcan with yesterdays newspaper. Most news that attracts our attention can safely still be put to rest there after a day or some slightly extended decent interval.
The heart of representative government is our power to choose our leaders. But in order to choose wisely, to frame appropriate questions, to intelligently support or challenge our governments policies and actions, its essential that we exercise informed, sound judgment.
As this years security conference delegates grappled with the crisis in Ukraine, they couldnt have missed the irony that they were meeting in Munich. Munich remains a synonym for shameful appeasement, a model of how not to deal with tyrants.
Britain and France honored their treaty commitments and declared war on Germany. World War II had begun. Appeasement had postponed a war but encouraged a catastrophe.
The annual Munich Security Conference met last week. The conference first convened in 1963 as a forum for NATO member nations to discuss economic and political issues, as well as the procession of crises that roiled the Cold War world. When the Iron Curtain fell and the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, the roster of attendees and the scope of those issues expanded.
Britains Prime Minister Chamberlain famously proclaimed the Munich agreement had secured peace for our time and peace with honor.
Six months after that on Sept. 1, 1939, Hitler invaded Poland. German intelligence agents had staged false flag raids where the casualties presented as evidence of Polish aggression were murdered concentration camp prisoners dressed in German and Polish uniforms. Hitler declared he had no other choice than to meet force with force.
Hitler rose to power in Germany in 1933. He immediately set out to recover German territory lost in World War I and incorporate German-speaking peoples in a new German empire. By 1938, hed reestablished control over German territory bordering France and orchestrated a campaign of political intrigue and assassination that ended with pro-Nazi Austrians inviting the German army and Hitler into Austria, which then became part of Greater Germany.
Im not talking about racial guilt trips for 10-year-olds. We dont have to tear down the White House, but we do have to admit that slaves built it.
In 2014, the Russian army occupied Ukraines Crimean peninsula and aided ethnic Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. Those separatists, armed and supported by Russia, have resumed shelling Ukrainian territory controlled by the Ukrainian government, in violation of a 2015 ceasefire. Putin today recognized two separatist regions as independent states and ordered Russian troops to protect them and their ethnic Russian citizens.
How are our children to learn from the past if we dont teach them the past?
That said, some of what we see in print or on the nightly news will become an enduring part of our collective story. One way to recognize what will become history is to know what has become history.
And when a spotlighted student protester described supporters of American involvement in supplying Ukraine with weapons as largely uninformed, I wondered whether he was including what they, and maybe he, dont know about Munich.
Ive never gone off to war, but I cant help wondering whether one day well regret not having sent more soldiers sooner when Putin, like Hitler, would have been easier to stop.
In September 1938, Hitler turned his attention to Czechoslovakias German-speaking Sudetenland region. After another charade of political agitation and alleged persecution of ethnic Germans, Hitler threatened war if Germany wasnt allowed to occupy the Sudetenland. While Czechoslovakias diplomats waited in a nearby hotel, the leaders of Britain, France and Italy met with Hitler in Munich and agreed to give him the Sudetenland in exchange for his assurance of peace.
Putin has periodically used threats and military force to reassert Russian control over former Soviet territories. Hes commonly launched these acts of aggression under the pretext of defending persecuted ethnic Russian minorities in those newly independent countries.
How many American voters can find Ukraine on a map? Whats a tsar? What were the Cold War and the Iron Curtain? What was the Soviet Union, and why did it go away?
Peter Berger has taught English and history for 30 years. Poor Elijah would be pleased to answer letters addressed to him in care of the editor.
In contrast, states are passing laws that prohibit teaching the unflattering history of race in America. That deliberate negligence will leave our children just as uninformed and defenseless. If slavery made Jefferson tremble at the prospect of Gods wrath on Americas future generations, it cant be unpatriotic to be honest about slaverys evil.
Winston Churchill disagreed. He saw the danger of appeasement, that giving in to Hitler would only lead to more demands and wasnt the way to prevent war. You were given the choice between war and dishonor, he replied. You chose dishonor, and you will have war.
Our myopic narcissism tends to magnify what history will in time ignore. Our birth and death notices may mean the world to those who love us but for most of us, including most kings and presidents, the reports of our deeds and our individual comings and goings pass largely unnoticed.
