Taoiseach views devastation inflicted by Russian forces in Ukraine
20220706
https://waterford-news.ie/2022/07/06/taoiseach-due-to-arrive-in-kyiv-for-series-of-engagements/
His day-long itinerary in the war-torn city began with a trip to Borodyanka  a town on the outskirts of Kyiv that has suffered widespread damage under Russian shelling.
The scale of Ukrainian efforts to defend their capital was evident, with numerous bunkers and fortifications visible on the journey.
The trip comes two weeks after Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy invited Mr Martin to visit Ukraine, which would be the first visit by a Taoiseach to the eastern European country.
Ireland has also taken in more than 36,000 Ukrainian refugees since Russia invaded neighbouring Ukraine at the end of February.
In Borodyanka, Mr Martin met the towns mayor and viewed apartment blocks gutted by fire during the Russian bombardment.
The State has given 20 million in humanitarian support and assistance to the country, as well as health equipment and medical donations worth over 4.5 million.
Michel Martin began a trip to the Ukrainian capital by viewing the conflict-scarred suburbs of Borodyanka, Bucha and Irpin.
The Irish delegation then travelled to nearby Irpin where the Taoiseach was shown badly-damaged apartment blocks that had been hit by Russian shells.
Mr Coveney also visited the town of Bucha on the outskirts of the capital, where suspected killings of civilians prompted global condemnation.
A local cleric showed Mr Martin the site and an associated exhibition of graphic photographs of exhumed bodies and pictures of civilians left dead on the streets of the suburb when Russian forces retreated.
The spirit and resolve of the Ukrainian people has inspired us all, and Ireland will provide every support for Ukraines path to full EU membership, and continue to welcome and support civilians fleeing this war.
Clear how important it is for women and children to get to Ireland to escape trauma and brutality. We stand with Ukraine.
It also comes after Mr Putin on Monday declared victory in seizing the eastern Ukrainian province of Luhansk, with his troops escalating their offensive in neighbouring Donetsk.
Mr Martin has also been a vocal advocate for Ukraines fast-tracked membership of the EU.
In meetings later on Wednesday, Mr Martin will discuss how Ireland and the EU can support Ukraine.
Mr Martin is using the visit to Kyiv to reiterate Irish solidarity with the Ukrainian authorities in the face of the Russian invasion.
The bombardment and attacks on civilians are nothing short of war crimes, and I will use my visit to express Irelands support for moves to hold those behind these attacks fully accountable.
Mr Martin will restate Irelands full backing for continuing sanctions against Russian president Vladimir Putins regime, for Ukraines path to full EU membership, as well as Irelands commitment to work with the EU on the reconstruction of Ukraine.
Afterwards, Mr Martin said: It is difficult to comprehend the devastation and inhumanity of Russias attacks on Irpin, Borodyanka and Bucha.
On the 30-minute drive from the railway station, the Taoiseach passed Hostomel airport, where his convoy stopped to observe a demolished bridge.
The tour included a sombre visit to the site of a mass grave in the grounds of a church in Bucha.
Mr Martin has warned previously that the Russian president appeared to be leveraging its natural gas supplies to exert maximum pressure on Europe ahead of the winter period.
In April, Simon Coveney became the first foreign minister of the UN Security Council to visit Kyiv, and met with Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and defence minister Oleksii Reznikov.
The people of Ireland stand with Ukraine and its people in the face of Russias immoral and unprovoked war of terror, he said.
The Taoiseach witnessed the devastation inflicted by invading Russian forces in Ukraine as he visited areas of Kyiv that have borne the brunt of the offensive on the city.
