Taoiseach backs EU ban on coal and oil imports from Russia
20220306
https://waterford-news.ie/2022/04/05/taoiseach-backs-eu-ban-on-coal-and-oil-imports-from-russia/
Mr Varadkar said that while he does not have sympathy for the Russian Embassy, there are rules in which Ireland must follow when hosting international diplomats.
Weve asked the Secretary General of the department to chair the task-force to deal with the pledges that are arrived in, to progress that as speedily as we can, so that we can take the pressure off, Mr Martin added.
More than 18,000 Ukrainian refugees have arrived in Ireland since the beginning of the war in February.
Meanwhile, it has been reported that the Russian Embassy in Ireland is running out of fuel for heating and hot water following claims that Irish oil companies have refused to deliver supplies.
It comes as the EUs executive branch proposed a ban on coal imports from Russia in what would be the first sanctions targeting the countrys lucrative energy industry over its war in Ukraine.
We have to do everything we possibly can to keep the pressure as a deterrent in this appalling, immoral war on the people of Ukraine.
The Taoiseach said he would back an EU ban on coal and oil imports from Russia over its war in Ukraine.
Shocking scenes of atrocities  in Ukraine by Russian forces must be fully documented  pursued by an International Court. There can be no impunity for crimes like these. International Community has a duty to demand accountability. CIJICJ IntlCrimCourt UNHRC DmytroKuleba https:t.cohmvyDUyKkT
I want to thank all the public servants in all departments including children, justice, housing, local authorities, and across the board for really rising up to this challenge, it has been an enormous challenge which has come very rapidly on the public and has been hot on the heels of the pandemic.
There are particular rules under the Vienna Conventions as to how were supposed to treat diplomats and diplomatic commissions in our country so I think they have to be followed.
The Irish Daily Mirror reported that the embassy has written a letter to Minister for Foreign Affairs Simon Coveneys department about the issue.
I actually didnt have the chance to read that article so I dont know the details.
She added that the EU has already started working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports.
Michel Martin said the European Union must keep adding pressure on Moscow to stop its appalling and immoral war on the people of Ukraine.
European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said the EU needed to increase the pressure on Russian president Vladimir Putin after what she described as the heinous crimes carried out around Kyiv.
Speaking before the proposed ban, Mr Martin said that Ireland is pressing its EU counterparts for the strongest possible sanctions.
We would favour the inclusion of oil and coal in this latest round of sanctions given the indiscriminate murder of civilians in Ukraine, Mr Martin said.
A consensus among the 27 EU member countries on targeting gas would be more difficult to secure.
The Government has in recent days sought additional accommodation in hotels and is seeking other ways to increase supply.
