What the papers say Mondays front pages
20220314
https://waterford-news.ie/2022/03/14/what-the-papers-say-mondays-front-pages-12/
The Irish Daily Mail also leads with comments from the Taoiseach that the Covid fund may be used to help those fleeing Ukraine.
Metro reports Britons have been urged to open their homes to people fleeing the war.
The strike prompted a warning from the European-American alliance and was cast as a significant escalation by the UK, according to The Guardian.
The Daily Telegraph quotes cabinet minister Michael Gove as saying the Russian leader was pushing the boundaries of warfare.
The Sun says 35 people were killed when Russia struck a Ukrainian military base close to Nato-member Polands border, in a story also covered by The Independent.
The i picks up the story and reports the move means Vladimir Putin has brought war to door of Nato, in a line echoed by the Daily Express and The Times.
And the Belfast Telegraph reports that Translink has apologised after children were locked in a luggage area during a school bus run.
Morning readers! Stay with beltel for all your breaking news. Heres a look at the front page of the Belfast Telegraph this morning https:t.coZFlfbJQwqj pic.twitter.comjIDD9Wdczp
The Financial Times and the Daily Mail say the strike has sent a warning signal to Nato amid fears the invasion could spread beyond Ukraine, with the Daily Mirror reporting Mr Putin has the West in his sights.
Just published: front page of the Financial Times, UK edition, Monday 14 March https:t.covvLX06UhA5 pic.twitter.comrJvINjSCAM
The Irish Examiner reports that the 4 billion Covid contingency fund may be used to pay for the services required by Ukrainian refugees.
The Irish Times leads with a US warning to Russia after a missile attack killed dozens near the Polish border.
Guardian front page, Monday 14 March 2022: Russia escalates war in Ukraine with attack close to Nato border pic.twitter.comh4dmPbd5sr
Meanwhile, the Irish Daily Mirror says that the West is in Putins sight after the attack close to a Nato member raises concerns.
On tomorrows front page: Russia airstrike hits just 11 miles from Nato border killing 35 at basehttps:t.co4xPjLsxnso pic.twitter.comuFyuzMT6Gk
And the Daily Star cites the worlds top spy network as saying Mr Putin invaded Ukraine because he is pumped up on steroids.
In the UK, a significant escalation by Russian forces in Ukraine, as fears mount over Moscows intentions, leads many of the national papers.
