County stands united with Ukraine
20220304
https://www.devondispatch.ca/news/local-news/county-stands-united-with-ukraine
Within the first 48 hours, the CAO was already being approached by residents and staff with stories of how family members and friends in Ukraine were enduring the invasionIt brings it close to home and humanizes it, even though its on the other side of the world.
Upon news of the Russian invasion emerging overnight last Wednesday night and into early Thursday morning, plans quickly fell together locally to show solidarity with Ukraine.
Strathcona County is home to a vibrant population of Ukrainian-Canadians, many of whom are fearing for family and friends in Ukraine,the mayor said. Lets continue to come together as a community to express our support for our extended family and friends in Ukraine.
As I watched the news about the invasion what I felt was empathy, compassion and sadness for the Ukrainian people.I cant image being in that situation where your country is being invaded, statedStrathcona County CAO Darrell Reid.We wanted to absolutely show support for the people of Ukraine, but also for the huge Ukrainian-Canadian community that live here in Strathcona County, as well as the number of Ukrainian-Canadians who work for Strathcona County. It was certainly something that was clearly communicated that this was important.
Students sang both the Canadian and Ukraine anthems, as well as saying the Lords Prayer in Ukrainian.
Leading the students was Lesia Pohoreski,St. Theresa teacher and Ukrainian program lead. Some students have parents who were born in Ukraine or distant relatives still living there.
Strathcona County organized a flag raising ceremony at Volunteer Square just after noon on Friday, Feb. 25. Members of council, administration and staff were joined bySt. Theresa Catholic School students and teachers, who create homemade posters decrying war and Putins power, as well as supporting Ukraine.
The purpose of us coming out today was to show solidarity and to show support, and we believe in it. Faith, language, and culture is what we do, she said.
It was hard. I was in disbelief and denial,Pohoreski said. My parents came from Ukraine. My family, bless them, are in western Ukraine, and I do have cousins who live in Russia, thats just how it is with working. I have a lot of friends in Kyiv and around the country, and for me, thats the most difficult part. Just knowing that my friends right now, some of them are in the metro subway. I have a friend who is there with a wife and a small child. I am having a hard time processing that information. As I watched the news, I message them to ask them if theyre all right and they said they were packing a suitcase. The next day, I asked if they were okay, and they said they couldnt get out of the city, so they were going to a bunker.
Its the waiting game right now. You dont know where the next move will be, and people are on edge. Whether youre affected by it directly or not, just being Ukrainian, you feel that, the Ukrainian language and music teacher added.
Mayor Rod Frank, who was attending an all-day Edmonton Metropolitan Regional Board meeting on Friday later made a statement during Tuesdays council meeting.
Ukraines flag is expected to remain flying in Volunteer Centre indefinitely and the county also lit up the Community Centre and Festival Place in blue and yellow later that evening.
He encouraged anyone needing mental health supports to reach out to the countys Family and Community Services by calling 780-464-4044 or going online to strathcona.cafcs. Donations can also be made through the Canada-Ukraine Foundation cufoundation.com or the Canadian Red Cross redcross.ca.
With direct ties to Ukraine herself, her voice broke, and eyes filled when asked what her reaction to the Russian invasion was.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
