Millers Ice Cream to celebrate seasonal grand opening with Ukraine fundraiser
20220429
https://www.devondispatch.ca:443/news/millers-ice-cream-to-celebrate-seasonal-grand-opening-with-ukraine-fundraiser
The Legate family, owners of local ice cream shop Millers Ice Cream, will be celebrating the Fort Saskatchewan business seasonal grand opening this weekend, while fundraising for a special cause.
The local business has a long history in the Fort. Since 1985, Millers Ice Cream has been owned by four local families. Erwin and Neva Miller opened the shop, then Laura and Bill Tidwell took over, followed by Les and Nora Belanger until the Legate family took ownership in 2015.
Millers is open from 11:30am to 9:30pm every day and will be open for the entirety of the summer season.
Ice cream? Good! Ice cream for a cause? Even better! the local business posted to social media.To aid Ukraine during the ongoing conflict, 50 per cent of our proceeds will be going toward Firefighter Aid Ukraine. FAU is an Edmonton non-profit organization that has been providing critical firefighting and life rescue gear, medical supplies, and funds to Ukraine for nearly a decade.
Since our ownership in 2015, time has flown by and it has been a whirlwind of business obstacles yet amazing memories! Millers new location in the beautiful Legacy Park still carries that Mom and Pop shop feel and will continue to create nostalgic memories in the City of Fort Saskatchewan, the Legate family said in a statement last summer.
Last year, the local business debuted their new CN Rail location, at 10030 99 Avenue in downtown Fort Saskatchewan.
On Saturday, April 30 from 11:30am to 9:30pm, Millers Ice Cream will be raising funds to support Ukraine amid the ongoing conflict.
More information about the ice cream shops hours and future events is available on the Millers Ice Cream Facebook page.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
