Proud of provincial support for Ukraine
20220311
https://www.devondispatch.ca/opinion/columnists/proud-of-provincial-support-for-ukraine
The pandemic highlighted a need to expand our healthcare system and increase capacity. In response, Budget 2022 increases Alberta Healths operating expense budget by $600 million this year and by a total of $1.8 billion by 2024-25. This will ensure we have the capacity we need to protect patient care and prepare for future crises.
More than 350,000 Albertans are of Ukrainian descent, myself included. When this fighting began, Albertas United Conservative government wasted no time acting to support the people of Ukraine, contributing a total $10.3 million for much needed supports. This includes $5 million donated through the Ukrainian World Congress to equip 5,000 members of the Ukrainian Territorial Defence Force with defensive equipment, including flak jackets, helmets, bulletproof vests, first-aid kits, night-vision goggles, communications equipment, and essential fuel.
The situation in Ukraine has put a damper on the good economic news in Alberta, but I still want to update you on some exciting announcements from our balanced budget.
With our balance sheet back in the black, the lowest taxes in Canada, and essentially all restrictions now lifted  Alberta is starting to feel like Alberta again.
Nate Glubish is the MLA for Strathcona-Sherwood Park. If you have questions about this column or any provincial government issues, he would like to hear from you. Contact Glubishs constituency office at 780-416-2492 or by email to strathcona.sherwoodparkassembly.ab.ca.
Finally Budget 2022 invests almost $3.7 billion, a 6.3 per cent increase over last year, into continuing care programs and services for seniors and vulnerable Albertans. It also earmarks $204 million in capital funding over three years to modernize existing continuing care facilities across the province and develop new continuing care spaces for Indigenous Peoples.
I stand with the people of Ukraine and their elected government as they fight for their freedom against the unbridled evil of Vladimir Putin and his regime.
Albertans are some of the most generous people on earth. For those wishing to donate to the humanitarian efforts in Ukraine, please visit the Canada-Ukraine Foundation donation portal at CanadaHelps.org.
Budget 2022 also contains an increase of over $700 million over three years to support teachers and to address cost pressures in schools, as well as $110 million in new funding over three years to support the mental health and wellbeing of Alberta students.
The war in Ukraine is proof that the world needs more Canadian oil and that our country must build energy infrastructure and boost oil exports. Alberta is a rights-respecting liberal democracy with the third largest energy reserves in the world. We can be a major force for global stability by displacing conflict oil from Russia and other dictatorships with Alberta oil. Premier Kenney travelled to Houston this week to speak with US policymakers and leaders of the largest global energy companies to make the case for Alberta oil as a solution to international energy security.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Ukrainian Albertans have contributed so much to our provinces communities, culture, and economy, so Im glad we could contribute to the effort in Ukraine at a time when support is most needed.
