Fresh shelling at Ukraine power plant as operator warns of radiation risk
20220827
https://www.enca.com/news/fresh-shelling-ukraine-power-plant-operator-warns-radiation-risk
Residents closer to the plant told AFP earlier this month that they received iodine pills at the very start of the war.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine -- which this week entered its seventh month -- has also prompted a wider global energy crisis.
Russia's defence ministry said Ukrainian forces "shelled the territory of the station three times" from the town of Marganets across the Dnipro River.
The Zaporizhzhia plant in southern Ukraine has been occupied by Russian troops since early March.
The agency said that as of midday Saturday 0900 GMT the plant "operates with the risk of violating radiation and fire safety standards".
Kyiv and Moscow have repeatedly accused each other of rocket attacks in the vicinity of the plant -- Europe's largest -- located in the city of Energodar.
Britain's defence ministry said satellite imagery showed an increased presence of Russian troops at the power plant with armoured personnel carriers deployed within 60 metres of one reactor.
Moscow says 3.6 million Ukrainian nationals, including 587,000 children, have come to Russia since the start of the offensive in late February.
The EU presidency has said it will hold an emergency summit to address the crisis as the winter months approach.
French finance minister Bruno Le Maire pledged on Saturday to keep electricity costs in check.
On Friday both Germany and France reported that they expected electricity prices next year to increase tenfold over those this year.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the power cut was caused by Russian shelling of the last active power line linking the plant to the network.
But Zerkal told Ukraine's Radio NV late Thursday she was sceptical the mission would go ahead, despite Moscow's formal agreement, as "they are artificially creating all the conditions so that the mission will not reach the site".
Russia and Ukraine have repeatedly accused each other of shelling in and around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
Russia's defence ministry issued a counter-claim that Ukraine's troops were responsible for a salvo of 17 shells landing on the site.
It came back online on Friday afternoon but Zelensky warned "the worst case scenario ... is constantly being provoked by Russian forces".
In a communique the ministry accused Kyiv of "nuclear terrorism" and said shells landed near areas storing fresh nuclear fuel and radioactive waste.
Paris has put in place an energy price cap to shield households until December 31 and Le Maire said that next year's expected hikes would be "contained increases".
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA is urging for a mission to the plant "as soon as possible to help stabilise the nuclear safety and security situation there".
On Thursday, the Zaporizhzhia plant was cut off from Ukraine's national power grid for the first time in its four-decade history due to "actions of the invaders", Energoatom said.
"As a result of periodic shelling, the infrastructure of the station has been damaged, there are risks of hydrogen leakage and sputtering of radioactive substances, and the fire hazard is high," Energoatom said on Telegram.
On Tuesday residents in Khortytskyi district -- 45 kilometres 29 miles north-east from the power plant -- were given iodine pills to reduce radiation risk in case of a leak.
"The electricity that it produces rightly belongs to Ukraine," State Department spokesman Vedant Patel told reporters, saying attempts to redirect power to occupied areas were "unacceptable".
Kyiv suspects Moscow intends to divert power from the Zaporizhzhia plant to the Crimean peninsula, annexed by Russia in 2014. Washington has warned against any such move.
Ukraine energy minister adviser Lana Zerkal said an IAEA inspection"is planned for the next week".
Meanwhile on Saturday, Russia published a decree that makes it easier for Ukrainian citizens to live and work in Russia by scrapping work permits and allowing indefinite residency.
Many civilian buildings, like this one in Mariupol, have been destroyed during the six months of the war.
Agency head Rafael Mariano Grossi has said he wants to visit the site within days, warning of potential disaster.
On Saturday its Ukraine operator Energoatom said Russian troops "repeatedly shelled" it over the past day.
Meanwhile the EU -- which declares itself a staunch ally of Ukraine -- has vowed to wean its 27 member states off Russian energy to protest the nation's attack on its neighbour.
Ukraine and Russia traded fresh accusations of shelling at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on Saturday, as its operator warned of a radioactive leak risk at the atomic facility.
