War in Ukraine  Biden meets top Ukrainian ministers in Warsaw
20220326
https://www.enca.com/news/war-ukraine-biden-meets-top-ukrainian-ministers-warsaw
Since then, Kuleba also met Blinken in Poland next to the border with Ukraine on March 5.
POLAND - Joe Biden on Saturday in Warsaw met two Ukrainian ministers in the first face-to-face talks between the US president and top Kyiv officials since Russia's invasion began.
On Friday, the US president spoke to US soldiers stationed in Poland near the Ukrainian border and aid workers helping refugees fleeing the conflict.
He praised Ukrainians for showing "backbone" against the Russian invasion and compared their resistance to the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests in China in 1989.
He also referred to Russian President Vladimir Putin as "a man who, quite frankly, I think is a war criminal".
Biden said he would have liked to see the devastation caused by the conflict "first-hand".
Biden last met Kuleba in Washington on February 22 -- two days before Russia began its assault.
Later on Saturday, he is due to visit a reception centre for refugees and give a major speech on the conflict.
Speaking to the troops, he said: "You're in the midst of a fight between democracies and autocrats. What you're doing is consequential, really consequential."
The meeting took place at the Marriott Hotel in the city centre -- opposite a Warsaw train station where there has been a constant flow of Ukrainian refugees since the conflict started.
US President Joe Biden speaks with Russian President Vladimir Putin from the presidential retreat in Camp David, Maryland. AFPWhite House
Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov made a rare trip out of Ukraine in a possible sign of growing confidence in the fightback against Russian forces.
After talking to the Ukrainian ministers, Biden met with Polish President Andrzej Duda at the presidential palace.
Biden could be seen seated at a long white table between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, facing Kuleba and Reznikov, an AFP reporter said.
Blinken and Austin "pledged continued support to meet Ukraine's humanitarian, security, and economic needs," he added.
Biden is on the second and final day of a visit to Poland after he met with EU and NATO leaders in Brussels earlier in the week.
The officials discussed "the United States' unwavering commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity," State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters.
