WATCH  US allies lambast Russia over Ukraine at UN Security Council
20220222
https://www.enca.com/news/us-allies-lambast-russia-over-ukraine-un-security-council
Russia -- which currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council -- had wanted the session to be closed, but the United States insisted it be public.
Multiple countries requested the UN Security Council hold an emergency meeting on the Ukraine crisis
In a lengthy televised national address announcing his recognition of the rebel-held areas, Putin railed against Ukraine as a failed state and "puppet" of the West, repeatedly suggesting it was essentially part of Russia.
"The next hours and days will be critical," DiCarlo said. "The risk of major conflict is real and needs to be prevented at all costs."
Putin's order has been widely seen as paving the way for an operation to deploy part of the potential invasion force he has massed on Ukraine's borders.
"Russia has brought us to the brink. We urge Russia to step back," Woodward said, as China called for restraint by "all sides."
"He calls them peacekeepers. This is nonsense. We know what they really are," Thomas-Greenfield said.
Martin Kimani of Kenya pointed out that many countries were "birthed by the ending of empire" and urged against "dangerous nostalgia" for past borders, saying Russia's move "breaches the territorial integrity of Ukraine."
Speaking before the UN late Monday, Kyslytsya challenged the Security Council to defy Russian intimidation, saying: "The United Nations is sick."
British envoy Barbara Woodward said the council must be united in urging Russia to "de-escalate" and "respect its obligations."
Multiple countries had requested Monday's emergency meeting based on a letter from Ukraine that demanded its representative be able to attend.
UNITED NATIONS - The United States and its allies rounded on Russia during an emergency Security Council session Monday, denouncing Vladimir Putin's recognition of rebel-held areas in Ukraine and his ordered deployment of troops as a gross violation of international law and "pretext for war."
The Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, voiced "regret" that Russian troops were ordered to eastern Ukraine.
Her remarks came just before a White House spokesperson told AFP that Washington on Tuesday would impose sanctions on Moscow following Putin's order.
"Allowing a new bloodbath in the Donbass is something we do not intend to do," he added, referring to the region encompassing Donetsk and Lugansk.
Addressing the council, US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield heaped scorn on Putin's assertion that the Russian troops would take on a peacekeeping role in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.
Putin's recognition of the separatist republics effectively buries a fragile 2015 peace plan for the conflict, and opens the door for direct Russian military involvement.
Moscow provided no details or date for any deployment of the "peacekeeping" forces, only saying that it "comes into force from the day it was signed."
Thomas-Greenfield said the speech amounted to a "series of outrageous, false claims" that were aimed at "creating a pretext for war."
Meanwhile, Russia's ambassador to the UN, Vasily Nebenzya, said Moscow is still "open to diplomacy for a diplomatic solution" -- but warned against what he dubbed Ukrainian aggression.
Geraldine Byrne Nason, Ireland's ambassador to the UN, called Russia's actions "a flagrant violation of international law," saying the "unilateral step" had "cast into doubt all the diplomatic efforts of past weeks."
"Multilateralism lies on its deathbed tonight. It has been assaulted today, as it has been by other powerful states in the recent past," Kimani said.
Ukraine's UN representative Sergiy Kyslytsya R talks with US ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield during an emergency Security Council meeting on the Ukraine crisis, in New York
"It's been hit by the virus spread by the Kremlin. Will it succumb to this virus?" he said.
