Ukrainian producer Denis Ivanov sends an open letter about the boycott of Russian cinema and culture
20220303
https://www.cineuropa.org/en/newsdetail/422666/
In these circumstances, I sincerely wonder about the position, that I endlessly read about in the press and online that: 'culture is out of politics', 'we have to hear opposition voices', 'boycott will put limits to artistic expression'.
Their 'artistic expression' is limited by these circumstances. On behalf of them, Im asking for support of our boycott of Russian cinema at all international film events and all international organizations until Russian government will end up in Hague.
Films that are made out of the state financing system are financed by funds of oligarchs, like Roman Abramovich's fund KINOPRIME. These oligarchs became rich because they were and mainly are close to power. They helped Mr. Putin to get his influence and agreed with the actions of his regime. They are using their funds for cinema support to clean their reputation in the West.
Russian cinema is funded by the Russian State and most of the films are supported by the Russian Ministry of culture or state-backed Cinema Fund. That means that at the beginning of each film there will be their logos. Logos of the State, responsible for the genocide of Ukrainians.
This is part of a series of open letters about the war that we are receiving from Ukrainian talent - read all of them here.
Ukrainian producer Denis Ivanov Oleh Sentsov's Rhinosee also: filmreviewtrailerfilmprofile, Sergei Loznitsa's Donbasssee also: filmreviewtrailerinterview: Sergei Loznitsafilmprofile has sent an open letter about the boycott of Russian cinema and culture.
Ukrainian film professionals have now gone to the army, or are helping as volunteers, or taking cover from Russian missiles in shelters, or evacuating their families from the war zone.
Did you enjoy reading this article? Please subscribe to our newsletter to receive more stories like this directly in your inbox.
The best Russian filmmakers can do now is to refuse to represent their country in international events and make a statement about it. This act of solidarity would be the most clear and eloquent anti-war message to the world and Ukrainians than their statements in social media that they are 'against war'. Its not the right time for red carpets for our dear Russian colleagues.
Up until yesterday, missile attacks took place in civilian buildings, kindergartens, hospitals, and schools. Around 600 thousand Ukrainians already flew to Europe, more than 2000 Ukrainian civilians were reported dead and dozens of children are among them.
Most of the Russian 'opposition' directors can work only because they were allowed to work by Putins regime. They have their roles in the play, written and directed in Kremlin. Presentation of their work at film festivals has the only aim - to falsely show that Russia is part of the so-called civilized world. Inside Russia, each participation of a film in the film festival would be a sign that 'business as usual' is possible, even in the times of mass murder of Ukrainian civilians.
03032022 - The producer points out that Russian cinema is funded by the Russian State, "responsible for the genocide of Ukrainians"
Check out our Co-Production Podcast about Rhino, with the participation of Denis Ivanov Arthouse Traffic Film alongside Cineuropas editor-in-chief,Domenico La Porta, producersDariusz JablonskiApple Film Production, Poland andHeino Deckert Ma.ja.de. Filmproduktions, Germany, an episode that runs five minutes longer than usual due to important contextual information related to the director, who was unjustly incarcerated at the beginning of the production process.
"I think some festival selectors, film professionals and cultural managers just do not get what is happening in Ukraine. This war of aggression by the Russians has turned into a war on independence and a war for values and rights. It is, first of all, the genocide of Ukrainians. And you can follow it almost live online via news outlets and social media.
