Johnson Putins abhorrent actions in Ukraine could be war crimes
20220302
https://www.readingchronicle.co.uk/news/national/19963340.johnson-putins-abhorrent-actions-ukraine-war-crimes/
Asked whether Boris Johnson regarded the Russian attack on the Kyiv holocaust memorial at Babi Yar or the targeting of apartment blocks as war crimes, the Prime Ministers official spokesman said: I think all of those youve listed could fall in that category.
There was huge amounts of low morale in the Russian forces, weve seen lots of surrenders.
The risk of a Nato-Russia clash was underlined by Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, who warned a third world war will be nuclear, and devastating.
However, he added: But that doesnt take away from the fact you have a very ruthless Russian armed forces leadership and a president who seems to know no limit to how much violence they will use to achieve their aims.
Mr Johnson announced the Government would match donations to the Disasters Emergency Committees Ukraine appeal, starting with 20 million.
Sir Keir, who called for Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich to face sanctions, said: Now is the time to sanction every oligarch and crack open every shell company so we can prove Putin wrong.
The Defence Secretary again rejected calls for the UK and its allies to enforce a no-fly zone in the skies above Ukraine, because shooting down a Russian plane could trigger a Europe-wide conflict between Mr Putin and Nato.
The UN General Assembly will vote on Wednesday on a resolution demanding that Russia immediately stops using force against Ukraine and withdraws its military from the country.
He told BBC Breakfast that despite the presence of Russian troops, none of the major cities have been taken control of.
If you had a no-fly zone in Ukraine, the overwhelming scale of the Russian army would be able to drive around with impunity, which it cant at the moment.
The Prime Minister spoke to Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday morning, promising further support and weapons for the forces resisting Russias military.
Mr Wallace told Sky News that meant a plan to carpet-bomb cities, indiscriminately in some cases and on BBC Radio 4s Today he warned Russian forces would pummel these cities with artillery and then hope to break the city.
Ukrainian ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko was given a standing ovation by MPs in the Commons.
Obviously, formally it will be for a criminal court to make that ruling but I think no-one can be in any doubt that what were seeing daily, almost hourly now, are horrific acts that would certainly appear to be war crimes.
At Prime Ministers Questions, Mr Johnson said: Putin has gravely miscalculated in his abhorrent assault on a sovereign nation, he has underestimated the extraordinary fortitude of the Ukrainian people and the unity and resolve of the free world in standing up to his barbarism.
Strikes that damaged the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial in Kyiv and the central square in Kharkiv have caused revulsion, and Western allies fear it is a sign of a shift in Russian tactics towards indiscriminate targeting of urban areas.
The Prime Minister said the vice is tightening on the Putin regime as he was urged by Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer to ramp up sanctions against oligarch allies of the Russian leader.
Boris Johnson accused Vladimir Putin of committing war crimes as he condemned abhorrent attacks on the citizens of Ukraine.
The European Union announced that seven Russian banks were being excluded from the Swift system which allows fast and efficient interbank transactions.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Karim Khan, has said he plans to open an investigation into events in Ukraine and Mr Johnson told MPs: What we have seen already from Vladimir Putins regime in the use of the munitions that they have already been dropping on innocent civilians, in my view, already fully qualifies as a war crime.
Mr Wallace warned that an occupying force would face the kind of insurgency faced by the Soviets in Afghanistan or the UK and Western allies in Iraq.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Mr Putin knows no limit and will seek to pummel cities in tactics reminiscent of medieval siege warfare.
But he said the UK had led the way in supplying surface-to-air weapons systems to Ukraine.
The tactics had been used in Chechnya but Ukraine is a different proposition because of its size and population.
The lack of progress in meeting the aims of the invasion had led to a change in tactics, focusing on aerial and artillery bombardment of cities rather than the kind of lightning mobilised armoured advances originally envisaged by the Kremlin, Western military experts believe.
The UK fears the Russian leader will unleash even greater force against Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities in the coming days.
More than 2,000 civilians have died since the invasion, Ukraines state emergency service said, although that figure has not been independently verified.
A no-fly zone would also have to apply to Ukrainian jets, meaning they could not target Russian forces from the air, he added.
Russia said it would be ready for further peace talks with Ukraine later on Wednesday.
But Mr Wallace said the advance of Russian forces continued to be slowed by a combination of overstretched logistics, poor morale and brave resistance by Ukrainian fighters.
The Ministry of Defence said the latest intelligence suggested Russian forces had reportedly also moved into the centre of Kherson in south Ukraine.
The UNs refugee agency believes more than 874,000 people have fled Ukraine since the invasion last week and the figure could reach a million within hours.
