Pangbourne couple host family fleeing Russia Ukraine war
20220328
https://www.readingchronicle.co.uk/news/20025705.pangbourne-couple-host-family-fleeing-russia-ukraine-war/
There are other families in Pangbourne who are doing the same and we hope to bring together families who have come over from you Ukraine in the community.
Attacks on Ukraines capital Kyiv are continuing through the night, citizens of Chernihiv have been left starving and drinking sewage water, and those in Mariupol are being forcefully deported across the Russian border, according to Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko speaking to Times Radio.
She said that any donations for the boy, such as toys, would be greatly appreciated and that she was searching for any employers who could offer his mother, 37, who is trained in marketing, a job.
Its going to be a major adaption for us but my husband and I took the view that well manage, well do it.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Were trying to get things ready in the house because all my children are grown up so we havent had a two-year-old in the house for many years, said Mrs Egan.
Two of Caroline Egans three children have left home, so she and her husband Graeme offered their spare rooms to a family fleeing Putins invasion.
The boys father remains in Ukraine after men of conscription age, 18 to 60, were banned from leaving the country on February 24, but he hopes to join his family as soon as he is allowed.
Were very excited to be helping and supporting them and were very looking forward to meeting them and welcoming them to Pangbourne and the UK.
These people need our help and I dont think we can afford to turn a blind eye, said Mrs Egan, 53.
A couple who live near Reading are set to host a Ukrainian refugee and her two-year-old son as part of the Homes for Ukraine Scheme.
Theres lots of reasons why you could decide not to do it but actually theres extremely good reasons why you should.
