Will Russias allies support their invasion of Ukraine
20220225
https://www.readingchronicle.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19948488.will-russias-allies-support-invasion-ukraine/
PresidentAlexander Lukashenko is alreadya staunch supporter of Vladimir Putin, and according to Al Jazeera would support the invasion to help secure his own position leading the country.
He added thatRussia does not have a goal to occupy Ukraine, but said the responsibility for bloodshed lies with the Ukrainian regime.
In an article on the international relations magazine The National Interest, Defense Editor Kris Osborn detailed what China's response might be to an invasion of Ukraine.
He said: "This is a matter of money. When talking about the dangers of war, he can always negotiate some funds either for updating the military or simply for financial support."
Earlier today Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that Russia will conduct amilitary operation in Ukraine.
Belarus had held joint military drills with Russia in its country, which shares a long border with Ukraine, in the build-up to what was an eventual invasion.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Western governments are now making their move, but the question remains as to how Russia's own allies will respond to the invasion?
As reported by The Express, the Levada Centre - a Russian non-Governmental organisation - conducted a survey in May 2021 surveying1,620 Russian residents on who Russia's allies and enemies were.
In a televised address early on Thursday morning,Mr Putinsaid the action comes in response to threats coming from Ukraine.
On Tuesday February 22 he urged Ukrainians to stop their confrontation with Russia  and abandon their US masters.
From that survey their main allies were summarised to be Belarus with 58 of those surveyed saying they were a main ally, China 38 and Kazakhstan 34.
The argument was made that China could be "emboldened" by Russia's successful invasion of Ukraine andseize the opportunity toinvadeand annex Taiwan.
Armenia and India rounded up the top five, but had a lesser percentage than the other three countries.
Previously Al Jazeera has reported that China wanted"all sides involved in the Ukraine crisis remain calm and avoid increasing tension" but at the same time to see Russia's security concerns taken seriously.
Videos on social media have shown missile strikes launching into Ukraine, and PresidentVolodymyr Zelensky has declared a state of martial law.
Ihar Tyshkevich, a Belarusian expert based in Kyiv, also told Al Jazeera that finance could be a key reason for Lukashenko's continued support of this crisis.
