Zelensky seeks tough global response after 52 killed at Ukrainian train station
20220409
https://www.readingchronicle.co.uk/news/national/20057197.zelensky-seeks-tough-global-response-52-killed-ukrainian-train-station/
Photos taken after the attack showed bodies covered with tarpaulins and the remnants of a rocket painted with the words For the children in Russian.
Like the massacres in Bucha, like many other Russian war crimes, the missile attack on Kramatorsk should be one of the charges at the tribunal that must be held, Mr Zelensky said.
The railways do not stop the task of taking everyone to safety, the statement on the messaging app Telegram said.
The attack came as workers elsewhere in the country unearthed bodies from a mass grave in Bucha, a town near Kyiv, where graphic evidence of dozens of killings emerged following the withdrawal of Russian forces.
Western experts, however, dismissed Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskovs assertion that Russian forces do not use that type of missile.
There are almost no words for it, European Union Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told reporters during a visit to Ukraine. The cynical behaviour by Russia has almost no benchmark any more.
Mr Bronk pointed to other occasions when Russian authorities have tried to deflect blame by claiming their forces no longer use an older weapon to kind of muddy the waters and try and create doubt. He suggested Russia specifically chose the missile type because Ukraine also possesses them.
Mr Zelenskys voice rose in anger during his nightly address on Friday, when he said the strike on the Kramatorsk train station, where 4,000 people were trying to flee a looming Russian offensive in the east, amounted to another war crime.
Five children were among the dead and dozens of people were severely injured, Ukrainian officials said.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
All world efforts will be directed to establish every minute of who did what, who gave what orders, where the missile came from, who transported it, who gave the command and how this strike was agreed, the president said.
Although the train station is in Ukrainian government-controlled territory in the Donbas, Russia accused Ukraine of carrying out the attack, as did the regions Moscow-backed separatists who work closely with Russian troops.
Ukraines state railway company said that residents of the countrys contested Donbas region, where Russia has refocused its forces after failing to take over the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, could flee through other train stations on Saturday.
Russia denied it was responsible for the strike and accused Ukraines military of firing the missile as a false-flag operation so Moscow would be blamed for civilian deaths.
More than 4 million Ukrainians have fled the country, and millions more have been displaced. Some of the grisliest evidence has been found in towns around Ukraines capital, Kyiv, from which Russian President Vladimir Putins troops pulled back in recent days.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said he wants a tough global response to Russia after its forces fired a missile at a crowded train station, killing at least 52 people.
Justin Bronk, a research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute in London, added that only Russia would have reason to target railway infrastructure in the Donbas, as it is critical for the Ukrainian militarys efforts to reinforce its units.
After failing to take Kyiv in the face of stiff resistance, Russian forces have set their sights on the eastern Donbas region, the mostly Russian-speaking, industrial area where Moscow-backed rebels have been fighting Ukrainian forces for eight years and control some places.
A Western official said Russias forces have used the missile  and that given the strikes location and impact, it was likely Russias.
Ukrainian authorities and Western officials have repeatedly accused Russian forces of atrocities in the war that began on February 24.
In Bucha, Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk has said investigators found at least three sites of mass shootings of civilians and were still finding bodies in yards, parks and city squares  90 of whom were shot.
The Russian phrasing seemed to suggest the missile was sent to avenge the loss or subjugation of children, although its exact meaning remained unclear.
