An RT Editor Walks Out OAN Subpoenas  Winners  Losers in Todays Green Room
20220303
https://www.mediaite.com/online/green-room-winner-loser-03-02-22/
Baronovas move to the state-funded network was a baffling choice, and her explanation for it was thin.But publicly criticizing the invasion, and walking out of RT, was the right thing to do. And its a public blow to RT, which wasjust shut downon DirecTV.
The House select committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack at the U.S. Capitol announced on Tuesday ithas subpoenaedOne America News Network OANN hostChristina Bobb.
If you are ashamed of being Russian now, dont worry, you are not Russian, Simonyan said as thousands took to the streets in Russia to protest the invasion last week.
The six individuals weve subpoenaed today all have knowledge related to those matters and will help the Select Committee better understand all the various strategies employed to potentially affect the outcome of the election, he said.
A top editor at Kremlin-backed media conglomerate RThas quit her jobin protest ofVladimir Putinsinvasion of Ukraine.
Maria Baronova, the editor in chief of RTs Russian-language edition, said she resigned from the outlet in an interview with news outlet Znak.
In an interview with Gessen, Baronova appeared to express hope that she could change Russia for the better through her job at RT. Some, like opposition leaderAlexei Navalny, wereskeptical
With multiple subpoenas directed at OAN now, and the suggestion that Bobb was directly involved with Trumps efforts to overturn the election,things continue to look down for the network. And of course, for Bobb in particular.
If You Know Someone From Russia Call Them And Tell Them Their Media Is Lying
Baronova previously spoke out against the invasion in a post on her Telegram. In a post published Feb. 26, she described Putins government as totalitarian and said it has turned the lives of Russians into an endless hell.
Bobb isnt alone. Also from the network,Cleta Mitchell,Kenneth Chesebro,Katherine Friess,Kurt Olsen, andPhillip Klinewere issued subpoenas.
The Select Committee is seeking information about attempts to disrupt or delay the certification of electoral votes and any efforts to corruptly change the outcome of the 2020 election, writes Rep.Bennie ThompsonD-MS for the committee.
Bobb was reportedly involved in efforts to draft an executive order for then-President DonaldTrumpthat would have directed federal agencies to seize voting machines in numerous states and was present in the war room ofRudy Giulianislegal team in the Willard Hotel on January 6th, said the committeein astatement.
I mean, he took a very tough stance against Russia. Im surprised you dont think that he would have handled this better thanJoe Biden, he said as the list was on screen.
The post was a response toMargarita Simonyan, the editor in chief of English-language RT and a close Putin adviser, who has mocked Russians objecting to the war.
Baronova told Znak she has nothing left to talk about with those who support the invasion of Ukraine, and would not be speaking further about her resignation on social media platforms.
Baronova took an unlikely path to the top of RTs masthead. In 2019, when she first joined the Kremlin-funded news outlet, she was known as an opposition activist.Timemagazine once described her as the face of Russias opposition.
OAN has been deeply embroiled in claims about the 2020 election. Theywere suedlast year by Dominion Voting Systems andby Smartmatic, and aftermonthsof pressure on ATT, the channel wasdropped from DirecTV.
