Anonymous Hackers Reportedly Take Over Multiple Russian TV Channels to Broadcast Messages Opposing Ukrainian Invasion
20220307
https://www.mediaite.com/online/anonymous-hackers-reportedly-take-over-multiple-russian-tv-channels-to-broadcast-messages-opposing-ukrainian-invasion/
Sarah's writing has been featured at National Review, The Daily Beast, Reason, Law  Crime, Independent Journal Review, Texas Monthly, The Capitolist, Breitbart Texas, Townhall, RedState, The Orlando Sentinel, and the Austin-American Statesman, and her political commentary has led to appearances on the BBC, MSNBC, NewsNation, Fox 35 Orlando, Fox 7 Austin, The Young Turks, The Dean Obeidallah Show, and other television, radio, and podcast programs across the globe.
It claims to have accessed TV channels Russia 24, Channel 1, Moscow 24,  streaming services Wink and Ivi.
Internet users suspect that this may be another action by the hacker group Anonymous, which declared a cyber war to Russia in connection with the attack on Ukraine. pic.twitter.comXaoclymVTs
Russian TV channels hacked, showing truth from Ukraine instead of regular broadcasts. BRAVO Anonymous hackers pic.twitter.com3Z2XYZZWNb
The public asked and hackers around the world came together. Truth to the Russian people. Ukraine UkraineRussianWar RussianUkrainianWar Russia Russian pic.twitter.comH1krndvqae
There are reports of hacking of Wink and IVI video platforms in Russia, Nexta Live writes. It seems that instead of the series Officers on the First hackers put videos of Nastoyaschee Vremya and Dozhd on Russian services about the Russian bombing in Ukraine
Sarah Rumpf joined Mediaite in 2020 and is a Contributing Editor focusing on politics, law, and the media.
Anonymous also tweeted a link to an article on the Ukrainian news site Ukrinform that reported the story.
We are ordinary citizens of Russia. We oppose the war on the territory of Ukraine. Russia and the Russians against the war! This war was waged by Putins criminal, authoritarian regime on behalf of ordinary Russian citizens. Russians, oppose the genocide in Ukraine, the text reads.
Anonymous, the hactivist collective movement, claimed credit Sunday for taking over multiple television and streaming channels in Russia to broadcast messages that opposed the invasion of Ukraine.
Hacking group Anonymous interrupts Russian state TV programs with footage of Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine and an anti-war message.
This latest hacking is not Anonymous first foray into the online battleground related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Late last month, they claimed credit for launching cyberattacks that temporarily took down multiple Russian government websites.
    Wink  IVI  ,  Nexta Live. ,                       pic.twitter.comxFbDFksrzp
The hacking collective Anonymous hacked into the Russian streaming services Wink and Ivi like Netflix and live TV channels Russia 24, Channel One, Moscow 24 to broadcast war footage from Ukraine today pic.twitter.comhzqcXT1xRU
Translation of the   Radio Free Europe in Belarus tweet, according to Google Translate:
The international hacking group Anonymous has hacked all Russian state TV channels, now broadcasting videos of the war in Ukraine and calling on Russians to oppose the Russian genocide in Ukraine
A native Floridian, Sarah attended the University of Florida, graduating with a double major in Political Science and German, and earned her Juris Doctor, cum laude, from the UF College of Law.
Today, the hacker team Anonymous hacked into the Russian streaming services Wink and Ivi such as Netflix and live TV channels Russia 24, Channel One, and Moscow 24 to broadcast footage of the war from Ukraine, the statement said
Anonymous hackers said that they hacked Russian streaming services Wink and Ivi, as well as TV channels Russia 24, First Channel, Moscow 24, and broadcasted live footage of what was happening in Ukraine.
The video shows that Russian TV channels hacked by Anonymous are calling on Russians to oppose the Russian genocide in Ukraine.
A Twitter account associated with Anonymous posted a tweet with a short video clip. Several media outlets confirmed the report, including The Kyiv Independent and Radio Free Europe in Belarus.
