Emmanuel Macron Refuses to Follow Biden in Accusing Russia of Genocide I Am Very Careful With Some Terms
20220413
https://www.mediaite.com/news/emmanuel-macron-refuses-to-follow-biden-in-accusing-russia-of-genocide-i-am-very-careful-with-some-terms/
A day later, Macron refused to use the word genocide during an interview with France 2.
On Tuesday, with civilian casualties in Ukraine reportedly in the tens of thousands, Biden accused Vladimir Putins forces of attempting to erase Ukraines identity through mass murder.
So far, it has been established that war crimes were committed by the Russian army and that it is now necessary to find those responsible and bring them to justice, Macron stated. I am very careful with some terms genocide these days.
This myth was finally destroyed when the first Russian missiles flew to Ukrainian cities in February, Nikolenko wrote.
We consider this kind of effort to distort the situation unacceptable, said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, Reuters reported. This is hardly acceptable from a president of the United States, a country that has committed well-known crimes in recent times.
Ukrainian foreign ministry spokesman Oleg Nikolenko called Macrons words disappointing in a lengthy Facebook post. He noted Macron also described the relationship between Ukraine and Russia as brotherly.
Later, asked by a reporter if he had seen specific evidence of genocide, Biden doubled down.
Im not sure the escalation of words is helping the cause right now, Macron also said.I think there is one thing that can be said with certainty, and that is that the situation is unacceptable and that these are war crimes.
Your family budget, your ability to fill up your tank, none of it should hinge on whether a dictator declares war and commits genocide a half a world away, Biden said in Menlo, Iowa.
Yes, I called it genocide. It has become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being  being able to be Ukrainian, Biden said. And the amount  the evidence is mounting.
French President Emmanuel Macron refused to call Russias actions in Ukraine genocide Wednesday, a day after President Joe Biden first made the accusation.
