Fox News Reporter in Ukraine Smacks Down Gutfelds Claim Media Is Pushing an Emotional Response to War
20220309
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/fox-news-reporter-in-ukraine-shoots-down-gutfelds-claim-media-is-pushing-an-emotional-response-to-war/
I will be the better manhere.As I said before, when thisstarted, we want the quickestend possible.My concern has always been, whena narrative creates a story thatbolsters one side, that is outof its element, will you createmore suffering?That is the simple point Immaking, is that could this havebeen prevented if there was areality-based decision made andnot the David and Goliathnarrative that could prolongthis and lead to more sufferingand more humanitarian crisis.
The segment continued on without incident, and the the show cut to a commercial break.
What do you think Dana, should I address Benjamin Halls cheap attack on me, or be a good co-worker and let it slide? he asked.
I can feel the galvanizing force of these stories that kind of, have sped up and are accumulating to create a narrative However, I cant help but feel that this is a lot like other stories that weve gone through in the digital age in which an image is taken and then played over and over and over again to create some kind of emotional response out of you, because that makes a profit for news companies.
Hall then showed footage of people fleeing the country, only with what they can carry.
Good evening, Judge, he said. And speaking of someone on the ground, I want to say that this is not the media trying to drum up some emotional response.
Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall took exception to a comment fromGreg Gutfeld Tuesday, after the latter opined media coverage of the war in Ukraine is being used to elicit an emotional response from the public.
In the city of Mariupol, people are drinking from puddles because the Russian forces havent allowed them to get out, he added. When they have tried to get out, theyre shelled.
What set Tuesdays spar aside was the fact that Hall was reporting from the war zone in Kyiv from the news division.
Upon The Fives return, Judge Jeanine Pirro asked Hall for an update on Russias war against the Ukrainian people.
After Geraldo Rivera noted that Gutfeld did not appear to be on board with the prevailing narrative from Ukraine, stating:
