Im Ready to Goand Shoot the Other HumanBeings CNN Interviews RifleWielding Ukrainian Politician
20220226
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/im-ready-to-go-and-shoot-the-other-human-beings-cnn-interviews-rifle-wielding-ukrainian-politician/
She told the host that Russian President Vladimir Putin had underestimated the resolve of her and others when he invaded Ukraine on Thursday.
I learn to use Kalashnikov and prepare to bear arms. It sounds surreal as just a few days ago it would never come to my mind. Our women will protect our soil the same way as our men. Go Ukraine!  pic.twitter.comUbF4JRGlcy
Blitzer asked Rudik why she chose to post the image of herself with a rifle online.
Blitzer asked the MP how intense the fighting is, with Russian forces making an attempt to encircle Ukraines capital.
I am absolutely sure.He underestimated the readinessof our army, and heunderestimated that on everystep of the way of his soldiers,they were given really hardresistance.And people are armingthemselves.People are fighting them atevery inch of our soil.This is what the citizens haveto do, and this is what we do.
Just before sunrise on Saturday morning in Kyiv, Rudik joined CNN Tonight with Wolf Blitzer.
Ukrainian member of parliament Kira Rudik told CNN on Friday night that she is prepared to shoot and kill Russian troops who encroach into Kyiv.
Its intensifying, thereare Russian forces in the northand the south of the city.But they are not moving andmaking great progress, she said. We are throwing them back, and we are actually fightingthem very, very hard.In the last two days, there havebeen 3,000 people of casualtiesin Russian army.So, thats a fantastic resultfor Ukrainian army.
Asked by Blitzer if she thought Putin underestimated the resolve ofthe Ukrainian people, Rudik was clear:
I learn to use Kalashnikov and prepare to bear arms, Rudik wrote. It sounds surreal as just a few days ago it would never come to my mind. Our women will protect our soil the same way as our men. Go Ukraine!
Because it was super unusualand super crazy for myself tounderstand and realize that Imholding a gun, and Im ready tobear arms and Im ready to goand shoot the other humanbeings, Rudik said. And the reason for that changewas because Russian soldiers arecoming to Kyiv and Russiansoldiers are trying to take whatis actually not theirs.
The MP went viral on Twitter earlier in the day when she posted an image of herself armed with a rifle.
