In Bizarre Rant Don Jr Says Father Praised Dictators Like Putin As a Way to Play Them Like a Fiddle
20220311
https://www.mediaite.com/politics/in-bizarre-rant-don-jr-says-father-praised-dictators-like-putin-as-a-way-to-play-them-like-a-fiddle/
Critics lambasted Jr.s appearance and high energy online. Ron Filipkowski jested that it was his fiancees birthday, writing, Its Guilfoyles birthday, so Junior got into the party supplies early.
Alex Jones says he is tired of people accusing Don Jr and him of being on cocaine. He says that Junior is just a high energy person and has become a great orator like MLK and Joel Osteen. pic.twitter.comQ9bDasx7rS
Even Alex Jones got in on the commentary surrounding Jr.s appearance, saying, hes tired of critics claiming Don Junior is a cokehead. Adding, that is what they always say about me.
In the video posted to Rumble, Trump Jr. said his father was not the apologist for dictators the media made him out to be, but instead he knew how to deal with powerful men.
You call out a leader. You embarrass him, an ego-maniacal kind of person, whether its Putin, whether its Kim Jong Un  You call them out on a world stage and you embarrass them, what do you think is going to happen? Trump Jr. asked.
Jones went on to say that Jr.s high energy makes him a good public speaker, hes really becoming a good orator, one of the best, I mean just a couple of years ago he was OK.
Jr. said his father knew that flattering that man Putin would get you a lot more than calling him out and embarrassing him on a world stage.
So my father understands that, you know, men will blow up deals over ego. Ive seen it my whole life, and my fathers certainly seen it. Because hes dealt with powerful, egotistical people his entire life. Hes built a brand around dealing with those people. World leaders arent any different, Trump Jr. argued.
Now its like damn thats a powerful speech, thats better than Joel Osteen or somebody or Martin Luther King, Jones concluded.
Jr.s comments come on the heels of criticism his father has received for calling Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine savvy and genius.
Alex Griffing is a Senior Editor at Mediaite. Send tips via email: alexandergmediaite.com. Follow him on Twitter: alexgriffing
Maybe Trump understood that. He knew exactly how to play these guys and he played it like a fiddle, he added.
Its Guilfoyles birthday, so Junior got into the party supplies early. He claims that daddy only praised Putin and Kim because he was using psychological warfare on them: He knew exactly how to play these guys, and he played them like a fiddle! pic.twitter.com4otuhtECKX
Donald Trump Jr. dropped an odd five-minute rant on Wednesday titled, The Truth: Trump Proved Everyone Wrong About Russia!
