Joe Walsh Sparks Twitter Furor After Posting Fake Tucker Carlson Quote on Russia
20220405
https://www.mediaite.com/online/joe-walsh-sparks-twitter-furor-after-posting-fake-tucker-carlson-quote-on-russia/
I tweeted this out this morning. I was predicting what TuckerCarlson would say tonight. Heres whats funny: So many people read this tweet  believed Tucker had already said it. Which is understandable becuz its EXACTLY the kind of thing Putin-lover Tucker would  has said.
Alex Griffing is a Senior Editor at Mediaite. Send tips via email: alexandergmediaite.com. Follow him on Twitter: alexgriffing
.ggreenwald, why so nasty? I didnt fabricate a thing. I sent that tweet b4 Tuckers show, said tonight predicting what hed say. And btw, AdamKinzinger is a great public servant  patriot. And TheRickWilson is a patriot as well. Happy to have you on my podcast to discuss. https:t.com6iIx4E9Px
Walsh responded the Greenwald, asking him, why so nasty? I didnt fabricate a thing. I sent that tweet b4 Tuckers show, said tonight predicting what hed say. And btw, AdamKinzinger is a great public servant  patriot. And TheRickWilson is a patriot as well.
.ZaleskiLuke, the legal affairs editor of Cond Nast, the former research director of GQMagazine  a partisan self-described fact checker, amplified a completely fake quote attributed to Tucker Carlson. pic.twitter.comaeVNHARj2b
Many notable commentators and critics of Carlson took it seriously and slammed the popular Fox News host.
Glenn Greenwald responded by roasting Walsh, saying, The incomparably dumb and unhinged AdamKinzinger took a fabricated quote from long-time-deadbeat-dad-turned-liberal-hero WalshFreedom, believed it true, and used it to declare a journalist a Russian asset  just as hordes of dumb liberals did with TheRickWilsons fake quote. Greenwald was referencing Rick Wilson posting a similar satirical tweet imagining Greenwalds reaction to accounts of Russians murdering Ukrainians.
As it went viral, Walsh tweeted again commenting on the purpose behind the tweet, he explained:
I tweeted this out this morning. I was predicting what TuckerCarlson would say tonight. Heres whats funny: So many people read this tweet  believed Tucker had already said it. Which is understandable becuz its EXACTLY the kind of thing Putin-lover Tucker would  has said. https:t.codxDLDjOPK1
Former Republican Rep. Joe Walsh R-IL sparked an uproar on Twitter this week when he posted a tweet on Monday predicting what Tucker Carlson would say on his show.
The tweet read, .TuckerCarlson tonight: What if these bodies of tortured, dead civilians were staged? What if theyre fake? What if the Ukrainian military killed them  then blamed Russia? Im not saying any of this is true, Im just asking the questions. Why cant we ask these questions?
Right-wing activist Andy Ngo documented many of the various reactions to the quote, writing, .WalshFreedom fabricated a quote attributed to Tucker Carlson that went viral  was quoted as real by journalists  influencers on Twitter.
Walshs fictional quote quickly went viral as it played into the narrative that Carlson has been boosting Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Given the claim is that fake quotes that go viral are just satire  even though hundreds of thousands of dumb liberals clearly believe them  make up some twisted quotes and attribute them to Joy Reid, Pete Buttigieg, or Anderson Cooper and see if you get away with it.
Given the claim is that fake quotes that go viral are just satire  even though hundreds of thousands of dumb liberals clearly believe them  make up some twisted quotes and attribute them to Joy Reid, Pete Buttigieg, or Anderson Cooper and see if you get away with it, added Greenwald, calling out what he sees as a double standard on Twitter for conservatives and liberals.
Rep. Adam Kinzinger R-IL, a prominent critic of Carlson, retweeted the fake quote and wrote, I gotta say, if TuckerCarlson is not a Russian asset he should be, he is absolutely over-qualified for the job. Is he a Russian asset? I dont know, just asking questions.
MSNBC host Joy Reid responded, Its almost like Tuckums is getting his show scripts straight from the Kremlin or the GRU
Its almost like Tuckums is getting his show scripts straight from the Kremlin or the GRU https:t.coslVQfnqV5e
I gotta say, if TuckerCarlson is not a Russian asset he should be, he is absolutely over-qualified for the job. Is he a Russian asset? I dont know, just asking questions https:t.co1Vw4zYAMpD
