John Oliver Calls Putin a Huge Bitch and Tells Bush to Shut the Fck Up About Russia Invading Ukraine
20220228
https://www.mediaite.com/entertainment/john-oliver-calls-putin-a-huge-bitch-and-tells-bush-to-shut-the-fck-up-about-russia-invading-ukraine/
As we are all now painfully aware, Vladimir Putin, Russian president, and World War III edgelord, began an assault on the second-largest country in Europe this week, shelling several cities and sending troops across the border, Oliver said on Sunday night, explaining why all other news has taken the backseat.
Unfortunately for that guy, he clearly forgot the best strategy for public speaking in Russia which is, just imagine the entire audience in their underwear, and Vladimir Putin pointing a pistol at your head. It really focuses the mind, Oliver said, adding that Putin is an autocrat, a tyrant, a warmonger. But also, hes kind of a huge bitch.
Its not great, is it? Its not just that they cut to a commercial for a restaurant whose food can only be described as sometimes warm, its just so aggressively American, Oliver said of the Applebees spot. From the country song that thinks listing food counts as lyrics all the way to this human Boot Barn shaking his nonexistent ass.
The host went on to mock CNN for airing a particularly upbeat Applebees ad during a commercial break amid their coverage of Ukraine.
The host later aired a clip of a conversation between Putin and Sergey Naryshkin, Russias director of the Foreign Intelligence Service, in which Naryshkin voiced his support of diplomacy with Ukraine one last time before invading.
John Oliveraddressed the Russian invasion of Ukraine on Sunday, calling Vladimir Putin a huge bitch.
Really, CNN? Theres this thing called tone and tact. Look it up. Because your blending of commercials and all hell breaking out in Europe isnt working. pic.twitter.comyhnag26JQ5
Oliver then condemned former President George W. Bush for his statement on the Russian invasion, which said, I join the international community in condemning Vladimir Putins unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine.
Applebees has since issued an apology, clarifying that the company is deeply concerned about the situation in Ukraine.
The host openedLast Week Tonightby noting that it had been such a news-filled week, he barely had time to celebrate the fact that Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson became the first Black woman nominated to the Supreme Court.
Hold on, George. Not from you, Oliver cracked after reading the statement. You are not the guy for this one. Because that statement only would have made sense if it ended with Oh shit, now I hear it. Sorry. Ill shut the fuck up now.
