Lindsey Graham Claims Putin Owns Biden Calls for NoFly Zone if Russia Uses Chemical Weapons in Ukraine
20220322
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/lindsey-graham-claims-putin-owns-biden-calls-for-no-fly-zone-if-russia-uses-chemical-weapons-in-ukraine/
If Putin explodes a nuclear weapon inside of Ukraine, the radiation will affect most of Europe, the senator continued. We should consider that an attack on NATO itself.
In this interpretation, NATOs collective defense provision would be triggered, thus obligating member states to come to those attacked.
The Fox News host asked Graham, In terms of Americas role, why would Joe Biden veto Poland giving MiGs to the Ukrainians so they can fight their own war?
Graham referenced Bidens upcoming attendance at a NATO summit in Brussels on Thursday in which the security alliance will grapple with the Ukraine question. He stated that if Russia uses chemical weapons in Ukraine, NATO should impose a no-fly zone over Ukrainian airspace.
Theres gonna be a NATO summit, he said. Heres what Id say on your show to NATO. If theres a chemical weapons attack by the Russian military against the Ukrainian people, we should impose a no-fly zone immediately because thats breaking all the rules that weve established since World War II.
Sean Hannity cited Bidens decision to oppose Polands plan to give Ukraine its stock of MiG fighter jets as the country tries to repel Russias invasion. When asked last week if he plans to change course on that decision, Biden responded, Im not going to comment on that right now.
Graham further stated that if Russia uses a nuclear weapon, NATO should consider attacking Russia.
Graham added that Putin will assume the U.S. and NATO are weak if they do not make themselves clear.
Enforcing a no-fly zone would involve shooting down Russian aircraft and missiles over Ukrainian territory.
Because Putin owns Biden, he replied. Biden is afraid of escalation. Hes afraid of making Putin mad. As the troops were building up around the Ukraine, Republicans and Democrats said, put sanctions on Putin for provocation of a military buildup, dont wait til the invasion.
Sen. Lindsey Graham R-SC appeared on Mondays Hannity to discuss President Joe Bidens handling of Russias war on Ukraine.
