Mitt Romney Excoriates Disgusting ProPutin Republicans Almost Treasonous
20220227
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/mitt-romney-excoriates-disgusting-pro-putin-republicans-almost-treasonous/
Bash said to Romney, Treasonous is a big word, so I just have to quickly follow. Would that include the former president?
Well a lot of those people are changing their stripes as theyre seeing the response of the world and the political response here in the U.S. But how anybody in this country which loves freedom can side with Vladimir Putin  who is an oppressor, a dictator, he kills people, he imprisons his political opponents. Hes been an adversary of America at every chance hes had. Its unthinkable to me. Its almost treasonous, and it just makes me ill to see some of these people do that. But of course, they do it cause its shock value and it will get them more eyeballs and make a little more money for them and their network. Its disgusting. Im hopeful youre seeing some of those people recognize just how wrong they were.
Romney didnt specify who exactly he was talking about, though his comments could have been referring to Fox News Tucker Carlson, who dismissed Russias threat to Ukraine until they began their military assault against the country. As it were, former President Donald Trump has been repeatedly calling Putin smart while ragging on his political foes throughout the international crisis.
Senator Mitt Romney R-UT tore into his fellow Republicans who have spoken positively about Vladimir Putin, or offered advantageous statements to Russia while Ukraine remains under attack.
Well, I said its nearly treasonous, Romney answered. Standing up for freedom is the right thing to do in America. Anything less than that, in my opinion, is unworthy of American support.
Romney gave a broad-range interview to CNNs Dana Bash on Sunday, commenting on everything from the situation in Ukraine, to Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor-Greenes R-GA decision to speak at the white nationalist America First Political Action Conference. At one point, Bash asked Romney for his thoughts on the pro-Putin sentiments that a fraction of the GOP has embraced in terms of whether the U.S. should intervene in Russias aggression toward Ukraine.
