MSNBCs Malcolm NanceTells Dean Obeidallah People Like Tucker Carlson Historically Would Have Supported Adolf Hitler
20220226
https://www.mediaite.com/online/msnbcs-malcolm-nance-tells-dean-obeidallah-people-like-tucker-carlson-historically-would-have-supported-adolf-hitler/
On FridayseditionofTheDean Obeidallah Show, the host talked with Nance abouttheRussia-Ukraine conflict. and whether he sees echoes of the Jan. 6 insurrection in Vladimir Putins actions. Nance used the opportunity to rip Mr. Carlson over his recent and past support for Putin:
I suspect that Tucker Carlson when the videos of young Caucasian women and childrens dead bodies then theres going to be a change of heart because theyre not people of color, theyre not people in the Middle East who they just equate to being non-humans. They look like them and Russia is out there slaughtering them right now. Theres a video of the tank that ran over an old man in a car in the tank obviously deliberately ran this man over. If his neighbors hadnt come out and dragged him out of the car but he was crushed in there I dont know whether he lived or died. But this is Russia, a dictator and I equate this dictator Putin with the Nazis and anybody that would support Vladimir Putin in this invasion, likely, historically would have supported Adolf Hitler invading Czechoslovakia or Poland or in Austria seizing control of the government. History is no longer rhyming anymore, its being recreated here.
MSNBC national security analystMalcolm Nancetold SiriusXM hostDean Obeidallah that people like Tucker Carlson are equivalent to traitorous fifth columnists from World War II.
Dean: Do you see a connection between Trumps January 6 attack to overturn our democracy and Putins attack to overturn and end Ukrainian democracyand in both cases install essentially a dictator?
Ill say it right now: Tucker Carlson is a 5 columnist. I protect Tucker Carlsons right to say any stupid thing he wants in support of Vladimir Putin. I did it with my life, I defended him with when I served in the armed forces. I protect any Americans right to say any stupid thing they want right up to the moment where they become an enabler to an enemy and it costs humans their lives.
Malcolm: I will tell you every person that supported January 6 is coming on television and supporting Vladimir Putin. Thats all you need to know, America has a fifth column in it. 5th columnistsif you guys dont knowgo watch the Porky Pig cartoon and Bugs Bunny in World War II where they talk about what a fifth columnist is: People who support a foreign power against their own country and work to undermine their own people. Those are fifth columnists.
