Newsmax Host Suggests Tucker Carlson Defends Putin Under Duress from Liberal Bosses at Fox News
20211217
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/grant-stinchfield-on-tucker-carlson-and-putin/
On Thursday night, Stinchfield claimed that Fox News has taken a leftward turn, and that this alleged development may be having an effect on the networks highest rated host.
The Newsmax host played a clip of Carlson saying that at this point, NATO exists primarily to torment Vladimir Putin, who, whatever his many faults, has no intention of invading western Europe. Vladimir Putin does not want Belgium. He just wants to keep his western border secure. Thats why he doesnt want Ukraine to join NATO, and that makes sense.
Fox News lurched to the left is maddening for nearly every conservative, including myself, Stinchfield told his viewers. And I wonder now, if the leftist leaders of this Trojan horse of a so called conservative network has compromised Tucker Carlson. Now, Tucker is a man that I have absolute great respect for. The fact is Tucker and I agree on most issues, which is why Im baffled by his defense of Russias Vladimir Putin. Unless of course, is Tucker operating under duress? Why else would he proclaim something like this about NATO and Vladimir Putin?
Well, Tuckers right  that from Vladimir Putins perspective, it does make sense, he said. But who cares what Vladimir Putin thinks? This is a rogue dictator that hates America. He is dangerous and he wants nothing more than to expand his global reach.
He concluded his monologue by saying that a weakened Russia makes for a safer world, which then means a safer America. I know Tucker knows this. At least I would hope so, which is why I think maybe his liberal bosses may have gotten to him.
Newsmax host Grant Stinchfield suggested that Tucker Carlsons liberal bosses at Fox News are pressuring him to defend Vladimir Putins behavior on his show.
Carlson has said on air that Ukraine does not possess enough strategic importance to the United States to justify raising tensions with Russia, which has amassed soldiers near its border with Ukraine.
