Reporter GRILLS State Department Spox on Russia Claims This Is Like Alex Jones Territory Youre Getting Into
20220204
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/matt-lee-grills-ned-price-on-russia-claim/
U.S. officials said on Thursday that Russia may be preparing to fabricate a pretext for an invasion of Ukraine by creating a video portraying a fake Ukrainian attack on Russia.
LEE: And I remember that Kabul was not gonna fall. I remember a lot of things. So where is the declassified information other than you coming out here and saying it?
LEE: Im not asking what the Russian government is putting out. And what is that supposed to mean?
PRICE: We told you a few weeks ago that we have information indicating Russia has also already prepositioned a group of operatives to conduct a false flag operation in eastern Ukraine. So that, Matt, to your question, is an action that Russia has already taken.
State department spokesperson Ned Price reiterated the claim during a press briefing on Thursday and received a five-minute grilling from Associated Press Diplomatic Writer Matt Lee, who was unrelenting in his attempt to get Price to provide evidence.
PRICE: Matt, this is derived from information known to the U.S. government, intelligence information that we have declassified. I think you
PRICE: Im sorry you dont like the content. Im sorry you are doubting the information that is in the possession of the U.S. government
LEE: Well, it an action that you say that they have taken, but you have shown no evidence to confirm that. And Im gonna get to the next question here, which is, what is the evidence thatI mean, this is like, crisis actors? Really? This is like Alex Jones territory youre getting into now. What evidence do you have to support the idea that there is some propaganda film in the making?
LEE: You made an allegation that they might do that, said Lee. Have they actually done it?
PRICE: Would you like us to print out the topper? Because you will see a transcript of this briefing that you can print out for yourself.
PRICE: Matt, you said yourself youve been in this business for quite a long time. You know that when we make information, intelligence information public, we do so in a way that protects sensitive sources and methods. You also know that we do so, we declassify information only when were confident in that information.If you doubt the credibility of the U.S. government, of the British government. of other governments and wanna, you know, find solace in information that
PRICE: We are trying to deter the Russians from moving forward with this type of activity. That is why were making it public today. If the Russians dont go forward with this that is not ipso facto an indication that they never had plans to do so
Later, the spokesperson tweeted that he has nothing but respect, for Lee, and said he relayed as much in a phone call to him after the briefing.
PRICE: What we know, Matt, is what wewhat I have just said  that they have engaged in this activity
LEE: I would like to see some proof that you can show that shows that the Russians are doing that. Ned, Ive been doing this for a long time.
LEE: Yeah, but you dont have any evidence to back it up other than what youre saying. Its like youre saying, We have information the Russians may do this, but you wont tell us what the information is, and then when youre asked
LEE: And when youre asked what the information is, you say, I just gave it to you.
PRICE: Let mebecause obviously, this is not the first time weve made these reports public. Youll remember that just a few weeks ago
PRICE: If you let me finish, I will tell you what report we made public.
The renowned APDiploWriter and I have had our fair share of sparring sessions, and I have the scars to prove it. Clearly, hes no ones dupe, and Id never want to suggest otherwise. Nothing but respect for him, which I underscored in a call to him after the briefing.
LEE: But then its unprovable! My god, what is the evidence that you have that suggests that the Russians are even planning this? I mean, Im not saying that theyre not, but you just come out and say this and expect us just to believe it without you showing a shred of evidence that its actually true, other than when I ask or when anyone else asks, Whats the information? You said, Well I just gave it to you, which was just you making a statement.
