SNLs Weekend Update Mocks Biden Labeling UkraineRelated Call as Very Very Very Good Like Gaetz Saying That Girl Was Very Very Very Over 18
20220130
https://www.mediaite.com/entertainment/snls-weekend-update-mocks-biden-labeling-ukraine-related-call-as-very-very-very-good-like-gaetz-saying-that-girl-was-very-very-very-over-18/
Jost delivered another Biden joke, saying: A new report shows that last year, the U.S. economy grew at its fastest rate since Ronald Reagan was president. Biden has even started using Reagans old catch phase, Where am I?'
Okay, the third very worries me, Jost said. You only say that when youre trying to cover up something, like if Matt Gaetz said, That girl was very, very, very over 18.
Senator Mitch McConnell, seen here learning Betty White had died, warned president Biden not to outsource his choice for the supreme court to the, quote, radical left, Che said next to a photo of the Senate Minority Leader holding a thumbs up. Coincidentally, a radical left is also what McConnell takes to purposely run over stray dogs.
Saturday Night LivesWeekend Update took a jab at Rep.Matt GaetzR-FL as hostsMichael CheandColin JostmockedPresident Joe Biden on multiple topics, including his handling of Russia-Ukraine tensions and Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyers retirement.
Well, the stock market is plummeting and theres a threat of a land war in Europe, so it looks like Democrats were right  Joe Biden is the next FDR, Jost began.
Jost then ended the opening of the segment with one joke at the expense of former President Donald Trump.
Three items put up for auction by Melania Trump failed to reach the opening bid of $250,000, he said. But Melania is no stranger to finding out something isnt worth as much as she thought.
Gaetz has been under investigation for possible sex trafficking he has denied the allegations and has said he has never paid for sex nor had sex with an underage girl.
Jost then noted Biden said earlier this week that he had a very, very, very good meeting with European leaders on addressing mounting tensions between Ukraine and Russia.
Che later brought up the announcement of Breyers retirement from the Supreme Court and Bidens pledge to nominate a Black woman to fill the seat.
I hope its not because he wants to sniff a new type of hair, Che said of the pledge.
