The Views Joy Behar Slams GOPs Traitorous Behavior Amid RussiaUkraine Crisis as Fascism
20220224
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/the-views-joy-behar-slams-gops-traitorous-behavior-amid-russia-ukraine-crisis-as-fascism/
Responding to the clip, Behar called Trumps comments the dumbest remark, adding that a lot of Republicans are buying this lie.
The comment prompted Goldberg to throw up a video of Fox News hostTucker Carlsonquestioning why the United States hates Putin so much:
Trump went on to call Putin very savvy, adding that he knows the Russian president very, very well and that a Ukraine invasion would have never happened had he still been in office.
Why do I hate Putin so much? Has Putin ever called me a racist? Has he threatened to get me fired for disagreeing with him? Has he shipped every middle class job in my town to Russia? Did he manufacture a worldwide pandemic that wrecked my business and kept me indoors for two years? Is he teaching my children to embrace racial discrimination? Is he making fentanyl? Is he trying to snuff out Christianity? Does he eat dogs? These are fair questions, and the answer to all of them is no. Vladimir Putin didnt do any of that.
I went in yesterday and there was a television screen, and I said this is genius. Putin declares a big portion of the Ukraineof Ukraine. Putin declares it as independent. Oh, thats wonderful. So Putin is now saying its independent  a large section of Ukraine, Trump said on Tuesday.
Biden vowed to impose crippling sanctions that would cut off Russia from Western finance, but you-know-who seems to be so much more impressed Putins moves on this, Goldberg said before airing audio ofDonald Trumppraising Putin as a genius.
On Tuesday night, Carlson also claimed that the Biden administration is provoking conflict with Russia in an attempt to make fossil fuels unaffordable.
Whoopi Goldbergintroduced the topic on Wednesdays edition ofThe Viewby noting that Biden imposed economic sanctions on Russia in response to Vladimir Putinsinvasion of Ukraine.
The traitorous behavior thats going on right now on the right is just, its unbelievable to me, Behar continued. Having grown up in a country that fought this fascism, we are now becoming the people that we fought!
I said how smart is that? And hes gonna go in and be a peacekeeper. Thats the strongest peace force. We could use that on our southern border. Thats the strongest peace force Ive ever seen. There were more army tanks than Ive ever seen. Theyre gonna keep peace all right.
Vladimir Putins decision to launch a renewed invasion of Ukraine is reprehensible, they stated. Sadly, President Biden consistently chose appeasement and his tough talk on Russia was never followed by strong action.
Republican leaders, including Reps. Kevin McCarthy CA, Steve Scalise LA, and Elise Stefanik NY have made similar criticisms of Biden in a joint statement.
Joy Behartook aim at the GOP for their reaction to the ongoing crisis in Ukraine, comparing the rights criticism of President Joe Bidento fascism.
