The Putin Wing of the GOP Liz Cheney Rails Against Col Doug Macgregor For Calling Zelenskyy a Puppet Putting Ukrainian People At Unnecessary Risk
20220306
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/the-putin-wing-of-the-gop-liz-cheney-rails-against-col-doug-macgregor-for-calling-zelenskyy-a-puppet-putting-ukrainian-people-at-unnecessary-risk/
During the interview that prompted Griffin to rebuke his commentary, Macgregor argued that the U.S. should stay completely out of the conflict and not provide any military aid to Ukraine.
No, I do not. I dont see anything heroic about the man, Macgregor said. And I think the most heroic thing he can do right now is to come to terms with reality. Neutralize Ukraine, this is not a bad thing. A neutral Ukraine would be good for us as well as for Russia.
Rep.Liz CheneyR-WY sharply rebuked retired Col. Douglas Macgregoron Saturday for continuing his pro-Putin rhetoric amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
But the questions is what is it that Zelenskyy going to do? Macgregor added. The Russians have made it very clear what they want is a neutral Ukraine. This couldve ended days ago if he accepted that.
Macgregor told Fox Business hostStuart Varneyon Friday that initially Russian forces were frankly, too gentle in Ukraine and that Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyyis a puppet.
Oh, I think Zelenskyy is a puppet, Macgregor replied. And hes putting huge numbers of his own population at unnecessary risk
On Fridays Fox Business appearance, Macgregor continued his pro-Putin rhetoric, predicting that sinceRussian forces are now being less gentle, in another 10 days, this should be completely over.
Macgregor has come under intense push back recently for his commentary on Russia, with Fox News national security correspondentJennifer Griffinpreviously saying he sounded like an apologist for Putin.
I dont think anyone that Ive spoken to here at the Pentagon or elsewhere in western intelligence believes they know how far Putin wants to go, Griffin said. I think that the world has seen what Putin is capable of, and to blame NATO membership for what weve seen Putin unleash, weve seen from Putins own words that he is talking in czarist terms.
Griffin vigorously fact-checked claims Macgregor made in an earlier Fox News appearance that Putin has no ambitions of pushing westward into Ukraine.
Douglas MacGregor, nominated by Trump as ambassador to Germany appointed by Trump as sr advisor to the Secretary of Defense, says Russian forces have been too gentle and I dont see anything heroic about Zelensky.
After noting that former President Donald Trump had nominated Macgregor to become U.S. ambassador to Germany, Cheney commented, This is the Putin wing of the GOP.
Varney then questioned: Hes not a hero? I mean hes standing up for himself and his own people. You dont think hes a hero?
