The Views Ana Navarro Calls for DOJ to Investigate Russian Propagandists Tucker Carlson and Tulsi Gabbard
20220314
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/the-views-ana-navarro-calls-for-doj-to-investigate-russian-propagandists-tucker-carlson-and-tulsi-gabbard/
She only practically exists on Twitter, and if that is correct were giving her oxygen is what makes her relevant, but we are talking about her on hot topics, but on the other hand, how do you not call out something that is repeating false Russian propaganda and that has been brought down?
Ana Navarro jumped in and brought the conversation back to Fox News, noting, The Fox board of directors should step in. If they call themselves patriots and, you know, its not enough to be posting flags about Ukraine. Theres a bunch of folks on that board of directors list like my friend Paul Ryan who I wish would be weighing and saying, we cannot be Russian state TV  at least every hour.
I dont think hes getting dropped at all, but thats an incredibly relevant question, and I think DOJ, in the same way that it is setting up a task force to investigate Russian oligarchs, should look into people who are Russian propagandists and shilling for Putin, argued Navarro.
If you are a foreign asset to a dictator, it should be investigated, and, in fact, I remember when Tulsi Gabbard, and I hate that were discussing it because I think to myself, who is this woman? Shes a, you know, shes no longer in congress. Shes a failed presidential candidate, Navarro continued.
The cohosts then blasted Carlson and Gabbard and noted that they were both adding to what U.S. intelligence officials warns is false Russian narrative that may be used to justify further Russian aggression in Ukraine  including the use of chemical weapons.
The cohosts of The View tore into Fox News top-rated host Tucker Carlson and former Hawaii congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard D-HI, who is a regular guest of Carlsons, on Monday for being what they called apologists for Vladimir Putin.
I hope hes planning to move to Moscow. Hes not going to be welcome here for much longer, responded Behar, as Hostin asked if Carlsons viewers like it?
Sunny Hostin jumped in, asking, I guess for me the question is, what is in it for someone like tucker Carlson, right.
Alex Griffing is a Senior Editor at Mediaite. Send tips via email: alexandergmediaite.com. Follow him on Twitter: alexgriffing
He said the United States engineered a coup in Ukraine in the name of democracy. He, as you just mentioned, confirmed the Russian claims about bio weapons and hes characterizing this as a border dispute, right? Hostin added, concluding she simply doesnt understand Carlsons motivations.
Is it money? Whos paying him that money? Im not making any allegations, but its just  it doesnt make sense that he would do this kind of thing. I mean, he also says that the United States helped encourage the Russian invasion, added Hostin.
The program then rolled clips of Carlson and Gabbard saying the U.S. has secret U.S.-funded bio labs in Ukraine. Goldberg went on the explain that Senator Mitt Romney R-UT hit back at Gabbard on Twitter Sunday night, writing, Tulsi Gabbard is parroting false Russian propaganda. Her treasonous lies may well cost lives.
Whoopi Goldberg kicked off the segment by noting, The website, Mother Jones posted a leaked Kremlin war memo instructing Russian state media to play Tucker Carlson clips as much as possible, and Tulsi Gabbard is being accused of spreading Russian false-flag propaganda. Heres what theyve both been saying about the war. Take a look.
