This is Where the Media Fails Jim Cramer Rips the Press for Encouraging Stock Market Panic in Chase for Ratings and Clicks
20220228
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/this-is-where-the-media-fails-jim-cramer-rips-the-press-for-encouraging-stock-market-panic-in-chase-for-ratings-and-clicks/
What had happened is that it doesnt pay to be positive. You say its a Lehman moment, and it turns out to be bad, youre a genius, he said. You say its not a Lehman moment, and it turns out to be bad, youre a fool. So what is the better thing to say?
He used Fox News host Tucker Carlson as an illustration, seeming to suggest Carlson has been selectively edited or taken out of context on the subject of Russian president Vladimir Putin.
CNBCs Jim Cramer said on Monday that financial sanctions against Russian banks isnt a Lehman moment despite the media encouraging panic over the latest from the Ukraine conflict.
So for me, its very difficult to come out and say, You know what? I think that this is going to be calm for JPMorgan. And yet it will be, he continued.
This is where the press fails. The press is worried about YouTube, said Cramer. The press is worried about saying anything positive right now because it will be used against you.
In the same way that this fellow who works at Fox News, Tucker Carlson  you can see endless things about how he likes Putin, Cramer said. Like, you can replay anything and you really seem to be wrong.
Im just saying that that panic, as encouraged by the media, is unbeatable as a strategy. But Im not going. Im just not going there, said Cramer.
The two concluded with their hope and Cramers belief that the city of Kyiv wont be razed.
In a joint statement on Saturday, the United States and the European Commission announced they are working to remove Russian banks from the SWIFT messaging system. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally, the statement said.
That big news rocked through financial media and, combined with news of other tough sanctions on Russian interests caused what Cramer considers an unnecessary panic, he explained on Monday morning.
Caleb Howe is an editor and writer focusing on politics and media. Former managing editor at RedState. Published at USA Today, Blaze, National Review, Daily Wire, American Spectator, AOL News, Asylum, fortune cookies, manifestos, napkins, fridge drawings...
