Tucker Carlson Frames Russian Incursion Into Ukraine as a Mere Border Dispute
20220223
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/tucker-carlson-frames-russian-incursion-into-ukraine-as-a-mere-border-dispute/
The host then claimed that the Democratic Party and the media are mounting a strong defense of Ukraine to keep Biden from defaulting on loans to Ukraines wealthy elite:
So with every day, we move closer to some kind of conflict with Russia, conflict that could easily spin out of control, given that the people running this have no fine motor skills. The administration assures us this has nothing at all to do with repaying Joe Bidens personal debts to Ukrainian oligarchs, not at all. Its completely and totally unrelated.
Tucker Carlson kicked off his show on Tuesday by referring to Russias incursion into Ukraine as a mere border dispute.
Carlson, who has eyed the ongoing dispute with a mixture of cynicism and criticism, seem to downplay the situation.
Russian President Vladimir Putin declared the Donetsk and Luhansk breakaway regions of Ukraine independent on Monday. The same day, he ordered so-called peacekeeping forces into those areas.
He has railed against the White House for the humanitarian crisis at the U.S. southern border throughout the last year.
The Fox News host framed the potential for war in eastern Europe as inconsequential to every American whose last name is not Biden.
Carlson concluded that the Biden administration and the media are attempting to frame the situation as one where democracy must be defended from tyranny.
If youve been watching thenews, you know that Putin is having a border disputewith a nation called Ukraine, Carlson said. Now, the main thing to know aboutUkraine, for our purposes, is that its leaders once sentmillions of dollars toJoe Bidensfamily.
Not surprisingly, Ukraine is now oneof Bidens favorite countries, Carlson continued.Biden has pledged to defendthe borders even as he opens ourborders to the world.
Biden called Putins incursion into Ukraine as an invasion on Monday when he announced stringent financial sanctions against Russia.
