Tucker Carlson Responds to Joe Walsh Tweet with Fake Quote from Him A Manufactured Lie
20220406
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/tucker-carlson-responds-to-joe-walsh-tweet-with-fake-quote-from-him-a-manufactured-lie/
Carlson complained that the tweet has not been taken down, but that he remains locked out of his account for violating Twitters rules after he tweeted about Assistant Secretary of Health Dr.Rachel Levine, a transgender woman.
At the time, it was clear Walsh was making a joke. But after the show aired, many people falsely believed those words actually came out of Carlsons mouth, including Reps. Adam Kinzinger R-IL, Ted Lieu D-CA, and MSNBC host Joy Reid.
He dinged Kinzinger mentioning the bogus quote in a video he posted on Tuesday morning.
.TuckerCarlson tonight: What if these bodies of tortured, dead civilians were staged? What if theyre fake? What if the Ukrainian military killed them  then blamed Russia? Im not saying any of this is true, Im just asking the questions. Why cant we ask these questions?
Tucker Carlson lashed out at former Rep. Joe Walsh R-IL on Tuesday night after the former congressman tweeted a fake quote from the Fox News host about Ukraine.
Its completely made up  utterly, Carlson continued. We didnt say that, we didnt say anything like that. We didnt even address the topic on the air in any way. So everything about Joe Walshs tweet is a manufactured lie. Its pure disinformation as they now say.
Now, we mightve responded to Walsh on Twitter, but we couldnt do that because weve been locked out of our own Twitter account for more than a week, he explained. Why? Because we suggested that Joe Bidens most famous admiral, Rachel Levine was born a man, which is actually true. But Twitter banned us anyway. See how that works? You take one side off the field so the other side wins.
Walsh tweeted the quote on Monday morning. It began, .TuckerCarlson tonight: and this was followed by a mock prediction of what Carlson would say on his show later that evening. He facetiously claimed Carlson would float the idea that Russian atrocities in Ukraine are the handiwork of the Ukrainian military.
Carlson read Walshs tweet before sayinghis critics seized on the quote to show once again contend that this show is a tool of Vladimir Putin. Theyre working for the Russians! Arrest them!'
Walsh is known for his willingness to say anything that might help the Democratic Party whether or not its true, Carlson told viewers Tuesday night while implying Walsh sent the tweet in the evening. Well, last night he lived up to his reputation.
