Tucker Carlson Suggests Putins Removal Could Destabilize the World Would the Next Russian President Be an Improvement
20220303
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/tucker-carlson-suggests-putins-removal-could-destabilize-the-world-would-the-next-russian-president-be-an-improvement/
The host criticized Biden for stating, Russias economy is reeling and Putin alone is the one to blame during his address.
Russia invaded the eastern European country last week and is seeking to capture major cities, especially the capital of Kyiv. However, Ukrainians have countered with fierce resistance. Russian President Vladimir Putins decision to invade has united Europe, NATO, and other blocs against the country, which has been hit the severe sanctions.
Carlson later added that its too late for the U.S. to defend Ukraine. Short of destroying Ukraine, there is no was to liberate Ukraine by force.
Tucker Carlson kicked off Wednesdays show by declaring, Joe Biden delivered this countrys first ever State of Ukraine address last night.
Carlson asked a series of questions suggesting that Putins ouster could have a destabilizing influence:
During his monologue, Carlson said that Putins potential removal could have a destabilizing effect on the continent and the rest of the world.
Whats the point of all of this? Putins bad. No one in America is gonna argue with that. But will destroying the entire Russian economy make Putin less bad? Will it force Russia troops to withdraw from Ukraine? And if it will, how exactly will that work and how long will it take?
Or is the plan bigger than that? Is the idea that we can force Vladimir Putin from office entirely? Ok. Will that work? And if it does work, what happens to Russia after Vladimir Putin leaves? Would the next Russian president be an improvement over Putin? Or would Russia descend into barbarous chaos like Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan did once we overthrew their governments? sic, the U.S. did not overthrow the Syrian government.
So the Russian economy is being destroyed, it is destroyed, stated Carlson, who later said he noticed a matter Biden didnt address.
Theyre very good at wrecking things, he said. Its what they do. They planned the Iraq war and they never apologized for it. So we might want to make sure they dont wreck anything else ever again, especially this country.
Now, you may not care what happens to Russia, but you have to wonder, what would become of Russias enormous nuclear stockpile under those circumstances? Take a moment and think. Are there potentially ways that thousands of unsecured Russian nukes might pose a long-term threat to the United States? Something to think about. Not that anyone is.
He talked far more about Ukraine and with much greater passion than about any other topic, the Fox News host said about the presidents State of the Union speech. Biden delivered exactly the speech everyone wanted to hear. Virtually every lawmaker in the room last night from both parties arrived wearing some version of the Ukrainian flag.
Carlson singled out House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy R-CA for wearing a Ukrainian flag pocket square and a Ukrainian flag lapel, but not an American one.
Thats about as Ukrainian as you can get, he continued. Even the president of Ukraine doesnt do that very often. What McCarthy conspicuously didnt do, was don an American flag pin. No, not all. And many others went without that too because within the context of last night, the American was literally irrelevant.
