WATCH Intelligence Official Estimates Up to 4000 Russian Troops Have Died Invading Ukraine
20220308
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/watch-intelligence-official-estimates-up-to-4000-russian-troops-have-died-invading-ukraine/
Soldiers from Russias military have been photographed killing men, women, and children. They have also bombed a hospital and residential buildings throughout Ukraines cities.
He added: I think they had a bad plan. And I think their logistic support is not what it needs to be to develop the situation that they wanted to do.
With low confidence, somewhere between 2,000 and 4,000, Berrier responded. That number comes from some intelligence sources, but also open-source, and how we pull that together.
Chairman, I think the Russian army reformed into this thing we call the new look army, Berrier said. They task organize themselves into a smaller battalion, tactical groups. Fundamentally that is not a bad construct.
That has not oven to be the case, he added, before he deferred questions on the matter of losses over to Berrier.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered forces into the country on Feb. 24. He declared he would de-Nazify Ukraine.
The U.S. intelligence community has estimated up to 4,000 Russian soldiers might have been killed in less than two weeks of fighting in Ukraine.
Berrier addressed the House Intelligence Committee Tuesday, where he offered lawmakers the best estimate of Russian losses.
CIA Director William Burnsfirst told the committee Russian causalities have been far in excess of what Putin had anticipated.
Schiff then asked, Are you able to say in open session how many Russian troops have been killed?
The world has since witnessed his cruelty as images of civilian deaths have gone viral.
Ranking committee member Rep. Adam Schiff D-CA asked Berrier, Are we learning the Russianmilitary is far less competentthan we imagined?How do you assess theirperformance, thus far?
According to Lt. Gen. Scott Berrier, who is the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Russian causalities are also mounting.
