Zelensky Backs His Troops as Very Smart Amid Concerns They Wont be Able to Use US Weapons
20220418
https://www.mediaite.com/tv/zelensky-backs-his-troops-as-very-smart-amid-concerns-they-wont-be-able-to-use-u-s-weapons/
One of the things I hear fromwestern leaders is that yourgovernment asks for weapons that your military doesntknow how to use, Tapper noted, before asking, Is it better to have the highesttop of the line best equipmentthat your troops need to betrained and that could takeweeks, if not months, or is it better to haveequipment that you know how touse that might not be asadvanced?
We have very smart people forthis, he said. Weve had training with NATOcountries, and Ive heard thesetall tales that we would needmonths to train our troops touse new tanks.We are prepared to use any typeof equipment but it needs to bedelivered very quickly and wehave the ability to learn how touse new equipment.But it needs to come fast.
Zelensky sat down with CNNs Jake Tapper to discuss new aid Ukraine is receiving as it continues to fend off Russias unprovoked war.While weapons pour into the country, Tapper noted there are detractors who believe they are going to soldiers who are not prepped to use them.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky defended his countrys troops as very smart Monday while challenging a notion they are not prepared to handle high-tech weapons coming in from the West.
Ukraines president praised his troops as very smart, and expressed a sense of urgency regarding getting weapons in their hands.
Ive heard many times fromcertain states that did not wantto give us weapons quicklybecause our soldiers are notready from a technicalstandpoint to use them, Zelensky responded.But instructors of suchequipment, our instructors, willget our troops ready to fight.If it is a plane, for example,pilots can be ready in twoweeks.
The Department of Defense confirmed Monday Ukrainian troops will meet U.S. forces outside of the war-torn country where they will be trained on howitzers and other pieces of equipment.
The Howitzers are among numerous other weapons the Biden administration announced last week will go to Ukraine as part of an $800 million aid package.
