Crimea establishes protocol for high level terrorist threat
20220411
https://www.plenglish.com/news/2022/04/11/crimea-establishes-protocol-for-high-level-terrorist-threat/
Russia began a military operation in Ukraine on February 24, after the authorities of the self-proclaimed peoples republics of Donetsk and Lugansk asked for help to repel the increased aggression and intense bombing by Kiev.
Observation checkpoints were established in the region, where the military and police will be located, intensified patrolling  settlements. I ask you to remain calm and help our special services, Starovoit said.
Likewise, he asked the population to remain vigilant, pay attention to abandoned bags in public places and report suspicious citizens or groups of people.
Last Saturday, April 9, a border post near the town of Elizavetovka, in the Glushkovsky district of the Kursk region, was attacked by mortar fire from Ukraine, with no reported casualties.
In his speech to inform about the start of operations, Russian President Vladimir Putin stated that the goal is to protect the population of Donbass from the abuses and genocide of Kiev during the last eight years, in addition to demilitarizing and denazifying  Ukraine.
The governor of the Russian region of Kursk, Romn Starovoi, also declared a high level of terrorist threat for that territory as of April 11, due to possible provocations by Ukrainian ultranationalists.
He explained that for this reason the territorial authorities decided to introduce a high yellow level of terrorist danger in the Armiansk, Dzhanki, Kerch and Krasnoperekopsk, Dzhanki, Krasnoperekopsk and Leninski districts, starting at 20:00 local time this Monday.
Previously, Moscow recognized the independence and sovereignty of both territories and signed treaties of friendship, cooperation and mutual assistance with their leaders, which included the establishment of diplomatic relations and military aid.
The executive explained that the region, bordering with Ukraine, established the yellow level, second in the terrorist threat scale.
Due to the special military operation carried out by the Russian Armed Forces and the possible provocations of the accomplices of the Kiev regime, the issues of anti-terrorist protection of the republic and its citizens acquire greater relevance, the official said in a statement through his Telegram channel.
