Crisis between Russia and Ukraine misrepresented in the US
20220225
https://www.plenglish.com/news/2022/02/24/crisis-between-russia-and-ukraine-misrepresented-in-the-us/
In an article published in CovertAction Magazine, Hank and Kuzmarov explained that Ukrainian citizens, mostly Russian-speaking, urged the Kremlin to save them from US-backed invaders and neo-Nazi militias.
On Monday, the Kremlin captured a Ukrainian soldier and killed five others after they crossed into Russian territory in Rostov, right on the Ukrainian border.
After the recent tensions, which surfaced after the White Houses insistent claims about an imminent military intervention by Russia, the northern country has imposed extensive sanctions against the European giant.
Since then, Washington has provided extensive military aid and training to the Ukrainian armed forces as they brutalize the people of the nations east, they commented.
The measures, according to experts, amount to an act of war, as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO expanded its military forces to Russias borders and planted missiles in Poland and Romania.
Moscow also reported that several hundred US mercenaries had arrived in Ukraine in the last week.
Russian President Vladimir Putin stated he had no intention of occupying Ukraine, but that he wanted to demilitarize and denazify Ukraine.
Both foreign policy experts said no US or Western world news channels reported that people in eastern Ukraine begged Russian President Vladimir Putin to send his troops.
Bidens claim that the Russian invasion was unprovoked is undermined by the fact that Ukraine precipitated the war by attacking the breakaway eastern provinces in violation of the Minsk peace accords.
Following these statements, US President Joe Biden stated that Russia had opted for a premeditated war that will bring with it a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering.
In the text, the analysts recalled that in February 2014, the United States supported the overthrow of Ukraines pro-Russian leader, Viktor Yanulovych, after he rejected a loan from the International Monetary Fund that would harm that Eastern European country.
Bidens assessment is wrong, considering that Russia has been repeatedly provoked over the past eight years, they explained.
Moscow forces launched special operations in the neighboring country on Thursday morning, including surgical strikes with ballistic missiles targeting military infrastructure, according to local media.
