Russia Links Western Media to Crimes Committed in Bucha
20220406
https://www.plenglish.com/news/2022/04/06/russia-links-western-media-to-crimes-committed-in-bucha/
The Russian spokeswoman indicated the discussion in the Security Council of the United Nations on the subject showed that Western representatives avoid analyzing the flagrant inconsistencies of the images of Bucha that their media showed.
She denounced that the other reason is to try to complicate, or even completely disrupt, the negotiations between Russia and Ukraine, in which, according to Zakharova, Kiev had begun to show signs of a realistic approach.
In her opinion, it became clear that this terrible criminal forgery, its script, was fabricated to justify a pre-prepared package of sanctions, including the large-scale expulsion of Russian diplomats from various Western countries.
According to the representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, there is so much evidence of the innocence of the Russian side that this issue should already be settled.
She also drew attention to how Western politicians and media did not even try to verify the information presented and immediately published it as proof of Russias guilt. That is why they are personally responsible for supporting the crime that the Ukrainian regime committed, she said.
At a press conference this Wednesday, the official pointed out that the guilt of these media is not only linked to the dissemination of forgeries and misinformation, but also to their complicity in the events.
According to the media, the UN General Assembly is scheduled to vote this Thursday on the possible suspension of Russia from the Human Rights Council of the organization in relation to the military operation in Ukraine.
This Tuesday, Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov, stated that the killings of civilians in Bucha were a provocation aimed at ending the negotiations between Kiev and Moscow and refuted the responsibility of the Russian troops in the events.
According to the Russian foreign minister, every time there is reason to expect some progress, even modest in the negotiations between Moscow and Kiev, circumstances arise that block them.
She clarified that, however, it remains open due to the alleged involvement of the Ukrainian regime and all those who are complicit in these crimes.
For his part, Russias representative to the United Nations, Vasili Nebenzia, blamed the Ukrainian radicals for the massacre, arguing the existence of hundreds of video evidence.
