US fr Military slams White House war policy in Ukraine
20220619
https://www.plenglish.com/news/2022/06/19/us-former-military-criticizes-war-in-ukraine/
In a report published on theamericanconservative.com, the former adviser to the Secretary of Defense in the Donald Trump administration 2017-2021 pointed out that after months of prolifically lying to the public about the origins and conduct of the war in Ukraine, the media is now going in another direction.
Europeans, like most Americans, are already peering into the abyss of a widespread economic recession that Bidens policies are creating at home, he estimated.
He pointed out that the corporate media is now preparing the American, British and other publics for the military collapse of Ukraine, which was overdue months ago.
Unlike Americans, who must face the consequences of Bidens ill-conceived policies, European governments, he stressed, can opt out of Washingtons perpetual war plan for Ukraine.
Russian mistakes were blown out of proportion. Russian losses and the true extent of Ukrainian losses were distorted, fabricated or simply ignored, he added.
The White House cannot dictate all outcomes, nor can it escape responsibility for its profligacy and for ruining Americas presumed prosperity through this provoked and proxy war, he stressed.
Kievs war with Moscow is lost and no amount of military aid or assistance from the United States and its allies short of direct military intervention by its ground forces can change this harsh reality, the expert opined.
Only the episodic infusion of US and allied weapons kept Kievs battered legions in the field, legions now dying in great numbers thanks to the war by proxy from Washington, he pointed out.
In Ukraine, he assessed, from the first action it was evident that Moscow focused on the destruction of Ukrainian forces, and not on the occupation of cities or the capture of the territory west of the Dnieper River.
The decorated combat veteran and author of five books predicted a collapse of the West in the conflict.
Macgregor argued that a prolongation of the war can be avoided if Berlin, Paris, Rome, Budapest, Bucharest, Sofia, Vilnius, Riga, Tallinn and, yes, even Warsaw, do not blindly follow Washingtons lead.
