Brendan Schaub rips Paulo Costa for his praise of Russian leader Vladimir Putin You dont know what the fk youre talking about
20220315
https://www.bjpenn.com/mma-news/ufc/brendan-schaub-rips-paulo-costa-for-his-praise-of-russian-leader-vladimir-putin-you-dont-know-what-the-fk-youre-talking-about/
Vladimir Putin Putin is not a weak leader like Biden or Macron. Hes a former military man who has already been stabbed in the belly and survived. He is another level of world leader. Do you know another Leader who has the same characteristics past?
In response, Brendan Schaub questioned the logic of the former 185-pound title challenger when reacting to BJPENN.coms article on the matter.
Costa hasnt fought in the Octagon since losing a light heavyweight bout to Marvin Vettori last October.
Over the course of the last few weeks weve seen a lot of MMA fighters weigh in on the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine. While the majority have sympathy for the Ukrainians and what theyre going through, others fall into a different line of thinking.
Listen, for some of these MMA guys when they talk about politics, I wish you didnt. If you knew the horrible s, just turn on the news, theyre killing pregnant women and innocent children. Bombing daycare centers, bombing hospitals. Paulo Costa, you dont know what the f youre talking about. You have no clue, dude. To tweet something like that youve got to be a god damn moron. A fing moron. But again, do you have any idea what youre talking about? Co-signing Putin? Just pick up a god damn book, man.
MMA analyst Brendan Schaub has ripped into Paulo Costa after the Brazilian praised Russian president Vladimir Putin.
Do you agree with Brendan Schaub regarding the comments made by Paulo Costa? Is there a chance well see Costa get back into a UFC cage before the end of the year? If not, whats next for him? Let us know your thoughts down in the comments, BJPENN Nation!
That includes UFC middleweight Paulo Costa who, in a since-deleted tweet, said the following about Vladimir Putin.
