Pakistan can play role for diplomatic solution to war PM tells Ukrainian president
20220329
https://tribune.com.pk/story/2350151/pakistan-can-play-role-for-diplomatic-solution-to-war-pm-tells-ukrainian-president
Concluding, he also appreciated the efforts made by other countries to facilitate a diplomatic solution.
President Zelenskyy also took to Twitter, saying he had a phone conversation with Premier Imran. Spoke about our struggle against Russian aggression.
PM Imran made these remarks as Zelenskyy called him on Tuesday to discuss the ongoing situation in Ukraine, according to an official statement. Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
Discussing the latest situation in Ukraine, the premier expressed deep regret that the military conflict is continuing and reiterated Islamabads principled position in support of immediate cessation of hostilities and resolution of the conflict through dialogue and diplomacy.
The premier thanked the Ukrainian president for the support extended by his country to evacuate Pakistani students and nationals as well as the Embassy staff.
Prime Minister Imran Khan has told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that non-partisan countries like Pakistan are in a position to play a helpful role in reinforcing efforts for cessation of hostilities and a diplomatic solution in the war-stricken country.
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
Had a phone conversation with  Prime Minister ImranKhanPTI. Spoke about our struggle against Russian aggression. The people of  seek peace. This is our unconditional priority.
The foreign ministers called for an immediate cessation of hostilities and expressed the willingness of OIC member states to support and facilitate the dialogue process, he maintained.
Recalling the recent OIC-CFM session in Islamabad, he informed that the foreign ministers of the Islamic countries expressed deep concern about the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation arising from the conflict.
He added that he had been persistently highlighting the adverse economic impact of the conflict on the developing countries, manifest in rising prices of oil and commodities.
PM Imran also emphasised the importance of humanitarian relief for the civilians and underlined that Pakistan had dispatched two C-130 airplanes with humanitarian relief assistance for the people in Ukraine.
