Policies of Muslim middle powers can no longer be dictated by West
20220525
https://tribune.com.pk/story/2358315/policies-of-muslim-middle-powers-can-no-longer-be-dictated-by-west
The train, which leaves London, reaches Beijing in 10 to 12 days. And Turkiye is the center, he said.
Referring to the Beijing Olympics held this February, Sayed said China-Saudi relations and China-UAE relations also add to this phenomenon.
We're talking of regional connectivity, connectivity based on cooperation, based on consultations, and it is connectivity among countries, civilizations, and continents, he added.
Calling Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan a lion of Asia who has a vision and will, Mushahid Hussain Sayed told Anadolu Agency: We have what I call Muslim middle powers emerging like Pakistan, Turkiye, Iran, and Saudi Arabia and these are important elements who are playing a role for stability.
Sayed said Istanbul and Turkiye are the favored destinations of Pakistanis when they go abroad because of love, esteem, and respect.
He said Palestinians and Kashmiris were facing human rights sufferings while the demographic balance is sought to be changed by Israel in Palestine and by India in occupied Kashmir.
Of course, nobody can endorse any invasion of any foreign country. But theres a context to that. And Pakistan, therefore, abstained on that issue because basically, we see it as a European war, said Sayed.
We see the decline of the US We see the decline of Europe also, in front of our own eyes. Its their political clout that is limited their economies are in bad shape, he said, citing Brexit as an example.
Sayed said Xi had also presented for the first time a peace plan for the Middle East on the issue of Palestine.
When Azerbaijan was fighting the Armenian aggression and occupation of the homeland, Pakistan Turkiye were two countries which rose to the occasion, he said, adding because of this move, the flags of Turkiye and Pakistan were raised in Azerbaijan when they celebrated the Nagorno-Karabakh victory.
Sayed said Erdogan is a man who takes positions on issues, and he has shown the vision and will to do that.
Sayed, known for his sharp analysis of Chinas socio-politico-economic development, said two visions were emerging.
Pakistan, Egypt, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, other countries. And Turkiye was also represented there.
Sayed said Pakistan was the first country to send a delegation of parliamentarians to express solidarity with Turkiye after the failed coup by the Fetullah terrorist organization in July 2016.
He said thanks to these initiatives, a greater South Asia was emerging which was not a geographical concept that is just a South Asia.
Lauding what he called the historic visit of Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi to Islamabad, where he attended the Organization of Islamic Cooperation OIC Foreign Ministers Summit in March this year, Sayed said: I do recall that President Xi Jinping hosted a conference on the dialogue among civilizations in 2019.
Wang was the first Chinese top diplomat to represent his country at the OIC at this level.
Two big anniversaries are coming up and we are celebrating them together, he said, referring to the 75th anniversary of the founding of Pakistan in 2022 and the centenary of the founding of the Republic of Turkiye in 2023.
He talked of how Islamic civilization has enriched the Chinese civilization -- the Confucian civilization. He talked of the Great Mosque of Makkah. He talked of the Indus Valley Civilization. He talked of Ibn Batuta, the traveler who went to China and who has written about China in the past, said Sayed.
He said the two countries should sign a free trade agreement and we should cut through the bureaucratic red tape.
Lauding the vision of Pakistani philosopher and national poet Sir Muhammad Iqbal, Sayed said: this great Muslim philosopher saw it 90 years ago that the sun is rising in the east.
The policies of Muslim middle powers can no longer be dictated by Western nations, while these nations should focus on connectivity, boosting their economies, and coming together for mutual interests, a Pakistani senator said.
He said China was the first country to support the war of liberation by Palestinians on the first of January 1965 while Pakistan was the first country which hosted the Palestine Liberation Organization PLO under Yasser Arafat in April 1974 in Lahore at the Islamic Summit, where the PLO was accepted and recognized as the sole legitimate representative of the people of Palestine.
They are both linked with peace, security, and stability in South Asia and the Middle East, respectively, he added.
Sayed, who also chairs the Pakistani Senates Defense Committee, said Turkiye and Pakistan enjoyed a rather unique relationship.
He quoted a remark by Pakistans founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, during an interview with an American magazine in October 1947, in which Jinnah said: Pakistan will be the pivot of the world placed on the frontier around which the future geopolitics of the world will revolve.
Pakistans support to Palestine predates the creation of our country because Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the father of our nation, gave that support to Palestine, he recalled.
We do not agree with that view because prolonging the war would create other complications like shortages of oil and food. And it is in that context, it is important that President Erdogan play that role. He has already done it at the level of foreign ministers, Sayed said, referring to a meeting of the foreign ministers of Russia and Ukraine on the eve of the Antalya Diplomacy Forum in March.
You can see that today when we talk of regional connectivity we are the hub of regional connectivity, he said, referring to initiatives like the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor CPEC and the Economic Cooperation Organization ECO, which was earlier known as the Regional Cooperation for Development RCD.
The over $50 billion CPEC is the flagship project of Chinas multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative BRI.
Their policies can no longer be dictated by people sitting in London, Washington or New York or Brussels, said Sayed, who was visiting Istanbul for a meeting on Palestine with lawmakers from several other countries.
I, myself, in my speech at the Asian Parliamentary Assembly in Cambodia, said that President Erdogan is 'the lion of Asia', he recalled. I meant it because he is a man who has vision, like former Malaysian Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamad.
Later on, the RCD evolved into the ECO with the participation of the Central Asian republics, Azerbaijan, and Afghanistan.
This relationship has been reinforced by our cooperation in the fields of economy, defense, diplomacy, and in the field of regional connectivity, and that is extremely important, he said, citing the resumption of the Istanbul-Tehran-Islamabad ITI freight train as one example.
Citing the role of Turkiye and Pakistan in Azerbaijans second Nagorno-Karabakh war which started on Sept. 27, 2020 and lasted 44 days to recapture its territory from Armenia, Sayed called for greater cooperation on regional connectivity, the economy, defense, and issues of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus TRNC, Palestine, and Kashmir.
In that context, he said, there are a lot of commonalities between the positions of Pakistan, Turkiye, and China viz-a-viz Palestine.
In that context, Sayed emphasized, I feel that the world has to adjust to new powers, especially in the Muslim world.
We wish that it should not become a part of another new Cold War, he said.
I think he was referring to the resurgence of Asia and the emergence of the Asian century, he said.
It is a tribute to Turkish technology that it is so sophisticated. And we as Pakistanis, who are brothers and friends of Turkiye, take pride in the achievements of this country.
So there is a lot which is linking the Chinese civilization with the Islamic civilization, he said.
We will be there with our Turkish brethren to celebrate the historic anniversary because Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah had said that when Mustafa Kemal Ataturk died in October 1938, that this is a day of mourning for the Musalmans Muslims of India, said Sayed, a renowned political commentator.
It's now strengthened through mutual interests. The mutual interests are linked with our worldview, he said.
And there is the issue of dual nationality, which should also be there, he said. I will work on these issues.
The hawks in Washington talk of China as the enemy We reject this kind of thing, he emphasized, arguing that after so many years of conflict, we cannot have a return to a Cold Wara zero-sum game mindset.
That is how high in esteem the father of our nation held the father of the Turkish nation.
Commenting on Russias war on Ukraine, the Pakistani senator said Pakistan and Turkiye have broadly similar positions on the issue of the Ukraine war.
One is a vision of a new Cold War, conflict, confrontation, he said, adding this phenomenon was already happening in Europe, where they see Russia as the enemy.
We are also concerned! I, as a Pakistani, and as a person who has links with the media, believe that there are, unfortunately, a lot of double standards in the Western medias coverage of the Ukraine war, because there is an element of racism -- as if the lives of Europeans in Ukraine are perhaps more precious than the lives of non-Europeans, be they Kashmiris or Palestinians or Afghans or Syrians or Iraqis, he said. That needs to be put on the record.
Acknowledging that progress in bilateral relations between Turkiye and Pakistan faced bureaucratic obstacles, Sayed, however, said, there are no limits to Pakistan-Turkiye collaboration.
The Bayraktar drone has been very effective. It has been used on almost 80 occasions in the Ukraine war, and this drone was also effective in the Azerbaijan war, he said.
I hope that if there is a summit between Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Russian President Vladimir Putin that it will be President Erdogan who will host it, Insha Allah!
A whole new world is opening. And we are at the center of that. So Pakistan and Turkiye, together with countries like China and Iran as well as Central Asia, have to play a historical role, said Sayed. This is the need of the hour.
Complimenting Turkiye for its role in attempting to diffuse the situation, Sayed said Turkish drones are playing a very important role.
Pointing to President Erdogans slogan the world is bigger than five, Sayed said: What we are seeing today in the world, and what President Erdogan alluded to, is that it has become a multipolar world where -- and this is very important -- the balance of economic and political power is shifting from the West to the East. And by the West, I mean the United States of America and Europe.
Its a geopolitical concept, he noted. This regional connectivity is driven by the economy, energy, roads, railways, ports, and pipelines.
This needs to be taken forward. This initiative of inviting Chinese Foreign Minister Mr. Wang Yi to Pakistan was very important. And that has reinforced this relationship and together with the BRI, together with the $400 billion China-Iran agreement, he said, calling it extremely important.
In 1964, said Sayed, Pakistan, Turkiye, and Iran launched the first initiative in the Muslim world for regional connectivity -- the RCD.
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
Sayed said President Erdogan is among those leaders Perhaps the only international statesman who has the capacitywho has the vision, and who has the will to bring both parties Russia and Ukraine to the conference table.
Sayed said the two countries have similar positions on the issue of Palestine, Kashmir, and the TRNC.
Recalling the help extended by South Asian Muslims during Turkiyes war of liberation, he said this relationship, irrespective of any government in Turkiye or in Pakistan, is always a strong bond.
This camaraderie is developing. And interestingly, when Mr. Samuel P. Huntington talked in a negative way about the clash of civilizations in 1993, it seems that the Confucian civilization and Islamic civilization are moving closer together, not against anybody, but for the common good. For connectivity, for cooperation, for strengthening development in these countries, he said.
He said there were multiple power centers nowno one superpower, self-styled, can control what is happening today.
Both of our lands are under brutal foreign occupation, he said, referring to UN Security Council resolutions that grant the peoples of these lands the right of self-determination.
