Russian troops ordered to advance in Ukraine
20220227
https://tribune.com.pk/story/2345390/russian-troops-ordered-to-advance-in-ukraine
Germany also announced it was working to limit Russia's access to SWIFT global payments which would cripple Russia's trade with most of the world, despite previously resisting the move over concerns Russia could cut off gas supplies.
Despite being a democracy and a member of the "Quad" grouping with Australia, Japan and the United States, India has neither explicitly condemned Moscow's actions, nor called them an invasion.
The Pentagon estimates that half of the invasion force built up by Russia on Ukraine's borders in recent months is now inside the country.
Ukraine's army said it held back an assault on the capital -- but was fighting Russian "sabotage groups" which had infiltrated the city.
But, on day three of Russia's invasion, defiant Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky vowed his country would never give in to the Kremlin, while Washington said the invading force had a "lack of momentum".
But the Kremlin has so far brushed off sanctions, including those targeting Putin personally, as a sign of Western impotence.
Ukrainian Health Minister Viktor Lyashko said 198 civilians, including three children, had been killed in the conflict so far and 1,115 wounded.
But there was a "lack of momentum over the last 24 hours, particularly in the northern parts of Ukraine" and the Russian military had still not gained air superiority over the country, the official said.
Moscow said it fired cruise missiles at military targets and would "develop the offensive from all directions" after accusing Ukraine of having "rejected" talks.
NATO has said it is deploying its rapid response force of 40,000 troops to eastern Europe for the first time, but the Western military alliance has made clear it will not send any troops to Ukraine.
Moscow ordered its troops to advance in Ukraine "from all directions" on Saturday as the Ukrainian capital Kyiv imposed a blanket curfew after fighting in the city that saw Russian troops pushed back.
He earlier said Ukraine had "derailed" Moscow's plan to overthrow him and urged Russians to pressure President Vladimir Putin into stopping the conflict.
India is currently on the UNs top body but -- along with China and the UAE -- did not vote on a resolution on Friday that deplored Russia's "aggression" against Ukraine and demanded the immediate withdrawal of its troops.
In Kyiv, residents sought sanctuary in subway stations and cellars, while Zelensky announced a baby girl had been born on the metro, saying the birth showed "the enemy has no chance".
Ukrainian officials reported 198 civilian deaths in total, including three children, as explosions reverberated in Kyiv, forcing residents to flee to safety underground.
Earlier, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday for "political support" at the UN after New Delhi abstained from a Security Council vote.
On the ground early Saturday, AFP reporters in Kyiv heard occasional blasts of what soldiers said were artillery and Grad missiles being fired in an area northwest of the city centre.
In a major U-turn, Berlin said it will send Kyiv 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 Stinger missiles, reversing its longstanding policy of not exporting weapons to war zones.
Zelensky said he asked UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres to strip Russia of its vote at the UN Security Council as punishment for the invasion.
Earlier, he thanked "partners" for sending weapons and equipment, with ex-communist eastern European countries and Britain among them, while Washington announced $350 million of new military assistance.
In a Twitter post on Saturday, Zelensky said he had spoken with Modi and told him that "More than 100,000 invaders are on our land."
Its position on events in Ukraine has raised concerns in Washington, with White House press secretary Jen Psaki telling reporters on Friday that "we continue to engage with the Indians".
Zelensky said in a video messages "we will do and say only one thing: we will fight until we have liberated our country".
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
