Too overwhelmed Heres how to cope with anxiety from a bad news cycle
20220302
https://tribune.com.pk/story/2346023/too-overwhelmed-heres-how-to-cope-with-anxiety-from-a-bad-news-cycle
Head of Emotional Wellbeing at Nuffield Health, Brendan Street, thus, suggests, we need to strike a balance between allowing ourselves to feel sad and not rejecting that feeling completely as some often do. And we need to not catastrophise on a personal level. Part of the reason we can feel so acutely worried about situations is that we start to see them as an attack on our personal safety.
The state of the world has taken a turn for the worst, once again, and memes about millennials having a mental breakdown because of having to cope with one once-in-a-lifetime bad news after another, are doing the rounds. Albeit, the jokes arent funny anymore. The coping mechanism just doesnt seem to be working.
She tells, To empathise with those who are suffering is a great quality to have, but in extreme situations, being overly empathetic and taking on the feelings of others as our own can actually be unhelpful.
Provided that living through a global health pandemic has been a rollercoaster of emotions in itself, Its understandable that the news can make us feel anxious and helpless at times, psychologist and CPPC London co-founder Caroline Plumer acknowledges in an interview with the Independent.
While many are voicing support for Ukraine after Vladimir Putins unprovoked attacks, several are questioning why Yemen never received the same treatment. And as many remain at the crossroads, mentally, about who to empathise with and how others are prioritising their mental peace by choosing to remain criminally quiet. But at this point, are they really to blame? Do we even have the energy to be vocal anymore?
Its also important to understand your common unhelpful thought patterns. When you feel stressed or anxious, write down the trigger, associated thoughts, and the mood you experienced. Also, note how the situation turned out. Often, we read back through our experiences and learn, while our thoughts may focus on the worst-case scenario, things rarely turned out like we thought they would."
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
Street adds, While its important to stay updated, check a trusted news site once in the morning and again in the evening to catch any important updates. But try to avoid your phone. Simple breathing exercises can help us stay in control as well. Close your eyes and focus on your breathing.
