Ukraine leader pushes for more arms US officials to visit
20220424
https://www.hopestandard.com/news/ukraine-leader-pushes-for-more-arms-us-officials-to-visit/
Zelenskyy said he stressed the need to evacuate civilians from Mariupol, including from the steel plant, in a Sunday call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is scheduled to speak later with Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
Still, the war cast a shadow over celebrations. In the northern village of Ivanivka, where Russian tanks still littered the roads, Olena Koptyl said the Easter holiday doesnt bring any joy. Im crying a lot. We cannot forget how we lived.
The spiritual leaders of the worlds Orthodox Christians and Roman Catholics appealed for relief for Ukraines suffering population.
Podolyak tweeted that the Russian military was attacking the plant with heavy bombs and artillery while accumulating forces and equipment for a direct assault.
Mykhailo Podolyak, a Ukrainian presidential adviser, called for a localized Easter truce. He urged Russia to allow civilians to leave the steel plant and suggested talks to negotiate an exit for the Ukrainian soldiers.
Zelenskyy announced the planned visit by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin at a news conference Saturday night in a Kyiv subway station. The White House has not commented.
Victor Lobush of Kyiv said Ukraine needs more weapons and financial support, and for Western nations not to buy even a drop of the Russian oil.
Mariupol has seen fierce fighting since the start of the war due to its location on the Sea of Azov. Its capture would deprive Ukraine of a vital port, free up Russian troops to fight elsewhere, and allow Moscow to establish a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
The Russian military reported hitting 423 Ukrainian targets overnight, including fortified positions and troop concentrations, while its warplanes destroyed 26 Ukrainian military sites, including an explosives factory and several artillery depots.
While the West has funneled military equipment to Ukraine, Zelenskyy has stressed repeatedly that the country needs more heavy weapons, including long-range air defense systems, as well as warplanes.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres Guterres is scheduled to travel to Turkey on Monday and then Moscow and Kyiv. Zelenskyy it was a mistake for Guterres to visit Russia before Ukraine.
From there, he said, Ukrainians are sent to areas under Russian occupation or to Russia itself, often as far as Siberia or the Far East. Many of them, he said, are children.
Zelenskyy claimed that intercepted communications recorded Russian troops discussing how they conceal the traces of their crimes in Mariupol. He also highlighted the death of a 3-month old girl in a Russian missile strike Saturday on the Black Sea port of Odesa.
During his nightly address to the nation, Zelenskyy accused Russians of committing war crimes by killing civilians, as well as of setting up filtration camps near Mariupol for people caught trying to leave the city.
Most of Sundays fighting focused on the Donbas region in the east, where Ukrainian forces are concentrated and where Moscow-backed separatists controlled some territory before the war. Since failing to capture Kyiv, the Russians are aiming to gain full control over the eastern industrial heartland.
The war started when this baby was 1 month old, Zelenskyy said. Can you imagine what is happening? They are filthy scum, there are no other words for it.
The claims could not be independently verified. But they were repeated by Yevheniya Kravchuk, a member of Ukraines parliament, on ABCs This Week.
Ukrainian news agency UNIAN, citing social media posts, reported that the infants mother, Valeria Glodan, and grandmother also died when a missile hit a residential area. Zelenskyy promised to find and punish those responsible.
Russian forces launched fresh airstrikes on a Mariupol steel plant where an estimated 1,000 civilians are sheltering along with about 2,000 Ukrainian fighters. The Azovstal steel mill where the defenders are holed up is the last corner of resistance in the city, which the Russians have otherwise occupied.
More than 100,000 people  down from a prewar population of about 430,000  are believed to remain in Mariupol with scant food, water or heat. Ukrainian authorities estimate that over 20,000 civilians have been killed. Recent satellite images showed what appeared to be mass graves dug in towns to the west and east of Mariupol.
Pope Francis, speaking from a window overlooking St. Peters Square, renewed his call for an Easter truce, calling it a minimal and tangible sign of a desire for peace.
The great holiday today gives us great hope and unwavering faith that light will overcome darkness, good will overcome evil, life will overcome death, and therefore Ukraine will surely win! he said.
Associated Press journalists Yesica Fisch in Sloviansk, Ukraine, Mstyslav Chernov and Felipe Dana in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Cara Anna, Inna Varenytsia and Oleksandr Stashevskyi in Kviv and AP staff around the world contributed.
His meeting with Austin and Blinken was set to take place as Ukrainians and Russians observed Orthodox Easter, when the faithful celebrate the resurrection of Jesus. Speaking from Kyivs ancient St. Sophia Cathedral, Zelenskyy, who is Jewish, highlighted the significance of the occasion to a nation wracked by nearly two months of war.
Poor Russian morale and limited time to reconstitute, re-equip and reorganize forces from prior offensives are likely hindering Russian combat effectiveness, the ministry said in an intelligence update.
Zelenskyy said he was looking for the Americans to produce results, both in arms and security guarantees. You cant come to us empty-handed today, and we are expecting not just presents or some kind of cakes, we are expecting specific things and specific weapons, he said.
The attacks must be stopped, to respond to the suffering of the exhausted population, Francis said without naming the aggressor.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pressed the West for more powerful weapons as he prepared to meet with top U.S. officials in the war-torn countrys capital Sunday, while Russian forces concentrated their attacks on the east, including trying to dislodge the last Ukrainian troops in the battered port of Mariupol.
The visit would be the first by senior U.S. officials since Russia invaded Ukraine 60 days ago. Blinken stepped briefly onto Ukrainian soil in March to meet with the countrys foreign minister during a visit to Poland. Zelenskyys last face-to-face meeting with a U.S. leader was Feb. 19 in Munich with Vice President Kamala Harris.
From Istanbul, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I said a human tragedy was unfolding. Bartholomew, considered the first among his Eastern Orthodox patriarch equals, cited in particular the thousands of people surrounded in Mariupol, civilians, among them the wounded, the elderly, women and many children.
For the Donbas offensive, Russia has reassembled troops who fought around Kyiv and in northern Ukraine. The British Ministry of Defense said Ukrainian forces had repelled numerous assaults in the past week and inflicted significant cost on Russian forces.
In attacks on the eve of Orthodox Easter, Russian forces pounded cities and towns in southern and eastern Ukraine. The baby was among eight people killed when Russia fired cruise missiles at Odesa, Ukrainian officials said.
Why? To hand over signals from Russia? What should we look for? Zelenskyy said Saturday. There are no corpses scattered on the Kutuzovsky Prospect, he said, referring to one of Moscows main avenues.
They have pulled these people from Mariupol  they are put to filtration camps  its sort of something that cant be happening in the 21st century, Kravchuk said.
