Coup to remove cancer stricken Vladimir Putin is underway and hell be gone years end says Ukraines spy chief
20220514
https://www.the-sun.com/news/5337781/coup-remove-vladimir-putin-underway/
"As a result, we will renew Ukrainian power in all our territories that we have lost including Donbas and the Crimea."
Sir James Everard, who served as Nato's Deputy Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, said Putin was "in trouble" and running out to time to stop a coup against him.
General Budanov also fuelled rumours of the tyrant's reportedly ill health, claiming he is in a "very bad psychological and physical condition and he is very sick".
Claims from anti-Kremlin sources allege thatPutin, 69, is due to have cancer surgery"at any moment".
Meanwhile, a former Nato commander has said Putin is being circled by "hardmen" who want him ousted over his terrible handling of the war amid rumours of a coup.
"There are hardmen in Russia who would have removed him if they had lost Ukraine to Nato and the EU.
Putin had been hoping for a swift victory in Ukraine- but the faltering invasion has seen thousands of Russian soldiers killed and huge amounts of hardware destroyed by hero defenders.
General Budanov believes the war will be over within months and will see Putin - who he says is seriously ill with cancer - removed from power.
He added: "They are moving in this way and it is impossible to stop it."
He told the outlet: "It will eventually lead to the change of leadership of the Russian Federation.
Putin's health has been subject to huge scrutiny in the wake of the war in Ukraine, and rumours continued to mount in the wake of last week's military parade when thetyrant was seen with a blanket over his legs.
Major General Kyrylo Budanov, 36, believes the tyrant's calamitous war in Ukraine will hit a "breaking point" in summer and be over before the end of the year.
Speaking to The Sun Online, the Brit former general, said: "Putin is in a terrible place. It was entirely of his own making.
The official told Sky News that Putin will be ousted from office within this time as his invasion continues to stall in the face of stiff Ukrainian resistance - with rumours continuing to swirl about the Russian president's health.
It comes after a top oligarch reportedly claimed Putin is "very ill with blood cancer" in the audio recording  obtained byNew Lines Magazine.
"Most of the active combat actions will have finished by the end of this year.
A COUP to boot "cancer-stricken" Vladimir Putin from power is already underway, Ukraine's spy chief has claimed.
"He's acted and now the whole thing has gone badly wrong and he is vulnerable again and he is in trouble."
