Five kids among 50 dead as Russian missile with for the children scrawled on side blitzes Ukraine train station
20220408
https://www.the-sun.com/news/5079941/thirty-dead-russian-rocket-ukraine-train-station/
"Lacking the strength and courage to stand up to us on the battlefield, they are cynically destroying the civilian population.
Horror pictures show bodies strewn across the ground beside abandoned luggage at Kramatorsk railway station in eastern Ukraine amid reports the site has been blasted by Russian troops.
Russia's defence ministry has said its troops did not have any targets assigned in Kramatorsk on Friday.
The Ukraine Crisis Appeal will support people in areas currently affected and those potentially affected in the future by the crisis.
About 4,000 people, most of them elderly, women and children, were at the railway station when it was struck, Mayor Oleksander Honcharenko said.
Many of you want to help the five million caught in the chaos  and now you can, by donating to The Sun's Ukraine Fund.
Give as little as 3 or as much as you can afford and every penny will be donated to the Red Cross on the ground helping women, children, the old, the infirm and the wounded.
The state railway company said two Russian rockets struck the station, which was being used to evacuate civilians from areas under bombardment by Vladimir Putin's forces.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, the governor of the Donetsk region, said thousands of people had been at the station at the time the rockets struck.
Others have speculated that the translation could also be 'for the children' and could be referring to widespread Russian propaganda that kids have been killed by Ukrainian forces in Donbas and Luhansk.
Volodymyr Zelensky slammed the attack in a social media post early today, saying: "This is an evil that has no limits."
"The 'Rashists' 'Russian fascists' knew very well where they were aiming and what they wanted: they wanted to sow panic and fear, they wanted to take as many civilians as possible," he said.
Local authorities in some areas have been urging civilians to leave while it is still possible, and relatively safe, to do so.
PICTURES of women and children fleeing the horror of Ukraines devastated towns and cities have moved Sun readers to tears.
It later added: "According to operational data, more than 30 people were killed and more than 100 were wounded in the rocket attack on Kramatorsk railway station."
AT LEAST 50 people have been killed and more than 100 injured after a Russian missile with "for the children" scrawled on the side blitzed a Ukrainian train station.
At least 50 people were killed and over 100 were wounded, it's reported, as shocking footage shows smoke billowing from the scene.
Boris Johnson said the attack on fleeing civilians at the Kramatorsk train station was "unconscionable", as he suggested Vladimir Putin's forces were guilty of a war crime.
It comes as Britain prepares to send protected patrol vehicles including the mastiff to Ukraine within weeks, the Defence Secretary confirmed.
Ukrainian officials say Russian forces have been regrouping for a new offensive, and that Moscow plans to seize as much territory as it can in the eastern part of Ukraine known as Donbas bordering Russia.
In the unlikely event that the British Red Cross raise more money than can be reasonably and efficiently spent, any surplus funds will be used to help them prepare for and respond to other humanitarian disasters anywhere in the world.
Texts cost your chosen donation amount e.g. 5 1 standard message we receive 100. For full TCs visitredcross.org.ukmobile
"About 30 people died, about 100 people were injured to varying degrees. Police and rescuers are already on the scene. Russian non-humans do not abandon their methods.
Kyrylenko published a photograph online showing several bodies on the ground beside piles of suitcases and other luggage.
"The occupiers hit the Kramatorsk railway station with a Point-U missile, where thousands of peaceful Ukrainians were waiting to be evacuated," the Ukrainian President wrote on Instagram.
As he joined British RAF personelle in Bucharest to kick off a four month air policing mission yesterday he vowed to stare down Putins bullybiy tactics.
Ben Wallace said the UK would step up arming the war-torn nation and vowed to do whatever he could to help back those fighting Putin troops.
Pictures showed a huge missile with Russian writing scrawled on the side that translates to 'the children'.
And Britain will send another two typhoon jets out to Romania next week to help support the NATO air mission out there - joining four already in the region.
Another unverified photo showed rescue services tackling what appeared to be a fire, with a pall of grey smoke rising into the air.
Three trains carrying evacuees were blocked in the same region of Ukraine on Thursday after an air strike on the line, according to the head of Ukrainian Railways.
A translator who spoke to Sky News said that part of the Russian writing could be interpreted as meaning 'for our children' or 'for what has been done to our children'.
"This is an evil that has no limits. And if it is not punished, it will never stop."
