Moment cowardly Russian soldiers abandon wounded comrade on stretcher amid Ukrainian bombing raid
20220822
https://www.the-sun.com/news/6100176/cowardly-russian-soldiers-abandon-wounded-comrade/
Amnesty International said hundreds of civilians were left at breaking point without food or water supplies as they hid from the fighting in their basements.
Ukrainian troops have already wiped out nearly all the large bridges in Kherson - leaving only pedestrian crossings - to cut off Putin's arms and personnel supplies from Crimea.
But she declined to give more details about the new offensive, saying "any military operation needs silence".
Most of the city's residential areas were cut off from electricity, gas, heating, and phone signal as a result of constant rocket attacks.
Footage shows the moment Vladimir Putin's soldiers come under fire from Ukrainian forces, leaving one of the troops wounded.
THIS is the shocking moment cowardly Russian troops abandoned their injured comrade in the middle of the woods.
But the heartless troops then dump him on the floor by the side of the road and scuttle back off into the woods.
In the drone footage, the injured soldier is seen trying to lift his arm as his comrades abandon him.
But Ukraine has made promising advances in the Kharkiv region, pushing down and slightly to the east, towards Izium.
Ukraine has been talking up a massive counter-offensive in the Russian-occupied southern regions for the last two months.
Ukraine said "a couple of kilometres have been liberated" and have taken back full control of several villages near the city.
The video, obtained and shared by Ukrainian journalist Roman Donik, was reportedly filmed in the besieged eastern city of Izium - 120km south of Kharkiv.
"Today we started offensive actions in various directions, including in the Kherson region," southern command spokesperson Natalia Humeniuk reportedly said.
Four soldiers are seen placing the injured man on a stretcher to get him out of the woods for medical help.
A map released by the UK's Defence Ministry last week showed a stretch of land next to the city marked as a "contested area".
Humeniuk said Ukraine's recent strikes on Russia's southern logistical routes had "unquestionably weakened the enemy" - with more than 10 Russian ammunition dumps hit over the last week.
She said Russia's forces in the south are "rather powerful" and have been built up over a long time.
