Putins secret stealth jet teased in bizarre ad saying wanna see me naked as its rolled out under tarpaulin
20210720
https://www.the-sun.com/news/3314690/putin-secret-stealth-jet-bizarre-ad-unveiled/
His belligerent comments comes amid continuing concern in Nato that Putin is using his military might to destabilise Ukraine.
Details have been kept under wraps, but today Vladimir Putin is expected to unveil the new jet at the MAKS-2021 aviation and space fair in Moscow.
State arms maker Rostec tweeted a photo of the secret Sukhoi being rolled under cover to its stand at the air show.
It appears similar in design to Lockheed's F-35 series - which the Royal Navy has bought for its two new aircraft carriers - and China's J-31 stealth jet.
Mr Putin has been accused of arming rebels fighting in the breakaway Donbass region since 2014, when Russia illegally annexed Crimea.
Last month Russia claimed to have dropped bombs in the ship's path and fired warning shots from patrol boats near Crimea.
It also offered what appeared to be a glimpse of the jet in a hangar with the caption said: Guys, you really think we have nothing to surprise you with?
Last week the president stoked controversy in an article claiming Russians and Ukrainians are one people.
It comes as a loyalist MP - who also serves as deputy speaker -forecast Russia would seize Ukraine by force inside a week.
The first pictures of the single engine Sukhoi under cover show it has angled surfaces to reduce its radar signal.
Recent military exercises saw Putin put more than 100,000 troops on the border with Ukraine sparking fears a full-scale invasion was imminent.
Another ad teasing the fifth-generation Sukhoi - designed as a rival to America's F-35 fighters - shows a Royal Navy destroyer in its sights.
Mr Putin's spokesman refused to rule out Russia taking over Donbass, telling journalists: "I'll leave this question unanswered.
After the invasion, the MP said he would celebrate byhaving a coffee on the Polish border.
Mr Putin hopes to boost Russia's $5bn annual arms sales by showing off its hardware to representatives from 56 countries at the MAKS fair.
He also said Kyiv did not need the industrial Donbass region that is currently under the control of pro-Kremlin forces.
RUSSIA's new stealth jet was rolled out under a tarpaulin ahead of its unveiling today - along with a bizarre ad asking: "Wanna see me naked?"
It appears smaller than the latest Su-57 twin-engine stealth fighter, which was built to match America's F-22 raptor.
The United Russia MP, a great great grandson of writer Leo Tolstoy, predicted Russia could overrun Ukraine in a matter of days.
Another advance ad showed an image of HMS Defender in the sights of the new warplane, with the caption: See you.
