Russia moves military equipment into Europes biggest nuke power plant amid fears Putin will launch false flag attack
20220820
https://www.the-sun.com/news/6040535/russia-military-equipment-nuke-power-plant/
Russia's own Ministry of Defence warned this week of a potential accident which could send radioactive waste as far as Germany.
Ukraine has run nuclear accident drills in the bombed out city of Zaporizhzhia- the closest to theRussianoccupied plant.
Drone footage released by Ukraine shows Russian armoured fighting vehicles and ammunition trucks being moved into the reactor turbine halls, in an apparent attempt to use them as a shield.
The Chernobyl nuclear leak in 1986 was the worst man-made disaster in history, contaminating 150,000 square kilometres of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus.
Around 500 Russian troops from the Rosgvardia, Putin's personal guard, are currently stationed at the plant, along with some 20 Kremlin nuclear specialists.
Radiation was detected as far away as the north of Scotland, with rain bringing the highest doses to Cumbria in northern England and the Welsh counties of Clwyd and Gwynedd.
The world is now staring down the barrel ofanother radiation nightmare amid fears Putin will launch a false flag attempt.
A number of pallets could also be seen close to the trucks, though it is unclear when the footage, verified by CNN, was taken.
Russia has already threatened to shut down the plant - which provides electricity to Europe - putting millions in the surrounding area at risk of power cuts as it deploys heavy weapons to the site.
According to analysis from Canadian Forces Intelligence Command, Moscow has pumped military equipment into the site, including close to reactor buildings and other key plots.
In March, Ukraine warned of a nuclear disaster "ten times larger thanChernobyl" after Russian forces shelled the plant from the nearby city of Enerhodar.
It comes after separate video emerged online showing Russian military vehicles, including one marked up with the pro-war "Z" symbol, inside a turbine hall connected to a nuke reactor.
Ukraine has claimed a nuclear catastrophe could take place at Zaporizhzhia, with the country's president Volodymyr Zelensky saying his scientists are in "constant touch" with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Ukraine's military intelligence has warned of the added dangers posed by the huge amount of Russian weaponry currently being stored at the nuclear plant.
It claimed that the plant's backup system was damaged, but blamed Ukrainian forces for nearby missile strikes.
RUSSIA is believed to have moved military equipment into Europe's biggest nuclear station sparking fears of a false flag attack, according to Canadian intelligence.
Authorities in Ukraine are preparing for a Chernobyl-like disaster at the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia site as the station lies on a knife-edge.
But Russia previously insisted the only military equipment at the plant is related to guard duties.
A terrifying map has revealed leaks from the power station could spread hundreds of miles and affect 13 different countries.
The plant has been in the hands ofPutin's forces since the early stages of theUkraine war, but nuclear inspectors say they have not been permitted inside.
Fears are growing of a potential "provocation" attack on the Zaporizhzhia plant today after Russia reportedly ordered its staff not to show up for work on Friday.
