Russia begins mass production of 6670mph Zircon hypersonic nuke missile too fast to block as tensions with West rise
20211127
https://www.the-sun.com/news/4156195/russia-mass-production-zircon-hypersonic-missile/
The missiles have been in development for over 20 years and are considered a key next step for Putin's arsenal.
"Bringing China into the conversation is a deadly addition for the West, she told The Sun Online.
Vladimir Putin has ordered the Zircon missile to be deployed next year by the Russian Navy boasting that it istruly unparalleled in the world.
We now have serious advantages in this regard over the leading Western countries - and will try to maintain this position.
Amid heightened tensions, Putin ally Fyodor Lukyanov warned of a new conflict if Nato expanded further east in an article published last night.
Isabel Sawkins, a research fellow at the Henry Jackson Society specialising in Russia, said Russia and China joining forces could "potentially could be catastrophic" for Western powers.
The Kremlin boasts that the 6670mph weapon  which carries a conventional or nuclear warhead  is unstoppable.
Click here to get The Sun newspaper delivered for FREE for the next six weeks.
Most recently, there was a successful test of the hypersonic missile from a frigate in the White Sea on 18 November.
Email us at exclusivethe-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4104. You can WhatsApp us on 07423 720 250. We pay for videos too.
In recent days, Moscow said it has ramped up its military "cooperation" with Beijing in light of alleged threats by Washington includingUS nuke bombersflying near their borders.
Russias deputy premier Yury Borisov said last month thatRussia had outpaced the West inhypersonicweapons - and intends to maintain its lead.
Mr Lukyanov - chairman of the Russian Foreign Affairs Council, which advises the Kremlin - also made it clear that Moscow would be seeking more than verbal reassurances from Nato.
The go-ahead for full-scale production of Zircon at a top-secret plant near Moscow follows recent successful tests of the missile.
He wrote: This recent round of escalation in Eastern Europe showed that the old principles of security on the continent are no longer working.
Russia's relations with the West remain deeply strained amid concerns that thousands of their troopsamassed onUkraines border are a prelude to an all-out invasion.
We have broken forward, specifically, in the sphere ofhypersonicweapons and those based on new physical principles, he said.
MASS production of Russias terrifying Zircon hypersonic missile has begun, as tensions with the West mount.
