Russian troops accused of raping numerous women as they rampage through Ukrainian cities
20220304
https://www.the-sun.com/news/4822326/russian-troops-accused-of-raping-numerous-women/
Again and again in the context of conflict, we see torture used as a form of punishment and violation.
In a statement, they said Putin's "decision to launch attacks on Ukraine poses a grave challenge to the post-1945 international order".
He told a briefing at Chatham House: "We have numerous cases of, unfortunately, when Russian soldiers rape women in the Ukrainian cities."
RUSSIAN troops have been accused of raping "numerous" women as they rampage through Ukrainian cities.
In the context of war, women are often targeted as a form of brutal dehumanising, with rape, including gang rape, routinely used as a weapon of war."
Svetlana Zorina, 27, from the Russian-controlled city of Kherson, also accused the invading Russian forces of sexually assaulting women.
"There was information from people that I personally know that a 17-year-old girl - it happened to her and then they killed her."
Kuleba backed a call for the creation of a special tribunal to punish Moscow's aggression as Russia's hostility escalates beyond bombing.
Kuleba said international law "is the only tool of civilisation that is available to us to make sure that in the end, eventually, all those who made this war possible will be brought to justice".
Zorina said people living in the Black Sea port city can only "sit at home and take care of ourselves because we are scared".
She told talkRadio: "They started to rape our women so now it's very dangerous to go outside, especially when it's dark.
As the war rages on for a ninth day, Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba alleged there have been reports of Putin's soldiers sexually assaulting Ukrainian women.
The decision came after the UN General Assembly in New York on Wednesday issued its own powerful rebuke, with a 141-5 vote to deplore Moscow's invasion and demand an immediate withdrawal.
"The whole world needs to be made aware of the act of aggression he has instigated and the atrocities he has ordered.
"But the international law is on our side, and hopefully... it will make its own contribution to help us prevail."
British PM Gordon Brown, former judges and law experts have called for the creation of a special tribunal, as the International Criminal Court studies whether to prosecute alleged war crimes in Ukraine.
"We will leave no stone unturned in bringing to an end the terrible events we are now seeing, thereby ensuring that those who have unleashed such horrors are subject to personal accountability under the criminal law, so that justice can be done."
Freedom from Torture director Steve Crawshaw told The Independent: "We saw torture when Moscow was seeking to impose with dramatic force in Chechnya.
She added: We are terrified and scared but we are not going to give up."
Thirty-two members of the 47-seat council voted to establish the highest-level probe possible into alleged rights violations.
They said: "He has sought to replace the rule of law and principles of self-determination for all peoples by the use of force.
Ukraine has also brought a case against Russia before the International Court of Justice - the only court that can rule on conflicts between states.
It comes as human rights organisations last week warned sexual violence against Ukrainian women would likely increase as a result of the conflict.
And the UN Human Rights Council overwhelmingly voted on Friday to launch a top-level investigation into violations committed following Russia's invasion.
