Ukraine ready to strike Russian cities and nuke plants as Putin reveals hypersonic missile will be deployed in WEEKS
20211130
https://www.the-sun.com/news/4175095/ukraine-ready-strike-russian-cities-nuke-plants-putin-hypersonic/
He said: Imagine that a collection of independent ten to 15 non-nuclear nations is created in place of the current Russian Federation. Who will benefit from this? Everybody wins.
Click here to get The Sun newspaper delivered for FREE for the next six weeks.
Tensions were stoked further by Belarus's president Lukashenko, who offered to host Russian nukes on its territory if Nato deploys weapons "east of Germany".
That means its primary ground attack missile is the ageing Soviet-era Tochka, which has a reported range of around 80 miles.
They are seen as a major threat to an invading force, along with Turkish-made TB2 drones that can blitz heavy armour from the air.
He said: "We have now tested it successfully, and from the beginning of the year we will have a new sea-based hypersonic missile in service."
Spy chiefs claim they have evidence a coup attempt is due this week and the Kremlin is planning a full-scale invasion in January.
He told broadcaster Channel 5: War is war - if we are threatened with attacks on infrastructure, so can we.
Ukraine does not currently have any long or medium-range rockets after it destroyed the nuclear missiles and warheads it inherited from the Soviet Union.
Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg had earlier said US nukes would have to be moved to another country such as Poland if Germany decided it no longer wanted them there.
UKRAINE is ready to strike back at war-hungry Vladimir Putin with missiles that could hit Russian cities and nuclear plants, a senior diplomat has warned.
It is developing two new ballistic missiles but they are not yet in service after budget cuts delayed the programs.
On Sunday, Mr Stoltenberg warned there will be consequences for Russia if it uses force against Ukraine.
Mr Putin has dismissed fears of an invasion and suggested troop movements are only to deter Kiev from a renewed offensive against Kremlin-backed rebels in the breakaway Donbass region.
Meanwhile Mr Putin inflamed war fears today by announcing the deadly Zircon hypersonic missiles are ready to be deployed in early 2022.
He also boasted the 6,600mph nukes - said to be able to evade any defences - will be ready to launch at just five minutes' notice.
He said the US and Europe would make huge profits and quickly recoup the hundreds of billions they might spend on overthrowing the regime.
The screens appear to be experimental and it is not clear how much protection they would give, reports Forbes.
It came as the Russian president ratcheted up tensions with Nato by boasting his "unstoppable" Mach 9 hypersonic nukes will be deployed in the New Year.
It also has brand new Neptune anti-ship cruise missiles, which have a range of 175 miles and could be used to hit targets on land.
It is thought Nato allies would avoid joining any conflict, and would instead look to impose fresh economic sanctions as they did after Putin annexed Crimea in 2014.
Mr Ohryzko - who was sacked from government in 2009 - also made wild suggestions Nato should "go all the way" and invade Russia to divide its territory.
Former foreign minister Vladimir Ohryzko warned Ukraine is ready to use any means at its disposal to defend itself.
But one of his key advisers warned Russia would attack unless Nato agrees to ban UKraine from the alliance.
"If today we do not have the opportunity to reach Moscow with missile weapons, then there is the ability and willingness to reach other cities that are within the reach of the Ukrainian missile forces, and which can cover very serious infrastructure facilities including nuclear power plants.
Email us at exclusivethe-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4104. You can WhatsApp us on 07423 720 250. We pay for videos too.
Last week Kiev confirmed it has used US-made Javelin anti-tank missiles against rebels for the first time.
Earlier this week, Russia tanks in Crimea were seen sporting bizarre anti-missile "umbrellas" mounted above their turrets.
