UkraineRussia war LIVE Madman Putin will weaponise cost of living crisis to send Britains food prices soaring
20220514
https://www.the-sun.com/news/5296434/ukraine-russia-war-live-vladimir-putin-latest-news/
There have been varying claims as to the type ofcancerand conditions he's said to have.
"Every economic sanction reinforces our clear message to Putin, we will not stop until Ukraine prevails."
In an update on Monday, the MoD said that the presence of president Alexander Lukashenkos forces would likely fix Ukrainian troops, so they cannot deploy in support of operations in the Donbas.
Russian forces have targeted key food production sites in Kherson, Luhansk and Donetsk, according to western intelligence.
The membership push could represent the most significant expansion of NATO in decades, doubling its border withRussia- withPutinwarning it may trigger a response from Moscow.
Stoltenberg added: "The security interests of all allies have to be taken into account and we are determined to work through all issues and reach rapid conclusions."
Kozlov had only been in his position for two months having just replaced his predecessor, Colonel Serhiy Porohnya, after he was killed in March.
It follows remarks by a retired colonel and military analyst on primetime Russian TV earlier this week, in which Mikhail Khodarenok warned "the situation for Russia will clearly get worse".
As Russian forces begun bombing the hotly-contested Donbass region, President Zelenskyy said: "Were introducing martial law on the whole territory of our country.
He hopes that with the ceasefire, serious negotiations can begin to end the war, Reuters reports.
He told Rome's upper house, the Senate, a ceasefire "must be achieved as soon as possible".
FinlandandSwedensubmitted their highly anticipated bids to join NATO, sealing their decision to jettison decades of military non-alignment, despite threats of reprisals fromMoscow.
The international Red Cross says it has registered hundreds of Ukrainian prisoners of war who left the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova has said Russia has also withdrew the accreditation of its journalists in Russia.
The Italian PM also said it's important to keep pressure on Russia through economic sanctions "because we have to bring Moscow to the negotiating table", according to Reuters.
Kremlininsiders have claimed that he may have cancer, which could explain his recent bloated appearance and erratic behaviour.
"The brutality of the Russian military, which has deeply shocked the entire civilised world, means that millions of Ukrainians also need urgent professional psychological help," Zelenska said.
TheRussian presidents face looked bloated as he gripped the table in front of him during talks with Sergey Chemezov, head of state-owned defence giant Rostec.
It said a team from the Geneva-based humanitarian agency, which has experience in dealing with prisoners of war and prisoner exchanges, did not transport them to the places where they are held which was not specified.
One person has died and others were injured in southwestern Russia after an attack in a village on the border with Ukraine, the governor of Kursk region said on Thursday.
The slots, which are now unused as a result of the ban on Russian airlines, could have been worth around 50 million.
The 62-year-old's widow Kateryna has testified to hearing the shots from their yard, and seeing Shishimarin with a gun.
The US is the latest country to offer support to the two countries in the event of any aggression.
The war crimes trial of a Russian soldierwho admits to killing an unarmed civilianhas resumed.
Reports have said Western satellites have been used to hand intelligence to Ukraine onRussianmilitary movements.
And the west fears the Kremlin is "deliberately" destroying vital food production infrastructure and halting exports - which could result in famine for millions of people.
The European Union must make preparations for rebuilding Ukraine after the war by setting up a solidarity fund to help cover the billions of euros reconstruction will cost, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said.
It is the latest appearance by Putin to spark speculation about his health since the start of thewar in Ukraine.
Nurgaliyev said: "In spite of all the existing difficulties, the special military operation will be completed - while its objectives, including the ones to do with the demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine, and defence of the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic will be carried out in full."
"And now he has a new mission to tell the world about the events in Ukraine and direct his authority to increase international assistance to our state. I am sure that is all for you it will work!"
Russia's Aeroflot, Ural Airlines and Rossiya Airlines have been targeted with new sanctions to prevent them selling off landing slots at UK airports.
"I'm more than happy to raise the issue that the shadow minister raises with my honourable friend the bus minister in the other place the House of Lords, and we will certainly look into the details of what he alleges."
Starovoyt added that others were wounded and work was underway to put out fires in the village of around 4,000 people on border with Ukraine, where Russia sent troops on February 24.
The US president said he will provide support while their Nato membership is under review.
Belarus has deployed special forces soldiers along the Ukraine border, the UK Ministry of Defence has said.
The registration process, which was ongoing Thursday, involves noting down personal details like name, date of birth and closest relative partly as a way to help the Red Cross keep in touch with relatives of the prisoners of war.
He claimed to have sources in the Kremlin who were at the epicentre of decision making".
He said: Today our physicists developed, and are almost serially producing, laser systems causing heat damage.
Give as little as 3 or as much as you can afford and every penny will be donated to the Red Cross on the ground helping women, children, the old, the infirm and the wounded.
On April 30, 2022,it was reportedthat "Putin has discussed that he will be undergoing medical procedures."
In February 2020, Political analyst Valery Solovei claimed he has been told the president has been treated forcancer.
On Telegram, he posted photos showing charred buildings, blown out windows and dents in the ground from where the shells allegedly landed.
The brutality of the invasion that began on February 24 shook Sweden and Finland, and the neighbours -- after decades of military non-alignment -- decided to seek NATO membership despite warnings from the Kremlin.
Vladimir Putin appeared to retch and splutter through a televised meeting today  sparking fresh fears for his health after claims hes being treated for cancer.
Solovei claimedPutin underwent surgeryand another Russian source went on to claim it was anabdominal cancer operation.
"I warmly welcome and strongly support the historic applications from Finland and Sweden for membership in NATO," Biden said in a statement Wednesday, offering US support against any "aggression" while their bids are considered.
This was shown yesterday from a 5km 3 miles distance A drone was burned in five seconds and simply stopped existing.
Many of you want to help the five million caught in the chaos  and now you can, by donating to The Suns Ukraine Fund.
TheKremlininsider added: "We know very well that he has cancer, andParkinson'sdisease, as we have said many times.
Ukraine's first lady has said millions of people in her country will need psychological help because of the Russian invasion.
PICTURES of women and children fleeing the horror of Ukraines devastated towns and cities have moved Sun readers to tears.
Russia's Security Council is today holding a meeting with nearly 100 foreign ambassadors to discuss the threats posed by "closed laboratories" and "neo-Nazism".
The youthful-looking soldier with a shaved head looked towards the ground as a prosecutor read out charges against him in Ukrainian.
Moscow says more than 900 Ukrainian fighters from the Mariupol steelworks have been taken to a prison camp.
Asked in court if he was guilty of the allegations, including war crimes and premeditated murder, 21-year-old sergeant Vadim Shishimarin responded "yes".
Shishimarin -- from the Siberian region of Irkutsk -- sat in the glass defendant's box in a Kyiv district court, wearing a blue and grey hoodie.
Deputy secretary of Vladimir Putin's Security Council, Rashid Nurgaliyev, insisted Russia would achieve its objectives.
Vladimir Putinis closely protected and little is known about his health, but sources close to him haveclaimed he is badly ill.
"So this Government is supposed to have sanctioned everyone connected to the Russian Government as a result of the horrific war in the Ukraine, so I've got one simply question, why are millions of pounds of UK taxpayers' money being handed to one of Putin's own nomenclature?
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "As long as Vladimir Putin continues his barbarous assault on Ukraine, we will continue to target the Russian economy.
Biden says the United States will work with Finland and Sweden in event of any outside "aggression" which could threaten national security.
Prosecutors say Shishimarin was commanding a unit in a tank division when his convoy came under attack.
Borisov said Russianweapondesigners demonstrated a separate new laser system to knock down enemy drones with a burst of intense heat.
US President Joe Biden will host the leaders of Finland and Sweden on Thursday to discuss their NATO membership bids, while Ukraine said no military option was left to rescue the soldiers still inside a steel plant besieged by Russian forces.
Former Ukraine, Chelsea and AC Milan striker Andriy Shevchenko has a new goal - to help raise funds for rebuilding his country following Russia's invasion.
The Red Cross cited rules under the Geneva Conventions that should allow the organization to interview prisoners of war without witnesses and that visits with them should not be unduly restricted.
The conflict has cut-off supplies from Ukraine's ports, which once exported vast amounts of cooking oil as well as cereals such as maize and wheat.
Biden will meet President Sauli Niinisto of Finland and Sweden's Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson in Washington on Thursday for consultations.
He is accused of killing the civilian -- allegedly on a bicycle -- near the village of Chupakhivka in the eastern Sumy region on February 28.
TheRussian president's face looked bloated as he gripped the table in front of him during talks with Sergey Chemezov, head of state-owned defence giant Rostec.
He is accused of killing a 62-year-old civilian in northeast Ukraine in the first days of the Kremlin's offensive.
"Today each of you should keep calm. Stay at home if you can. We are working. The army is working. The whole sector of defense and security is working."
Transport minister Andrew Stephenson said: "Dear oh dear, oh dear. Buffooning back better rather than bus back better.
"We've already closed our airspace to Russian airlines. Today we're making sure they can't cash in their lucrative landing slots at our airports.
The presence of Belarusian forces near the border will likely fix Ukrainian troops, so they cannot deploy in support of operations in the Donbas.
Vladimir Putin appeared to retch and splutter through a televised meeting today - sparking fresh fears for his health after claims he's being treated for cancer.
According to the Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Andriy Nyebytov, head of the Kyiv Region Police said: "At present, we have bodies of 1,288 killed people. I emphasise, civilians."
Shevchenko, now 45, is widely regarded as his countrys greatest ever player. He played for Ukraine 111 times, scoring 48 goals, and represented Dynamo Kyiv before playing abroad. He was coach of the national team for five years until last August.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Shevchenko, whom he met in Kyiv on Wednesday, had been appointed the first ambassador of UNITED24, a fundraising initiative to collect donations for the "restoration and development" of Ukraine.
Khodarenok, while appearing on flagship talk show 60 Minutes, said: "We are in total political isolation and the whole world is against us, even if we don't want to admit it."
Addressing parliament ahead of a meeting of EU leaders, Scholz said French President Emmanuel Macron was right that EU accession was not a matter of a few months or years, meaning it was all the more important to focus on pragmatic, immediate support.
Labour shadow transport minister Sam Tarry said the Government has awarded millions of pounds in funding to a bus company owned by "one of President Vladimir Putin's closest allies".
He said that according to preliminary information, the victim was a truck driver who was making a delivery to a local distillery, which was struck "several times".
Following exercise activity earlier this month, Belarus has announced the deployment of special operations forces along the Ukraine border, as well as air defence, artillery and missile units to training ranges in the west of the country, the MoD said.
The Ukraine war has reduced supply and caused the price of alternatives to soar - with global food prices almost 30 higher than this time last year, according to the UN.
The International Committee for the Red Cross said Thursday the registrations of Ukrainian prisoners of war, which included wounded fighters, began Tuesday under an agreement between Russia and Ukraine.
Texts cost your chosen donation amount e.g. 5 1 standard message we receive 100. For full TCs visitredcross.org.ukmobile
Weapon systems on the way will be based on new physical principles and will define our Armed Forces combat readiness in the future.
In the attack on the Donets River last week, two battalions were wiped out by the Ukrainians after a failed mission to rescue stranded comrades and kit on the other side of the river.
Mr Tarry: "The minister and the buffoons on the other benches talk about enhancing bus services, but at what cost Mr Speaker? Today, Labour Party research... that Zebra Emission Bus Regional Areas funding to the tune of 15 million has been awarded to the bus company Arrival.
"Andriy, with his work and sporting achievements, gained great confidence on the international stage," Zelenskiy wrote on the Telegram messaging app.
She says this is a response to "measures taken in practice in relation to Russian media, their transmission and broadcasts in Canada".
Vadim Shishimarin, aged 21-years-old, admitted shooting Oleksandr Shelipov a few days after the invasion began.
Russia could use new-age laser weapons to disrupt Western satellites or Ukrainian drones in the current war, a top Kremlin official has hinted.
The Telegraphquotes a western official as saying: "Russia has exacerbated a pre-existing bad situation and has created a major threat to global food security through a deliberate policy of weaponisation of global food supply."
"Another enemy attack on Tyotkino, which took place at dawn unfortunately ended in tragedy. At the moment, we know of at least one civilian death," governor Roman Starovoyt said on Telegram, implying that the attack came from Ukraine.
"It was possible to contain it for some time, but now the course of the disease is progressing."
"Rebuilding destroyed infrastructure and revitalising the Ukrainian economy will cost billions," he said. "We as the EU must start laying the ground for a solidarity fund financed by contributions from the EU and its partners."
Putin, 69, sat opposite Chemezov  anally since their KGB daysin the 1980s  amid rumours he is beingtreated for cancer.
He said: "It can blind all satellite reconnaissance systems of an enemy up to an orbit of 1,500km 932 miles, thanks tolaser radiation."
He seemed to retch several times and struggle to speak throughout the clip released byRussianstate TV.
A pro-Russian separatist leader says more than 1,000 soldiers are still trapped in the plant
He also said that by Finland and Sweden joining NATO, it would "further strengthen our defence cooperation" and benefit the entire alliance.
But the applications face resistance from NATO member Turkey, which has threatened to block their membership over accusations the Nordic neighbours act as safe havens for armed groups opposed to Ankara.
The first Russian soldier on trial in Ukraine for war crimes during Moscow's invasion pleaded guilty today, facing possible life imprisonment in Kyiv.
Olena Zelenska made the comment in a phone call with Israel's first lady, Michal Herzog, the office of Ukraine's president said in a statement.
On Thursday, February 24, 2022, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declared martial law when Russian troops breached the country's eastern border.
Moscow's troops have been accused of widespread atrocities against civilians during their devastating campaign, and Ukraine began its first war crimes trial of the conflict on Wednesday with a Russian soldier pleading guilty.
Putin has lost his 43rd Colonel after a failed attempt by Russian troops to cross a river in Ukraine as well as a legendary sniper.
He and four other soldiers stole a car, and as they travelled near Chupakhivka they encountered a 62-year-old man on a bicycle, they said.
VLADIMIR Putin faces a nightmare scenario after Finland  Sweden formally applied to join Nato, which could see its forces expand by a million troops.
According to prosecutors, Shishimarin was ordered to kill the civilian and used a Kalashnikov assault rifle to do so.
Around 1,288 bodies of civilians have been found in the Kyiv region since the start of the Russian invasion, a police chief says.
Colonel Denis Kozlov, 40, was among Russian troops obliterated attempting tocross the Donets Riverafter being ambushed byUkrainianforces last week.
Separately the death was announced of one of Vladimir Putinstop military snipers, Sergeant Sergei Tsarkov.
Yury Borisov, deputy premier in charge of military development, said the new mobile system, Peresvet, was already deployed with Moscows forces.
"Now what's interesting about the bus company Arrival? It's run by... Denis Sverdlov, one of President Putin's closest allies, and will see their buses on the streets of the UK, sanctioned by this Government.
VLADIMIR Putin is "weaponising" global food supplies  blocking shipping routes - which could send Britain's prices soaring.
Putin, 69, sat opposite Chemezov - anally since their KGB daysin the 1980s - amid rumours he is beingtreated for cancer.
