Vladimir Putin PURGES top general over Ukraine war disaster as Russias losses now could be as high as 50000 soldiers
20220618
https://www.the-sun.com/news/5591008/vladimir-putin-purges-top-general-ukraine-war-disaster/
And the Russian national guard - which reports directly to Putin - has suffered 1,788 losses, it's said.
VLADIMIR Putin has purged his top general over the huge death toll of troops in Ukraine - with Russian losses now estimated at 50,000 men.
"Two transport aircraft of paratroopers flying from Belarus to do the same tactic at another airport near Kyiv were shot out of the sky. 300 paratroopers were killed in the 2-transport aircraft."
The channel said that these figures had been reported directly to Putin, but provided no evidence of this.
Unconfirmed Ukrainian reports - cited by Odessa military-civilian spokesman Serhiy Bratchuk - claim Putin axed Serdyukov and replaced him with Colonel-General Mikhail Teplinsky, 53.
Russia has kept the number changes Putin has made among commanders during the war, which started on February 24, under wraps.
But several insiders claim the despot is personally micromanaging war decisions and wielding the axe on commanders he sees as underperforming.
"They the paratroopers are sent ahead of the main troops to secure a location so that the main forces can be brought up," he told Sun Online.
The dictator unleashed his "legendary" elite forces into Ukraine in March believing he'd seize the capital within 48 hours.
The swift takedown of Putin's paratroopers bungled the initial part of Putin's invasion, said Kuzio.
Colonel-General Andrey Serdyukov, 60, was ditched for the mass casualties among the despot's elite paratroopers, it's claimed.
The 60-year-old veteran is a Hero of Russia - the countrys highest honour -and is seen as one of the countrys best military minds.
Meanwhile, 9,457 fighters working for private military companies to support the Russian war effort have died, it's reported.
Putin has furiously dismissed and "purged" senior Russian officers - which could have "degrade" his attempts to win his bloody war, it's said.
Serdyukov was sanctioned by Britain over his involvement in the mass killing on civilians in the Kyiv town.
It comes as a Russian source is said to have suggested the countrys overalllosses in Ukraine are close to 50,000 - significantly higher than most other estimates.
"In this war, they were flown into Hostomel airport near Kyiv to do this but were all killed.
Taras Kuzio, an Associate Research Fellow at the Henry Jackson Society, says dozens of Russian paratroopers were killed in their doomed bid to take Hostomel airport.
If reports are accurate, sources say it indicates Serdyukov "is being held responsible for the poor performance of, and high casualties, among Russian airborne units, particularly in early operations around Kyiv".
But Ukraine's hero defenders crushed the invading forces - forcing a raging Putin to resort to the merciless bombing of civilians.
