Vladimir Putin planning Ukraine blitzkrieg  nuclear blackmail on the West to recreate USSR leaked dossier claims
20220106
https://www.the-sun.com/news/4404014/vladimir-putin-ukraine-blitzkrieg-nuclear-blackmail-west/
The dossier, which was reportedly leaked to the Daily Mirror , claims trying to "pacify" Putin during talks "could lead from the growth of Russian regional aggression to a real world war and is a real threat of western democracy destruction.
They were polishing their skills in heavy snow drifts at the Kadamovsky firing range in the Rostov region, close to the Ukrainian border.
But experts warnedPresident Putin could strike and spark World War 3if Joe Biden bows down to the Russian strongman's demands, with the pair set to hold crunch talks this week.
It comes as Russian troops continue to flood the Ukraine border sparking concerns Putin is gearing up for a "short, sharp war" within DAYS.
The papers - reportedly from Ukrainian intelligence - warn that Moscow will attempt to use peace talks with the US as a faade for "large scale military preparations" around Ukraine's border.
And according to the Mirror, Ukraine intelligence believe Moscow has "chosen a strategy of nuclear blackmail, spreading local armed conflicts with elements of hybrid wars, intensifying espionage, provocations and sabotage, economic pressure and spreading global corruption" among the West.
At least 100,000 troops are reported to be just a stone's throw from the Ukrainian frontier, according to Western sources.
Histroops have continued to prepare over Christmas, with new footage emerging showing hundreds of reconnaissance forces drilling in "tactical shooting skills".
This, it claims, is "to neutralise western influence and create a trading space" - in effect a return to the Soviet Union.
VLADIMIR Putin is reportedly planning a "blitzkrieg" against Ukraine and "nuclear blackmail" on the West as part of a plot to re-create the USSR, a leaked dossier claims.
Tensions in Eastern Europe appear to show little sign of cooling, with some experts previously suggestingthe Russian president was planning to exploit the festive periodand attack while the West was "distracted".
The drills marked the end of the 4,000 plus war games and exercises held last year - around 11 a day - by Russian forces.
The UK and US have rallied behind Ukraineand promised to support them if Russia invaded, amid a mass build-up of troops on the border.
The papers - which analyse Russian military training - supposedly say there is "preparation for a modern blitzkrieg against Ukraine and other post-Soviet countries by strike units, airborne and special forces".
The country could be plotting to kick off 2022 with quite the bang as military forces and artillery edge closer to Kyiv.
