A beacon of hope Ukraine and Russia sign grain export deal
20220722
https://www.9news.com.au/world/ukraine-russia-sign-un-deal-to-export-grain-on-black-sea/c6a30096-8f54-4ff0-9b4d-5389b71bb38a
A senior UN official said cargo ships would use "safe channels" identified by Ukraine as they sail in and out of ports and would be guided by Ukrainian pilots. The plan does not foresee a further demining of Ukraine's territorial waters, which would have delayed the process.
"This is a critical step forward in efforts to overcome the global food insecurity caused by Russia's aggression against Ukraine," said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell. "Its success will depend on the swift and good faith implementation of today's agreement."
 one of the world's key breadbaskets  to export more than 20 million tonnes of grain and other agricultural products that have been stuck in Black Sea ports due to
Guterres first raised the critical need to get Ukraine's agricultural production and Russia's grain and fertiliser back into world markets in late April during meetings with Putin in Moscow and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv.
The deal makes provisions for the safe passage of ships through the heavily mined waters. A coordination centre will be established in Istanbul, staffed by U.N., Turkish, Russian and Ukrainian officials, to monitor the ships and run the process through specific corridors. Ships would undergo inspections to ensure they are not carrying weapons.
"A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever."
Guterres said the plan, known as the Black Sea Initiative, opens a path for significant volumes of commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports: Odesa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
"A deal that allows grain to leave Black Sea ports is nothing short of lifesaving for people across the world who are struggling to feed their families," said Red Cross Director-General Robert Mardini, who noted that over the past six months prices for food staples have risen 187 per cent in Sudan, 86 per cent in Syria, 60 per cent in Yemen and 54 per cent in Ethiopia.
Traders anticipated a deal for the past several weeks, he said, so its effect might already have shown up in grain prices, which means they may not drop sharply. And the agreement covers the 2021 crop. There's still considerable uncertainty about Ukrainian production this year and even next, Meyer said.
No military ships would be used as escorts but a minesweeper could be on standby in case the safe channels "need occasional verification," the official said.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov signed separate, identical deals with Guterres and Turkish Defence Minister Hulusi Akar at a ceremony in Istanbul that was witnessed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Ukraine is one of the world's largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russia's invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments. Some Ukrainian grain is being transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the prices of vital commodities like wheat and barley have soared during the nearly five-month war.
Volodymyr Sidenko, an expert with the Kyiv-based Razumkov Centre think tank, said it appeared that Ukraine did not raise in the negotiations the issue of grain stolen from occupied territories in the talks.
"Russia decided not to fuel a new crisis in Africa and provoke a hunger and government changes there," Sidenko said. "The African Union asked Putin to quickly ease the crisis with grain supplies and put pressure on the Kremlin, which has its interests in Africa."
Ukraine has sought international guarantees that the Kremlin wouldn't use the safe corridors to attack the key Black Sea port of Odesa. Ukrainian authorities have also accused Russia of stealing grain from eastern Ukraine and deliberately shelling Ukrainian fields to set them on fire.
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres called it "a beacon of hope" for millions of hungry people who have faced huge increases in food costs.
clearing the way for exporting millions of tonnes of desperately needed Ukrainian grain  as well as Russian grain and fertiliser  ending a wartime standoff that had threatened food security around the globe.
He proposed a package deal in early June amid fears that the war was endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
"Apparently, it was part of a deal: Kyiv doesn't raise the issue of stolen grain and Moscow doesn't insist on checking Ukrainian ships. Kyiv and Moscow were forced to make a deal and compromise on many differences," he said.
Guterres described the deal as an unprecedented agreement between two parties engaged in a bloody conflict. Erdogan said he hoped the initiative would be "a new turning point that will revive hopes for peace."
Before the deal, Russian and Ukrainian officials blamed each other for the blocked grain shipments. Moscow accused Ukraine of failing to remove sea mines at the ports to allow safe shipping and insisted on its right to check incoming ships for weapons. Ukraine argued that Russia's port blockade and launching of missiles from the Black Sea made any safe shipments impossible.
Ships entering the Ukrainian ports would be scrutinised by inspection teams that would include representatives of all parties involved to make sure there are no weapons on board. The unloading of grain onto the vessels will also be monitored.
It will take a few weeks before the deal is fully working, the official noted, saying Ukraine needs about 10 days to get the ports ready and also needs time to "identify and be clear about those safe corridors."
"We will be watching to ensure Russia's actions match its words," Truss said. "To enable a lasting return to global security and economic stability, Russian President Vladimir Putin must end the war and withdraw from Ukraine."
"It will help stabilise global food prices, which were already at record levels even before the war  a true nightmare for developing countries," Guterres added.
The aim is to export about 5 million tons of grains per month to empty Ukraine's silos in time for the new harvest, according to the UN official. The agreement is for a renewable 120-day period.
Although international sanctions against Russia did not target food exports, the war has disrupted shipments of Russian products because shipping and insurance companies did not want to deal with Russia.
A key element of the deal is an agreement by both Russia and Ukraine that there will be no attacks on any of the vessels, according to the official.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said her country applauded Turkey and the UN for brokering the agreement.
Peter Meyer, head of grain and oilseed analytics at SP Global Platts, said the deal does not "mean that the global supply crisis is over.''
An initial movement of ships could be possible before then "just to show that they can work," the official said.
"You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all," he told the Russian and Ukrainian envoys.
