Biden clarifies Russia will pay a heavy price if units move across Ukrainian border
20220120
https://www.9news.com.au/world/ukraine-russia-news-us-president-joe-biden-clarifies-russia-will-pay-a-heavy-price-if-units-move-across-ukrainian-border/f897e80c-8dcb-4f1a-9161-5dae96822a23
"If any  any  assembled Russian units move across Ukrainian border, that is an invasion.
"We have to be ready to respond to these as well and decisively," Biden said, echoing comments made late Wednesday and earlier Thursday by his press secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris.
As he sought to clean up his previous remarks, Biden noted that Russia has a "long history" of using measures other than overt military action to carry out aggression, including paramilitary tactics, so-called gray zone attacks, attacks by Russian soldiers not in uniform, little green men and cyberattacks.
"But it will be met with severe and coordinated economic response that I've discussed in detail with our allies, as well as laid out very clearly for President Putin.
"I've been absolutely clear with President Putin. He has no misunderstanding," Mr Biden said on Thursday Friday AEDT, clarifying comments made the previous day.
During the news conference Wednesday, the President predicted Putin would "move in" to Ukraine -- though he speculated that the Russian leader is still not clear on what he's going to do. In a comment that sent shockwaves across Europe, Biden then alluded to disunity among US allies about how to respond to anything less than a full invasion.
Later, asked to clarify what he meant by "minor incursion," Biden said he drew the line at "Russian forces crossing the border, killing Ukrainian fighters."
"I think that changes everything," the President said. "But it depends on what he does, to what extent we'll get total unity on the NATO front."
"It's very important that we keep everyone in NATO on the same page. That's what I'm spending a lot of time doing, and there are differences," he went on. "There are differences in NATO as to what countries are willing to do, depending on what happens."
"It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do," Biden told reporters at an East Room news conference. "But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia if they further invade Ukraine."
He noted that Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Thursday that he is "confident of our support and resolve and he has a right to be."
, after suggesting a "minor incursion" by Russia would elicit a lesser response than a full-scale invasion of the country.
He made the comments at the top of an event aimed at promoting the bipartisan infrastructure package passed last year.
