Casualties reported as proKremlin mercenary base hit by Ukrainian strike
20220816
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-wagner-mercenary-group-base-destroyed/e9af3fe3-c0f7-4523-add3-5ae445fbb1e0
Putin has approved bringing in volunteer fighters from the Middle East, particularly Syria, to bolster Russia's stalled invasion.
The Wagner Group of private military contractors, or mercenaries, has played an active role in the fighting in Donbas, often deployed as infantry to advance on towns from which Ukrainian forces have withdrawn. The paramilitary group is sponsored by Russia.
The US and EU consider the Wagner Group to be a surrogate of the Russian military, but the Kremlin denies it even exists.
show that a base used by the Wagner military contractors was hit by artillery or rocket fire on the weekend.
The image, shared on social media but since deleted, shows five people in military clothing with a street sign in Popasna, Luhansk, visible in the top left corner, the BBC reported.
In December 2021, the EU imposed sanctions on the Wagner Group and its founder, Dmitry Utkin, a confidante of Russian President Vladimir Putin, for fomenting violence and committing human rights abuses in the Middle East, Africa and Ukraine.
While any link between the photo and the attack has not been independently established, Governor Serhiy Hayday wrote on Telegram that Ukrainian forces "hit an enemy HQ whose whereabouts were established thanks to a Russian journalist".
Serhiy Hayday, the Ukrainian official who is head of the Luhansk region military administration, said on his Telegram channel on Monday that "the Armed Forces of Ukraine once more successfully worked on the enemy headquarters".
And the Ukrainian government said about 20,000 foreigners from various nations have already joined the so-called International Legion for the Territorial Defence of Ukraine, most of them from Western countries.
"This time it was yesterday in Popasna, where the headquarters of PMC 'Wagner' was smashed with a well-aimed hit," Hayday said.
Over the weekend, pro-Russian Telegram accounts associated with the Wagner group showed extensive damage to a building in Popasna and said there had been casualties.
Ukraine media outlets also reported a pro-Kremlin journalist, Sergei Sreda, posted a photo on Telegram of the base with its apparent address.
