Cyberattack hits Ukrainian sites as Putin says Russia ready for talks with US and NATO
20220215
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-crisis-updates-russia-sending-troops-back-to-bases-german-chancellor-olaf-scholz-meet-vladimir-putin-moscow/9ffd9f3b-0b9c-4407-ba5a-a2e419108f7f
Still, Ukrainian security and defence council chief Oleksiy Danilov downplayed the threat of invasion but warned of the risk of "internal destabilisation" by unspecified forces.
The country is preparing nonetheless. Kyiv residents received letters from the mayor urging them to "defend your city" and signs appeared in apartment buildings indicating the nearest bomb shelter.
Mr Lavrov's comments came at a made-for-TV meeting with Putin and seemed designed to send a message to the world about the Russian leader's position.
"The path for diplomacy remains available if Russia chooses to engage constructively," White House principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said.
Mr Prystaiko later appeared to back away from the idea, but the fact that it was raised at all suggests it is being discussed behind closed doors.
"Today we do not see that a large-scale offensive by the Russian Federation can take place either on February 16th or the 17th," he told reporters.
One possible off-ramp emerged this week: Ukraine's ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, pointed at a possibility of Ukraine shelving its NATO bid  an objective that is written into its constitution  if it would avert war with Russia.
The photos taken over a 48-hour period also show ground forces leaving their garrisons and combat units moving into convoy formation.
The fears of an invasion grew from the fact that Russia has massed more than 130,000 troops near Ukraine. Russia denies it has any such plans, despite placing troops on Ukraine's borders to the north, south and east and launching massive military drills nearby.
The Foreign Minister argued Moscow should hold more talks, despite the West's refusal to consider Russia's main demands.
travel advice to "crisis", warning "the threat of armed conflict in Ukraine is increasing" on their
President Vladimir Putin says Moscow is ready for talks with the US and NATO on limits for missile deployments and military transparency, in a new sign of easing East-West tensions.
In mid-January, Ukraine accused Russia of being behind a cyberattack that temporarily disabled about 70 Ukrainian government websites simultaneously. During last month's attack, an announcement posted stated that Ukrainians should "be afraid and expect the worst."
The Russian Defense Ministry did not indicate where the withdrawing troops had been deployed or how many were leaving.
Customers at Ukraine's largest state-owned bank, Privatbank, and the state-owned Sberbank reported problems with online payments and the banks' apps.
"February 15, 2022, will go down in history as the day Western war propaganda failed. Humiliated and destroyed without a single shot fired," Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova tweeted.
Maxar Technologies, a commercial satellite imagery company that has been monitoring the Russian buildup, reported increased Russian military activity in Belarus, Crimea and western Russia, including the arrival of helicopters, ground-attack aircraft and fighter-bomber jets at forward locations.
The talks "can't go on indefinitely, but I would suggest to continue and expand them at this stage," Mr Lavrov said, noting that Washington has offered to discuss limits for missile deployments in Europe, restrictions on military drills and other confidence-building measures.
"That's why we have the rule: We won't believe when we hear, we'll believe when we see. When we see troops pulling out, we'll believe in de-escalation."
"I don't believe in war, but on TV the tension is growing every day, and it's getting harder and harder to keep calm," she said.
The announcement buoyed world financial markets and the long-suffering ruble after weeks of escalation in Europe's worst East-West standoff in decades. It came a day after Russia's Foreign Minister indicated the country was ready to keep talking about the security grievances that led to the Ukraine crisis  a gesture that changed the tenor after weeks of tensions.
But the US and NATO have agreed to discuss a range of security measures that Russia had previously proposed.
The statement came after Russia announced it was pulling back some troops from exercises that have raised fears of a potential invasion of Ukraine.
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the troops were returning "according to plan." He said such drills always adhered to a schedule  regardless of "who thinks what and who gets hysterical about it, who is deploying real informational terrorism."
A cyberattack has hit the websites of Ukrainian government agencies and major banks, authorities in Kyiv said.
The ministry suggested Russia could be behind Tuesday's incident without providing details. "It is possible that the aggressor resorted to tactics of petty mischief, because his aggressive plans aren't working overall," the statement said.
US and other NATO allies, meanwhile, have moved troops and military supplies toward Ukraine's western flank, although not to confront Russian forces, and promised more financial aid to the ex-Soviet nation.
Hours before the Russian Defence Ministry statement on the troops, a US defence official said
"It is not the first threat the strong Ukrainian people have faced," Mr Zelenskyy said Monday evening in a video address to the nation.
The capital has about 4500 such sites, including underground parking garages, subway stations and basements, the mayor said.
US officials have said the Russian military continued apparent attack preparations along Ukraine's borders. A US defence official said small numbers of Russian ground units have been moving out of larger assembly areas for several days, taking up positions closer to the Ukrainian border at what would be departure points if Mr Putin launched an invasion.
Speaking after talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Mr Putin said the US and NATO rejected Moscow's demand to keep Ukraine and other ex-Soviet nations out of NATO, halt weapons deployments near Russian borders and roll back alliance forces from Eastern Europe.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss reiterated on Tuesday that the danger of an invasion still exists, telling Sky News that it "could be imminent".
It released images of tanks and armoured vehicles rolling onto a train, and a tank commander saluting his forces while a military band played. The ministry did not disclose where or when the images were taken, or where the military vehicles were headed, other than "to places of permanent deployment."
Yet Ukraine remains effectively surrounded on three sides by military forces from its much more powerful neighbour, and even if the immediate threat recedes, longer-term risk remains. Russia annexed the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, and some 14,000 people have been killed in fighting between Ukrainian troops and pro-Russia separatists in the country's east.
"However, we are clear-eyed about the prospects of that, given the steps Russia is taking on the ground in plain sight."
The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss information not publicly released. CBS News was first to report on the movement of the units.
Mr Putin noted that the West could try to draw Russia into "endless talks" and questioned whether there was still a chance to reach agreement. Mr Lavrov replied that his ministry would not allow the US and its allies to stonewall Russia's main requests.
Moscow wants guarantees NATO will not allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members. It also wants the alliance to halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe.
Mr Putin said Russia was ready to engage in talks on limiting the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in Europe, transparency of drills and other confidence-building measures but emphasised the need for the West to heed Russia's main demands.
But she added that "there is still time for Vladimir Putin to step away from the brink."
At least 10 Ukrainian websites stopped working due to cyber attacks, including those of the Defence Ministry, Foreign Ministry, Culture Ministry and Ukraine's two largest state banks.
And Western officials continued to warn that the Russian military could attack at any time, with
As if to show defiance, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Wednesday would be a "day of national unity," calling on the country to display the blue-and-yellow flag and sing the national anthem in the face of "hybrid threats".
"We are aware of the risks that exist in the territory of our country. But the situation is absolutely under control."
The announcement of troops being pulled back was a "good signal," he said, adding that he hopes that "more will follow."
The statement followed the Russian Defence Ministry's announcement of a partial pullback of troops after military drills, adding to hopes the Kremlin might not invade Ukraine imminently. The Russian military gave no details on where the troops were pulling back from, or how many.
Dr Tamara Ugrich said she stocked up on grains and canned food and prepared an emergency suitcase.
Moscow brandished Tuesday's pullback announcement as proof that fears of war were fabricated by a hostile, US-led West.
The attack, the latest of several hacking operations targeting Ukraine, came after weeks of escalating fears that Russia might invade its neighbouring country. Russia sent signals on Tuesday that it might be pulling back from the brink of an invasion, but Western powers demanded proof.
The new glimmers of hope accompanied a flurry of diplomacy. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz planned to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, a day after he sat down with Ukraine's leader in Kyiv.
Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau of Poland, one of Russia's most strident European critics, was also in Moscow on Tuesday to meet Mr Lavrov, while Ukraine's Foreign Minister hosted his Italian counterpart.
