Damage to Snake Island where Ukrainian troops sent defiant message to Russian warship seen in satellite photo
20220315
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-snake-island-damage-satellite-photo/086bb2de-e8bc-42c6-9159-d51d27d6e559
In the image, some of the red-roofed buildings in the island's centre are shown to have been significantly damaged by Russian shelling.
Although parts of the island are snow-covered, impact craters can be seen dotting the island.
A Ukrainian statement said that Russian attackers destroyed the island's infrastructure, including lighthouses, towers and antennas  some of the damage that can now be seen in the new satellite photo.
The Ukrainian troops were all killed  and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said they would be "awarded the title of Hero of Ukraine posthumously"  but later the Ukrainian military said they were "alive and well" and taken prisoner.
defenders famously responded to the threat of Russian invasion with the words: "Russian warship, go f--- yourself."
Though it is only about 18 hectares in size, a report last year from the non-partisan Atlantic Council think tank called it "key to Ukraine's maritime territorial claims" in the Black Sea.
Highlighting its strategic importance, Mr Zelensky chose Snake Island last year as the spot for an interview with Ukrainian media in advance of a summit to try to reverse Russia's annexation of Crimea, the Atlantic Council report said.
It backs reports from the beginning of the Russian invasion that the island came under assault after its Ukrainian garrison rejected Russian surrender demands.
Snake Island, also known as Zmiinyi Island, sits about 48 kilometres off the Ukrainian mainland's southern tip in the northwestern Black Sea.
, the garrison on the island repelled two attacks by Russian forces but in the end was forced to surrender "due to the lack of ammunition".
The image, taken on Sunday by Maxar Technologies, shows damage to some buildings from Russian military strikes, as well as a
