Damaging winds tear through parts of NSW as a cold front moves across the country
20220605
https://www.9news.com.au/national/weather-warnings-in-place-after-adelaide-storm/21529d87-ca17-4aff-b4b0-4152ab6a4774
Parklands were turned into lakes and residents were trapped in their homes as trees toppled.
He was able to crawl out of his window to safety, luckily sustaining just a sore finger.
The NSW SES says there were "some pretty high gusts, 106kmh out at Bellambi just north of Woollongong".
Cold and wintry weather is set to continue in Adelaide this week, though the worst of the rain has passed.
While Sydney Airport said around 40 domestic arrivals and departures were cancelled as gusts of up to 95kmh were recorded.
Damaging winds have also been forecast for the eastern and north-eastern parts of the state.
In the western Sydney suburb of Doonside, a tree crashed into resident Matt Smith's brick home.
The SES also resorted to distributing free sandbags at a number of Adelaide locations yesterday.
A severe weather warning remains in place for multiple states as the icy cold front moves across the country.
Power lines fell along roads in Carlingford and further south in Wollongong there were evacuations as cracks started forming in a multi-storey building from the dangerous weather.
And the city had its wettest day of the year so far yesterday, with 46mm falling in the CBD and almost double that in the Adelaide Hills.
And a major rescue operation was carried out after a man was trapped in his car just west of the city, when a tree fell on it.
Adelaide has already endured a dangerous storm, with trees felled and creeks overflowing in the state capital.
Melbourne is also gearing up for another cold week following the recent polar blast, with temperatures not set to rise above 13C in the city.
Gusts of up to 102kmhr were recorded, with the SES receiving more than 500 calls for help over the weekend.
A mid-morning drop in temperatures delivered by strong and gusty winds hit Sydney and its surrounds.
Damaging winds have torn through parts of New South Wales, bringing down power lines and forcing at least 40 flight cancellations.
