Fleeing to the border Some 120000 Ukrainians seek refuge
20220226
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-updates-refugees-flee-across-borders-poland-romania/ea3585db-3a68-4563-a99a-a71fddf14dc0
"Our country is not doing anything, and we felt we needed to do something," said Tanja Schwarz, 51.
In Poland, a Facebook page was formed where people were offered rides in private cars from the border and other help.
The agency expects up to four million Ukrainians could flee if the situation deteriorates further.
A woman from Lviv named Lena described seeing toys and heavy bags along the way that people had abandoned.
They fled Kyiv and waited 23 hours in a fenced-off area where there was no food or water and which was controlled by armed guards on the Ukrainian side.
The largest numbers were arriving in Poland, where two million Ukrainians have already settled to work in recent years, driven away by Russia's first incursion into Ukraine when it annexed Crimea in 2014 and seeking opportunities in the booming economy of the European Union neighbour.
She was bringing her four children to safety in Poland and planned to return to join her husband.
The line of vehicles waiting to enter Poland at Medyka stretched many miles into Ukraine.
Regular people were also opening up their homes to refugees and volunteering at welcome centres.
This included an unconditional welcome from nations like Poland and Hungary that did not want to accept those fleeing conflict and poverty in the Middle East and Africa.
Some Ukrainian men were heading back into Ukraine from Poland to take up arms against the Russian forces.
On Saturday, Poland sent a hospital train to pick up those wounded in the war in Mostyska, in western Ukraine, and bring them to the Polish capital of Warsaw for treatment.
"We saw several people get injured, there were no toilets, there was no medical assistance," he said.
"This may go up, it's changing every minute," said Shabia Mantoo, the spokeswoman of the UN High Commissioner for
The border post in Siret was crowded with Ukrainians on Saturday and humanitarian groups set up tents a few miles in and offered food and drink to those arriving.
The hospital train left the border town of Przemysl with five carriages to transport the wounded and four others stocked with humanitarian aid for Ukraine's Lviv district.
In contrast to other conflicts around the globe, Russia's unprovoked attack on the Western-looking democracy has ignited a huge outpouring of support for the fleeing Ukrainians.
Even Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, one of Europe's most anti-migrant leaders, travelled to the border town of Beregsurany, where he said Hungary was accepting all citizens and legal residents of Ukraine.
Poland's government said on Saturday that more than 100,000 Ukrainians had crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border in the past 48 hours alone.
Like other Ukrainians returning home as their country fights Russia, she would only give her first name.
"We don't have a clue. We're waiting for our friends, and then we'll think," she said.
Volunteers even came from elsewhere in Europe to pick up refugees, among them a German couple from Hamburg who held up a sign at the Polish border town of Medyka saying they could take three people home with them.
Those arriving were mostly women, children and the elderly after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy banned men of military age from 18 to 60 from leaving.
One family from Chernivtsi in western Ukraine waited 20 hours before being able to cross the border into Siret in northern Romania.
Poland declared its border open to fleeing Ukrainians, even for those without official documents, and dropped its requirement to show a negative COVID-19 test.
Natalia Murinik, 14, cried as she described saying goodbye to grandparents who couldn't leave the country.
Ms Mantoo said most Ukrainians were heading to neighbouring Poland, Moldova, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia but some even fled into Belarus  from which some Russian forces entered Ukraine.
Some walked many miles through the night while others fled by train, car or bus, forming lines miles long at border crossings.
"You had to stand where you were because if you didn't you lost your place in line."
Jeremy Myers, from Manchester, England, was on vacation in Ukraine with his Ukrainian girlfriend when the war started.
and other neighbouring countries in the wake of the Russian invasion, the UN refugee agency said.
They were greeted by waiting relatives and friends or headed on their own to reception centres organised by neighbouring governments.
