Over 150000 Ukrainians seek refuge by fleeing to the border
20220226
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-fleeing-to-the-border-over-150000-ukrainians-seek-refuge/3838d3f5-657b-40e0-9a47-710c2d09d558
In Poland, a Facebook page was formed where people were offered rides in private cars from the border and other help.
The agency expects up to four million Ukrainians could flee if the situation deteriorates further.
The largest numbers were arriving in Poland, where two million Ukrainians have already settled to work in recent years, driven away by Russias first incursion into Ukraine when it annexed Crimea in 2014 and seeking opportunities in the booming economy of the European Union neighbour.
"You had to stand where you were because if you didnt you lost your place in line.
Our country is not doing anything, and we felt we needed to do something, Tanja Schwarz, 51, said,
We saw several people get injured, there were no toilets, there was no medical assistance," he said.
At least 150,000 people have fled Ukraine into Poland and other neighbouring countries in the wake of the
A woman from Lviv named Lena described seeing toys and heavy bags along the way that people had abandoned.
The UN said most Ukrainians were heading to neighbouring Poland, Moldova, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia but some even fled into Belarus  from which some Russian forces entered Ukraine.
They fled Kyiv and waited 23 hours in a fenced-off area where there was no food or water and which was controlled by armed guards on the Ukrainian side.
Natalia Murinik, 14, cried as she described saying goodbye to grandparents who couldnt leave the country.
Polands government said Saturday that more than 100,000 Ukrainians had crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border in the past 48 hours alone.
She was bringing her four children to safety in Poland and planned to return to join her husband.
The line of vehicles waiting to enter Poland at Medyka stretched many miles into Ukraine.
Regular people were also opening up their homes to refugees and volunteering at welcome centres.
They were greeted by waiting relatives and friends or headed on their own to reception centres organized by neighbouring governments.
This included an unconditional welcome from nations like Poland and Hungary that did not want to accept those fleeing conflict and poverty in the Middle East and Africa.
Some walked many kilometres through the night while others fled by train, car or bus, forming lines kilometres long at border crossings.
We dont have a clue. Were waiting for our friends, and then well think, she said.
Some Ukrainian men were heading back into Ukraine from Poland to take up arms against the Russian forces.
On Saturday, Poland sent a hospital train to pick up those wounded in the war in Mostyska, in western Ukraine, and bring them to the Polish capital of Warsaw for treatment.
The border post in Siret was crowded with Ukrainians on Saturday and humanitarian groups set up tents a few miles in and offered food and drink to those arriving.
The hospital train left the border town of Przemysl with five carriages to transport the wounded and four others stocked with humanitarian aid for Ukraines Lviv district.
The numbers and the situation is changing minute by minute, Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams, a spokeswoman for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said.
In contrast to other conflicts around the globe, Russia's unprovoked attack on the Western-looking democracy has ignited a huge outpouring of support for the fleeing Ukrainians.
Even Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, one of Europe's most anti-migrant leaders, travelled to the border town of Beregsurany, where he said Hungary was accepting all citizens and legal residents of Ukraine.
Like other Ukrainians returning home as their country fights Russia, she would only give her first name.
Volunteers even came from elsewhere in Europe to pick up refugees, among them a German couple from Hamburg who held up a sign at the Polish border town of Medyka saying they could take three people home with them.
Those arriving were mostly women, children and the elderly after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy banned men of military age from 18 to 60 from leaving.
One family from Chernivtsi in western Ukraine waited 20 hours before being able to cross the border into Siret in northern Romania.
Poland declared its border open to fleeing Ukrainians, even for those without official documents, and dropped its requirement to show a negative COVID-19 test.
Jeremy Myers, from Manchester, England, was on vacation in Ukraine with his Ukrainian girlfriend when the war started.
At least 150,000 people have fled, they are refugees outside of Ukraine. ... At least 100,000 people  but probably a much larger number  have been displaced inside Ukraine."
