Russian missiles kill at least 21 in Ukraines Odesa region
20220701
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russian-missiles-kill-at-least-21-in-ukraine-odesa-region/abd38b88-9aa9-4a12-9338-2732b3a5b78a
The process could take years or even decades, but Zelenskyy said in a speech to lawmakers that Ukraine can't wait.
Ukraine's military claimed a barrage of its artillery and missiles forced the Russians to flee the island in two small speedboats. The exact number of withdrawing troops was not disclosed.
Zelenskyy said that although the pullout did not guarantee the Black Sea region's safety, it would "significantly limit" Russian activities there.
Video of the attack before daybreak showed the charred ruins of buildings in the small town of Serhiivka, about 50 kilometres from Odesa. The Ukrainian president's office said three Kh-22 missiles fired by warplanes struck an apartment building and a campsite.
"Such decisions are necessary for Ukraine to advance on its path forward, and you must make them," he said.
The island took on significance early in the war as a symbol of Ukrainian defiance. When a Russian warship demanded the island's defenders surrender, they supposedly replied: "Go expletive yourself."
In eastern Ukraine, Russian forces kept up their push to encircle the city of Lysychansk, the last stronghold of resistance in Luhansk, one of two provinces that make up the Donbas region.
Haidai said the Russians were fighting for control of an oil refinery on the city's edge. But Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said Russian and Luhansk separatist forces had taken control of the refinery as well as a mine and a gelatine factory in Lysychansk.
"Snake Island is key for controlling the Black Sea and could help cover the Russian attack if the Kremlin opted for an amphibious landing operation in Odesa or elsewhere in the region," he said. "Now those plans are pushed back."
In other developments, Zelenskyy asked Ukrainian lawmakers to fast-track the legislation needed for the country to join the European Union. His government applied for EU membership after Russia's February 24 invasion. EU leaders made Ukraine a candidate last week, acting with unusual speed and unity.
missile attacks on residential areas killed at least 21 people early Friday near the Ukrainian port of Odesa, authorities reported, a day after the withdrawal of Moscow's forces from an island in the Black Sea seemed to ease the threat to the city.
"The occupiers cannot win on the battlefield, so they resort to vile killing of civilians," said Ivan Bakanov, head of Ukraine's security service, the SBU. "After the enemy was dislodged from Snake Island, he decided to respond with the cynical shelling of civilian targets."
Russian forces took control of the island in the opening days of the war in the apparent hope of using it as a staging ground for an assault on Odesa, Ukraine's biggest port and the headquarters of its navy.
Ukrainian media reported said 21 people were killed, including children. It said 38 others, including six children and a pregnant woman, were hospitalised. Most of the victims were in the apartment building, Ukrainian emergency officials said.
"The shelling of the city is very intensive," Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said. "The occupiers are destroying one house after another with heavy artillery and other weapons. Residents of Lysychansk are hiding in basements almost round the clock."
Ukrainian authorities interpreted the attack as payback for Russian troops being forced from Snake Island a day earlier, though Moscow portrayed their departure as a "goodwill gesture" to help unblock exports of grain from the country.
After Friday's attack, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov reiterated that Moscow is not targeting residential areas.
Ukraine's presidential office said a series of Russian strikes in the past 24 hours also killed civilians in eastern Ukraine  four in the northeastern Kharkiv region and another four in Donetsk province.
But Russian missiles struck the Kyiv region last weekend after weeks of relative calm around the capital, and an airstrike Monday on a shopping mall in the central city of Kremenchuk killed at least 19 people.
Large numbers of civilians died in Russian airstrikes and shelling earlier in the war, including at a hospital, a theatre used as a bomb shelter and a train station. Until this week, mass casualties involving residents appeared to become less frequent as Moscow concentrated on capturing eastern Ukraine's Donbas region.
Oleh Zhdanov, an independent Ukrainian military analyst, said that the Russian pullback from Snake Island has "colossal psychological significance" for Ukraine.
"Step by step, we will push Russia out of our sea, our land, our sky," he said in his nightly address.
