Russian foreign minister denies Vladimir Putin illness
20220530
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-health-of-vladimir-putin/a81ee2ab-3e88-405e-b2e8-a8ef4c6496fa
"The Kremlin has reckoned that it can't afford to waste time and should use the last chance to extend the separatist-controlled territory because the arrival of Western weapons in Ukraine could make it impossible," Ukrainian military analyst Oleh Zhdanov said.
In its latest move, Russian state gas giant Gazrpom said it will halt gas supplies to Dutch gas trader GasTerra starting on Tuesday.
"I leave this on the conscience of those who spread such rumours despite daily opportunities to ensure who looks how in this world," Lavrov said.
UK intelligence sources were quoted telling media outlets that Putin was seriously ill in the last week.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, in an interview with French television, has shut down new reports, saying Putin appears in public every day and there are no signs pointing to any ailments.
Russia has also sought to use its energy exports to its advantage, cutting off natural gas to a handful of European countries in what was seen as an effort to punish and divide the West over its support for Ukraine.
Rumours about the condition of the Russian leader, known for his healthy lifestyle and love of sport, have surfaced periodically for years.
Speculation on Putin's health has been circulating for a while, with the Kremlin often denying rumours of ailments.
Military analysts painted the fight for Sievierodonetsk as part of a race against time for the Kremlin. The city is key to Russian efforts to complete the capture of the eastern industrial region of the Donbas quickly - before more Western arms arrive to bolster Ukraine's defence.
"I do not think that any sane person can see in this person signs of some kind of illness or ailment.
Weapons from the West have already helped Kyiv's forces thwart a Russian advance on the capital in the early weeks of the war. That failure forced Moscow to withdraw, regroup, and pursue the more limited objective of seizing the Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists already held swaths of territory and have been fighting Ukrainian troops for eight years.
Meanwhile, Russian troops pushed farther into a key eastern Ukrainian city and fought street by street with Kyiv's forces in a battle the mayor said has left the city in ruins and driven tens of thousands of people from their homes.
