Russia warned of severe response by US as tensions rise over Ukraine
20220123
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-updates-uk-foreign-office-says-kremlin-is-planning-to-install-a-prorussian-leader-in-ukraine/7f10a1a7-7bc7-4a6a-b65c-46fd4f5979e4
The country has traditionally avoided exporting arms to crisis areas since World War II, but German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said earlier this week that "all measures" will be on the table if there is further Russian aggression against Ukraine.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern puts wedding on hold as NZ moves into red light COVID-19 restrictions
In a statement on Saturday, the White House said President Joe Biden met with his national security team to discuss "continued Russian aggressive actions toward Ukraine."
The alliance has also begun sending weaponry to Kyiv to deter a potential Russian invasion and strengthen Ukraine's defensive capabilities.
CNN also reached out to the US State Department and the White House for comment.
"The Ukrainian people have the sovereign right to determine their own future, and we stand with our democratically-elected partners in Ukraine," she said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has argued in recent weeks that his country is the aggrieved party, and is responding to NATO's cooperation with Ukraine and the alliance's eastward expansion since the fall of the Soviet Union  which Russia views as an existential security threat.
Mr Murayev told CNN Saturday "there is nothing to comment on" regarding the allegations, as he is a Ukrainian national and still facing Russian sanctions.
"As the UK and our partners have said repeatedly, any Russian military incursion into Ukraine would be a massive strategic mistake with severe costs."
Though US officials have been issuing warnings to Russia in recent days, President Joe Biden muddled the message of severe consequences last week, saying at a news conference that a "minor incursion" might not trigger the same response from NATO as an invasion.
of recruiting current and former Ukrainian government officials to attempt to take control of Ukraine's government as it unveiled new sanctions on Thursday.
Those armaments would help Ukraine fend off Russian aircraft that, some officials and experts believe, would lead the way in the early stages of a Russian invasion.
"The misinformation spread by the British Foreign Office is another evidence that these are the NATO countries, led by the Anglo-Saxons, that are escalating tensions around Ukraine. We call on the British Foreign Office to stop provocative activities, stop spreading nonsense and focus on studying the history of the Tatar-Mongol yoke," a representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry told TASS.
Russia's Foreign Ministry has rejected a British claim that the Kremlin is seeking to replace Ukraine's government with a pro-Moscow administration, and that former Ukrainian politician Yevheniy Murayev is a potential candidate.
The comments from both countries came just hours after Russia's Foreign Ministry confirmed its demand for NATO to pull back troops from parts of eastern Europe included Bulgaria and Romania.
The President later clarified that any Russian troops crossing Ukraine's border would constitute an invasion, and Mr Blinken, following a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov last week, also warned that any Russian invasion of Ukraine would be "met with a severe and a united response."
"The information being released today shines a light on the extent of Russian activity designed to subvert Ukraine, and is an insight into Kremlin thinking," UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement.
The comments from Mr Blinken further clarify the US' position on any additional aggressive military action by Russia after the country amassed tens of thousands of troops on its border with Ukraine.
Bulgaria's ambassador to the United Kingdom, Marin Raykov, told the BBC the Kremlin's demand is "an expression of contempt for the sovereign rights of Bulgaria to choose the sources of guarantees for national security."
"This behaviour continues to intensify in the present, despite NATO's attempts to engage in constructive dialogue," the statement read.
CNN reached out to the UK Foreign Office on Saturday for further comment on its claims, as well as supporting evidence, but it said it would not comment any further.
That comes as NATO members Romania and Bulgaria slammed Russia's demand to remove alliance troops from both countries as "unacceptable," with each arguing that the Kremlin has no right to interfere in the foreign policy decisions of other sovereign states.
"Yes, we have seen the intelligence that Russia is looking at ways to minimise a long, drawn-out war. That includes things like installing a friendly government and using its spy agencies to foment dissent," the source said.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken amplified his warning against a Russian invasion of Ukraine, saying "a single additional Russian force" entering Ukraine "in an aggressive way" would result in a severe response by the US and its allies.
"Some of these have contact with Russian intelligence officers currently involved in the planning for an attack on Ukraine," the British foreign office statement added. Russia has denied allegations it is planning to attack Ukraine.
The United States and its NATO allies have repeatedly warned Russia any movement of its troops into Ukranian territory would be met with what US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called "a severe and a united response."
foreign office says it has information that the Russian government is planning to "install a pro-
A source briefed on the US and British intelligence confirmed the US has similar evidence as the UK, regarding Russia's plot to install a friendly government in Ukraine.
Early on Sunday late Sunday AEDT, Russia's Foreign Ministry urged the UK's Foreign Office to "stop engaging in provocations," state news agency TASS reported.
"NATO allies are ready to engage in dialogue with Russia, but we will not compromise on core principles," NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said earlier this month.
"President Biden again affirmed that should Russia further invade Ukraine, the United States will impose swift and severe consequences on Russia with our Allies and partners," the White House said.
"If a single additional Russian force goes into Ukraine in an aggressive way, as I said, that would trigger a swift, a severe and a united response from us and from Europe," Mr Blinken told CNN's Dana Bash on State of the Union on Sunday.
The statement went on to name four other former Ukrainian officials, saying, "We have information that the Russian intelligence services maintain links with numerous former Ukrainian politicians" including Serhiy Arbuzov, first deputy prime minister of Ukraine from 2012 to 2014, and acting prime minister in 2014 Andriy Kluyev, first deputy prime minister from 2010 to 2012 and chief of staff to former Ukrainian president Yanukovich Vladimir Sivkovich, former deputy head of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council RNBO Mykola Azarov, prime minister of Ukraine from 2010-2014," it said.
That military posturing has prompted fears that Russia is planning another incursion into Ukraine after invading and illegally annexing the Crimean peninsula in 2014.
Germany will supply a fully equipped field hospital to Ukraine, according to the German Defence Ministry.
The President was briefed on the state of Russian military operations on Ukraine's borders and "discussed both our ongoing efforts to de-escalate the situation with diplomacy and our range of deterrence measures that are being coordinated closely with our Allies and partners, including ongoing deliveries of security assistance to Ukraine," it added.
The Dutch Defence Minister said the Netherlands would deploy two F-35 jets, along with support staff, to Bulgaria in April or May, while the Spanish Defence Minister offered to send fighter jets and a warship to the Black Sea.
The Treasury Department rolled out sanctions against four current and former Ukrainian officials it said were involved in Kremlin-directed influence activities to destabilise Ukraine. Those newly sanctioned individuals include Taras Romanovych Kozak, Volodymyr Mykolayovych Oliynyk, Vladimir Leonidovich Sivkovich, and Oleh Voloshyn.
Russia and NATO have been at loggerheads since late last year, when the Kremlin deployed an estimated 100,000 troops to its border with Ukraine.
Mr Sivkovich was the only former Ukrainian politician named in both the US and UK announcements.
US National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne expressed solidarity with Ukraine as the UK Foreign Office said it had information the Russian government is planning to install a pro-Russian leader in Ukraine, calling the plot "deeply concerning."
That same year, Moscow began supporting a pro-Russian separatist movement in eastern Ukraine that's left thousands dead.
Estonia was given approval to transfer anti-tank Javelin guided missile systems, which the US has provided Ukraine with in the past.
NATO members have, in recent days, deployed military equipment and personnel to eastern alliance members in response to Russia's troop buildup in Ukraine.
Light anti-tank weapons from the United Kingdom have already arrived in the country, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry said on Tuesday, while the Czech Republic plans donate 152mm caliber artillery ammunition to Ukraine in the coming days, Czech Defence Minister Jana ernochov said Friday.
Romania's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Saturday "such a demand is unacceptable and cannot be negotiated".
"Russia must de-escalate, end its campaigns of aggression and disinformation, and pursue a path of diplomacy," Ms Truss said.
MP Yevhen Murayev is being considered as a potential candidate," the British Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office said in a Saturday statement.
The Treasury said the four individuals  two of whom are current members of Ukraine's Parliament  were acting under the direction of a Russian intelligence service sanctioned by the US and played "various roles" in Russia's "global influence campaign to destabilise sovereign countries in support of the Kremlin's political objectives."
Bulgaria's Ministry of Foreign Affairs urged Moscow to "show respect to the foreign policy choice consciously made by Bulgaria".
On Twitter, she said "We will not tolerate a Kremlin plot to install pro-Russian leadership in Ukraine."
In its statement, Romania said the NATO military presence in eastern Europe is "a strictly defensive reaction to the increasingly aggressive behaviour of the Russian Federation ... which started in 2014. When the Ukrainian territory Crimea was illegally occupied by Russia."
"We will not compromise on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of every nation in Europe, and we will not compromise on the right for all countries to do, to choose their own path, including what kind of security arrangements they want to be part of, and will not compromise on the right for allies to protect and defend each other."
that the first shipment of American-directed materiel  200,000 pounds of lethal aid, including ammunition for fighters on the front lines  has arrived in Ukraine.
the shipment of US-origin weapons to Kyiv  including highly sought-after American anti-aircraft systems from Latvia and Lithuania.
British Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab said on Sunday that Russia will face severe economic sanctions if it installs its own regime in Ukraine.
Diplomats from all sides have been attempting to negotiate a peaceful settlement, though one of Russia's core demands  that NATO withdraw foreign military forces and equipment from members of the alliance who joined after 1997  was quickly deemed a non-starter by Western diplomats.
"We are standing shoulder to shoulder, saying there will be very serious consequences in Russia takes this move to try and invade, but also install a puppet regime," he told Sky News on Sunday.
