Ukraine claims its targeting Russian troops with longrange strikes
20220712
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-ukraine-claims-missile-strike-on-russian-army-unit/8de1f9a2-459f-4706-b3cb-6a964fab2d93
He told Ukrainian television: "Thanks to modern Western weapons, Russian air defences cannot intercept artillery."
There are unconfirmed reports 12 people were killed and US-supplied weapons systems were used in the attack.
Ukrainian military intelligence claimed on Monday to have intercepted a call between Russian soldiers, in which one said that Ukrainian forces had "hit the most important command. They hit f------ hard."
Russia's Defence Ministry said the attacks struck at the points of deployment for Ukraine's "nationalist battalions" Kharkiv regional Governor Oleh Syniehubov said on Telegram that the shelling came from multiple rocket launchers, and those wounded and hospitalised included children aged 4 and 16.
Serhiy Khlan, a member of Kherson's regional council, said there had been "a precise hit" on Sunday at the military unit of the occupiers on Pestelia Street in Kherson city.
Ukraine's campaign to attack Russian supply lines and ammunition storage sites far behind the frontlines is continuing, with Ukrainian officials reporting another long-range strike against Russian military positions in the southern region of Kherson.
"Only civilian structures  a shopping centre and houses of peaceful Kharkiv residents  came under the fire of the Russians. Several shells hit the yards of private houses. Garages and cars were also destroyed. Several fires broke out," Syniehubov wrote.
"Eyewitnesses report the cries of Russians under the rubble. The occupiers shoot in the air when someone tries to get closer," Khlan said.
Sunday's attack follows a series of explosions near the airport in Kherson on Saturday, and at what appears to have been an ammunition storage site in the Donetsk region.
Tass said there casualties, without providing an estimate, and claimed the weapon used in the strike was fired from a US-supplied multiple-launch High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, or HIMARS.
Earlier, he said one missile destroyed a school, another hit a residential building, while the third landed near warehouse facilities.
Russian troops launched three missile strikes on Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, in an attack one official described as "absolute terrorism".
Meanwhile, Russian shelling of Ukraine's second-largest city on Monday killed at least six people and injured 31, prosecutors and local officials said.
But Russia's Tass news agency offered a different account, saying that the target was a mineral fertiliser storage facility that exploded and that a market, hospital and houses were damaged.
