Ukraine claims Russian general  killed in Kharkiv
20220308
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-ukraine-claims-it-killed-russian-general/449a42fd-7aa2-4354-8c5c-9ac0eb47a4d3
The Ukrainian defence ministry has claimed that a Russian general was killed in battle near Ukraine's second-largest city, Kharkiv.
Gady also said it was an indication that senior Russian officers "need to be leading from the front to regroup and consolidate their forces," and to "push their soldiers forward to attack," amid low troop morale.
The short statement offered no proof of the death of Major-General Vitaly Gerasimov, and gave no details of when he was killed.
"A number of senior Russian army officers were also killed and wounded," the Ukrainian defence ministry statement said.
The United States also cannot confirm the Ukrainian claims, a senior US defence official said.
Russian forces have been launching sustained strikes on Kharkiv for in recent days. Shelling from heavy artillery, air raids and fire on residential districts has left the key northeastern city devastated but it has not yet fallen to the Russians.
Franz Stefan Gady, research fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies IISS, told CNN the reported death of the general is "testimony to the ferocity of the fighting near Kharkiv," though he added that Ukrainian reports of the deaths of senior Russian officers remained murky.
He suggested that such an approach could lead to other reports of high-ranking military deaths.
Ukraine identified Gerasimov as "a Russian military commander, major general, chief of staff and first deputy commander of the 41st Army of the Central Military District of Russia" and said he was a veteran of Russian campaigns in Chechnya and Syria.
The Ukrainian ministry also alluded in its statement to communication problems that it says Russia's army is facing. The executive director of the open source investigative outlet Bellingcat, Christo Grozev, detailed in a Twitter thread that the information of the general's death may have been gleaned from an intercept of a phone call on an unsecured network.
Russian state media said nothing on Tuesday about Gerasimov, although it did name other Russians killed in Ukraine.
CNN has not been able to independently verify Ukraine's claim, and Russia's defence ministry did not immediately respond to CNN's questions about Gerasimov on Tuesday, which is a national holiday in Russia.
