Ukrainian sailor tries to sink Russian boss yacht then leaves for war
20220301
https://www.9news.com.au/world/ukraine-russia-update-taras-ostapchuk--sailor-tries-to-sink-russian-arms-tycoon-superyacht/0e6b90e1-2feb-4465-be9e-1790db069edf
This was just hours after being released from detention in Mallorca where the yacht was docked and just before boarding a flight to the
According to the brief biography on the company's website, Mr Mikheev was formerly head of defence contractor JSC Russian Helicopters.
We must stop this war, Mr Ostapchuk said from the other side of the phone.
The 55-year-old engineer's act of defiance happened on Saturday at a luxurious marina in Mallorca.
These luxurious boats are usually registered in tax havens under front companies that are not necessarily their final owners, said a Civil Guard spokesman who isn't authorised to provide his name.
Officers who showed up at the marina on Saturday found two open hatches letting in water. The yacht was saved and Mr Ostapchuk was arrested, the officer said.
Mr Mikheev, 61, is the CEO of Rosoboronexport, the weapons export arm of Russia's state-owned defence conglomerate Rostec.
According to his court deposition, the sailor acted to avoid polluting or causing harm to others by closing the yacht's fuel valves and alerting the other crew members, all of them Ukrainians.
His target was the Lady Anastasia, a 48-metre-long superyacht whose owner, according to Mr Ostapchuk, is Alexander Mikheev.
Taras Ostapchuk said he was hoping to join Ukrainian soldiers or civil militias trying to hold back Russian troops advancing towards the capital, Kyiv, and other parts of his homeland.
A fight broke between Mr Ostapchuk and his colleagues, who ended up calling the marina's management.
The sailor offered no contrition when questioned by a local judge on Sunday: He regards the owner of the yacht as a criminal because he earns money selling arms that, according to him, kill Ukrainians, the judge wrote summarising the interrogation according to the copy seen by AP.
A local Civil Guard spokesman said that yacht's other crew members alerted authorities of the attempted sinking.
arms tycoon was on his way to his native Kyiv, determined to join the fight against invading forces there.
The arms produced by the yacht's owner are now being used against my own people, Mr Ostapchuk said.
The sailor considered what he would do for a couple of hours before deciding to take revenge.
All Ukrainian citizens must be defenders of our fatherland because it is being subject to Russian aggression, he told the Associated Press from
But he told AP that images carried on an online newscast of a Russian missile striking a house resembling his own in Kyiv flipped a switch in his brain.
Mr Ostapchuk said that he had been well aware of his employer's activities for much of the decade and that he was tasked with the yacht's maintenance.
