Ukrainian warplane fires advanced USsupplied missile at enemy
20220831
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-ukraine-warplane-fires-us-supplied-anti-radar-missile/d75dd42a-0221-4cb9-93ab-431468886d55
Ukraine's presidential office reported "tough battles" going on across practically all of the area and said Ukrainian forces destroyed ammunition depots and all large bridges across the Dnieper River vital to supplying Russian troops.
Images released on Tuesday and taken from a Ukrainian air force Russian-designed MiG-29 Fulcrum fighter jet apparently showed it releasing AGM-88 High Speed Anti Radiation missiles, or HARM ARMS.
While independent verification of battlefield action has been difficult, Britain's Defence Ministry said in an intelligence report that several Ukrainian brigades had stepped up their artillery fire in front-line sectors across southern Ukraine.
Ukrainian authorities kept the world guessing about their intentions, sidestepping talk of a major counteroffensive over the past couple of days.
In other news, Ukraine claimed to have destroyed bridges and ammunition depots and pounded command posts in a
The clashes took place in Ukraine's Kherson region, where Moscow's forces rolled up major gains early in the war.
The HARM missiles target enemy radar systems and were part of the Biden Administration's latest US$775 million $1.1 billion military aid package to Ukraine.
The footage - captured by a GoPro camera in the cockpit of the MiG-29 - showed the fighter jet taking off from an air base with the missiles fitted beneath its wings.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Lieutenant-General Igor Konashenkov maintained that its forces stood up well and that Ukraine lost hundreds of troops, tanks and other armored vehicles in Monday's action. His claim could not be independently verified.
, fuelling speculation on Tuesday that its long-awaited counteroffensive to try to turn the tide of war is underway.
After locking on to its target, the pilot releases the missiles to a ground target and a fireball is shown erupting just seconds later.
The port city of Kherson, with a prewar population of about 300,000, is an important economic hub close to the Black Sea and the first major city to fall to the Russians in the war that began six months ago.
The incident showed Ukrainian military experts have been able to overcome major technological challenges in installing the western weapons system on a Russian-built fighter, reports international military aviation site
has shared footage on social media showing what experts say are powerful US-supplied anti-radar missiles being fired from a warplane during combat.
