UNs nuclear watchdog warns of disaster at Ukraine power plant as shelling continues
20220807
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-update-un-nuclear-watchdog-iaea-warns-of-disaster-at-ukraine-power-plant-as-shelling-continues/ea60e576-1b20-4aec-8578-2086cd95b16b
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has accused Moscow of using the plant to shield its forces, while Britain's Ministry of Defence said in a recent security assessment that Russia's actions at the complex sabotage the safety of its operations.
Grossi has called for all parties to "exercise the utmost restraint in the vicinity of this important nuclear facility, with its six reactors".
The director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said he was alarmed by the reports of damage and has demanded that an IAEA team of experts urgently be allowed to visit the plant, to assess and safeguard the site.
"The possible consequences of hitting an operating reactor are equivalent to the use of an atomic bomb," the ministry said on Twitter.
"Military action jeopardising the safety and security of the Zaporizhzya nuclear power plant is completely unacceptable and must be avoided at all costs," he added.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, in his nightly address on Saturday, again accused Russia of shelling the plant and using it to wreak terror in Europe.
"I'm extremely concerned by the shelling yesterday at Europe's largest nuclear power plant, which underlines the very real risk of a nuclear disaster that could threaten public health and the environment in Ukraine and beyond," Grossi said in a statement at the weekend.
after it was struck by shelling, triggering the shutdown of one of the reactors and signalling the "real risk of a nuclear disaster".
"The Ukrainian staff operating the plant under Russian occupation must be able to carry out their important duties without threats or pressure undermining not only their own safety but also that of the facility itself," he added.
Kyiv has accused Russian forces of storing heavy weaponry in and launching attacks from the plant, which they took over in early March and still occupy. Moscow, meanwhile, has claimed Ukrainian troops are targeting the complex.
Attacks on the plant continued overnight on Saturday, according to Energoatom, striking various parts of the complex and injuring one Ukrainian employee. It claimed that Russian forces and employees of Russian state nuclear energy company Rosatom, who have been on site since they seized the plant, took shelter in bunkers before the barrage began.
While the security situation is stable and there is no immediate threat to nuclear safety, according to the IAEA, Grossi warned of the dire risk that further fighting at the site could pose.
The IAEA sent teams to Chernobyl nuclear power plant in late April and in May to deliver equipment and conduct radiological assessments of the site, which was held by Russian forces for more than a month before they withdrew in late March.
"This mission would play a crucial role in helping to stabilise the nuclear safety and security situation there, as we have at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and elsewhere in Ukraine in recent months," he said.
"They know very well that the Ukrainian Armed Forces will not respond to these attacks, as they can damage the nuclear power plant," he said.
"This is a serious and irresponsible breach of nuclear safety rules and another example of Russia's disregard for international norms," Josep Borrell, the EU's foreign policy chief, said Saturday on Twitter.
The rockets hit the site of the plant's dry storage facility, where 174 containers with spent nuclear fuel are kept, and damaged three radiation monitoring detectors, making timely detection and response to leaking radioactive substances "currently impossible", Energoatom warned.
The European Union's top diplomat has slammed Russia's military activities around the Zaporizhzya power plant and called for the IAEA to gain access to the complex.
"Any military firepower directed at or from the facility would amount to playing with fire, with potentially catastrophic consequences," Grossi said.
CNN was unable to verify claims of damage at the plant, which occupies a sprawling site. Ukrainian prosecutors have opened an investigation into the shelling.
The Ukrainian mayor of Enerhodar, Dmytro Orlov, said in late July that Russian forces had been observed using heavy weaponry near the plant.
"This time a nuclear catastrophe was miraculously avoided, but miracles cannot last forever," it said.
Shelling on Friday damaged a power line and forced one of the plant's reactors to stop operating, according to Ukraine's state-run nuclear power operator, Energoatom, which later said there was no damage to the reactors themselves and the radiation situation was normal.
watchdog has called for an immediate cessation of hostilities near Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern
"Unfortunately, we have a significant worsening of the situation around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant," he said.
Ukraine's foreign ministry warned on Friday that further attacks on the plant could be disastrous.
"Russian terrorists became the first in the world to use a nuclear plant for terror. The biggest in Europe!"
Several Western and Ukrainian officials believe that Russia is now using the giant nuclear facility as a stronghold to shield their troops and mount attacks, because they assume Kyiv will not return fire and risk a crisis.
The IAEA has been trying to coordinate a mission of safeguarding experts to visit the plant since it was seized by Russian forces.
