US politicians threaten mother of all sanctions against Russia
20220130
https://www.9news.com.au/world/russia-ukraine-updates-us-politicians-pledge-mother-of-all-sanctions/20801830-0d85-45af-881f-34a034aae821
, promising to put Moscow on the defensive at the United Nations Security Council as US politicians said they were nearing agreement on "the mother of all sanctions".
The US ambassador to the United Nations said the Security Council will press Russia hard in a Monday session to discuss its massing of troops near Ukraine and rising fears it is planning an invasion.
Russia has long resented NATO's granting of membership to countries that were once part of the Soviet Union or were in its sphere of influence as members of the Warsaw Pact.
Russia's massing of an estimated 100,000 troops near the border with Ukraine has brought increasingly strong warnings from the West that Moscow intends to invade. Russia is demanding that NATO promise never to allow Ukraine to join the alliance, and to stop the deployment of NATO weapons near Russian borders and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe.
"At this time, they're saying that Russia threatens Ukraine  that's completely ridiculous," he was quoted as saying by state news agency Tass. "We don't want war and we don't need it at all."
The chairman of the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Bob Menendez warned on CNN that the Kremlin would face "the mother of all sanctions," including actions against Russian banks that could severely undermine the Russian economy and increased lethal aid to Ukraine's military.
The United States and European Union countries say a Russian invasion would trigger heavy sanctions.
"Our voices are unified in calling for the Russians to explain themselves," Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said of the US and the other council members on ABC's 'This Week' on Sunday. "We're going into the room prepared to listen to them, but we're not going to be distracted by their propaganda."
The US and NATO have formally rejected Russia's demands about halting NATO expansion, though Washington outlined areas where discussions are possible, offering hope there could be a way to avoid war.
The head of Russia's Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev, on Sunday rejected Western warnings about an invasion.
Any formal action by the council is extremely unlikely given Russia's veto power and its ties with others on the council, including China. But the US referral of Russia's troop buildup to the United Nations' top body gives both sides a big stage in their battle for global opinion.
The sanctions would apparently be significantly stronger than those imposed after Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. Those penalties have been seen as ineffective.
