Volodymyr Zelenskyy fumes at NATO after it refuses to impose nofly zone over Ukraine
20220305
https://www.9news.com.au/world/ukraine-russia-invasion-no-fly-zone-volodymyr-zelenskyy-nato/eda7d0f9-8843-43fb-9bfa-5c3504079c37
"The question of humanitarian corridors is question No. 1," Mr Danilov said on Ukrainian television.
He said Ukrainians will continue to resist and have already destroyed Russia's plans for a lightning invasion "having endured nine days of darkness and evil."
Oleksiy Danilov said Friday more than 840 children have been wounded in the war. A day earlier, the Ukrainian government put the death toll among children at 28.
The head of Ukraine's security council called on Russia to create humanitarian corridors to allow children, women and the elderly to escape the fighting.
has criticised NATO for refusing to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying it will fully untie
"All the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you, because of your weakness, because of your lack of unity," he said in a nighttime address.
"It is a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant," the embassy statement said.
Ukrainian officials have asked for help from the Red Cross in organising corridors, describing the situation in the blockaded cities as "close to a catastrophe".
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called Russia's action "nuclear terrorism" and appealed to the UN Security Council for action to safeguard Ukraine's endangered nuclear facilities.
"We are warriors of light," he said. "The history of Europe will remember this forever."
refused to impose a no-fly zone earlier today, warning that to do so could provoke widespread war in Europe with nuclear-armed Russia.
Russian troops seized the plant yesterday in an attack that set it on fire and briefly raised fears of a nuclear disaster. The blaze was extinguished and no radiation was released.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal appealed to the International Atomic Energy Agency and the EU to send representatives to all five of Ukraine's nuclear power plants.
Russian troops have encircled and blockaded several large cities in the south of the country, including Mariupol, trying to cut Ukraine off from the Black and Azov seas.
He spoke ahead of the latest talks between Ukrainian and Russian delegations, planned for this weekend.
"This is a question of the security of the whole world," he said in a nighttime video address.
"Putin's shelling of Europe's largest nuclear plant takes his reign of terror one step further."
"All that the alliance was able to do today was to pass through its procurement system 50 tons of diesel fuel for Ukraine. Perhaps so we could burn the Budapest Memorandum," Mr Zelenskyy said, referring to the 1994 security guarantees given to Ukraine in exchange for the withdrawal of its Soviet-era nuclear weapons.
"You will not be able to pay us off with litres of fuel for the litres of our blood, shed for our common Europe."
"The alliance has given the green light to the bombing of Ukrainian cities and villages by refusing to create a no-fly zone."
