What we know about 64kmlong Russian convoy headed for Kyiv
20220302
https://www.9news.com.au/world/what-we-know-about-64-kilometre-long-russian-convoy-headed-for-kyiv-ukraine-explained/53b58921-dc8c-4833-b7e1-6654bd2c0267
The official claimed there are signs of morale problems among Russian troops, many of whom have been drafted, but they declined to say how the Pentagon knew this.
Satellite images showed Russia constructed a pontoon bridge across the Pripyat River, which spans Ukraine and Belarus.
The Stinger missile worked against the Russians in Afghanistan in the 1980s, but will it in Ukraine?
From Brest in the east, to Gomel in the west, Russian forces kept popping up at air bases, in towns and even in fields.
The sheer length of the convoy speaks to the amount of the military power the Russians have amassed to try and take Kyiv.
Satellite imagery from Maxar Technologies showed Russia continued to increase the number of military vehicles, air power and weaponry in Belarus.
It is estimated up to 15,000 Russian soldiers are riding with the convoy, which is made up of tanks, armoured vehicles and an array of other artillery and military hardware.
All roads north of Kyiv lead to Belarus, which is where the convoy has come from.
The convoy has been slowed by logistical issues, specifically fuel and food shortages, according to a senior US defence official who briefed reporters anonymously to discuss Pentagon intelligence.
Hundreds of Russian military vehicles, aircraft and helicopters were moved to the former Soviet state to participate in what the two allies described as joint exercises.
That same official said the Russians are likely protecting the convoy, which helps explain why it does not appear to have been attacked.
The column of Russian tanks, towed artillery, armoured and logistical vehicles, which at times spans three-wide across the entire road, is believed to be under orders to
According to NATO, up to 30,000 combat troops, Spetsnaz special operation forces, fighter jets including SU-35, Iskander dual-capable missiles and S-400 air defence systems.
