NATO aims at agreeing on series of negotiations with Russia Alliance chief
20220110
https://www.aa.com.tr/en/world/nato-aims-at-agreeing-on-series-of-negotiations-with-russia-alliance-chief/2470068
Stefanishyna praised the allies' decision on negotiating with Ukraine ahead of Wednesdays NATO-Russia Council, calling it a strong demonstration of the principle that nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.
Last year was marked by high tensions between NATO and Russia over spying allegations and Russias continued military buildup in and around Ukraine.
Russia handed two draft agreements on European security guarantees to the US and NATO last month.
On Monday and Tuesday, US and Russian delegations led by US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov are set to meet in Geneva.
The NATO-Russia Council will convene on Wednesday, for the first time since NATO suspended all practical cooperation with Moscow in 2014 because of Russias military intervention in Ukraine.
I really hope that there is a real will on both sides  to engage in the process that can prevent new armed conflicts in Europe. Therefore, we are aiming for an agreement on a way forward, a process, a series of meetings, he added.
It's not realistic to expect that when we have finished meetings that are all scheduled for this week, all problems will be solved, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters ahead of this weeks key diplomatic events between NATO allies and Russia.
On Thursday, Russia will hold talks with Ukraine, Germany, and France as part of the so-called Normandy format to ensure the implementation of the Minsk peace agreements.
We will listen to Russia's concerns, but any meaningful dialogue should also address our concerns about Russia's actions, and it must take place in consultation with Ukraine as we are doing today, Stoltenberg noted.
Stoltenberg spoke at a joint news conference with Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration Olga Stefanishyna before the extraordinary meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission.
The NATO chief said on Monday that the military bloc aimed at agreeing with Russia on a series of negotiations as it was "not realistic" to expect all conflicts to be solved at once during this weeks talks with Moscow.
