Russia accuses Ukrainian saboteurs of attacking Europes largest nuclear plant
20220304
https://www.aa.com.tr/en/russia-ukraine-crisis/russia-accuses-ukrainian-saboteurs-of-attacking-europes-largest-nuclear-plant/2523993
The statements that came promptly from Zelenskyy about the alleged threat to a nuclear power plant and his negotiations with Washington and London leave no doubt about his intentions, said Konashenkov.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy wanted to use the Kyiv regimes provocation at Zaporizhzhia to accuse Russia of creating a radioactive zone, the Defense Ministry official said.
A Ukrainian sabotage group attempted a provocation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southeastern Ukraine, which Kyiv wanted to use to malign Moscow, Russias Defense Ministry said on Friday.
Russian personnel used small arms to suppress the attack. No heavy weapons were used because of the potential danger to the plant, Konashenkov said.
The International Atomic Energy Agency also said the blaze at the plant has not affected essential equipment.
Following Thursday nights incident at Zaporizhzhia, the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate of Ukraine said there were no changes in radiation levels at the nuclear facility.
He said the Ukrainian saboteurs set fire to the training complex while escaping, but the blaze was quickly extinguished by firefighters.
A band of Ukrainian nationalists opened heavy fire at Russian soldiers guarding the plant on Thursday night, ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said at a news briefing in Moscow.
Last week, Ukraine said it lost control of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the countrys north after a fierce battle with Russian forces.
The spokesman also rebuffed claims by Ukrainian authorities that Zaporizhzhia came under Russian control on Thursday night, asserting that Russian forces had taken over the plant and its nearby territory on Feb. 28.
The purpose of the Kyiv regimes provocation at the nuclear facility was to accuse Russia of creating a hotbed of radioactive contamination.
He said Ukrainian forces posted there had abandoned the area and disappeared before Russian troops arrived.
Ukraine has 15 operational nuclear reactors at four sites across the country, providing roughly half of its electricity, all of which are operating normally, according to its nuclear regulatory agency.
Regular operations have resumed at the plant, with staff manning all facilities and monitoring radiation levels, which are normal, according to Konashenkov.
At the time of the provocation, none of the employees of the power plant were in the training building, he added.
The attackers fired from a training complex at the site and wanted to draw a response from Russian forces that would endanger Europes largest nuclear facility, he said.
