Ukrainian nationals to hold service at Salisbury Cathedral
20220227
https://www.salisburyjournal.co.uk/news/19954958.ukrainian-nationals-hold-service-salisbury-cathedral/
Olga added: First of all I felt scared. I couldnt believe it. It was shocking. But now, actually, we feel more powerful.
Earlier this week, Russian troops launchedan unprovoked attack on neighbouring Ukraine. They are now just outside of Kyiv.
People should gather at the traffic hut by 1.10pm and then they will walk down to the Cathedral to say prayers.
There is always a question mark, will we have connection tomorrow? At least for now we know what is happening.
Instead of watching, sat in front of the TV and crying, we decided to do something to help, said Olga.
Olga, who runs a soft furnishings business, has lived in the UK for 15 years and added: I feel so grateful to everyone who has offered their help. We do not feel foreign anymore, but we do still feel Ukrainian.
There are so many people who cant get to London, and here people can bring children along as well. We just hope people will pay attention. It is not against Russia, our direction is to be peaceful, peace for Ukraine.
Knowing that she was not alone in worrying, Olga, who lives in Appleshaw, near Andover, decided to reach out to others and has now taken it a step further, setting up the event this weekend to show support.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
She said: I am emotional, sad. Our parents, sisters, brothers, friends are in the real danger area. There are bombs, troops. There were explosions at night when people didnt expect it. There are continuous attacks, they can hear sirens, people are hiding underground.
A moment of prayer led by one of the Cathedral clergy will be held at the Cathedral,after which candles will be lit.
A UKRAINIAN woman who is heartbroken as she watches her home city being attacked has organised a peaceful demonstration to bring together supporters across the area.
Ukraine is much smaller than Russia, but we have had incredible support from everyone. We do not have a big, strong professional army but its common people and incredible volunteers that mean we still believe in our country.
The 38-year-old, who is originally from the city of Zaporizhzhya in south-east Ukraine, said she felt like she needed to bring people together in solidarity at a difficult time.
We just want all Ukrainian people to know that we care about them and I want the people who are here, who are terrified about our families, to know that they are not alone and we will help them with anything that they might need.
She continued: Our children ask questions, we decided not to hide the truth from them. My boy will say I do not want my grandparents to die and it just breaks my heart. Going to bed, we worry and think, please let them wake up safe.
She said: We call every day. My young goddaughter cries and asks take me out of here, but I cant. There is no way to even leave the city far less the country.
You can also like our Facebook page and follow us on Twitter and Instagram to stay up to date, as well as signing up for one of our newsletters.
Olga, her husband Taras and their children Katerina, 10, and Leo, five, are grateful that so far they have been able to keep in touch with friends and family in Ukraine.
Olga Kotthas organiseda Stand With Ukraine service atSalisbury Cathedral just after 1pm on Sunday, February 27.
If you want online news with fewer ads, unlimited access and reader rewards - plus a chance to support our local journalism - find out more about registering or a digital subscription.
When I told my parents, they cried because it means a lot to them. They have been to the cathedral and it means a lot that its actions and not just words, people saying how sorry they are.
