Letters COVID cases no longer relevant to response
20220125
https://thestarphoenix.com/opinion/letters/letters-covid-cases-no-longer-relevant-to-response
The news seems to be flying at us faster all the time. From COVID-19 updates to politics and crime and everything in between, it can be hard to keep up. With that in mind, the Saskatoon StarPhoenix has created an Afternoon Headlines newsletter that can be delivered daily to your inbox to help make sure you are up to date with the most vital news of the day.Click here to subscribe.
Germany has been decommissioning nuclear energy infrastructure and moving toward natural gas and renewables ever since.
In 2005, Ukraine hosted a full NATO member international conference in its capital city Kyiv, though itself not a full NATO member.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
COVID cases are no longer the metric by which we need to be gauging our response. In a heavily vaccinated population and the current Omicron variant, case numbers are not paramount. He cites 119 COVID hospitalizations, but fails to mention only 10 are ICU and about 40 per cent are incidental, asymptomatic cases. That matters.
The majority of these dollars were allocated for Russian world economy integration and a condition Russia not be expansionist in the world arena.
Western European NATO members remain quiet knowing that Putin holds the keys to their winter energy needs.
Russia has bypassed the territory of Ukraine with the building of a Black Sea gas pipeline directly to Western Europe.
Ukraine has been formally pursuing full NATO membership since 2008, informally since 1994.Since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Western governments, the World Bank, and the IMF have poured billions of dollars into the Russian economy.
COVID cases are no longer the metric by which we need to be gauging our response, Todd Ginther writes.
In 1997 a 20-year lease agreement was negotiated between Russia and Ukraine for the use of former Soviet Union military and naval assets in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Gas exports from Russia to Western Europe had always flowed through the territory of Ukraine.
Ukraine blocked the flow of Russian gas to Western Europe due to financial disagreements with Russia.
The StarPhoenix welcomes letters, which are limited to 250 words and must include the writers name, street address and phone number.
I am serving notice that we will obtain our groceries elsewhere until Superstore notifies me that the policy has changed.
Recently, as I left my local Superstore with my weeks groceries, I noticed that the benches which have been in the foyer for years were gone. Consequently, I returned inside and asked the customer service desk why that was the case. One said it probably had to do with loitering. I told this person that she had confirmed my suspicions.
Former Chancellor of Germany, Schroeder was hired in 2005 as chairman of the Russian Black Sea gas pipeline company two weeks after he resigned from German politics.
Submissions will be verified and edited before publication. We publish the names and community of all letter writers. Do not send email attachments. Writing more than one letter a month is discouraged and open letters are not accepted. Send to: 204 Fifth Ave. N., Saskatoon, Sask., S7K 2P1
We deliver the local news you need in these turbulent times on weekdays at 3 p.m.
Ive read plenty of Murray Mandryks columns regarding COVID and, Im quite certain, Ive shaken my head at every single one.
