Opinion Brutality of Ukraine invasion resonates here in Saskatchewan
20220316
https://thestarphoenix.com/opinion/columnists/opinion-brutality-of-ukraine-invasion-resonates-here-in-saskatchewan/wcm/06ed6544-3a93-4a47-b1f0-dbc49937fe7a
When all this did not work, when the Ukrainian people defended their rights and freedoms during the revolutions of 2004 and 2014, Russian President Putin and his allies had only one option left: Brutal military force. And now they want to occupy and destroy Ukraine, to turn it into a part of their degrading empire.
Now this battle is taking place on Ukrainian soil. Thats a reason why Russias aggression against Ukraine resonates with most people of the planet. This war reminds all of us that democracy and peace are not a given and that we should be ready to sacrifice for them.
Even in this tragic moment of history, the Ukrainian people face their enemies with dignity. Put sunflower seeds in your pockets so they grow on Ukraine soil when you die, said a woman bravely confronting heavily armed Russian troops. Indeed, Ukrainians bravery moves us to tears and fills us with admiration.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
The final waves of colonization of the steppe, exploiting its rich chernozems, iron ore and coal deposits, happened in the 16th to 18th centuries. Due to the agricultural revolution on the steppe, Ukraine, in a short period of time, became the breadbasket of Europe.
As a person who lived in the former U.S.S.R. under the communist regime and had my own encounters with, I know well what oppression means. And I hope the West continues to support Ukraine and do what it can to stop Putin.
The senseless loss of human lives in Ukraine is already shockingly and unacceptably high. The damage to civil infrastructure caused by the war is unacceptably high.
The Ukrainian steppe represents a rich cultural legacy spanning almost eight millennia. It formed an important component of the modern nations DNA. The steppe is closely related to issues of cultural wealth and history, and is broadly reflected in folklore, art and songs.
This heavily contributed to the settlement of the prairie and sparked an economic boom in Canada. By the middle of 20th century, Saskatchewan became the new breadbasket  the largest wheat producer in the world. Indeed, steppe and prairie have been a blessing for both Ukraine and Canada.
His regime is dangerous not only for Ukraine, but for the entire world, including Russian people. If we dont stop this aggression now, it will be even harder to fight later.
Here on the prairie, we honour the victims of the senseless and tragic war that Putin has unleashed in Ukraine, and we do everything possible to support the people of Ukraine and help them win. This is a battle of democracy versus authoritarian rule and we in the free world must make sure freedom will prevail.
Saskatchewan shares both history and environment with the Ukraine as the country is devastated by the Russian military.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
And one day I will be back in the Ukrainian steppe to see it flourishing and free. Grasslands are resilient, if given the chance for recovery, just like the people of Ukraine who will emerge victorious. As it was many times in the millennial history of this land and will always be.
The West and countries around the world are united in standing up for Ukraine  not just for Ukraine, but for the principles of democracy and the rule of law.
I was very sad to hear that all natural and biosphere reserves in Ukraine, which I visited with a PhD student a few years ago, are under occupation now.
Clearly, there are close connections and deep ties between the Ukrainian steppe and the Canadian prairie, and between these two nations. That is why the brutality of the war in Ukraine especially resonates in Saskatchewan.
The war will exacerbate environmental degradation, including air, ground and water pollution and even cause radioactive contamination from the Chernobyl and Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plants that will be long lasting. The environmental crisis in Ukraine could also affect the countrys unique biodiversity and future climate policy.
These hardworking settlers brought their agricultural expertise, seeds and lifestyle to tremendously enrich the agricultural and cultural fabric of the Canadian prairie provinces. Many plant species from the Ukraine steppe have become important forage and crop plants in the Canadian prairie.
Instances of heroism and patriotism are being reported from across Ukraine over two weeks of the war. Ukrainians have shown the world that freedom is worth dying for. Mothers and old men line up to get rifles and to assemble Molotov cocktails to defend their homes.
Russias tanks and other military vehicles crush fragile grasslands in the fragile steppe prairie ecosystem, wheat fields became terrain for military operations and the fertile chernozemic black soil became a battle ground. Its hard to watch this devastation happening in the steppe  the cradle of the Ukrainian nation.
After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Russia sought to destroy Ukraine through political pressure, energy blockages, fake propaganda and ultimately a corrupt pro-Russian government.
Until recently, what we are experiencing today in Ukraine could only be read about in history textbooks. This is the classic struggle between good and evil, on which the very survival of mankind depends.
Because of political discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities by the Russian Empire during the 19th century, tens of thousands of people Ukrainians, Polish, Jews, Germans, Mennonites, Hutterites, Doukhobors and others left the Ukrainian steppes to open up the Canadian prairie frontier.
Vladimir Kricsfalusy is an associate professor in the School of Environment and Sustainability at the University of Saskatchewan.
The wide-open space of the steppe is exclusively associated with the free life of the Zaporozhian Cossacks. The steppe was also the place where traditional trades and crafts were established and where cultural traditions and habits evolved.
We deliver the local news you need in these turbulent times on weekdays at 3 p.m.
Russian soldiers didnt realize that the very Ukrainian land stood up against them. Ukrainians are, by their nature, a rebellious people and they will fight Russian troops from forests in the north to seas in the south, and from the steppes in the east to mountains in the west.
Strong and wide resistance of the Ukrainian nation against Russian aggression is already written by blood to modern history. I am sure that Ukraine is going to prevail it will survive the fire of this brutal war and rise from ashes. Its only the matter of time.
