Missiles Hit Ukrainian Refinery Near Key Port City Of Odesa
20220403
https://gcaptain.com/missiles-hit-ukrainian-refinery-near-key-port-city-of-odesa/
Dmytro Lunin, governor of the Poltava region, said on television that the refinery had been destroyed in a rocket attack on Saturday.
Earlier, Russias defense ministry said its missiles had destroyed an oil refinery and three fuel storage facilities near Odesa. It said they had been used by Ukraine to supply its troops near Mykolaiv.
Reuters could not independently confirm the refinerys destruction. The plant processed 3.2 million tonnes of oil last year and its loss could prove a blow to Ukraines defense effort.
The fire at the refinery has been extinguished but the facility has been completely destroyed and can no longer function, he said.
Vika, a local resident who declined to give her surname, said her family had woken up to powerfulexplosions near their home.
There was smoke, the children were in a panic, the windows were blown in  it was terrifying, she said.
ODESA, Ukraine, April 3 ReutersRussian attacks have destroyed an oil refinery in the central Poltava region and struck critical infrastructure, most likelyoil facilities, near the port city of Odesa, local officials said on Sunday.
All relevant systems and structures are working  No casualties reported,Nazarovadded. Reuters could not confirm details of the attack.
Vladyslav Nazarov, an officer of Ukraines Southern Operational Command, said on Telegram thatthere had beena missile attack on critical infrastructure.Two columns of thick, black smoke could be seen rising into a grey sky before spreading out over the city.
Kremenchuk, 250 km 150 miles southeast of Kyiv along the Dnipro river, had Ukraines only fully functioning oil refinery.
Russian forces have attacked Odesa, the main base for Ukraines navy, alongside other Ukrainian BlackSeaports such as Mariupol and Mykolaiv. If taken, it would give Russia a land corridor from Crimea to Transniestria, a Russian-speaking breakaway province of Moldova that hosts Russian troops.
Russian forces invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what the Kremlin calls a special military operation to demilitarize and denazify its neighbor.
Ukraine and the Western countries supporting it reject that as a baseless pretext for a war of aggression.
Reporting by Issam Abdallah and Pavel Polityuk Writing by Lidia Kelly in Melbourne, Elizabeth Piper in Lviv and Sujata Rao in London Editing by Stephen Coates, Frances Kerry and Kevin Liffey
Odesa Mayor Gennadiy Trukhanov said on television the situation was under control, adding: Homes, civilian infrastructure, roofs have suffered damage.
