Odesa Strike Condemned By UN SecretaryGeneral
20220723
https://gcaptain.com/odesa-strike-condemned/
Yesterday, all parties made clear commitments on the global stage to ensure the safe movement of Ukrainian grain and related products to global markets, Farhan Haq, deputy spokesman for Guterres, said in a statement. Full implementation by the Russian federation, Ukraine and Turkey is imperative.
US lawmakers led by Adam Smith, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, met in Kyiv with President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
This proves only one thing: no matter what Russia says and promises, it will find ways not to implement it, Zelenskiy said. Geopolitically, with weapons, bloodily, or not, it has several vectors, as it always acts.
Ukraines leader briefed them on Saturdays Russian missile attack on Odesa, hours after Moscow signed a deal to unblock Ukrainian grain exports.
The Pentagon is looking into the feasibility of providing fighter jets to Ukraine, a move previously seen as off-limits for fears Ukraine would expand the conflict into Russian territory.
Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Ukraine has about $10 billion in grain, including 20 million tonnes from last years harvest, available to export. Ukraines president rejected any cease-fire that would allow Moscow to keep territories seized since February.
1The agreement brokered by Turkey between Russia and Ukraine to open up ports along the Gulf of Odesa in the BlackSea cannot work if Russia plans on attacking the ports in question. There are many hurdles that need to be overcome for this to work. https:t.colYOg0jvw60
Jul 23, 2022 Bloomberg Condemnation was swift after Russia struck Odesas port with cruise missiles, a day after officials from Russia and Ukraine signed parallel agreements with Turkey and the United Nations to allow the safe transit of millions of tonnes of Ukrainian grain through the key Black Sea port.
Russia attacked the Odesa sea port on Saturday, less than 24 hours after signing an agreement aimed at restarting Ukrainian grain exports from Odesa and two other Black Sea locations.
Two Kalibr missiles hit the ports infrastructure and two were shot down by Ukraines air defenses, Serhiy Bratchuk, adviser to the head of the Odesa regional military administration, said on Telegram.
Outrageous. Russia strikes the port city of Odesa less than 24 hours after signing an agreement to allow shipments of agricultural exports. The Kremlin continues to weaponize food. Russia must be held to account.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres unequivocally condemns the reported strikes today in the Ukrainian port of Odesa, a spokesman said.
