Russias LPG Exporters OpenBlack Sea Portof Poti
20210712
https://gcaptain.com/russias-lpg-exporters-open-black-sea-port-poti/
LPG supplies via Poti are being considered due to limited sales opportunities through other main export routes, an industry source said.
Finland, another large export route for Russias LPG, has cut purchases sharply, according to Refinitiv data. Last year Russia exported 25 of its LPG to Ukraine and Finland.
Related Book: The Absent Superpower: The Shale Revolution and a World Without America byPeter Zeihan
Related Book: To Risk It All: Nine Conflicts and the Crucible of Decision by Admiral James Stavridis USN
Russia stopped supplying LPG to Ukraine on Feb. 24, when Russia sent troops into the country in what Moscow calls a special military operation, and has also stopped LPG rail transit to Romania, Hungary and Moldova via Ukraine, obliging exporters look for new routes.
This month some 3,000 tonnes of LPG from Surgut will be transported by rail to Georgias Poti, and then via sea ferry to Bulgarias Varna, according to Refinitiv Eikon rail data. Gazprom and Surgutneftegaz supply their LPG from Surgut.
Limited export possibilities resulted in a fall in Russian shipments of LPG abroad to 250,000 tonnes in May from some 370,000 tonnes per month in early 2022, according to Refinitiv Eikon data.
Bulgaria consumes about 30,000-35,000 tonnes of LPG per month, according to traders data. It produces about 10,000 tonnes of LPG monthly itself, and imports the rest from Romania and Russia.
LPG rail shipments from Surgut via Georgias Poti to Bulgaria are about 50 higher than supplies to the EU via Ukraine, with the rail route from Surgut to Poti costing about $260-280 per tonne, and the ferry service between Poti and Varna $130-150 per tonne, according to traders estimates.
Nevertheless supplies sent via the route are still looking profitable comparing to domestic sales due to a fall in LPG prices in Russia, traders said.
by Jan Harvey Reuters Russian exporters will start shipping supplies of liquefied petroleum gas LPG to Bulgaria via Georgias Black Sea port of Poti in July as traditional export routes remain closed, according to traders and Refinitiv Eikon statistics.
