Shipping Industry Pushes to Rescue Remaining Seafarers Trapped in Ukraine
20220429
https://gcaptain.com/shipping-industry-rescue-seafarers-ukraine/
Around 1,500 merchant sailors have been safely evacuated from stranded vessels via humanitarian corridors on land and at sea over the past six weeks, according to data gathered by the ICS in conjunction with UNshippingagency the International Maritime Organization IMO.
The seafarers who were evacuated and those still stuck come from 27 countries, with the largest number from the Philippines and India. Other nations with crew members holed up included Russia, China, Denmark, Greece and Turkey.
Referring to skeleton crews left behind, Natalie Shaw of the ICS said the escape route out of the apocalypse must be open to these seafarers as well.
Two seafarers have been killed and six merchant vessels have been hit by projectiles  which sank two of them  around Ukraines coast since the start of Russias invasion on Feb. 24.
Those remaining should be allowed safe passage out too, the International Chamber ofShippingICS association said.
The biggest cluster of vessels that have been unable to sail  some 25 ships  are stranded in the port city of Mykolaiv.
The ICS data pinpointed the location of 99 vessels, with the remaining 10 unaccounted for as their tracking transponders were switched off.
Five ships are stuck at the port of Mariupol, which has seen some of the worst destruction in the war, which Russia calls a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless and that the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
Separately, the IMO said its maritime safety committee had adopted a resolution this week to take necessary immediate actions in setting up a safe maritime corridor in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov to enable the stranded ships to sail without threat of attack.
Most of the 109 stranded vessels were either bulk carriers or general cargo vessels and other ships include oil tankers, the ICS data showed.
LONDON, April 29 ReutersJust under 500 seafarers remain stuck onboard 109 ships at Ukrainian ports  skeleton crews who were left on board to enable their crew mates to be evacuated amid the conflict with Russia,shippingofficials said on Friday.
