The Ukraine War TheLonger The War The More Likely It Is To Be Won By A Sea Power
20220626
https://gcaptain.com/the-ukraine-war-the-longer-the-war-the-more-likely-it-is-to-be-won-by-a-sea-power/
The blockade of Ukraine, which prevents the shipment of grain and other agricultural products to the global south, is responsible for a worldwide food crisis. This has drawn attention to the importance of freedom of navigation.
At a diplomatic level, freedom of navigation  especially when its disruption causes food shortages  is a core norm of the global maritime order that seafaring nations, led by the west, are committed to upholding. The high representative of the EU for foreign affairs and security policy,Josep Borrell, said that the blockade of Ukraine that disrupts grain shipments is a real war crime.
But as a traditional continental power, Russia lacks the ability to oppose the coalition of maritime nations in the longer term and at global level. Sea power will eventually contribute to Moscows strategic failure.
These tactical victories willchallenge Russias abilityto deny Ukraine access to the north-western Black Sea  with long-term strategic consequences. Also, a weakened Russia in the Black Sea might open the door to the establishment of a safe corridor.
Basil Germond The ConversationThe Ukraine war is at a strategic turning point. As the Russian offensive intensifies in the Donbas without resulting in any substantial gains, western leaders warn thatthe war will be long, and supporting Ukraine must be sustained in the long term. At the same time, a less perceptible change is happening. The war at sea is intensifying.
It is also crucial to prevent the approach to the port city of Odesa from becoming vulnerable to a Russian attack following its de-mining and avoiding potential escalation between Russian forces and escort vessels. Nevertheless,this option is still on the table.
From the blockade in the Black Sea, togrowing tensionsin the Baltic Sea, Ukraines assertiveness in destroying Russian naval assets and the role played by civilian shipping sector in sanctioning Russia, the wars maritime aspects are now emerging and are likely to be more influential in the outcome of the conflict. Consequently, Russia, which is a continental power, is now more likely to be strategically defeated.
But for sea power to exert its influence on a continental enemy requires time and perseverance. Thus, the longer the war the more likely it will be won by a coalition of maritime nations.
The blockade might contribute to further diplomatically isolate Russia by making the global south, until now reluctant to condemn Russias aggression, revise its stance and side with the west in pointing at Russias wrongdoings. But there is stilla long way to go.
Beyond its naval dominance, the west  as a collective of maritime nations  has been in a position to shape the international order at sea, from IMO procedures to theUN Convention on the Law of the Sea UNCLOS, to naval war laws. Similarly, major civilian stakeholders, especiallymaritime insurers, are closely associated with western interests.
The pressure exercised by Ukraine in the Black Sea has further increased in June. Using harpoon missilessupplied by the west, Ukraine successfully attacked a Russian tugboat supplying Snake Island, which is strategically vital for Russias control over the area. Ukraine alsotargeted oil rigslocated in the Crimean waters occupied since 2014 and launched air strikes against Russian installations on Snake Island.
At first sight, Russia seems to be in a dominant position. It can blockade Ukraine and use the resulting food crisis as a bargaining chip or blackmailing tool to negotiate the lifting of western sanctions. But this is also offering the west an opportunity to take the upper hand where they have a comparative advantage: upholding freedom of the sea and rallying partners under the banner of humanitarianism.
Ukraine itself is proactively targeting Russian assets in the Black Sea. Since thesinking of the cruiser Moskvain April, the Russian navy isnot safewhen operating too close to the shore.
Technical, legal, operational and strategic difficulties make it arduous to establish a safe corridor to and from Ukraine. In particular, agreeing on procedures and safeguards with Russia, clearing the corridor of mines to an acceptable standard for maritime insurances and operators, and managing Turkeys interpretation of the Montreux Convention, which gives Ankara control over the access routes between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean and beyond.
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article here.
The Baltic Sea is also becoming a theatre of tensions between Russia and the west. Finland and Swedens potential accession to Nato will further transform the Baltic Sea into a lake controlled by the EU and Nato, whereas it has always been an important sea lane of communication for Russia. Both Nato and Russia have recently conductednaval exercisesin the Baltic Sea.
The longer a war, the more likely it is to be won by a sea power. As the maritime dimension of the conflict intensifies, the wests mastery of the sea, its dominance of relevant maritime forums such as the International Maritime Organization IMO and its influence over big insurance brokers and shipping companies, will eventually be fatal to Putins war.
Additionally, to apply EU sanctions, Lithuania has now blocked the transit of prohibited goods notably metal ore from Russia toKaliningrad, which is the headquarters of the Baltic Sea Fleet. As a result, freedom of navigation in the Baltic Sea becomes even more crucial for Russia in order to ensure supplies to the Russian exclave.
The preponderance of sea power in war, peace and hybrid contexts such as the current confrontation between Russia and the west derives from maritime nations ability to use their dominance to produce strategic effects via their control of the global supply chain and their ability to deny such control to continental states. These effects can only be felt in the longer term.
At the same time, recent incursions byRussian warshipsin the territorial waters of Denmark which incidentally supplied Ukraine with harpoon missiles highlight Russias willingness to assert its status as a Baltic Sea power, but also demonstrates its nervousness as it faces the determination of maritime nations.
There is also a strongcivilian maritime dimensionto the war. All major shipping companies but the Chinese have stopped operations to and from Russia. Ships that are either owned or operated by Russia or sail under the Russian flag are banned from EU, UK, US and most others ports. This is gradually putting a great deal ofpressure on the Russian economyand  down the line  on its war machine.
Russia, like its predecessor, the Soviet Union, lacks a maritime outlook  which prevents Moscow from grasping the strategic importance of sea power beyond its short-term naval preponderance in the Black Sea.
Russia is able to exercise some pressure on Europe via its control of the energy supply in the mid-term. It has also managed to operate naval units in the Black Sea in a way that  currently  prevents the free flow of goods to and from Ukraine.
Ukraine is a land power as much as Russia. But Putin is also confronted by a coalition of maritime mainly western nations, which champion freedom of navigation, have superior naval capabilities and a strong influence on the worlds maritime affairs. This grants the west with the capacity to gradually suffocate Putins regime by exercising strategic sea power.
The consensus among sea power scholars for instance see books by US maritime expertColin S Grayand British maritime strategistGeoffrey Till is that the possession of powerful naval forces is not sufficient to win a war. But command of the sea grants strategic advantages  from the ability to control the global supply chain to carrying out projection operations, such as targeted air strikes and amphibious assaults.
