Ukraines First Grain Ship May Depart on Monday
20220731
https://gcaptain.com/ukraines-first-grain-ship-may-depart-on-monday/
There are a few hitches, a few issues being discussed with the Russians, Kalin said in an interview with Kanal 7 TV channel on Sunday, adding that the ships should start departing by Tuesday at the latest.
Shipowners face a myriad of challenges, including recruiting crews to operate the ships as safety concerns remain. A Russian attack on Odesas sea port with cruise missiles hours after signing the deal also raised questions about its commitment.
Ukraine said on Friday itsclose to restarting shipments, although the timing was linked to receiving go-ahead from the United Nations, which along with Turkey was a signatory to the July 22 agreement. The UN has declined to specify a day.
Jul 31, 2022 Bloomberg The first ship to export Ukrainian grain since an agreement was reached for the safe transit of vessels may depart as soon as Monday, President Recep Tayyip Erdogans spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said.
While theres has been incremental progress  Ukraines Sea Ports Authority earlier told companies a test boat would sail soon, and a group of insurers set up a program to cover cargoes of food from Ukraine  traders and exporters are still waiting for information about how and when vessels will depart, and to where.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy visited the Black Sea port of Chornomorsk on Friday, where he watched grain being loaded onto a Turkish vessel.
Turkish defense minister Hulusi Akar met over the weekend with Ukraines defense and infrastructure chief to discuss the latest situation on the export restart, Turkeys defense ministry said on Twitter.
Ukraine is one of the worlds biggest wheat, corn and vegetable-oil suppliers, and crop markets are watching closely for concrete moves toward unlocking Ukraines ports.
More than a week after Russia and Ukraine reached adealaimed at releasing millions of tons of grain through three Black Sea ports, no ships have sailed.
